 The Palace of the Obong of Calabar, Edidem Ekpo Okon Abasi Otu V, has maintained that the monarch has nothing against Prof. Ben Ayade, the governor of Cross River State. The clarification came from a reliable palace source that pleaded anonymity and insisted that the Obong will not speak further on the matter but “the truth is that the Obong has nothing personal against Governor Ayade”. The source explained that the Obong spoke when he received in audience, former Governor Liyel Imoke on a courtesy visit in the wake of the devastating destruction of properties of government and private individuals and organisations. “The Obong is unhappy about the level of wanton destruction of government institutions, structures and private investments in Calabar, Akpabuyo and Bakassi local government areas. The protest was purportedly on the #EndSARS agitation and it became hijacked by violence elements”, the source said. He added: “The Obong believes there was a security breakdown in the state on October 23rd and 24th with the Governor as the Chief Security Officer of the state not holding a timely security council meeting of the state.” In a swift reaction to the position of the Obong suggesting that the Governor should step aside,  Asu Okang, the Commissioner for Information said we are in a democracy and everybody is entitled to his or her opinion. According to him, “the stool of the Obong of Calabar is that which is highly respected and revered by all of us and so for a man of his standing to have made such a statement, well, he is entitled to his opinion. It is a democracy and he also knows that in a democracy like ours, the governor has just two years to go; maybe we should all just be patient and see the level of performance that will accrue from the remaining years of the administration.” “For stepping aside, that is democratically incorrect. It is not constitutional and the governor has not done anything to warrant such an action. If it is about the ENDSARS protest then the call to step aside or resign, should have started from the President to many other state governors whose state recorded destruction of public property.” “The governor is the Chief Security Officer of the State and he has been working hand in hand with all the security chiefs in the state. So to say there was a break down, I don’t know from which angle he is referring to; if it is from the point that the security refused to do their work or they did not react at the time they needed to step up their game. I don’t know what he means, but if it is to the extent that we have not been able to foster a good relationship with the security chiefs in the state, that, may not be completely true.“ “This was not peculiar to Cross River State. Young people across Nigeria were just trying to express their displeasure over the situation in the country. Even though I do not align myself completely with the aspect of violence destruction that followed, it was not peculiar to our state. Even though, moving forward, leadership has to be held accountable; even much more accountable for their actions or inactions. I would add that going forward, let sleeping dog lie. Let us as mush is possible put ourselves together and build Cross River State. The governor has learnt his lesions. Everybody has learnt their lesions; like I said, it’s a wave and Cross River was not on its own. We still respect the stool of the Obong, whatever his grievances are with the administration, I am sure that with time, it will be sorted out.” It would be recalled that in the meeting with former governor Liyel Imoke last week, the Obong was quoted saying, “if I had my way, I would have said, this governor, should wait, let’s set up an interim administration then he starts learning and looking at how administration is actually done.” The Obong was further quoted saying, “The key is that there have to be a change of attitude, every one of you should have access to the governor, and he should listen. And even now that we have professor and professor in administration set up, we expected that we should have the best. That you open their door and people come in and give you an idea, if you don’t like what they tell you, throw it away, but have a face, there is a whole mixed up because the way he has treated even the politicians and the people around, that is the way he has treated the security people.” “Let the administration have a rethink and work with everybody, from there everything will calm down and it will end there.” The monarch at the meeting told former governor Imoke, “Please tell our Excellency (the governor); even though you say it is not time to put blame, whether you like it or not, the bulk stops on his table and we have to have a solution to this problem.  We have to face it right out there; we don’t need to play around with it. We cannot continue this way.  You tell him that there is a need for total reconciliation; a total rehabilitation of whatever he has been doing.” “Everybody matters in this state. He should be able to talk to people. He wouldn’t call you. Even when you call him, he doesn’t answer the call. Nobody talks to him, but rather what are we doing? We are all running away.” In a first statement by the Obong in the wake of the crisis he had said thus; “As Obong of Calabar, it has become necessary to address you all on the current very troubling situation in our communities, State and the Country at large. “It has come to my attention that what was meant to be a continuation of the peaceful protests against police brutality, injustice and bad governance somehow snowballed into angry raids on various public facilities and properties, private businesses and others in the city of Calabar ,Akpabuyo and Bakassi on Friday, 23rd October and Saturday, 24th October 2020.” “I am deeply saddened by the shocking destruction that followed these raids. As the traditional father of Calabar, I see, I hear, I understand and I feel the frustration and anger many of you experience that have led to these protests and raids. It is important that you have expressed these frustrations in peaceful protests that have successfully gained the attention of the Government at State and Federal level. “ “Having succeeded in gaining their attention, I appeal to you to please restrain your anger and bring a halt to the raids and allow the Government to address the issues that have led to the protests.” “Calabar is our collective home, it will be unfortunate for us to destroy our communities, buildings, warehouses, homes and worst of all our strong and special social and moral fabric.” Reply, Reply All or Forward