 Part One of this installment examined the then extant batch of results of U.S. presidential election, concluding that Joe Biden won the contest by a significant, if not massive, differential. At that point last week,  roughly 95 percent of the votes had been counted. Now with almost all remaining votes counted and verified, Biden’s victory is clearer still. Over 153 million people voted. A record turnout. Besting the contumacious incumbent by 6 million votes, Biden gained an unprecedented 79.6 million votes to Trump’s still hefty 73.6 million. Biden obtained 51 percent of the popular vote nationwide while Trump garnered 47.2, lending Biden a nearly 4 percentage point advantage in the nationwide vote. By any reasonable metric, Biden won. According to American political custom, Trump should have conceded defeat and publicly acknowledged Biden as president-elect. Trump will do no such thing. He continues to pretend victory despite the bevy of facts against him. He asserts that he is the victim of an historic, monumental fraud perpetuated by those terrible black people who inhabit the big cities of America. He has no qualms upending tradition and testing American democracy to its foundations if the gambit has but a minute chance of achieving one of his political aims. His first aim is to retain the presidency but he knows this is highly and increasingly unlikely. His second goal is to stir a large segment of his over 70 million supporters into an agitated condition. This racist contingent loves nothing better than to hear black people have stolen something that belongs to a white man. They need no evidence to prove the pudding he cynically feeds them. They consume it because all their lives they have believed such evil about blacks. They do not see blacks as fellow citizens and likely never will. They see blacks as a virus to contain if not put down. With this element affixed to him like postbellum southerners clinging to the Confederate flag, Trump will remain the great hope of the white race against the black scourge and rising tide of brown immigrants who threaten to remake white people’s America into a different and darker version. As such, he hopes to retain control of the Republican party’s conservative base and to compel the party’s other leading figures to offer him fealty. Thus far, his actions have attracted mixed success. He is failing at retaining the presidency but winning his attempt at holding the party in thrall. The question becomes will he be able to continue the latter once he has officially lost the former. This is a game of power and public perception being played by perhaps the most personally reckless, irresponsible tenant to ever occupy the White House. Reason is given no significant role in his political calculations. As for justice and fair play, he treats them like a mongoose does a blind cobra. To maintain power, he would grotesquely wreck and rewrite the American political system with a vengeful hand if only he held the unilateral power to do so. Trashing standard etiquette by failing to concede defeat, he claws desperately to hold the White House. In this, he seeks to engineer the most astounding swindle in a long life of audacious grifts. He plots to overturn a clean and fair election by claiming the votes for Biden in predominantly black urban areas should be tossed aside as fraudulent. He is attempting a monumental fraud by slandering the proper exercise by millions of black people of their right to vote. If this man is a prophet or agent of any god as many Evangelicals believe, that god must be a card-carrying member of the Ku Klux Klan, the Blessed Knights of the White Race and any other crazed outfit of hooded misfits who go about claiming racial superiority and physically attacking unarmed, harmless black people. In this, Trump authors a new chapter in the racist guide to political suppression. Until now, the standard practice has been to stymie black voting by making it difficult, if not impossible, for a black person to cast a ballot vote in the first place. In the old days, a potential black voter had to correctly guess the number of buttons or pieces of candy contained in a large jar. If the election official did not like the answer, that black person was refused a ballot. Many a voter was turned aside by this and similar obstructions. Later, polling stations in black communities became as nocturnal phantoms, there on the eve of Election Day yet mysteriously gone by the morn. More modern forms of voter suppression involved stringent voter identification requirements that poor people have difficulty meeting. Such measures hurt black voters more than whites simply because blacks suffer a higher degree of poverty than their white counterparts. All of these measures had one thing in common. They were devised to prevent blacks from voting. Trump has improvised a new theme, taking suppression a step further. His efforts are to cast aside wholesale the already counted votes of an entire urban population. Blacks can vote but the validity of that vote is conditional with final determination of their validity resting on him or people like him. In effect, his stance is that black votes ought not count unless they favor him. More to the point, in no way should the votes of black people be allowed to deny him a second term. For him, an independent-minded black voter is nothing short of a travesty against American history and thus should be excised from the electoral calculation. This is the clear position and policy of the current president of a nation that claims to be the greatest democracy ever constructed by human endeavor. It is as blatantly racist as one can get in the 21st century. Thus, Trump and his electoral saboteurs attack the vote tallies in Philadelphia, Milwaukee, Detroit, and Atlanta. All are cities with large black populations that voted not for him. These cities helped Biden seize the key states of Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Michigan and Georgia. Along with Arizona and Nevada, these states provided Biden the needed electoral votes to win the presidency. Trump has filed over 30 law suits in these states. The suits have been a study in comical farce. His lawyers filed exaggerated, if not willfully inaccurate, pleadings asserting widespread fraud and electoral abuse. When asked by the courts to present evidence, the lawyers engage in awkward circumlocution aimed at obscuring the fact they have no evidence to present because what they alleged simply does not exist. Most of the cases have been summarily tossed from court for lacking merit. The handful that remain await the same fate. Sensing the legal avenues closing quickly against him, Trump has upped the ante. He is now shamelessly courting Republican officials and state legislators in these key states to ignore their constitutional duty. He is asking them to shred the election results by declaring him victor in their states although he lost. His allies are also pressuring officials. Republican Senator Lindsay Graham from South Carolina was caught pressuring the top electoral official in Georgia to invalidate the votes from Atlanta and its environs for no plausible legal reason. Not only was Graham’s call to an official in a state other than his own an untoward novelty, it also borders on the criminal. Moreover, Graham’s pressure was counterproductive. Georgia has certified Biden’s victory after recounting the votes in that state. Another defeat for Trump in a string of post-election defeats. Trump’s attempts to sway state officials to overturn the results or to refuse in bad faith to certify the valid results of the election inch him and his confederates closer to possibly violating any number of state or federal election laws. But even here, Trump has not been successful in his pursuit. He summoned Republican members of the state assemblies from Michigan and Pennsylvania to the White House to coax them to do his bidding. But doing his bidding might place their own positions in legal jeopardy. Thus far, none of the state legislators have taken his dangerous bait. All of Trump’s electoral machinations are taking place within the context of a deadly spike in COVID-19. Prior to the election, the highest number of daily cases was roughly 85 thousand. On November 19, America experienced over 186,000 new cases. More than 1000 people daily perish. Hospitals and caregivers are being stretched to the limit. Yet the insensitive, self-absorbed president says little and does nothing. His attention is squarely on his political plight. Those who cannot help him escape his electoral dilemma can die for they are of no present use to him. He does not even care enough to feign to care at all. While ignoring the deaths of sick Americans, he did try his hand at foreign policy misadventure. He angled toward a dangerous military strike against Iran until even his normally pliant advisers warned him of the negative consequences such a move would provoke domestically and abroad. That he thought of this disastrous move does not mean his mind was still on the job. The substantive merits or demerits of the military strike never entered his thoughts. He ventured toward this caper probably because he wanted to curry last minute favor with Israel and the deep financial pockets of Riyadh. Trump’s son-in law is deeply indebted to Israeli concerns for hundreds of millions of dollars. Trump likewise needs money after leaving office. What better way to discharge the debt owed to Israeli businessmen and to have the Saudis owe him than by buffeting Iran? The man is clearly guided in all his decisions by nothing more than greed and power. Here, given the energetic comments received, I must return to a theme visited last week. So many purported Christian pastors in Nigeria and elsewhere in Africa cast their die with Trump and lost. I say cast their die because that is exactly what they did. They gambled. But they told you it was from God that they had heard. What they heard was the voice of their own prejudice; they had the terrible audacity to call that pettiness the voice of the Creator of all things. They prophesied, squeezing their faces and contorting their bodies in strange ways in order to convince you God had revealed to them Trump would win the election. Trump was God’s close envoy is what they said and you believed them because you knew no better. But today, you know better yet you still want to believe them because you have invested yourself emotionally in believing the self-concocted fantasies they pass to you as messages from Above. Lets state things bluntly. Someone or some god is lying. These people who claim God anointed Trump to win are mistaken. This means that they did not hear from God for He is not in the business of deception. Thus, they either heard from themselves or from some unnamed yet mischievous presence pretending to be God. Either way, such people should check themselves at the door and take seats in the back of the church instead of standing at the front of the altar. It is potentially injurious for spiritual leaders to be so easily deceived that they believe their own voice or that of a lesser entity is God speaking unto them. These people need help. The last thing they need is to pretend to be God’s spokespersons and, in so doing, lead hungry multitudes astray. Too many have claimed the Holy Spirit led them to Trump. But all the speaking in tongues and writhing on the floor cannot help them from the mockery they commit. The Holy Spirit does not command a person to toss himself to the floor to act like a human mop. Nor does it ask that you laugh at veracity or snicker at the truth. Instead, it is the conveyor of the truth. There is a video of mega-rich, mega-ignorant pastor Kenneth Copeland laughing like a madman upon hearing that Biden won the presidency. He had his whole congregation following him in this lunacy. But these histrionics are not of God because they obscured not revealed the truth. Biden won. Trump lost and Copeland lost even more because he is swindling you into believing his judgment is superior to what God has allowed or perhaps affirmatively directed. Because he thinks in this twisted fashion, Copeland and others like him counsel and encourage Trump to commit any imaginable travesty against justice and the democratic will of the people so that Copeland may have his selfish way. In so doing, he hopes to keep his erroneous beliefs hidden from the light of day. Pride begets a multitude of transgressions while leading to a fall. People like Copeland seek not to conform their beliefs to the truth. Instead, they seek to misshape it to conform to their counterfeit beliefs. These people are much like the Pharisees believing themselves so righteous that they measure God by their own standard instead of measuring themselves by His. They give you a brand of religion they invented themselves; such an endeavor is an inherently unbecoming and dangerous undertaking. However, you will excuse their lies yet castigate others who point out these fallacies to you. If you only selected your religious leaders/teachers with the same care you select a pair of shoes or a tomato in the market, you would be much better off because you would have eschewed such pretenders long ago. They have enticed you by appealing to your emotions and telling you that the Spirit talking to you. You have suspended reason and thus are susceptible to believing inconsistent fictions. You believe Trump was cheated. Yet how can this be? This avarice and greedy man who covets all things material occupies the most powerful office on earth. At his command stand the greatest surveillance and intelligence gathering capacities mankind has known. Yet, he either learned of the alleged widespread fraud prior to the election but selected not to stop it or he found out about such a large nationwide conspiracy involving hundreds of thousands of poll workers in fifty states only after the election. Still he cannot produce a shard of evidence in court concerning this massive and fraudulent conspiracy against him. How could such a large criminal undertaking not leave any evidence yet be so openly known? There is no explanation that makes sense of this because it is a lie. Yet, so many of you who profess to follow God will believe such an obvious fallacy because it accords with existing biases and emotions. Trump knows that millions of whites feel the same way about him. That black Africans admire him Trump sees as amusing; it is evidence of his power of persuasion to make the gullible view his fantasy as if it were vital fact. As such, Trump has no intention to concede defeat. Such a move would ruin his long-term strategy. If he cannot retain the presidency, his objective is to be the second coming of the “Lost Cause.” The Lost Cause was a term white southerners attached to the Civil War. They claim they fought for “states rights” and “southern culture.” These seemingly august and noble aims constitute the cause lost during that insurrection. This was all euphemism, a momentous lie constructed to occult the unseemly truth. No one fights a bloody four-year war over an abstract concept such as states rights. The South fought not for such rights in the abstract but for the concrete and terrible right for southern states to declare that the black race should be permanently enthralled to the white race. The cultural heritage they fought for was none other than the rather profitable institution of slavery because it was upon this mode of human oppression that the entirety of southern society and culture was built. Trump seeks to attract to himself the same fervent devotion that racists lend the Confederate cause. Thus, he bases himself in updated versions of traditional racist themes in order to produce a like effect. He seeks to become a martyred yet still living political symbol for the white man’s cause. While it might not have kept him in office in 2020, this immoral tact might well return him there come 2024. (Next week, we discuss Joe Biden and the quirks of the American electoral college.)  08060340825 sms only