There was jubilation in Poka in Badagry Local Government Area of Lagos State as a non-profit organisation, the Sesi Whingan Foundation, refurbished and donated some medical and non-medical equipment worth millions of naira to a primary healthcare centre in the area. Speaking at the event, which took place at the PHC Pota, Badagry, the foundation’s initiator, Prince Sesi Oluwaseun Whingan, expressed delight that he was able to put smiles on the faces of the residents by refurbishing and re-equipping the health centre. He said: “The provision of basic amenities to the people ought to be sacrosanct and the responsibility of the government to facilitate quality of lives, but this cannot be abandoned to the government alone, hence the intervention of private individuals and institutions like his foundation. Prince Sesi thanked God for empowering and giving him the heart to give back to the society which made him. He also thanked all residents, traditional rulers, politicians and other well-meaning people present at the official donation of the equipment. He specifically thanked the Oba of Ikoga Zebbe Kingdom, Kábíyèsí, ÀhÍìlú Fábíyìí JímÍÌh Àthánhódé, Sanò-Toyí 1; the ÒvítÍìtodé of KÍìga-Z¹Ìb¹Ì, his chiefs and Baales from other communities who were present at the event. Earlier, the foundation team leader, Prince Olawale Adesina, who was the former Secretary to the Local Government, Olorunda Local Council Development Area, Badagry, in his welcome address thanked all the invited guests. He enumerated the past efforts made by the foundation in its bid for social service. He specifically mentioned road rehabilitation, Covid-19 cushioning items during lockdown, scholarships to indigent students, assistance to widows and orphans, among others. He said the foundation will continue to engage in different social and welfare programmes that will benefit all and sundry in the three local government areas in Badagry. The monarch, Aholu Fabiyi Jimoh Athanhode, in his goodwill message, was full of praises and prayers for the foundation and its initiator. He said he was delighted that a young man like Sesi could think of doing great things like this for the communities. He listed some of the past humanitarian gestures which the foundation and its initiator had done and urged others to emulate him. He prayed to God to protect and bless Sesi Whingan. The chairman, Badagry Local Government Area, Hon. Teliat Onilude, who was represented by the leader of the legislative arm of the council and the Councillor of the beneficiary ward, the Ikoga Ward, Hon. Akindele Taofeeq Aremu, expressed delight at the kind gesture extended to the community by Sesi Whingan and his foundation. The event also witnessed presentation of new wheelchairs to two physically challenged persons, presentation of gift items to nursing mothers and pregnant women.