 MANAGING an economy in recession One of our business strategies is to always deliver top-notch quality and value adding services to our clients. Our products speak for themselves. We will continue to offer better quality services at moderate fees compare to that which would normally be charged by the Big-four firms to clients seeking high quality services. How US-China trade war affect technology services in Nigeria The ongoing trade war between US and China is seen as a competition for global technological dominance. The trade war has economic consequences as well as competitive advantages but if it persists for a long time, it may cause great economic damage for other countries not involved in the war. One of the cons of the trade war is increase in commodity prices whilst one of its pros is that it is now a key driver of innovation and creativity for technology and product companies. Considering that Nigerians have a high taste for foreign goods, which are mostly obtained from the United States, United Kingdom and China. The ongoing trade war between US and China may lead to increased inflation in commodity prices which may adversely affect Nigerians, if measures are not taken to curb the effect. On the other hand, tech companies in Nigeria can grab the opportunity the trade war creates by developing innovative products that will satisfy the needs of the Nigerian market. Understanding RegTechs Regulatory Technology (RegTech) involves the use of information technology to enhance regulatory processes and compliance. It is an efficient and cost-effective methodology that eases regulatory compliance of companies. RegTech is an evolving innovation in the financial sector and with the regulatory bodies in Nigeria. In response to the needs of our clients, we have two proprietary RegTech solutions – IpaySuite and Geeboard. RegTech means for regulators RegTech is a welcome development for the regulators, as it will ease the time consumed in processing voluminous data. Nigeria being a developing nation might continue to witness series of new regulations, amendment to existing regulation and data privacy. The regulators need to keep enhancing the skills of their compliance officers as automation of process has come to stay. Future regulatory compliance The automation of regulatory compliance will keep evolving and would be great, provided the information technological infrastructures are in place and duly maintained. The automation of regulatory compliance will continue to be a booster to the ease of doing business in Nigeria. How pandemic impacted Stransact Almost all companies in the world are affected by the pandemic either negatively or positively. The pandemic however, presented Stransact with an opportunity to redefine her mode of service delivery to her clients and the development of more tech-based products. Our technology department introduced new tech-based products that allowed for a better and enhanced remote working environment. This initiative accelerated our productivity and ability to serve clients more efficiently. New clients are now signing-up to our services because we guaranteed that their service needs would not be hindered by the pandemic. Growth plan The quality of our work does speak for itself. We are known for creating value-adding services for our clients and this stands us out all the time. Even before the pandemic, we “empathise” with our clients, whenever the need arises – this is one of Stransact values. Our ability to empathise with our clients at crucial moments such as the effect crude oil market price challenges posed on few of our clients; the unquantifiable effect of the pandemic; just to mention a few, has been a plus for us. Our continuous delivery of a superior level of quality compared to what other firms offer in the market in addition to our strategic global positioning has and will continue to enable us enhance our growth capacity and increase the firm’s profitability. Vision for the company Stransact has always been known as the alternative to the Big-4 Firms, because we deliver same value and sometimes better-quality services at very reasonable fees to our clients. Our “Voice” as a Firm has been known by most of the regulatory bodies in Nigeria. We are adjudged by the technical expertise we bring to bear on every of our engagements. We see ourselves being one of the top 10 Firms in Nigeria and the world at large. 