Residents of Amuwo Odofin on Sunday threw caution to the winds as they wrestled to scoop petrol spilled by a fallen tanker. The 33,000 litre capacity tanker upturned early Sunday morning while ascending the Festac Link Bridge. The Nation reports a devastating explosion rocked the bridge two years ago after a gas tanker fell on the same spot, killing many and destroying properties. Despite warnings by the Resident and Community Development Associations for people to avoid the area, some recalcitrant individuals stormed the scene with kegs and buckets. They scooped fuel from nearby gutters where the spilled contents from the tanker were settled. It took the intervention of police operatives alerted by concerned residents to get those scooping the petrol off the scene. The Nation gathered the bridge was immediately barricaded to prevent vehicular movement as motorists from Apple Junction and First Avenue were diverted. Confirming the incident, the Director General (DG) Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA), Dr. Femi Oke-Osanyintolu, said they responded to the distress call around 6am and discovered a fallen tanker with its content rapidly spilling due to the effect of gravity on the overturned tanker. He said a joint team of firemen from LASEMA and Lagos Fire Service took immediate actions to prevent secondary incident but people carrying kegs suddenly invaded the scene to scoop petrol. “This required additional police support. Transloading of product is ongoing. We appeal for calm. “The agency has observed a disturbing trend in the recent incidents we have been occasioned to respond to. “We have had cause to request for armed response or even at times, flee a scene mid operation due to unprovoked violence coming from those in the area. “Our assets are being damaged, our people are being harassed and most worrisome is the risk of secondary life threatening incidents being caused by those jeopardising our operations. “We appeal to all Lagosians to cooperate with first responders and to condemn these unlawful and dangerous acts. “Those scooping petrol for example, believe that they can resell such. Kindly refrain from purchasing fuel from unregulated sources. We are already under a lot of pressure responding to incidents having lost our Lekki Dispatch centre in the wake of the post protest violence and we appeal for your understanding,” he said.