 NIGERIA’S Super Eagles will be aiming to redeem their image against Sierra Leone today as the Coach Gernot Rohr-tutored side battle their host in the reverse AFCON 2021 Qualifiers at the Siaka Stevens Stadium in Freetown. Both sides played a pulsating 4-4 draw in Benin last Friday. Ahead of today’s tie, the Super Eagles had their first training session late yesterday at the match venue upon their arrival in Freetown. They were reportedly subjected to another COVID-19 test despite returning negative results before they enplaned with a chartered flight from Benin. Following their faint-hearted performance against the Leone Stars in Benin last Friday, the Super Eagles   will set out to redeem themselves and win back their teeming fans with a convincing win against their host. Already, Coach Rohr has promised that his boys would react against their host today on the pitch and despite the exclusion of injured Napoli striker Victor Osimhen, the team will be aiming for victory to make certain their qualification for AFCON 2021 in Cameroon. Despite topping Group L with seven points from three matches, the Eagles hope to use today’s win to cement their place in Cameroon but they will have to scale the hurdles against the fleet-footed Leone Stars. “The expectation is to make a good match having had a feel of the pitch and the environment. The objective is to win the game. We wanted to get four points to secure our AFCON ticket which I think is still possible. I believe in my team and I think we can do that,” Rohr said yesterday in Freetown. “It will be difficult just like I have been saying because we noticed in the second half of the first leg that Sierra Leone has a good team. But we can play very well because we showed it in the first 30minutes of the first leg in Benin City. We want to play like this in the game by playing forward and scoring more goals as well as defending better than we did in the last game,” the former Bayern Munich defender said. Rohr added: We are confident and the fans need to believe that the players will fight and they will give their best for the match. There is no doubt that we will miss Victor Osimhen. But the other players in the team will surely fight until the end of the match. No injury worries except Osimhen who had left the team to his base and all the other players are ready for the match.” Also, defender Williams Troost-Ekong has said that they are on a redemption mission in Freetown. “We are ready for the game tomorrow. We are not going to underestimate any team and if we can just bring what we did early in the first leg, and make sure we keep our concentration. I think we have a good chance to do what we need to do. The fans are going to be seeing a team that is very hungry to get the win here and we want to qualify as soon as possible. It is up to us to do it on the pitch,” a confident Troost-Ekong said. Meanwhile, the Confederation of African Football (CAF) has appointed Guinean officials Tawel Camara Younoussa as referee for the match, with his compatriots Sidiki Sidibe (Assistant Referee 1), Abdoulaye Sylla (Assistant Referee 2) and Bangaly Konate (Fourth Official) also on duty. The match commissioner is Silvestre Cantussan from Guinea Bissau. The match will kick off at 4pm local time (5pm Nigeria time).