 WELCOME to the concluding part of this teaching! I hope you were blessed by last week teaching. This week, we shall focus on: Engaging the Power of Love for Supernatural Breakthrough! From Scriptures, we understand that God’s breakthrough agenda covers all areas of life. As it is written, And we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose (Romans 8:28). The second part of that scripture is referring to our redemption, the Bible says, Moreover whom he did predestinate, them he also called: and whom he called, them he also justified: and whom he justified, them he also glorified (Romans 8:30). Thus, we have all been freely justified by the blood of Jesus, but among the justified, all things are ordained to keep working together for their good. All things include: spiritual, financial, health, family, business, and career things. Therefore, we cannot suffer breakdown with the love of God burning in our hearts; His proven love makes us breakthrough personalities. God cannot prosper a man that has no heart for Him; He checks our hearts to determine what we can successfully carry in our hands without losing our souls (Jeremiah 17:10). Furthermore, we must also understand that breakthrough will only deliver by faith, and faith will not deliver beyond the level of our love for God (Matthew 9:29). Therefore, pursuing after God and the interest of His Kingdom, which is the capital proof of our love for God, is what makes a believer a breakthrough personality. Then, what is in Love that Engenders Supernatural Breakthrough? In conclusion, without a heart for God, we cannot enjoy supernatural breakthrough in our endeavours. However, it is not enough to be in love; we must stay and grow in love. Therefore, to enjoy supernatural breakthrough, you must be born again. If you are not, this is an opportunity to do so. Simply say the following prayer: Lord Jesus, I come to You today. I am a sinner. Forgive me of my sins. Cleanse me with Your precious Blood. Today, I accept You as my Lord and personal Saviour. Thank You Jesus for saving me! Now, I know I am born again! For further reading, get my books: Following the Path of the Eagle, Exploring the Secrets of Success, Ruling your world, Success Buttons, Success Strategies, and Success Systems.  I invite you to fellowship with us at the Faith Tabernacle, Canaanland, Ota, the covenant home of Winners. We have four services on Sundays, holding at 6:00 a.m., 7:55 a.m., 9:50 a.m. and 11:45 a.m. respectively. Also, you can join our live services via Facebook: David Oyedepo Ministries International, Twitter: @Davidoyedepomin, Instagram: davidoyedepomin, YouTube: Domi Stream, Hebron 95.9 FM, Winners World App, Impact Africa TV (on Startimes and NigComSat), Domi Radio and via the Church Satellite. I know this teaching has blessed you. Write and share your testimony with me through: Faith Tabernacle, Canaanland, Ota, P.M.B. 21688, Ikeja, Lagos, Nigeria, call 01-4548070, 01-4548280, or E-mail: dphprints@gmail.com.    