Over 500 former members of the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP) and All Grand Progressives Alliance (APGA) have joined the All Progressives Congress(APC) in Abia state. They tore the membership cards of their party during a ceremony at Ikwun ward of Ihechiowa in Arochukwu LGA. Speaking while receiving the new members to the APC family, Chief Whip of the Senate, Orji Uzor Kalu, said the APC has the interest of the people at heart and assured it would win the state in 2023. Kalu congratulated the defectors for joining the APC and extolled one of them, Chief Joe Ezearo for his doggedness and confidence in President Muhammadu Buhari. He charged them to work hard for continuous growth of the APC and asked the new members to consider themselves as stakeholders of the party. Ezearo said it was honour to be received in the APC by the Chief Whip of the Senate himself. He pointed out he has always secured victories for his former party in his ward, adding joining the APC means that these victories will be secured for the APC in subsequent elections. Abia APC chairman, Hon. Donatus Nwapka, noted the large defection was part of the party’s ongoing exercise as the ruling and largest party in Africa. “We are glad to welcome all the new members. Our new member Joe Ezearo is a wonderful person; he is an accomplished technocrat in the construction industry. “He is a very creative and innovate person. The party recruits people who are well respected and enjoy mass support from the community for the purpose of making a good change in Abia States. “Your joining our party; means a lot not just for the fortunes of the local Government elections but for the party which is now the fastest growing state chapter of the party in Nigeria. “We are also inviting all like minds and creative minds and all who have passion for good governance, not selfish interest to join our party and support us to make a change in Abia State. A melodrama played out while the entourage of the APC was on the way to Arochukwu as residents of Ikwun ward of Ihechiowa blocked the APC convoy and persuaded them to accept their farm produce, which they said was a sign of happiness with President Muhammadu Buahri and Orji for construction of their road.