Editorial  ONE of the states reaping the whirlwind of the gangster in the aftermath of the #EndSARS protests is Edo. Although the state had harvested the fear and loss from banditry for a few years now, it is far worse today. The trigger for the fatal upsurge has been linked with the jail break that marred the protests in Benin in October, and led to the ominous liberties of hoodlums and also the free flow of arms and ammunition in the city. The social media has been awash with footages of the criminals boasting of their readiness to take the city into the barbaric age, and toss all sober and lawful citizens into a zone of trepidation. One of such footages in the social media displayed arms that the goons were “washing” with libations with disembodied voices haranguing citizens about the gang’s readiness to make the state crawl with fear. Another footage also showed young men as well as a few underage youths distributing weapons among themselves in a background that bears the sunlight of an open ground that looks like a fuel station. They were ready for the vulnerable. They act not only to kidnap but also to rob. Death skulks any operation they unleash. There is no sacred place or person in their malignant sweep. Earlier in November, they unleashed their venom on a well-known hotel near government house and the headquarters of the 4 Brigade of the Nigerian Army at the Government Reservation Area of Benin City. They were armed with guns, axes and machetes. They tied the security men to a generator and had a field day. They moved from hotel room to hotel room. They robbed the guests, one after the other. According to news reports, they were not under any pressure to leave. They arrived at about 3 am, and did not conclude their nefarious mission until about an hour later. They even lobbed off an ear of the hotel manager, and 13 lodgers were beaten up. According to the report in The Nation, “The robbers also went away with all the cooked food in the kitchen, carried all the alcoholic drinks in the deep freezers, leaving only water and soft drinks. They went away with one of the guest’s Sport Utility Vehicles with their food loot.” This episode does not give any confidence to residents when neither the government nor the army could come to their rescue, those two institutions being the supposed guarantee and selling point for the hotel, apart from its GRA ambience. Also dreadful are the acts of crime that happened within short order in the past week. The chairman of Esan Central Local Government in Edo State, Waziri Edokpa, was whisked away along with 13 passengers of a popular Benin-based transport company on the Benin-Abuja highway. They also went into academia with the abduction of a professor in the department of mathematics and statistics of Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma. It occurred between Ekpoma and Benin City. A driver was killed by robbers in the course of kidnapping passengers travelling between Benin and Abuja. Where are the kidnapped? No word as yet on how to trace or save them. Reports have it that chairmen of the local government councils in Edo South Senatorial District have held an emergency meeting with the state’s commissioner of police, with a view to finding a solution to the fear and trembling in the state. Edo State may be so pronounced, but the absence and intimidation of police in key areas across the country, has opened a sesame gate to robbers. It is a federal matter and must be checked before we turn into a banana republic.