Barely one year into operation, the Yemisi Shyllon Museum of Art (YSMA), has been awarded the Museum Opening of The Year 2020 by the Apollo Magazine, an international publication that specializes in the world of art. It emerged winner among shortlisted museums such as Aberdeen Art Gallery (reopened November 2019), The Box, Plymouth (opened September 2020), British Galleries, Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York (reopened March 2020), Gemäldegalerie Alte Meister und Skulpturensammlung bis 1800, Dresden (reopened February 2020) and KBR Museum, Brussels (opened September 2020). The award was presented to the YSMA by the Apollo Magazine during an award ceremony held on November 18th and 19th. Yemisi Shyllon Museum of Art is the art museum of the Pan-Atlantic University located in Lagos, named after Prince Yemisi Shyllon, an art collector and businessman, who along with funding the construction of the museum donated over 1000 artworks from his vast collection. It includes ancient art from Benin, Ife and Nok artists; modern artworks by Aina Onabolu, Ben Enwonwu, Uche Okeke, Yusuf Grillo, Nike Okundaye, and Bruce Onobrakpeya and contemporary artworks by El Anatsui, Lamidi Fakeye, Ayobola Kekere-Ekun and Ben Osaghae among others. The museum opened with two exhibitions. The first, showing on the museum’s ground floor, is titled Making Matter, and highlights materiality and technology in Nigerian art. The second exhibition, Mirroring Man, explores society and politics as influences on Nigerian art and is showing on the museum’s top floor. Both exhibitions feature works donated to the museum by Prince Shyllon and works from the university’s collection and other Nigerian collectors and artists. According to the museum’s director and designer Dr. Jess Castellote the architecture of the museum follows the principles that inspired the design of all the other buildings of the Pan-Atlantic University: fitness for purpose, flexibility, sustainability, and character. The flexible space allows the museum to change its display configuration according to changing curatorial demands. The excellent thermal insulation of the external walls and the efficient air circulation throughout the single ‘exhibition space’ require a minimum air conditioning load. The designers gave great attention to security, environmental control, efficient lighting, display quality, and ease of circulation. In addition, the rotund shape, a clean cube of 30 x 30 x 11 meters, and the richly textured finish of the stained concrete walls give the museum building an iconic character that makes it stand out on the campus lawns. Dr. Castellote stated that being a university museum, the YSMA is primarily an educational resource at the service not only of the Pan-Atlantic University but also for the larger community. “The museum will develop community educational programs for students of public schools, as well as training programs for art teachers. All of this will be made possible through corporate partnerships, donations, and collaborations with artists. The museum will adopt an audience-centered approach in its curatorial and educational methods,” he added.