 As part of efforts towards making the environment more friendly and hygienic, the Rotary Club of Lagos, Festac Cosmopolitan, is partnering the Amuwo Odofin Local Governmt Council to rehabilitate and beautify some streets in the area. Under the partnership, which is being implemented under ‘Rotary adopt-a-street project’ programme, the club has adopted the median section of the Festac 1st Avenue, starting from the main entrance gate to the intersection with 2nd Avenue for beautification, conservation, maintenance and sanitation. The Club’s President, Mrs. Uzoamaka Akaneme, disclosed this recently during a courtesy visit to the council Chairman, Dr. Valentine Oluseyi Buraimoh, at the secretariat. According to Akaneme, the visit was to enable the Club acquaint the council chairman with the project, confer the award of Paul Harris Fellow of Rotary International on him and also induct him as an honorary member of the Rotary Club of Lagos, Festac Cosmopolitan. Akaneme said the Club believes Buraimoh as a leader manifests qualities that fit membership of the worldwide community of Rotary. “The community will know and judge Rotary by your actions and ideals. You will become an ambassador for Rotary and you will carry these ideals and the principles of Rotary service to those who know you or are associated with you. “Honorary membership in Rotary is a privilege, which carries with it many obligations, and we believe that you will recognise these and welcome them as opportunities for service,” she said. Responding, Buraimoh expressed his gratitude to the club for the honour, promising to do everything within his reach to support and create a safe and friendly environment in the area. “I have seen the project you embarked upon at the entrance of 1st Avenue and the emblem you placed there to show the world the good job that Rotary is doing. It is touching that a project of this nature and magnitude can be embarked upon by Rotary Club. I want to assure you that by this project, you are sending a positive message to the world that Rotarians are exceptional in our community. They value nature, beautification of our environment and result-oriented community services. I am assuring you that I am not just an ordinary member but a full-fledged member,” he said. He commended the initiative, saying it would offer residents the opportunity to breathe good and  fresh  air especially at a time most industries located in the area run on generators, thereby polluting the environment and constituting health hazards. He promised to use his good offices to mobilise well-meaning residents of the area to join the club and support its activities. “As a government, we will partner with you to do other projects you might initiate. I am sincerely grateful and proud of you,” he noted.  Speaking on the project, past assistant governor and deputy project manager, Ikechukwu A. Onodi, said 60 king palms grass and lilies have already been planted in the median throughout the entire section, with a perimeter fence constructed and installed. “We also plan to maintain the planted palms and grass by watering, manuring and regular manicure, as well as conducting monthly sanitation exercise in the adopted section as volunteers to keep it free from litter and other pollution,” he said.