Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun will tomorrow inaugurate another batch of chairmen and members of commissions and boards he recently appointed. A statement by the governor’s Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin, said once members of the boards, commissions and agencies are inaugurated, they will begin work. Prince Abiodun urged the appointees to make selfless service their watchword and ensure consistency in policy execution by deliberately and creatively mainstreaming the ‘Building Our Future Together” Agenda of the current administration into the mandate and programmes of their agencies. According to the statement, the commissions and boards to be inaugurated include: Ogun State Civil Service Commission, Local Government Service Commission, Teaching Service Commission, House of Assembly Service Commission, Ogun State Television, Ogun State Printing Corporation, State Universal Basic Education Board, Agriculture Development Corporation and Water Corporation. Others are Ogun State Signage and Advert Agency, Internal Revenue Service Board, Parks and Garages Development Board, Plantgate Ltd, Board of Technical and Vocational Education, Ogun Free Trade Zone (Gunadong) and Rubber Estate Ltd.  Also, two additional members will be inaugurated to join the Board of Ogun State Agric Multi-Purpose Credit Agency earlier inaugurated. They are Messrs. Mufutau Oshinowo and Israel Odufote, who will serve as the general manager of the agency. The Board of Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital (OOUTH) will be inaugurated at a later date. The statement added that chairmen, board members and guests are to be seated at the June 12 Cultural Centre by 10:30am, while the inauguration programme will start at 11am.  Governor Abiodun said the appointees were selected based on their antecedents. He hoped that with their experience, they would contribute to the growth and sustainability of their agencies as well as deepen the implementation of the Building Our Future Together Agenda. 