 Leading fruit juice brand, Chivita, held its second Annual Chivita World Juice Day Event at the weekend in Lagos. The Annual Chivita World Juice Day is a public interest initiative undertaken by CHI Limited, makers of the Chivita brand of fruit juices, to deepen conversations on consumption of 100% fruit juice thus enabling healthy living and happier lives for all Nigerians. The theme for this year’s edition of the event, “Fruit Juice: The Smart Secret of Boosting Immunity”, was informed by the need to highlight the beneficial properties of consumption of 100% fruit juice to support the body’s immune system in order to promote everyday wellness. Speaking about the event, the Managing Director of CHI Limited, Mr. Deepanjan Roy, emphasised the need for 100% fruit juice consumption as a smart way of supporting immune function during the COVID19 era and beyond. He said while the global pandemic has challenged systems everywhere, it has also raised social consciousness on healthy diets and lifestyle. In partnership with health and nutrition experts who were carefully selected to share their perspectives on how Nigerians can defend themselves from within through fruit juice consumption, CHI Limited hopes to empower consumers to consider daily consumption of a glass of 100% fruit juice as a smart choice in their daily health routine.  One of the guest speakers and Principal Dietician with the National Orthopedic Hospital Igbobi, Mrs. Adejoke Adeniji, listed the benefits of consumption of 100% fruit juice to include strengthening of the immune system, aiding of digestion, weight loss and prevention of allergies and ailments from entering the system. “Consumption of 100% fruit juice is a valuable source of nutrients that are bioactive and can support the immune system by fighting free radicals and also reducing fatigue. While not postulating that fruit juice can prevent or protect against COVID-19, available facts show that drinking a glass of 100% fruit juice daily can boost Vitamin-C and folate intake and, by so doing, support the optimal functioning of the body’s immune system,” she said. In celebration of this year’s event, there has been a sustained drive to create consumer awareness and drum up anticipation across several touch points including Guest Appearances on National TV Stations, Radio Hypes and Call-in Sessions, Out-of-Home Displays, Engagements on Social Media platforms, Article publication on Print Publications, and In-store CHI-Shoppe promotions aimed at rewarding the brand’s consumers.  