 The Court of Appeal in Lagos has warned law enforcement agencies against “arbitrary use of power”. It said their role is to enforce the law and not to break or abuse it. “The misuse of power by law enforcement agents has become so rapid in our society,” the appellate court noted. It stated this in the lead judgment by Justice Ebiowei Tobi on a suit by a Lagos lawyer, Tope Alabi. The lawyer sued the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) after it seized his vehicle particulars for nearly six months due to his refusal to pay a fine imposed on him for driving a car with a cracked windscreen. Justice John Tsoho of the Federal High Court in Lagos had awarded N1million damages against FRSC for violating Alabi’s rights. The judge held that FRSC, not being a court of law, could not unilaterally impose fines on motorists. Justice Tsoho held that the imposition of a fine on erring motorists “is clearly a usurpation of judicial powers exclusively vested on the courts”. Dissatisfied with the judgment, FRSC appealed. The Appeal Court, in its October 6 verdict, a copy of which was obtained yesterday, held that the FRSC ought to have confiscated the vehicle documents for only seven days. It said keeping them beyond seven days makes “the legitimate confiscation” of the particulars “illegitimate and unreasonable”. According to Justice Tobi, the FRSC was not supposed to hold on the particulars “in perpetuity”. He added that at the expiration of the notice of offence, the agency ought to have prosecuted Alabi in court for not paying the fine. The Court of Appeal said it was illegal to hold on to Alabi’s car papers for five months. It held: “This action should not be condoned by any court of law. I will now sound a loud warning to the appellant (FRSC) and indeed law enforcement agents not to abuse their powers but to ensure that they work and act within the law. “They are called ‘law enforcement agents’ meaning their role is to enforce the law and not to break the law by the arbitrary use of power. “A law enforcement agent or agency that abuses its powers like the members of the appellant in this appeal should not be given a pat on the back. Rather, it should be roundly condemned and adequate damages awarded against it. “The misuse of power by law enforcement agents has become so rapid in our society that a court of law and justice should frown at whenever such is displayed by uniform officers or agent of the government. “There is the need for a mind reset of some officers so as to avoid embarrassing situations like this. “In clear terms, the point I am labouring to make is that the appellant had a right to hold on to the driver’s licence and vehicle particulars until the first respondent (Alabi) either pays the fine or is charged to court. “Having refused to pay, the duty shifts to the appellant to charge him to court. “If they were not ready to charge him to court, the appellant should have handed over the driver’s licence and particulars of the vehicle to the first respondent. “The refusal to do so even after demand clearly entitles the first respondent to general damages. “For holding the driver’s license and vehicle particulars of the first respondent for over five months, the first respondent is entitled to general damages, which is assessed at N500,000.” The Appeal Court, however, disagreed with Justice Tsoho on whether FRSC can impose a fine. It held that the FRSC did not usurp judicial powers by imposing a fine on Alabi, adding that sections 10 (4) and 28 (2) of the FRSC Act are not inconsistent with the 1999 Constitution. Justices Joseph Ikyegh and Balksu Aliyu concurred with the lead judgment.