A Mapo Customary Court in Ibadan, on Tuesday, dissolved a 10-year- old marriage between one Basirat Adeyoyin and estranged husband, Adeyoyin Niyi over an attempted money ritual and marathon sex. Delivering judgment, the President of the court, Chief Ademola Odunade said that the court would not watch until there was anarchy before making the right decision. Odunade, therefore, dissolved the union between Basirat and Niyi in the interest of peace and tranquility. He awarded custody of the two children produced by the union to the plaintiff and ordered the respondent to pay N10, 000 as the children’s monthly feeding allowance. The court also ordered Niyi to be responsible for their education and other welfare. In her earlier account, Basirat, a resident of Olonsogo-Molete, told the court that she was calling it quits with her husband because “he was making a desperate effort to use her for money ritual’’. The businesswoman added that she first notice this when her husband did not show any regret after she lost her last pregnancy due to too many sexual activities with him. “Suddenly in 2018, Niyi came home one night and told me that he received a message that he must have seven-day marathon sex with me without a gap of any day. “I read no meaning to it and I allowed him until there was a problem. “I was already carrying a three-month-old pregnancy before that time and on the second day of the marathon sex, I lost the pregnancy. “I took care of myself in the hospital only for Niyi to come home to start requesting for the continuation of the seven-day marathon sex even when I was still bleeding. “Then, I consulted my parents and relatives and from every indication, we discovered that he was trying to use me for money ritual,” Basirat said. Consenting to the suit, the respondent did not deny the allegation of the marathon sex but chose to raise new issues altogether. Niyi submitted that his wife was too troublesome for him and was a careless housewife. “Even if this court would dissolve my marriage, I pray to be given custody of the two children because Basirat cannot take care of them. “One of the young boys in our neighbourhood raped our first child and she did not tell me about the incident. “My lord, it was because she often overstays in the market that such a thing could happen,” Niyi added. (NAN)