Cryptocurrencies are gradually becoming popular in Africa and this might just be one of the best regions for cryptos to thrive. Research conducted by LUNO in July 2020 on the State of Crypto in Africa found that African nations such as Uganda, Nigeria, South Africa, Ghana, and Kenya are frequently among the top 10 countries to Google Search about bitcoin. The research also recognizes Africa as one of the most promising continents for the adoption of cryptocurrencies. There are several reasons why this can be possible, one of which is the high inflation rates that many African countries suffer from. A deflationary currency such as bitcoin might just be the way out for most people to preserve their money without the fear of it getting devalued over time. There is also the question of political and financial stability, especially with low-income wages and people struggling to survive on meager amounts. Investing in bitcoin might not be a perfect way out but it will go a long way in helping most people preserve their money and watch it gain value over time. Africa is a developing continent, which means that there are sometimes restrictions on payments and transactions. Unlike the first world countries where you can pay for certain things easier and get them at your doorstep, that’s not always the case in African countries. However, with bitcoin, you can easily make cross-border transactions within seconds at cheaper rates compared to traditional payment systems such as the bank. If there’s a payment system that would help Africans save anything at all, they would embrace it and would rather opt for that to save their coins. Bitcoin is quite easy to use and anyone can learn about how it works, regardless of their level of financial literacy. There are several platforms available today such as https://bitcoinstorm.io/ that make trading and investing in bitcoin easier than ever. Some of these platforms also provide the latest news and trends to keep you up-to-date with the latest happenings. These updates would let you know the best time to trade, so you can make the best of your crypto. Mobile money has become popular in Africa in recent years and more investors are beginning to take advantage of this. Bitcoin is not regulated by any institution or authority, which means you’re basically in charge of your money. With the recent crypto trends in Africa, especially with tech giants like Jack Dorsey finding interest in African financial systems, there is more to expect from this continent. With bitcoin, many individuals and business owners will have to worry less about exchange rates between currencies or sending money to other countries. Now, small businesses don’t have to worry about losses due to constantly fluctuating exchange rates and the charges incurred from transactions. The future of bitcoin in Africa looks promising, as more Africans are beginning to see the benefits and are also educating themselves even more. The growth of bitcoin in Africa would be evident in the next 5 to 10 years.