Real estate company Gate & Carter has launched ‘Paldini,’ the first in its series of eco-conscious estate projects in Lagos.Paldini Estate is expected to allow homeowners get round the challenge of environmental pollution associated with most Lagos residential areas. At the launch of Paldini Estate in Lagos over the weekend, the CEO of Gate & Carter, Mr. Tunji Olaseinde, said in a pollution-prevalent city like Lagos, people need to have living spaces that offer a breath of fresh air, to escape the highly toxic environment. Paldini Estate, according to him, allows homeowners to control thermostat, lights, audio speakers, TVs, security cameras, locks, lighting, and other home appliances through an Internet connection. Olaseinde emphasised that Paldini, which is situated within the same neighborhood as the Novare Mall, Meridian Park Estate, Green Spring School, and Lakowe Golf course, was designed to cater for every housing need of eco-conscious families. This includes good road network, gate house, quality drainage systems, perimeter fencing, play area, portable water, Victorian Style Garden, shopping centers with zero waste policy, and standby electricity. The land is 100 per cent dry, making it environmentally friendly and suitable for all kinds of buildings, a secure estate that promises serenity in a natural ambiance. He said: “We saw gaps others couldn’t see and problems many were unaware of, so with this experience and knowledge, my team and I have been able to fill the vacuum with Gate & Carter.” Among the noteworthy results of our consistency is Paldini, a future-proof home that keeps you the homeowner in charge while taking comfort straight to your fingertips,” Mr. Olaseinde said. The CEO reiterated that Paldini is an initiative of Gate & Carter, a consumer-friendly real estate company that offers excellent services in a bid to build the best communities for people to live and work in comfortably. He noted that the company offers a 600sqm for N12.5 million, 450sqm for N9.5 million, while a 300sqm goes for N6.5M.