 SAMSON Ononiwu, a 42-year-old resident of Oyigbo, Rivers State, still lives in fear. A deep cut on his head, which nearly broke his skull, casts a lasting scar on the bloodletting that occurred in his neighborhood at Oyigbo on October 21. All had been calm in the area on the fateful day until about 3pm when everything unexpectedly went haywire.  The #EndSARS protest was hijacked by hoodlums later identified by security agencies as members of the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB). Samson incurred the wrath of the hoodlums when he tried to save some soldiers, who had run into his apartment for refuge. The soldiers were being hunted by the hoodlums, who reportedly took arms against all agents of the state, including soldiers and policemen. They allegedly killed and burnt six soldiers and four policemen, including a senior police officer. They also allegedly burnt over 50 security vehicles; razed the Police Area Command in Oyigbo and two other police stations. Samson was indoors at his No. 15 Charles Ibe Street when the helpless soldier scaled the fence of the building and made their way through the back door to his room. A landlord from the area, who witnessed the unfolding event, said the soldiers were brave as they tried to save their lives. “It was a bad day for those soldiers. The hoodlums confronted them at a place we call Roundabout. They engaged them in a gun battle. But there was something mystical about those people. Onyema, the twin brother to Samson, said two of the soldiers ran into his brother’s room. “My brother was in the room with a friend when the soldiers ran into the place. My brother received them and asked them to pull off their uniform. He gave them his shirts to wear”. He said about four soldiers ran into the building. He said one of them was a female, who took refuge in another apartment. He said the women in the apartment received her and gave her a dress to change her uniform. He said another soldier climbed the ceiling and hid himself and his gun. “Soon, the unexpected happened. Those hoodlums started encircling the building. It was like they had something I can’t explain that told them the soldiers were in that house. They refused to go away and from inside the room my brother could hear them saying the soldiers were in his room.” Onyema said the hoodlums used an axe and other tools to break down the door. “In the process, they used the axe to give my brother a deep cut on his head. They wanted to cut off his head but one of them said he was not a soldier. In the process, he ran away. But those soldiers were not lucky enough. They brought them out, killed them and took away their rifles”. The hoodlums did not stop there, according to him. ”They came back, brought out all the property of my brother, including his occupational tools and burnt them. They did not spare anything because they referred to my twin brother as a saboteur. “My brother has been in shock since that time. He cried bitterly at the killing of those soldiers. Onyema said the soldier that hid in the ceiling only came out when troops stormed the area to retrieve the bodies of their slain colleagues. “The next day, we learnt that the soldier returned to the building with other troops. He climbed the ceiling and retrieved his gun, but they later set the building ablaze”, he said. Asked why they set the house ablaze, he said: “I don’t know. Maybe the soldiers were not happy that the people who lived in the compound failed to protect my brother’s property when those hoodlums were burning everything”. To restore the peace in the area and stop inter-tribal conflict, Governor Nyesom Wike declared war against IPOB members and imposed a 24-hour curfew, which he later relaxed following a meeting of the state’s Security Council. The governor also doled out N20million to each family of the slain security operatives. Following the curfew, the army commenced a military operation to fish out killers of its soldiers and to retrieve about 50 AK47 rifles reportedly stolen by the hoodlums. The army dismissed allegations that it was engaged in human rights violations in Oyigbo during the military operation. It said it was operating within its rules of engagement.