 NIGERIANS are still trying to recover from the woes of the historic ENDSARS protests that rocked the country about two weeks ago. The protests, mainly by young people, spread and resonated across all parts of the country, defying ethnic and religious differences which often play pranks with Nigeria’s unity and subvert her vision of indivisibility. The protests made it clear to the Nigerian ruling class that a new dawn has broken and the people are no longer ready to take everything from government with sheeplike passivity. The long-held belief by political elites that they could do as they wished and fortify themselves with police protection is now shattered, because the police or whatever protection they could secure with their morally objectionable wealth can be swept along with them by the waves of violent protests. Anarchy almost descended on the land with nowhere to hide. With herdsmen in the farms, Boko Haram in the forests, bandits in the bushes, kidnappers on the streets, cultists on the fringes of the neighbourhoods, the Niger Delta militants, and a massive protests that was hijacked by the lumpen proletariat (the underclass, marginalized, criminals, the homeless, and the long-term unemployed), it was only a matter of time that the ruling class would realize that they had nowhere to run to. As the protests metamorphosed into a violent hysteria, only God knows how many deadly rebellious groups would have emerged and try to lay claim to the centre with the associated pestilential consequences, if it had continued. Let’s not imagine how many years it would have taken to recover: Uganda, South Sudan, Congo and Libya, among others, would have been minor cases. What was the issue? A crowd of young people who had suffered incessant and undeserved harassments by SARS (a special police unit designed to tackle appalling level of criminality, but unfortunately, became a nest of special killers who turned the unit into a money-making venture and commit unspeakable acts of criminality against members of the public and wasted lives as they wished), hit the streets of major cities calling for an end to the special police unit. In a matter of days, the protests had ignited millions of young people who joined the call against police brutality. However, it was clear from the waves of the protests that it was more than a response to the call to end SARS. It was more of an expression of popular disillusionment with the government and frustration that has become the fate of many Nigerians, young and old, who watch daily as billions are misappropriated. Many of them seized the call as an opportunity to express their frustrations and anger against a government that cares little about the suffering of the masses. Indeed, one can wager that many of those who took to the streets to protest had not experienced any encounter with SARS officials, but are definitely under immense pressure imposed and mainly promoted by government after government. The protests turned more violent with the setting ablaze of national assets and the symbols of national institutions perceived to be oppressive. Jails were broken, criminals and convicts were freed, and armouries were looted in the process. To nip the raging storm in the bud, soldiers were sent to disperse protesters at Lekki Toll Gate, Lagos. In the process, live bullets were fired to scare protesters leading to irrecoverable loss of lives. It was a needless crude display of military power against unarmed protesters. There has been a myriad of news relating to the Lekki episode. The truth is being mangled. Half-truths and deliberate exaggeration and abbreviation of casualties, fake news and falsification of facts by both the government and a section of the protests’ sympathizers are being bandied. Rather than see the moment as an opportunity to reassure the youths that the labour of the country’s past heroes shall never be in vain and rekindle their hope in the nation, those whose responsibility it was to address the nation and calm charged nerves chose to blame the protesters and accused them of interpreting the concession by the government as a sign of weakness. It was a huge disappointment and tended to reinforce the view that the welfare of the Nigerian masses is of secondary concern to the ruling class. As already indicated, many who heeded the protests’ call did so in response to pressures brought upon them by a succession of morally bankrupt and incompetent leaders over the years. But for the aloofness with which the government treats the ordinary citizens, some of the sources of these pressures could be handled through simple and transparent institutional mechanisms by which ordinary people, even at the lowest level of society, could channel their complaints to the government. The pressure could be from the scandalous bills being posted by rogue electricity companies (yes, a woman was heard shouting for an end to crazy bills by Ikeja Electric), market women battling with thugs, commercial motorcycle and tricycle operators under the weight of numberless levies by hooligans, and so on and so forth, giving life to the expression in our colloquial conversations “monkey dey work, baboon dey chop”. Everywhere, the people are going through backbreaking frustration. Complaints upon complaints with no hope of redress. The ordinary people have no access to the media. They fear to go to the police because the police could turn against them if their oppressor can pay the police. With nowhere to channel their stories of daily frustration, their anger is pushed to the background to ferment. The nation is lucky to be given another opportunity for self-assessment and make efforts towards institutional reorganization and reorientation. The withdrawal of the protesters from the streets should not be misunderstood as surrender. They are likely to come back with a more violent wave if the government decides to play the ostrich. The people must feel the impact and presence of government around them. Many are not asking for food from the government, but they need a government that can listen to their complaints and give them a sense of inclusiveness. This can be done without much costs to the government by revitalizing and popularizing the idea of Ombudsman up to the grassroot level were citizens can bring their complaints. We hear of Public Complaints Commission, but how accessible to the ordinary people is this institution? Another idea is for media organizations, especially the print media, to dedicate a column in their newspapers where ordinary people can express their frustrations and their voices heard. Let the media and the government be closer to the people so that their moods can be gauged. The idea of Olympian government is now far outdated. 