 THE All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate for The House of Assembly, Kosofe Constituency 11, Femi Saheed has said his emergence as the consensus candidate of the party is divine and is an opportunity to serve the people of Kosofe who are in dire need of development. Saheed said this ahead of the December 5fh election slated by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to conduct the Kosofe Constituency 2 bye-election in Lagos State. He said: “l am not the only one capable of representing the people of Kosofe 2 but I think it’s divine providence added to loyalty to my party.” He added that there is no way someone would act as the State Secretary of the party twice without the party not having recourse to compensate such a member. “While I acted as the State Secretary, the former State Chairman, Otunba Henry Ajomale, and I worked tirelessly to make sure all our party candidates won their elections. “l believe it is just about being loyal, patient and passionate about one’s job. The party has invested so much in me; so it is believed that the party is bringing up one of its best, loyal, intelligent and ready to deliver the mandate and manifesto of the party. “As a party man, l understand the manifesto of the party. Based on that, people discovered that my emergence is a divine will of God and those that initially objected to my emergence are today magnanimously supporting me one way or the other in ensuring that the will of the party come to reality”, he said. He stressed, l believe Kosofe people are bringing out one of their best; their son, their friend, who understands how we have lived together as one family to come and address some of the challenges we are faced with.” He also posited that, “I have no doubt that the different cultural backgrounds are supporting my cause; even the lgbo community is the first to organise a campaign for me. They did it the first and second time with their own money. Even the Hausa community is investing all their money towards my campaign.  It is like a walk over; there is a kind of synergy and mutual understanding among the ethnic divide and they want their understanding to prevail perpetually. Although he noted that his predecessor, Hon Braimoh, who died during the COVID-19 pandemic, was a lively person, loved by his people, he said the challenges facing the community on a daily basis requires deep thinking in governance. “There are environmental challenges coming up and they are germane. “The sort of challenges that he faced will be different from what I will face when I win this election. We need to be more proactive in taking action in the interest of the community.