 FORMER Nigeria internationals Emmanuel Amuneke and Mutiu Adepoju last night paid emotional tributes to late Diego Maradona , both describing the former Argentina captain and coach as one of the best gifts to the beautiful game of soccer. Incidentally, both Amuneke and Adepoju were in the all-star Super Eagles that succumbed 2-1 to   the Maradona-led Argentina side in that ill-fated match he was later penalised for doping. “ It is a very sad day for football that one of the legends of the game, Diego Maradona died today (yesterday), “ Amuneke, the 1994 African Footballer of the Year told NationSports  from his base in Spain last night.“ There is nothing we can do about it now but we can always remember Maradona for his great service to football and for inspiring a lot of players all over the world.” Amuneke recalled   the mother-of-all-matches against Argentina when Maradona inspired Argentina to beat Nigeria 2-1 in a USA’94 World Cup Group D match at the Foxboro Stadium. The match ended Maradona’s international career after he was caught for using a performance-enhancing stimulant after post-match dope test and was thrown out of the tournament. “I want to remember Maradona for all the right reasons and personally, it was privilege for me to have played against him at the USA’94 World Cup,” the firmer Barcelona winger further said. “Though we lost to Argentina, that match is unforgettable. It was Maradona that set up Claudio Caniggia and his leadership qualities was there for all to see. “Maradona not only inspired Argentina, he inspired so many generations of footballers and I pray grant him eternal rest,” Amuneke added, Adepoju who came in as a second half substitute for Samson Siasia at Foxboro Stadium quipped: “Before USA’94, I’d watched Maradona at the Italia’90 when he nearly led Argentina to win the World Cup for the second time after their 1986 win in Mexico where he was the star player. “But it was something magical to be on the same pitch with him. He was undoubtedly, one of the greatest players ever. He has played his own part and he’s gone now; we can only wish him eternal rest,” the former Racing Santander told NationSport.