Manchester City are undeniably going to sign Lionel Messi from Barcelona, talkSPORT has been told. This is according to former City ace Trevor Sinclair, who believes Messi’s Etihad arrival is ‘inevitable’ following Pep Guardiola’s contract extension. Pep on Thursday penned a new two-year deal with City which ties him down until 2023, and he’s plotting the thing that continues to elude him since taking charge of City – Champions League success. And what better way to win the European Cup than by signing Messi – with Pep never claiming Ol’ Big Ears without the Argentina ace part of his team. Man City actually wanted to sign Messi earlier this year, when he made clear his desire to leave Barcelona but ended up staying at Camp Nou. Despite committing to Barca for the 2020/21 season, rumours continue to swirl over Messi’s future with many believing he will instead quit the Catalans next summer. And City, according to Sinclair, is the ‘inevitable’ destination. “It’s outstanding news,” Sinclair said of Guardiola’s new contract on Friday’s talkSPORT Breakfast. “I think every City fan is going to be buzzing when they hear this news. “Not only has he won the trophies, but you think about 100 points, the treble, winning back-to-back Premier League titles… “He’s done unbelievably well at Manchester City. And just the fact he can recruit any player in the world excites Man City fans. The relationship between him and Khaldoon [Al Mubarak], the owner, has been superb and there is a lot of trust there. “And I think he is happy for the journey to continue. For me, you look at what has gone one with him signing a new two-year contract, there are rumours Kevin De Bruyne is going to sign a new contract… I think Messi is inevitable.” “I can’t see anything other than that. And I look at the club I supported, ‘little old Manchester City’, signing the best player in the world and possibly winning the Champions League…”  Pushed further on the Messi rumours, Sinclair was asked if he ‘definitely’ thinks the Argentine will end up at the Etihad – either in January or at the end of the season.  “I can’t see it any other way,” replied Sinclair. “He is too young to go back to Argentina, and I don’t think there is any other club where they have the right manager in place where Messi would go in and feel comfortable under that manager.