 MAJOR stakeholders in the Nigerian capital market have berated attempt by the Federal Government to set up an Unclaimed Dividend Trust Fund, describing the move as a disincentive and an attempt to expropriate shareholders’ wealth. Unclaimed dividends are estimate to hit N200 billion by the year-end as several shareholders still neglect or are unable to claim their dividends. Cash dividends are classified as unclaimed if not collected within the payment period. Stakeholders said the proposed controversial plan by the Federal government to manage unclaimed dividends would have adverse effects on investor confidence and future growth of the market. The Federal Government had in Section 39 of the 2020 Finance Act proposed that unclaimed dividends of less than 12 years be managed on behalf shareholders through Unclaimed Dividend Trust Fund while after 12 years, the money becomes  forfeited to the  government as  perpetual debt to shareholders. President, Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS), Mr Olatunde Amolegbe, said there was no need for the unclaimed dividend trust fund as Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) would always ensure that unclaimed dividend is transferred to capital reserves of the company for restricted utilisation such as capital expansion and issuance of bonus shares to the company’s shareholders. He described the move to set up a trust fund as objectionable at this stage of the capital market. Addressing the Investigative Arm of House Committee on Capital Market and Institutions, Chairman, Association of Securities Dealing Houses of Nigeria (ASHON), Chief Onyenwechukwu Ezeagu, explained that capital market regulators and operators had leveraged technology to put in place many initiatives to address the issue of unclaimed dividends. According to him,  the initiatives include: dematerialisation of shares which entails upload of quoted companies’ shares in the Central Securities Clearing System (CSCS) for ease of reconciliation, adoption of E-Dividend and E-Mandate, consolidation of multiple accounts, identity management engagements, introduction of electronic Initial Public offering (e-IPO) and adoption of Minimum Operating Standards (MOS) for operators to enhance efficiency. He added that operators and regulators in the market have also intensified investor education, engaged in continuous stakeholders’ engagements, initiated process reform while streamlining and standardizing know-your-customer (KYC) update on clients’ accounts among others. “Generally, the incentives for savers and capital providers in the capital market are the expectation of dividends and capital appreciation. It is therefore our considered view that the proposed legislation, if passed, will be a great disincentive to savings, long-term capital mobilization and serious disruption of the Nigerian economy since it will take away the only expectation of investors in the market,” Ezeagu said. Chief Executive Officer, Wyoming Capital, Mr Tajudeen Olayinka expressed dismay noting that such unclaimed dividend fund would amount to deleveraging the banking system, whose stock-in-trade is cash, while at the same time, putting too much pressure on public companies’ additional source of finance. “Capital formation and investor confidence are at stake as well,” Olayinka said. SEC had in November 2015 launched the E-Dividend Mandate Management System (E-DMMS) in collaboration with the Central Bank of Nigeria, Nigerian Interbank Settlement System (NIBSS) and other stakeholders. The E-DMMS is an E-dividend payment portal that ensures the payment of dividends directly into a shareholder’s account. The Commission subsequently cancelled the issuance of physical dividend warrants, opting for full e-dividend payment for companies quoted on the Nigerian stock market. The Independent Shareholders Association of Nigeria (ISAN) described the move as an attempt to “rob shareholders” by a government that is supposed to protect its citizens. National Publicity Secretary, Independent Shareholders Association of Nigeria (ISAN), Mr. Moses Igbrude, said it was unfortunate that the government that wanted investors to invest in the economy is the same government that wants to take away the proceeds of such investment through the back door just because shareholders did not claim it on time. “The government has forgotten that it has taken over  30 per cent tax from  companies that generates the dividends on profit before tax and 10 per cent from the individual investors through withholding tax on any dividends declared by companies,  what moral rights did the government have to take the money?,”  Igbrude said. According to him, the government is saying that the unclaimed dividends that revert to the company after 12 years is unconstitutional because Companies and Allied Matter Act (CAMA) says its owner should forfeit to the company that generated it while forfeiting to federal government is constitutional even when the same government has collected over 40 per cent of the dividend from the companies and their owners through taxes. “It is unacceptable, an inhumanity to man, it will militate against investment in the Nigerian economy.  It is pure stealing  by the federal government,  I am appealing to the National Assembly  to reject and expunge in entirety that section of the bill,  because from all intentions and purposes the Unclaimed Dividend Trust Fund is designed to collect the hard earned money of innocent Nigerians, otherwise  how do you expect  a shareholder with N1,000 unclaimed dividend in Lagos or other part of Nigeria to apply to the Accountant-General and subject to the Minister approval only then the  shareholder can claim such dividend. How economical is such arrangements,” Igbrude said. He urged proponents of the trust fund to have a rethink or shareholders may be left with no option than to take legal action against setting up of such fund. 