 Ingressive For Good, a non-profit organisation dedicated to creating and increasing the earning power of African youth through tech training and resources, has awarded scholarships to undergraduates in two Nigerian universities, providing tuition for the excellent students who met the initiative’s need-based criteria. The Ingressive for  Good (I4G) Microscholarship programme was established to help students in African tertiary institutions, pursuing computer science and tech degrees excel in technology, become leaders in the field, and successfully complete their academic tenure. The scholarship seeks to develop youth leaders in technology who are ready to put their learned skills to work in leading organisations, communities, and their local countries. The scholarship grants students the opportunity to complete their education at the ivy-leagues of Africa. According to Sean Burrowes, the COO of Ingressive For Good “This scholarship pays homage to the ability of Covenant University and Babcock University to develop the technical talent currently at the forefront of Nigeria’s leading indigenous tech companies. We look forward to supporting more universities and expanding our scholarships as a part of our five-year strategy.” Applauding the company, the President of the Covenant University Alumni, Kemi Onabanjo said, “This scholarship contribution has helped fulfill the dreams of some of our students. We hope to find more collaboration opportunities in the future.” The Ingressive for Good (I4G) Microscholarship program was established to help students in African tertiary institutions, pursuing computer science and tech degrees excel in technology, become leaders in the field, and successfully complete their academic tenure. As a part of its limited launch, I4G is providing one tuition scholarship along with a laptop for those who are chosen. In a message to Ingressive For Good, the President and Vice-Chancellor of Babcock University said, “I wish to thank you for this scholarship provision for a deserving student. No doubt, this commendable gesture will encourage excellence.” Through its activities and investment, Ingressive For Good also intends to drive resources to those with the highest impact potential, strengthen the overall African technical talent development pipeline, and support the monetization of technical skill sets that create local and global opportunities. The beneficiaries of this year’s scholarships are Orunja Abidemi (Covenant University) and Ebunoluwa Enoch (Babcock University). The I4G micro-scholarship award is planned to be an annual event to fund the tertiary education of brilliant but indigent students of tech courses. Find out more about I4G initiatives here and join the I4G Network to access more opportunities.  