  MABAWONKU: My name is Mabawonku, a pensioner with federal share. I retired with NERDC in1993 as assistant chief research officer. My gratuity and six months’ arrears pension have not been paid after several correspondence and physical appearances to PTAD. I did verification screening with PENCOM in 2011 and PTAD in Lagos in April 2019. The Lagos State share has been paid where I retired in 2010 as a director. But for PTAD, promises that have not been fulfilled were given. Please help me. PTAD: The pensioner is to provide a copy of his pensioner’s verification acknowledgement slip to enable us investigate and follow up on his complaints. ADETUTU: We read again in The Nation Newspaper  where you asked for my mother’s phone number which I have sent on the July 17, 2019. But there is a mistake in the write up where they wrote she was given monthly pension from 2005 to 2010. She has not been paid from 2005 to 2010. But what she is asking for is the arrears from that 2005 to 2010 which has not been paid. PTAD: The pensioner was contacted on her mobile phone number and informed to provide a copy of her pensioner’s verification acknowledgement slip through the complaints email (complaints@ptad.gov.ng). This will enable us investigate and follow up her complaint. MAYOWA: This is for someone very close and dear to me. Please read this and any action taken will be appreciated: “I retired as an Assistant Director of Education (GL 15) in December 1996, having served the government for 35 years. My gratuities were paid in 1998 when the value of the money had fallen more than 100 per cent. I started drawing my pensions in  the year 2000. I am a purely federal pensioner, with no state share at all. Till date, I have not been allowed to enjoy any of the pension increases approved since year 2000. In April 2009, my pensions were harmonised to enable me enjoy the 142 per cent increment approved in year 2000. The voucher was prepared. This included the arrears accruing from year 2000. That month, I was paid only the harmonised monthly amount. The arrears were not paid and have still not been paid till now. Later this harmonised amount was reduced by 50 per cent for no reason. Despite series of verification and completion of complaints forms, no action has been taken on my case. However, the pension authorities keep on telling the public that they have been paying pension arrears and returning savings from discovery of ghost pensioners to government coffers. I submitted a letter of complaint to the Akure Office of the Public Complaints Office in April 2014, but I am not sure the letter left the office although they charged me for courier fees. I retired from the Federal Civil Service at the age of 56 years. I am now 76 years old and I am still being denied my entitlements by fellow compatriots since year 2000. This complaint and relevant documents including my bank statement of account are in my records with PTAD as were with those who handed over to them. Why is it that nobody is doing or saying anything about my case since 16 years?  The current administration that is committed to change and correcting previous ills, needs God fearing people who are selfless, honest, public spirited and free from covetousness to administer pensions. I thank you, Omobola, for your interest in the welfare of the elderly. PTAD: The pensioner is to provide a copy of his verification acknowledgement slip so that proper investigation and follow up can be done on his complaint. SUNDAY: I retired in June 2003 from the service of former Governmet Agency changed to National Clearing and Forwarding Agency. I received my pension from March 2008 to April 2018. But they stopped my pension after April and I don’t know why. Please help me. PTAD: If Mr Eshiet has been verified, we advise that he sends a clearly scanned copy of his verification slip to complaints@ptad.gov.ng. If he has not been verified, he can visit our Abuja or Lagos office with his employment documents, BVN and original stamped bank statement from April 2018 till date to be verified and monthly pension payment resumed if eligible. BENJAMIN: I am Benjamin, I retired in 2006 under the old NEPA/PHCN and by transition from NELMCO to PTAD. My monthly pension of January and March 2015 were omitted. I went to PTAD five  times and did all what I was told to do but to my surprise, each time I went there, they would tell me ‘no fund’ Please intervene for me. PTAD: The pensioner is required to submit his bank statement from July 2014 to date to PTAD Office Abuja including his complaint to enable us investigate and resolve his complaint. ISA: Good evening Madam, this is from one of the Pre 1996 Railway pensioners in Nasarawa State. My name is Isa. Our 18 months arrears (part of 52 months) since the time of former President Goodluck Jonathan is yet to be cleared. Also, railway pensioners are the least paid nationwide. Kindly use your good office to help and solve our problems. We “Thank  You” for being there for Us. PTAD: It is an assumed liability by some groups of pensioners in the NRC. The group is yet to forward any supporting documents. ALICE: My name is Alice. Well-done and thanks for The Nation’s concern on pensioner’s matters. My pensioner number is Anonymous. I did verification since August 2017 but PTAD has not paid me till date. Kindly assist, several pensioners have gotten their pension. I am a state pensioner with federal share. I retired on April 30, 2008 without payment till date. Thank you. PTAD: The pensioner’s complaint has been investigated. She will receive payment as funds are allocated and released by the Federal Government. JOHN:  My name is John, a retiree from Federal Polytecnic Idah 2018. My PFA is Sigma. I did my biodata in July 17, 2017 and my last salary was September 2018. I learnt that PenCom exists for the Nigerian pension industry to ensure that retirement benefits are paid as and when due.  Since the time to date does it mean pension is no longer paid as and when due? When should I expect my retirement benefits. And, what are the kind of problem(s) that cause this long delay? PENCOM: He needs to forward his enrolment slip to enable the Commission access his records.