 NASARAWA State House of Assembly has urged the government and security agents to arrest the killers of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Chairman, Mr. Philip Shekwo. Speaker Ibrahm Balarabe-Abdullahi made the demand after Majority Leader Tanko Tunga moved a motion under matters of public interest on the death of Shekwo during the proceedings yesterday in Lafia. He said punishing the culprits would deter others and ensure peace. “The resolution of this House is to the effect that members advised Governor Abdullahi Sule to direct the security agents to work hard to unravel the perpetrators of this act to face justice. “Security agents are to intensify efforts to protect lives and property of the citizens. “The government should provide adequate support to the security agents to protect lives and property,” he said. According to him, “our state APC chairman was a man of peace. He was an easygoing man.  We have lost a leader. May his soul rest in peace.” Governor Sule has attributed the rise in crime to inadequate rapid response by security agents. He spoke on Monday at the Government House, Lafia during an emergency security meeting. Sule expressed sadness about the gruesome murder of Shekwo by suspected assassins at his home last Saturday. He said: “Our major problem in Nasarawa State is lack of rapid response. We must put mechanism in place to ensure rapid response, and by doing that we will be able to control the situation. “If the APC chairman with some level of security attachment could be killed, how about the ordinary citizens who do not have such security attachment. It calls for worry.” The governor lamented that 24 hours before the murder of the APC chairman at the same area, a young man was shut in his car by gunmen. Briefing reporters after the security council meeting, Police Commissioner Mr. Bola Longe said more patrol vans would be provided to ensure rapid response. He said the Force would go to any length to bring the perpetrators to book, adding that investigation was on. 