Senate President Ahmed Lawan and Senator Mohammed Sani Musa (Niger East) have faulted a report linking them to alleged bribery in the process leading to the reappointment of the Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Both Senators denied the report published by an online platform, Sahara Reporters, that INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, allegedly paid N3b to secure reappointment. Lawan and Musa said the report was false and an attempt to malign them. The report had claimed that a group led by the Senate President collected N2b from the INEC Chairman and another N1b through another group, alleging that the payment was aided by Senator Musa. Both Senators’ position is contained in a protest letter by their lawyer, Ahmed Raji (SAN) in Abuja, asking Sahara Reporters to retract the publication within seven days, tender apology and enter into negotiation for damages. The lawyer said: ”Our clients deny in its entirety the contents of the above publication and innuendoes therein, and further state that every allegation against them in the said publication is utterly false and defamatory of their persons and character. “In particular, our clients specifically deny that they took part or in any way or manner whatsoever aided/facilitated the alleged payment of the sum of N2,000,000,000 (two billion naira) or any sum at all to a group led by the President of the Senate or any group or person by whatever name called on behalf of Prof Mahmood Yakubu or any other person whosoever and for any purpose whatsoever. ”Our clients further deny that the President of the Senate led any group of persons whatsoever in connection with the alleged payment or receipt of the sum of N2,000.000.000 (two billion naira) or any Sum at all on behalf of Prof. Mahmood Yakubu or any other person whosoever and for any purpose whatsoever. ”Consequently, we demand that you retract the aforesaid publication and render an apology to our clients within seven (7) days of the receipt of this letter. You are also to enter into negotiation for damages.”