Georgia Oboh continues to make an inroad into the elite cadre in global golf as the teenage sensation has been invited for the 2020 Saudi Arabia Ladies Golf Tournament later this month. This year, Oboh has played a total of eight events after the lockdown starting with the Scottish Ladies Open, then played in the Czech Ladies Open near Prague, Czech Republic, and the VP Bank Ladies Open on the Ladies European tour. She had also featured in tournaments in Switzerland and Spain and with some noticeable improvement in her scores from the same time last year in her scoring averages on tour and her finish positions, Oboh averaged scores of -1 through the tournaments and finished with two top 20s and two top 10 places. The Edo State-born golf prodigy is now set to make history with the other ladies from the Ladies European Tour (LET) when they tee it up in Saudi Arabia for the first time starting November 12 for two major tournaments. The tournament in Saudi Arabia is the Aramco Saudi Ladies International presented by Public Investment Fund. This is in a bid to grow the game of golf amongst ladies in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The Nigerian has been invited by the sponsors to showcase the female golf talent around the world. The Saudi Arabia Ladies Golf tournament is the biggest prize purse outside of the major events and the Scottish Ladies Open. Oboh said: “I give God all the Glory and feel very honoured to have been invited to such a prestigious event which is set to host the very top of the Ladies on the Ladies European Tour and members of the LPGA too. “I am happy with the way that my game is developing and looking forward to a great learning experience once again. The abbreviated season due to Covid-19 gave me a chance to work on my game and it has been great just to pause and see some return now, so I give God all the Glory indeed.” She added: “To have the opportunity to play in the Inaugural Saudi Arabia Ladies International is just the best feeling this year and I am really looking forward to the challenge. I would like to take this opportunity to give God all the glory and acknowledging my family and friends who are doing all they can to make this trip possible as you already know that I have no Corporate sponsor yet but God has been so faithful through all of the challenges this year and I am sure He is the best corporate partner that I can have moving forward.” The Saudi Arabia tournament will be played at the Royal Greens and Country Club which was awarded the best golf club in Saudi Arabia 2020 by the World Golf Awards The first event is individual Ladies Strokeplay over 72 holes with a cut after 36 holes and then the second event is the Team event so it promises to be a fantastic time in Saudi Arabia