 RECENTLY, at a national summit on the reform of Nigerian Correctional Centres in Abuja, the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) Abubakar Malami, SAN, proposed the decentralisation of the management of the Nigerian Correctional Centres. According to Malami, the proposal “will allow states to effectively participate through the setting up of their own correctional centres to manage offenders who commit state offences while the federal government will continue to manage offenders who commit federal offences.” Coming from the attorney general of what appears an ultra-conservative presidency with respect to restructuring, could the proposal be a shift in strategy in the management of our criminal justice system? Or is it merely a knee-jerk reaction to the burgeoning burden of managing the dilapidating correctional centres, overpopulated largely by those charged and awaiting trial for offending state laws? No doubt, the future is bleak for the federal government-owned overpopulated correctional centres, considering the increasing pressure to accept even more inmates. Of note, President Muhammadu Buhari last year signed into law, The Nigerian Correctional Services Act, 2019, which many hailed as innovative compared to the repealed Nigerian Prisons Act, which was considered as dilapidated as many of the prisons, now called correctional centres. The organisational structure under the new law, provides for a controller-general who is responsible to the president, through the Minister of Interior and the Civil Defence, Fire, Immigration and Correctional Board which the minister heads. If I may ask, under the AGF’s proposed reform, how will the governor and the state authority fit into the organisational structure? Interestingly, it was reported that some correctional centres refused to accept the huge number of detainees arrested and charged with sundry offences, after the tragic fall-out of the #EndSARS protests, because the centres were already overpopulated. Coupled with the breach of the correctional centres in Edo and few other states, during the #EndSARS riot, the federal authorities perhaps are waking up to the foolhardiness of running a jaundiced over-centralized criminal justice system, and is starting with tinkering the correctional centres’ management. While the management of the correctional centres is one of the challenges of the criminal justice system that we operate, it is the end result of a bad beginning. To start the change from the correctional centre is like digging the yam, from the bottom. The chances are that you may just break the yam. But even with respect to the correctional centres, if the AGF believes that state intervention is needed to solve the problem of overpopulation, he should propose the amendment of the 1999 constitution and other extant laws to enable state authorities lawfully establish state correctional centres and employ their own warders to man same. Of note, the AGF thinks his intervention would save the situation, for he said: “These are all measures expected to address the problem of congestion in the correctional centres as witnessed presently.” But this column thinks it is unfair to ask the state governments to manage a federal owned correctional centre, whose employees are not answerable to the state authorities. That would involve using state resources to develop the physical infrastructure of the federal owned correction centres, since prisons is listed as item number 48, in the exclusive legislative list, in the 1999 constitution (as amended). The states may also need to pay allowances and provide other incentives to motivate the work force, as well as provide vehicles, stationaries, amongst other necessary infrastructure at the federal-owned correctional centres. So, the states would be expected to provide the facilities, but will not be able to audit its efficiency. For instance, if the state authority provides vehicles to aid the efficient movement of detainees, and it is deployed elsewhere, the state would merely wring its hand in frustration and do nothing. Again, without effective control of the other factors that contribute to the overpopulation of the correctional centres, the impact of merely giving states the authority to manage federal-owned correction centres, as proposed by the AGF, would be minimal. This column considers that at the head of the criminal justice system is of course the police, charged with the responsibility of maintaining and enforcing law and order, investigating crimes and providing evidence in court. Just like the prisons, the police is listed as item number 45 on the exclusive legislative list, in the 1999 constitution (as amended), and as such is placed exclusively under the federal government control. Now, unless the state has control of the police to ensure efficiency in investigation and prosecution, the prevailing inefficiencies that has contributed so much to the state of overpopulated correctional centres, would continue even if the state is given the opportunity to manage some correction centres. So, if the AGF sincerely has interest to effect a change in our criminal justice system, he must come to terms that he has to advise the president to start with granting the state governments control over their police. A lot has been written about the challenge faced by our country because of the inefficiency of the police. But the recent helplessness of the federal police as rioters and hoodlums ran riot across the states shows the urgency for state policy. It is that police that will complement state owned correctional centre, to gift Nigeria the efficiency the AGF talked about. For this column that is the place to start, and as such do not agree with the averment made by the AGF, when he said to state heads of government and heads of court that: “in order to put in place enduring measures for effective management of correctional centres for the reformation, rehabilitation and reintegration of offenders back to the society, the decentralisation of correctional service in the country has been proposed.” Clearly, I do not think that much can be achieved if the state government would still rely on the challenged federal police to investigate its matters, prosecute same or timeously give evidence to ensure efficiency. The same challenge will be faced by the state in managing the federal staff of the Nigerian Correctional Centres, whose command and control is beyond the ken of the state chief executives. As we have seen with regards to the police, all the support state governments extend to the police, has never amounted to any form of control. But it is clear that the burden of managing Nigerian Correctional Centres overpopulated by inmates charged with sundry state crimes has started biting hard on the federal government, with leaner resources. But the solution does not lie in knee-jerk approach, but in a holistic overhauling of the entire criminal justice system. Again, to attract the needed private capital to upgrade our correctional centres, the federal government must genuinely reform and apply best international practices.