The Governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, has admonished the new Elepe of Epe Ekiti, in Ijero Local Government, Oba Ayodeji Williams Adesoye, to rule with the fear of God to achieve success on the throne. The Governor gave the advice while presenting Oba Adesoye with the Staff of Office and Certificate of Appointment to officially recognise him as the king of his town at a brief ceremony held in line with COVID-19 protocols. Fayemi who was represented by the Deputy Governor, Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi, said he was confident that the new Elepe possessed the necessary experience required to steer the ship of the town and attract more development to it. According to a statement by the Special Assistant (Media) to the Deputy Governor, Odunayo Ogunmola, the throne of the Elepe became vacant following the demise of the last occupant, Oba Emmanuel Agbeleoba of the Ogodulose Ruling House on 30th November, 2018. He disclosed that the process to fill the stool commenced on 24th June, 2019 when the Bureau of Chieftaincy Affairs directed the next Ruling House, Arowosapo, to commence the selection process in line with the Chiefs Law of Fayemi disclosed that the selection of Oba Adesoye was in line with the provisions of Paragraph 1, Section 8 of the Ekiti State Chiefs Law 2012 stressing that the process was completely devoid of any colouration or manipulation. The Governor reiterated that his administration had no special interest in any particular candidate that vied for the royal seat, saying merit, transparency, fairness and due diligence were the factors that led to the emergence of the new king. Fayemi also called on the indigenes of Epe Ekiti to cooperate with their new Oba saying that “experience has shown that no meaningful development can take place in an atmosphere of rancour and acrimony.” Wishing the monarch a peaceful reign, Fayemi said: “It is my prayer that God will grant you the required wisdom, courage and good health to lead the people of Epe Ekiti aright. In his acceptance speech, Oba Adesoye said he accepted the staff of office with utmost sense of fulfillment and responsibility to open a new chapter in the history of his kingdom. He said: “Today is an important history making in the life of Epe Ekiti, the land and its people. It is a day long-awaited, and its realisation comes as benevolence from God through the government of our state. “As such, it completes my launch into the full administration of our community. It is therefore an overstatement that the occasion we here witness marks a new day and a new turn in the history of our land.” The traditional ruler promised to always be in synergy with relevant stakeholders in ensuring the peace, stability, growth and development of Epe Ekiti.