Alex Iwobi played the final 13 minutes for Everton in their duel with Newcastle United at the St. James’ Park with the Blues losing their second straight league game of the season after going unbeaten in the opening five matches. Everton host Odion Ighalo’s Manchester United at lunchtime today and the Merseyside side must go all out for a win to secure their first victory against the Red Devils in the last three games. Both games ended in a stalemate last season. At the Craven Cottage on Monday, Nigeria’s Ola Aina bagged his first goal of the season for Fulham against Semi Ajayi’s West Brom as he helped the Cottagers secure their first victory of the season after seven games. Aina is eligible playing at away today against West Ham United. West Brom with Semi Ajayi is 18th  on the league table with three points. They are hosting rejuvenated Tottenham tomorrow at the Hawthorns still in search of their first home win while Kelechi Iheanacho will be hoping he returns for Leicester City home tie with Wolves tomorrow. In SPAIN, Kelechi Nwakali’s SD Huesca trade tackles with Eibar today with the first league win of the season their primary target. Huesca with Nwakali starting his first game of the season were beaten 4-1 by Real Madrid last week and only a home win will help brighten their survival chances. Villarreal’s Samuel Chukwueze ended his barren spell in La Liga last weekend with a goal in their 2-0 home  win over Real Valladolid. The Yellow Submarines are away to Getafe tomorrow. Meanwhile, Granada’s Ramon Azeez only resumed training from an injury that sidelined him almost throughout October last weekend. As Granada travel to slug it out with league leaders, Real Sociedad, Azeez’s current physical condition will play a big part if he is to be picked for the tie or not. Without the Nigerian midfielder, Granada were held to a 1-1 draw at home by Levante. In ITALY, Simy Nwankwo grabbed his third goal of the season but Crotone still lost at home to Atalanta last weekend. They are at Torino tomorrow and Simy and his club should fancy the great chance of getting their first win of the season at the end of the tie. Former junior international, Kingsley Michael,  is still in the hunt for his league debut for Bologna. He was an unused substitute in their 3-2 victory over Cagliari last weekend. Bologna  will welcome Napoli tomorrow as Victor Osimhen make returns  after serving his one match suspension  a match suspension following the  double yellow cards he collected against Real Sociedad in the Europa League. In GERMANY, Taiwo Awoniyi’s Union Berlin will host Arminia Bielefeld still smarting from their last week away win over Hoffenheim. Awoniyi played for the 77th minute in the 3-1 win while Kevin Akpoguma’s Hoffenheim travel to entertain Wolfsburg tomorrow.