Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, has expressed delight over the exclusion of Nigeria from the Global Impunity Index 2020 released on October 28, 2020 by the Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ). The CPJ Global Impunity Index, which spotlights countries where journalist are killed and their killers unpunished, had until the latest edition, featured Nigeria along with 12 other countries. The latest edition stated that “Nigeria is the only country to come off the index this year,” with the other 12 countries that account for 80 per cent of the global total unresolved murders of journalists, have featured multiple times six the CPJ first compiled the index in 2008. Malami, in a statement on Sunday by his media aide, Umar Gwnadu, said it is gratifying to note that Nigeria is no longer among the countries with impunity for crimes against journalists. The AGF attributed the achievement to the many justice sector reforms effected by the President Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government, which are now evident in increased access to justice, speedy justice dispensation, decongestion of correctional centres and enhanced application of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act. Gwandu said the AGF’s position is contained in “his message commemorating the United Nations proclaimed November 2nd as International Day to End Impunity for Crimes Against Journalists.” He quoted that AGF as noting that Nigeria had, in the last decade, before the advent of the present administration, ranked 13th globally and was among top three African countries with impunity for crimes against journalists, after Somalia and South Sudan. According to Gwndu, Malami was optimistic that, with a well reformed justice sector to be bequeathed to succeeding government by the Buhari administration, never again will Nigeria feature among nations where journalists, citizens and inhabitants of the country will suffer from any form of impunity in the future. He added: “The Minister said the recent developments in the Nigeria’s international arbitration against P&ID and some international oil companies are but indicators of resolute determination of the Federal Government to bring to an end the era of impunity and lack of adherence to due diligence and rule of law in governmental operations. “While expressing commitment to maintain the tempo, Malami said there was no room for complacency in ensuring serene online and offline atmosphere of journalism practice in the country. “He noted that with the development of information and communication technology and as the internet became a veritable tool for mass mediated communication. “The Minister said government is working to ensure safety of journalists against rhetorical aggression, trolling, incursion of privacy, phishing and cyber attacks. “He stated further that with the implementation of Cybercrime Act 2015 the incidences of cyber related crimes would be minimised. “He urged journalists to adhere strictly to the ethical provisions of their profession and refrain from misinformation and fake news.”