 TOMI fell in love with Gbolahan right from the first moment she saw him. Of course, she didn’t show the excitement initially and waiting for him to make the first move . Luckily, he did and like her, he also loved everything about her making the love process smooth, interesting and exciting for the lovebirds. Five months down the learn, she learnt a lot about him and was ready to tell anyone that Gbolahan was the sunshine in her life, It was happiness galore and she had a thousand reason to feel special everything she was in his company. “Our love is deeper than the ocean and truer than my reality. I wish to be everything that brings a smile to his face and joy to his heart. I want to love him like no else has ever done “, she enthused. She continued her love story: “Every encounter with you is great, your companionship is a rare gift and privilege for it gives me a new reason to love you and to appreciate you for what you have given me. You are the one that holds the key to my heart!” Now, that she is basking in the euphoria of the relationship, there is snag. Could did beautiful thing last forever or is it likely to stop when she needs it most. If there’s one thing in this world that she is really afraid to lose, then it must be this wonderful heart. “I am so in love with you that I can’t afford to lose you! Each time I look at you, I just smile to myself and think, ‘I certainly could not have done better’. You are perfect the way you are. I love you so much”. Love like life, the emotional zone can be a battleground. It is filled with the good, the bad as well as the ugly sides depicting disappointments, frustrations, blackmail and intrigues. Of course, they are not things she experienced personally but those things that happen to the people around you. Friends , family and loved ones , peoples whose hearts have been nailed to the emotional cross and each time you remember this things you heart  sinks and you begin to wonder if they emotional road is worth the while. Would it bring joy and fortune her way? Would she be lucky to find the kind of Romeo, we read about in story books? Would she get trapped into the heart of a prince Charming whose heart melts like gold? Dreams, dreams and dreams. They actually make her emotional world go round in circles and moving out of the dream zone are thoughts that bring turmoil, casting a big doubt on the emotional process. While some call the hazards in the love corridor the reality part of the show, it is something she wouldn’t like to experience at all. So, what does our friend really want? In her heart the best thing that can happen to her is to find a heart that loving and lovable. Like a popular love quote, her wish reads Thus: “Each time I make a wish, I wish for us to be together forever. I know it will come true because you already live in my heart. I love you. I love you more than the stars in the night even every day we fight my love will never change, even slight I just love you, I simply do”. Yes, she has actually found the guy. The one she wants to be the bone of her bones. Like the letter U and I, which are placed side by side on the Computer keyboard, she would like their romantic story to be arranged side by side, waxing stronger by the day and imagining a love story that is inspiring, continuous and that which would last till death do them apart. Tear drops, certainly not. This is not required in their emotional lexicon. However: , tears of joy is welcomes , it will certainly remind them of the emotional bridges cross as well as the many conquest as they move from one phase of the relationship to another. That leads her to another emotional school of thought. “If I was a teardrop in your eye I would roll down onto your lips. But if you were a tear in my eye I would never cry as I would be afraid to lose you. I will never promise you everything on earth, but I’ll promise you everything my heart brings out because you own my heart.” Unfortunately, lovebirds only love and imagine that the things in the heart of the people to admire cherish and hope to spend their lifetime with. If  only  we  could see  through the  eyes of those we love , understand how they feel towards us, their expectations  and the things they would do or wouldn’t do for love m, then we would be in a better position to know where we stand in the emotional game plan.