  No thanks to the outbreak of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19), records from different sources show that the nation’s capital market has experienced anything but boom lately if the regularity of losses and declining investment within that space is anything to go by. While it is a known fact that most capital market firms have been facing economic challenges – low interest rates, stringent regulations, and increased capital requirements with high margin pressure, ever before the advent of Covid-19, the challenges have become further exacerbated since the outbreak of the pandemic even as there are fears that this may extend far into the new year. In a report tagged: ‘Nigerian capital market: Pandemic, performance and palliative’ Dr. Timi Olubiyi, an Entrepreneurship and Small Business Management expert, while attempting a prognosis of the challenges besetting the capital market, observed that across the world, the impact of the novel coronavirus is still severe despite the ease of lockdown for economic reasons even as he noted that the uncertainty continues to heighten and no economy is spared from the fallout from the Covid-19 outbreak. Capital market outlook in Africa Many African capital markets are bearish, Namibia, South Africa, Mauritius, Egypt, Morocco, Kenya, Ghana, Malawi, and a few others. …Nigeria not an exception Citing the performance trend in Nigeria, Olubiyi, who is an investment coach as well as financial literacy specialist, revealed that, the first quarter of the year 2020 in terms of performance closed in the red with a negative return of (20.65 percent), as against a negative return of (1.24 percent) in the first quarter of 2019. The market capitalisation of the Oscar Onyema-led Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), which represents the market value of all listed companies, lost about N2 trillion thus far. However, surprisingly the performance of the stock market in April 2020 was positive. The market performed with a gain of 8.08 percent to close the month of April at 23,021.01 points, from an opening level of 21,300.47 points at the beginning of the month. In terms of market capitalisation for the period, the value was up by N896 billion as at April 30, 2020, from an opening value of N11.101 trillion on April 1, 2020, to close at N11.997 trillion. In May 2020, the market’s month-on-month performance closed at 9.76 percent as against +8.08 percent gain recorded in April 2020. The performance hinged higher due to investors bargain hunting even though most of the trades were executed remotely. Stock performance from January till date During this period some of the companies that released their financials are MTN Nigeria Communications Plc, Vitafoam Nigeria Plc, Dangote Cement Plc, Julius Berger Nigeria Plc, Nigerian Breweries Plc, Zenith Bank Plc, Transcorp Hotels Plc, United Bank for Africa Plc, Transnational Corporation of Nigeria Plc, Guaranty Trust Bank Plc, Stanbic IBTC Holdings Plc, Access Bank Plc, Fidelity Bank Plc, Sterling Bank Plc, Seplat Petroleum Development Company Plc, 11 Plc, Dangote Sugar Plc, BUA cement Plc Total Plc, Airtel Plc Nestle Nigeria Plc, First Bank, Okomu Oil Plc, and BOC Gases Plc. Nonetheless, the increasing number in the incidences of Covid-19 in Nigeria has been a huge concern, as analysts argue it could signal weak economic data, decline productivity, and falling consumption rate, which might even affect the overall outputs and performance of the economy eventually. Worst fears In the view of Stephen Bankole, a stock market analyst, “Covi-19 affected the fortunes of so many companies with a few exceptions with majority of those affected companies in the hospitality industry and the agricultural sub-sector of the economy. “Besides, even those in the industrial sector were also affected as most of them had to follow strict movement protocols in order to move goods to parts of the country , all wfor the spate of six months since March,” he said. It is the concern of analysts that if the spread is not curtailed within a reasonable period, it might harm the inflow of foreign direct investments, imports and export trades, manufacturing, tourism, health, hospitality, services, travels and more than likely it might disrupt or crash the economic forecasts and revenue estimates of many businesses particularly SMEs in the country. This pandemic might eventually impact negatively on the performance of the NSE and that of many of the listed companies, given the high uncertainty around production, services, and demands if the Covid-19 continues to spread. Experts also charged that rather than see the market perpetually closing on negative notes, adequate government policy response is recommended to immediately cushion the effect of the pandemic. Regulators in the capital market, as a matter of urgency need to propose to the government, direct policy responses to cushion the effect of the Covid-19. This is imperative because most of the SMEs and companies listed have experienced supply chain disruption and depressing investment climate. Therefore, government intervention or palliative is required for their sustainability. All hope is not lost In the view of Tunde Oyediran, stockbroker and economic analyst, “To remedy this situation, what we expect the government to do is what it has started doing by issuing foreign bonds, which the international market can buy into. In some cases, they give brain bonds which the foreigners bought completely as it is right now, but for the stock, it will take quite some time because this problem is international in nature, it knows no bound. Again, they are also struggling in that place as we struggling here. The earlier we put our own house in order for us to be able to accommodate them again, the better for us.” Echoing similar sentiments, David Adonri, Managing Director/CEO, Highcap Securities Limited, said, “If the economy is buoyant and fundamentals of companies are strong, equities become very attractive but if the economy declines, there is migration of financial assets to bonds. Due to Nigeria’s economic slowdown which started even before Covid-19, equities market has been depressed while bonds have offered higher yields and more attraction. The damage inflicted on the economy by Covid-19 is so colossal that recovery may not materialise in next two to three years. Within this period, the bond market will dominate activities in the capital market.” Capital market in COVID-19 Charles Fakrogha, stockbroker, is also on the same page with Adonri. While noting that the Nigerian capital market is not excluded from what is happening globally, he, however, said that the Nigerian capital market has tried its best to be trading at the moment despite the Covid-19-induced crisis. “Right now, as we speak, I’m trading, which is to say, that despite the situation in the country and worldwide, the operators in the market are still operating. Customers can still buy and sell, issuers can still raise funds and we are all trying to adapt to the new norms, which is trading online. I must give kudos to the Nigerian Stock Exchange and other players in the market for introducing the system and plans to move ahead. Speaking further, Fakrogha noted that certain factors beyond the market predispose it to some unforeseen developments. “From what we are seeing, we can project that if this continues this way, that investors would have lost money, and this would make it more difficult for issuers to raise more money because of the present conditions.” Like other respondents, Farogha holds the view and very strongly too that the Nigerian government must do all it can to improve the macroeconomic environment. “If we are not able to do that, we will not experience boom beyond 2021. We need to kick-start the economy to ensure that the economy does not fall into recession in and out. If the government is able to do that, the economy will improve and there will be a lot of employment. If there exist political stability, security and other related issues are fixed, the capital market will experience growth sooner than the Q3, 2021. But if these issues are not urgently addressed, we will not experience growth not to talk of boom till 2025.” Capital Inflow by type The largest amount of capital importation by type in Q2 2020 was received through other investments, which accounted for 58.77% ($761.03 million) of total capital imported during the quarter. Inflows from other investments, declined by 42.8% as against $1.33 billion received in the previous quarter and a further 48.6% reduction compared to $1.48 billion recorded in the corresponding quarter of 2019. Portfolio investment followed with $385.32 million, accounting for 29.8% of the total inflows in Q2 2020. Under the portfolio category only Equity ($52.3 million) and money market instruments ($332.1 million) received inflows during the quarter under review. FDI accounted for only 11.47% ($148.6 million) to the total capital inflows. A decline of 30.6% compared to $214.3 million received in Q1 2020 and 33.41% reduction compared to the corresponding quarter of 2019. Capital inflows by sectors The report shows that Shares received the highest capital inflows in Q2 2020, accounting for 35.9% ($464.6 million) of the total capital inflows followed by Financing, which contributed 23.9% ($309.5 million to the total inflows. The banking sector came third on the list as it attracted $140.2 million (10.8%) capital inflows, others on the list include; Production $110.8 million (8.6%), Telecoms $105.6 million (8.2%), Trading $68.2 million (5.3%) and Agriculture $48.8 million (3.8%). Sector analysis by MAN A number of factors may have led to the steep decline in the nation’s FDI, chief among which is lack of confidence in the country’s economy by existing and prospective investors. A cursory review of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) sector analysis showed that the FDI for the sector fell to $156.77million in the third quarter of 2019 from $230.34million recorded in the third quarter of 2018. From the document made available by MAN, the record shows a decrease of $$76.6 million, which depicts 33 percent decrease over the period under review. According to the document, a decrease of $26.84 million was recorded which indicates 14.9 percent reduction when compared with $180.61 million of the preceding quarter. MAN revealed that overall FDI in the third quarter (Q3) of 2019 declined to $0.200billion from $0.530 billion recorded in Q3 of 2018, thereby indicating $o.330 billion or represent 62.3 percent decrease over the period. It also decreased by $0.022 billion or 9.9 percent when compared with $0.0222 billion recorded in the preceding quarter. Speaking to the Chairman, Policy Committee of MAN, who was also the former Chairman of Electrical Group of MAN, Engineer Reginald Odiah, he noted that the consistent drop in the country’s FDI is as a result of government lack of interest in the revitalistaion and development of the existing infrastructure. He said, “Whether Foreign or Local Direct Investment (LDI), it is important to note that people invest where they see opportunities to make profit. No one can invest in an area where he cannot get profit, no one is ready to lose money on any form of investment, therefore people invest in areas they are sure of maximising profit. “Our system has proven over time that the environment is not yet conducive enough for investment of any kind to flourish. When you are doing your business in an honest and viable manner. The truth is that the government is not bordered about fixing the infrastructure; the government is not putting modalities to make sure that investors are adequately protected and this will not attract investment. That is why most investors are massively pulling out their investment. They are not sure of policy direction and enforcement.” Finance Bill will boost investor confidence, attract FDI-Minister As the nation desperately seeks a leeway from the current financial crisis fueled by Covid-19, the Minister of Finance, Mrs Zainab Ahmed, during a parley with members of the parliament recently informed that the Finance Bill has what it takes to help attract the desired foreign direct investment into the country. Speaking at a public hearing in Abuja, she explained that the main reason the executive arm of government submitted the bill for passage into law was to create an enabling business environment and alleviate the tax burden of small and medium enterprises. Mrs Ahmed noted during her presentation at the legislative chambers that the newly revised economic-friendly bill will help boost the country’s local and foreign investors. “The Finance Bill 2019 has generated a positive narrative from key stakeholders, economic analysts, tax experts and the general public. Furthermore, its provisions, if passed into law by the National Assembly, are likely to increase investor confidence and attract foreign direct investment,” she said. 