 BEFORE December 31, last year when the World Health Organisation (WHO) was notified that the Novel Coronavirus has broken out in Wuhan, a city in China, Nigeria has been battling with the problem of serious acute malnutrition among her population, especially among the children. So, the outbreak of the disease in Nigeria on February 27, 2020 has created some debilitating impairment in her health sector, even as it has created huge social and economic challenges in Nigeria in general and Jigawa State in particular. Consequently, it has aggravated the fragile child malnutrition cases in the state. Over the years, the state has been battling with the challenge of child malnutrition, the high rate of maternal and child death. The state government, in collaboration with the United Nations, international donor agencies, civil society organisations, individuals, and corporate organisations has committed billions of Naira to tackle the health challenge that is seemingly persistent. The 2018 National Data Health Survey reports show that the rate was 67 deaths per 1,000 live births while severe acute malnutrition rate and stunting rate is 64 per cent. But the 2020 SMART Survey report released in January this year has shown progress in the fight against child malnutrition with stunting rate reduced to 57.4 per cent from 64.7 per cent in 2018. The report has inspired new hope in the critical sectors in the war against child malnutrition. Unfortunately, the emergence of COVID-19 pandemic has created a new challenge and stumbling block that has negatively affected the gains so far recorded in the war against child malnutrition. With the Coronavirus, the level of poverty has increased and fears are that food shortage will spiral to a point that will result in food insecurity, especially in the rural areas where markets, car parks, businesses and other means of livelihood were shut. Subsequent lockdowns imposed while trying to curtail the spread of the disease has, no doubt, interrupted the chain of food supply, even as it became taxing for most of the less privileged individuals and families to get affordable, enough and quality food for their children. The pandemic, however, breakdown the public health care services as health workers were afraid to get in contact with patients including children suffering from malnutrition, while the designated Community Management Acute Malnutrition Centres (CMAM) rendered skeletal services. According to the Nutrition Officer Malam Saidu Umar, the state has 67 Community Management of Acute Malnutrition Centres across the 15 local government areas in the state. “The COVID-19 pandemic had affected the operational system of our CMAM centres which made it very difficult for parents to access the treatment items and other services for their malnourished children,” he said. Umar noted that the level of malnutrition cases increased by at least 15 per cent during the pandemic; a situation which forced the state government to evolve some extra control measures. He said: “Due to the above, the level of cases increased by at least 15 per cent. As of September, there were over 26, 000 Severe Acute Malnutrition children in the state. But as a result government’s strenuous efforts, it was able to reduce the level to 21, 000. “Part of the government’s control measures included the release of the sum of N90 million to support the two main components of child malnutrition intervention that consist of Specific which involves curative measures and Sensitive aspect that aims at evolving preventive measures.” Umar stated that the state government had, on June 16 this year released the sum of N80 million to the United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF) as a counterpart funding for the purchase of Ready-to-Use Therapeutic Food (RUTF) used for the treatment of severe acute malnutrition. Mr Umar added that N10 million was also released for the take-off of Masaki Project designed to promote infant and young children nutrition as a preventive measure against child malnutrition. On July 10, the state Primary Health care Board inaugurated Masaki Project in 150 communities across 30 constituencies under which 10 women were trained and provided manuals to enable them to enlighten other women on exclusive breastfeeding, and how to use locally available food to prepare a balanced diet for children and expectant mothers. The Masaki Project is also a showcase for food demonstration, community mobilisation at the ward level, for promoting the IYCF with guidance, mentoring and supervision by trained ward nutrition chairperson and local government nutrition focal person. Worried by the deteriorating condition of child nutrition amid COVID-19 pandemic, the Jigawa Coalition of Civil Society for Nutrition (JICON), called on the state government to ensure full compliance and implementation of the state nutrition and social security policy for a lasting solution to the persistent malnutrition problem in the state. According to the document, social protection policy will promote social equality, economic growth, reduction of poverty profile of the population and access to basic social services, particularly education and health. Under the policy, poor and vulnerable families, the aged, and people with disability, will enjoy special health care package, income security through the transfer of cash. Empowerment, micro and small entrepreneur would be supported for job creation and self-reliance. The nutrition policy would provide mechanism and framework for ensuring optimal nutrition in the first 1,000 of live births; improve nutrition care of adolescent girls, expectant mothers and lactating women. The nutrition policy will also provide guidelines for promoting and supporting early initiation and exclusive breast feeding in the first six months, and adequate complementary feeding through use of available local resources. The malnutrition crisis in Jigawa State is not a function of lack of food. To some, the problem resulted from public ignorance on correct food for children, poor personal or environmental hygiene and poverty. While throwing its weight behind the battle against the child malnutrition, the Aisha Buhari Foundation, alongside three other partners has advocated increased of budgetary allocation and timely release of funds for nutrition programmes. The First Lady might have considered Jigawa State as being one of the states with a high rate of child malnutrition, hence her call for nutrition stakeholders to renew their commitment to end malnutrition in Nigeria. Recent findings showed that Nigeria has the second-highest number of stunted children globally, with a rate of 32 per cent. About two million children below the age of five years are at risk of an extreme form of malnutrition (severe acute malnutrition). Only one in every 10 of these children has access to the required lifesaving treatment. According to an April 1, 2020 report by WHO across the world, “about 47 million children under five years of age are wasted, 14.3 million are severely wasted and 144 million are stunted, while 38.3 million are overweight or obese. “Around 45 per cent of deaths among children less than five years of age are linked to undernutrition, which mostly occurs in low and middle-income countries such as Nigeria.” The UNICEF reports that an estimated two million children in Nigeria suffer from severe acute malnutrition, but only two out of every 10 affected children are able to access treatment. UNICEF also rates Nigeria as having the second-highest burden of stunted children in the world. The country has a national prevalence rate of 32 per cent of children who are less than five years and seven per cent of women of childbearing age are suffering from acute malnutrition. The WHO emphasises that “the developmental, economic, social, and medical impacts of the global burden of malnutrition are serious and lasting, for individuals and their families, for communities and for countries.”     