East African countries including Ethiopia, Tanzania and Kenya have called for greater business ties between their countries and Nigeria, especially in the area of tourism.  They made this call during the Taste of Africa culinary exhibition organized by CMD Travel and Tours in Abuja recently. The Kenyan High Commissioner to Nigeria, His Excellency Hon. Wilfred Machage, called on Nigerian investors to explore the business opportunities in Kenya and invest. He said: “This event provides opportunity for business networking, identification and tracking of what each of the exhibiting countries provides in terms of business opportunities. I  have  been  reliably  informed  that  as  part  of  this  event,  we  shall  get  an opportunity  to  sample  the  cuisines  from  Kenya,  Tanzania  and  Ethiopia.  I will leave the feedback and review aspect to you the participants but I can bet that the Kenyan cuisine of Chapati, Ugali, Sukuma Wiki and Nyama Choma with its tantalizing aroma will make many of you to visit Kenya.Today   I   will   talk   more   about   my country, Kenya, the   land of   limitless opportunities and unique flora and fauna including our legendary hospitality. “In terms of the total number of global visitors to Africa, South Africa leads but Kenya ranks number four after Seychelles and Mauritius. Last year alone Kenya received over two Million visitors who chose Kenya as their preferred leisure and travel destination.  For us in Kenya, our economy is an agro-based economy and tourism comes number  second  as  the  source  of  our  foreign  exchange  earnings  hence  the government has deliberated invested heavily in the development of the tourism industry in Kenya. The Ethiopian Ambassador to Nigeria, Hon. Azanaw Tadesse said Ethiopia was  endowed  with  Eight UNESCO Cultural World Heritage Sites, One UNESCO Natural World Heritage Site, Twelve Ethiopian Manuscripts registered as World’s Documentary Heritages, Five Biosphere Reserves. He said the country also has four UNESCO registered intangible Cultural Heritages including: The Gada system, an indigenous democratic socio-political system of the Oromo,Fichee-Chambalalla, New Year festival of the Sidama people, Meskel, Commemoration  feast  of  the finding  of  the  True  Holy  Cross  of  Christ and Timket(Epiphany). “With respect to religious sites, in Ethiopia, tourists can have an opportunity to visit, among other places, Lalibela, which is a medieval complex of 11 rock-hewn churches and two chapels hand-carved into the remote mountains of the Ethiopian interior. Tourists can also visit Al-Negash Mosque, Ethiopia’s oldest Islamic settlement, established by a group of Muslim refugees that included close relatives of the “In addition to tourists, I also have a brief message to investors. Foreign Investors are welcome to invest in pharmaceutical, agro-processing,hotels, resorts, beach development and other investment areas. Having  simple  and  transparent  investment  approval  procedures,  competitive  incentive packages, as well as specialized Industrial parks, Ethiopia is open for business and opportunities. To that end, I would like to assure you that the Embassy will work closely with the organizers of this event to promote the tourism, investment and trade opportunities of Ethiopia to Nigerians. I would like to conclude my brief remark by inviting you all to experience Ethiopian traditional food and coffee ceremony Also, the Tanzanian High Commissioner to Nigeria, Dr. Afred Bana, said  his country is looking forward to welcoming Nigerian investors and tourists, especially in the wine industry. His words: We are very rich in wine. The problem we have like so many other African countries is that we need the people to invest in it because you would like to bottle it in a manner that would attract consumers and buyers. So, we still have those challenges but we are going the extra miles to attract investors from other countries. We have rich experience in wine production. We are here to promote Tanzanian wine. If we have people who are interested in Tanzanian wine, they are invited to do a tour to Dodoma, our wine capital. They could explore by themselves and see the variety of wine that we produce.” Giving his opinion on how good Tanzanian wine is, the high commissioner said: “The consumers are in a better position to tell you. People who have consumed it, including myself, found it very unique. It is one of the best wines in Africa. 