 Transcorp Hotels Plc has closed acceptance list for its N10 billion new capital raising, with investors and their stockbrokers having till the close of business today to submit their forms. Transcorp Hotels, owners of Transcorp Hilton Abuja and Transcorp Hotels Calabar, is raising N10 billion through the issuance of 2.66 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each at N3.76 per share to prequalified shareholders. The rights were pre-allotted to existing shareholders on the basis of seven new ordinary shares for every 20 ordinary shares of 50 kobo each held as at Monday, July 13, 2020. Acceptance list for the rights issue opened Monday October 5, 2020 and closed on Wednesday, November 11, 2020. The issuing house will however allow stockbrokers to return acceptance or renunciation forms and monies received from shareholders till today, Friday, November 13, 2020 in line with the transaction timeline approved by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). There were indications that Transcorp Hotels was unable to extend the offer despite the disruptions during the period because it needed the net proceeds of the issuance to settle existing debts. The shares are being issued from the authorised share capital of the company which is currently at N7.50 billion of 15.0 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each. Post-offer fully paid-up share capital will be N5.13 billion of 10.26 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each. Shareholders had earlier at an extraordinary general meeting last month in Lagos approved the N10 billion rights issue. The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) also approved the rights issue, which will be listed as supplementary shares on the Exchange. Chairman, Transcorp Hotels Plc, Mr. Emmanuel Nnorom said the approval and endorsement of the rights by shareholders empowered the board and management to look to the future with confidence despite the current harsh operating environment. Managing Director, Transcorp Hotels Plc, Mrs. Dupe Olusola, said the company’s track record of excellent service delivery has positioned it as the first choice for international and local guests. “We are not resting on our oars but working round the clock to innovate new products and services to further delight our guests, notable of such is the launch of asset-light strategies to deepen our hospitality footprints across Africa,” Olusola said. She added that while the world has been greatly impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, with the hospitality industry being one of the hardest hit, Transcorp Hotels is optimistic about a great recovery for the sector. She noted that shareholders’ approval for new capital raising shows that shareholders have confidence in the future of the company, assuring that the company will continue to play their part in ensuring a significant recovery to the Nigerian hospitality industry. A Non-Executive Director who also represents the Ministry of Finance Incorporated on the board, Mr. Alexander Adeyemi pointed out that given the challenging times the hospitality industry faces, it has become critical to inject funding into the business for a stronger balance sheet. “Transcorp Hotels has maintained a history of excellent performance in the hospitality industry, and this is a bold step towards the achievement of its long term goals,” Adeyemi said. Transcorp Hotels is the hospitality subsidiary of Transnational Corporation of Nigeria Plc. It owns and operates Transcorp Hilton Abuja, which provides luxury accommodation, excellent cuisine, conferencing and leisure facilities to business travellers and tourists from all over the world. The company also holds 100 per cent interest in Transcorp Hotels Calabar Limited, which owns and operates the Transcorp Hotels in Calabar.      