 READING from various quarters on the current crisis precipitated by police brutality and the resultant ENDSARS mass protest has been bewildering. The overwhelming opinion of commentators has been condemnatory of the federal government and the political class. The thrust of the charge is that government forces, with support from politicians, shot at and killed peaceful protesters on Lekki Bridge in Lagos city on the night of Tuesday October 20. Some would even add that the protests took the violent turn because opposition politicians exploited it to target their opponents. As we wait for a commission of inquiry to establish the veracity and details of this charge, it has become obvious that the country has been perniciously nudged to the edge of the precipice within the spate of a few days. While the violence before, during and after the Lekki shooting – involving killings of both civilians and security officials, arson, looting and the reign of mayhem (maybe, including rape)  – have been ominous of a dark cloud hanging over the country, what is of immediate foreboding is the bombshell of anti-government rhetoric from various standpoints – a few seeking to be factual, others largely playing to the political gallery, while many hopping on the band wagon similar to the group psychology of the protest itself. The anti-government narratives are diverse and it serves no purpose to list them here. However, they are united in their philosophical foundation. They presuppose that the protests and the ensuing conflict are about people (or youths) versus government. The arguments are constructed on some flawed premises of a binary fiction, falsely assuming an imaginary dichotomy between the state and society as two parallel universes diametrically opposed to each other. Government (and politicians) constitutes the enemy of the people and must be fought to submission, goes the mainstream narrative! On this false foundation now sits the edifice that the state is the sole source of the problem and must be the one to be reformed. This wholesale demonisation of the state may have helped, not only in mobilising the youths to join the protests across the country, but may have secured some sympathetic sentiments outside the country for the protest. However, the mental compartmentalisation of the state and the society undercuts the chances of de-escalating the high tension. The false edifice must be deconstructed in our minds in order seek solutions that would help pull the country back from the brink of decomposition. The state and the society are not two separate opponents seeking to score goals against each other in a bitter zero-sum game! I do not see COMPARTMENTS; I see an interwoven SYSTEM, in which the suffering of one part hurts the whole. A country is an intricate web of organic state-society relations. Firstly, we may have a police brother in the family, a sister or aunt in the parliament, a son among the protesters and a dear friend in the president‘s team. Evidently, the killing of protesters and the killing of law enforcement officials equally hurt us as a country, distantly or remotely. By the same stretch, we will all be endangered if our security system completely breaks down, giving way to lawlessness and disorder. Furthermore, when we create this mental state vs. society binary fiction, we make believe that the state did not come from the society. The latter predates the former and the former organically emerges from the latter. Political office holders and policymakers emerge from the wider society and were once private citizens. They were elected by the society, or nominated by the same. They are shaped by values inculcated in them by and in the society. It is, therefore, hard to accept that the society comes from heaven and the state from hell. Again, the state cannot exist without the society nor can it survive without its support. Security forces and law enforcement agents are recruited from the wider civilian society and exhibit the values of the social milieu from which they emerge. Similarly, rulers cannot hold to power without support from vital elements within the society. I therefore do not see how our rulers and police officials are fundamentally different from us, in terms of our core values as the Nigerian society. Are the rulers and law enforcement officials more violent, predatory, heartless, self-seeking and disrespectful than the rest of us in the society? Are they more corrupt, dishonest and swindling than us? This is not denying the well-documented daily experience of police brutality, nor vindicating the excesses of the ex-SARS unit. I, too, have been a victim of the SARS bloody impunity and “license to kill” in 2011. In June of that year, after a brief return to Nigeria as faculty in the University of Ilorin, my friend and I were intercepted by a detachment of SARS operatives in early evening, chased to the university main gate, brutally yanked out of my friends car, made to lie face-down in the open back of their own truck, feeling the menacing cold barrel of their assault rifles on our heads, as they repeatedly yelled threats to blow our brains to pulp if we moved. We were driven around town, as they argued with their other blood-thirsty colleagues over the radio/walkie-talkie on whether to take us to the outskirts and waste us or take us to the station. The marijuana-smelling policemen, who accused us of having committed armed robbery, never questioned us, never asked us for identification, and never wanted us to say a word (for every word we uttered we got a butt of their rifles on our hips and pelvis), as we drove round town waiting for the final decision. Resigned to praying for our own souls and for our families in what seem to be the last few moments of our lives, we were finally relieved to overhear their superiors over their radios ordering our transportation to headquarters after so much argument, with our captors insisting on wasting us. Although nothing came out if it, after lodging a complaint at the National Human Rights Commission in Abuja, I gave a testimony in a church meeting for surviving that chilling close shave with what has been an entrenched tradition of unaccountable, extra-judicial killing by our lawlessness law enforcers. And while the enraged Professor Oloyede, then the Unilorin vice chancellor and now the director general of JAMB, tried to intervene and succeeded in getting the Kwara State Police Commissioner to apologise, the incident was too much for me to take. I promptly resigned and left the country again! So, this is not a case of “playing the fiddle while Rome burns.” Far from it! My experience tells me that we are not too far from being the same as the men of the disbanded SARS. The moral perfidy and corruption that drives heinous police brutality is deeply embedded in our society; the mutual intolerance and high propensity to violence permeate our marrows; even the most religious of us – who pontificate on Sundays and Fridays – take pleasure in spreading fake news, propaganda and incitement to violence without compunction. Nigeria has too many enemies and they are distributed across the state-society divide. While corrupt, self-centred politicians and killer police personnel are statist enemies of our country Nigeria, criminals, opportunistic politicians, vote riggers, ethnic bigots and jingoists, those who play to our conflict fault lines, those who do NOT check inciting information (videos, audios, etc.) before they spread, those who manufacture false information and generate fake news (pre-recorded videos/audios, unrelated videos/audios, photo superimposition, etc.), criminals, arsonists and looters, etc., are societal enemies of our country Nigeria. So as the protests have helped in driving home the urgency of police reform, we equally need some pressure on ourselves to reform, short of which we will never have the country we dream of. It won’t take a long while before we reproduce ourselves in a future version of the rogue SARS! 