 The Nigerian Navy has unveiled two  Chief Boatswain’s Mates (CBMs) accommodations in Lagos, to ensure their comfort and exalt their offices as heads of the Ratings cadre. The two bedroom detached bungalows with a boys’ quarter each located inside Navy Town in Ojo, were handed over to the CBMs of the Western Naval Command (WNC) and Naval Training Command (NAVTRAC) as official accommodations. The Nation reports that the CBM is the highest appointment in the Non-Commissioned Officers (NCOs) cadre of the Navy and equivalent to the Regimental Sergeant Major (RSM) in the Army. Unveiling the accommodations, the Flag Officer Commanding (FOC), WNC, Rear Admiral Oladele Daji, said they were awarded by the Chief of the Naval Staff (CNS), Vice Admiral Ibok-Ete Ibas, to ensure that CBMs have their official residences in their areas of deployment. He noted that the CBM was an institution and a very important office in the Navy because they are the ones who control and ensure discipline and professionalism in the Ratings cadre. Rear Admiral Daji noted that the move was also part of ongoing and consistent efforts by the Navy to boost personnel morale through welfare programmes and projects. He said: “This is further testimony of the Chief of the Naval Staff’s untiring effort to upgrade existing infrastructure and develop new ones across all commands, units and establishments in the Nigerian Navy (NN) as well as improving on the welfare needs of personnel and our families. “The CBMs as Admirals of the Lower Deck are leaders and the backbone of every major shore establishment in the Nigerian Navy (NN). Due to their rich experience by virtue of their long years of service, the CBMs are a veritable link and moderating influence between the officers’ and the Ratings’ cadre. “They train, direct and supervise working parties and routine maintenance in the NN establishments. Therefore, these institutional houses are symbolic of NN appreciation for their dedication to duty and to spur other Ratings to aspire to attain the rank of Navy Warrant Officer (NWO) and office of the CBM. “This accomplishment underscores the determination of the NN leadership to consolidate on the infrastructural development and personnel welfare. I deem it most appropriate therefore to commend the consistency and outstanding effort of the Chief of the Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Ibok-Ete Ibas, towards meeting the accommodation needs of all categories of personnel. “I hereby assure the CNS that the CBM Institutional Houses will be well maintained and the command shall continue to accord priority to improving the infrastructure provided by the government in all our barracks and bases. It is also pertinent to mention that the Nigerian Navy would not have been able to accomplish the enormous infrastructural development witnessed over the past five years without the support of the Federal Government. To this end, our profound gratitude goes to the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari, for his commitment and determination towards addressing the welfare needs of the personnel of the Armed Forces.” Daji said continuous efforts were being made to provide adequate accommodations for all personnel, adding that the operatives were happy with the consistency recorded in the last five years. “The personnel are happy, the moral is high and this has translated to better operational efficiency and effectiveness for the command,” he said. At the ceremony were the FOC NAVTRAC, Rear Admiral Frederick Ogu; Admiral Superintendent, Naval Ordnance Depot (NOD) Rear Admiral Abubakar Alhasan, Comamnder, Nigerian Navy Ship (NNS) Wey, Commodore Asuquo Ibanga, Commander, NNS BEECROFT, Commodore Ibrahim Shettima, Commandant, Joint Maritime Security Training Centre, Commodore Noel Madugu, Chairperson, Oriade Local Council Development Area (LCDA), Ramatallai Akiola-Hassan, Deputy Controller, Nigerian Correctional Service (NCoS) in charge of Kirikiri, Mrs. Lizzie Ekpendu and Divisional Police Officer (DPO) Satellite, CSP Chike Oti. 