 Plateau State Governor Simon Bako Lalong on Friday summoned contractor and sub-contractors handling the Lalong Legacy projects across the three senatorial districts of the State to meet specifications or face severe sanctions Lalong while addressing the meeting at the Victoria Gowon Hall, New Government House, Rayfield-Jos, said the meeting was to listen to the stakeholders on the progress of work and challenges so as to resolve them to facilitate the quick completion. He said the project which aims to provide high standard public facilities such as schools and Hospitals, was conceived to address the problems affecting the citizens of the State. He assured that his administration would not abandon any of the legacy projects. “My administration inherited many projects which were uncompleted and abandoned. Even this hall which we named after former First Lady Mrs. Victoria Gowon was incomplete but we decided to complete it. If we can complete the projects left and abandoned by others, we cannot fail to complete the ones initiated by our administration”, he said. He also told the contractors that he would soon embark on another round of inspection of the projects sites, hence the need for them to be up and doing as no excuses will be tolerated. The Governor also said the President is expected to commission some of the projects when completed. Lalong also warned that the contractors must work in accordance with specifications as anyone who does not adhere to the terms of the work will be sanctioned. The main Contractor Engr. Lawson Ngoa, MD of Bleneson Services said the project started well but was affected by delays occasioned by COVID-19 and funding which had been resolved by the IPO, assuring that there would be more speed on the work now that the economy has picked up. The sub-contractors also raised the challenges of inflation and high cost of materials which the governor promised to address. Dr. Makut Simon Macham, Director of Press & Public Affairs to the Governor, in a statement, said, also that the Commissioners for  Housing and Urban Development, Finance and the Chief of Staff all addressed various aspects of the Legacy Projects urging all parties to redouble efforts in meeting the timelines for achieving the work.  