 The Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, understands the saying that there is time for everything. In 2007, it was necessary to incentivise accountability and due diligence in public service, at the highest levels in the state. So, the state government promulgated the Public Office Holders (Payment of Pension) Law, 2007, to reward governors and their deputies. Presently, with the inclement financial weather, it is time to repeal the law, to reduce cost of governance and encourage selfless service. Similar economic challenges face all states in Nigeria. So, we urge the states which copied Lagos to promulgate similar laws, to also repeal them. Not necessarily because Lagos has done it, but because every state is assailed by the economic crisis facing the country. It does not make sense to ask fellow citizens to brace up for harsh economic realities, and yet allow a segment live in affluence, as if they remain an oasis. Sanwo-Olu captured the vision for the repeal, before the state House of Assembly thus: “Mr Speaker and honourable members of the House, in the light of keeping the cost of governance low and to signal selflessness in public service, we will be sending a draft executive bill to the House imminently for the repeal of the Public Office Holder (Payment of Pension) Law, 2007, which provides for the payment of pensions and other entitlements to former governors and their deputies.” No doubt, the repeal will reduce the cost of governance, and there is no better time to manifestly lead by example than now. The savings will help in harnessing resources to start the difficult process of rebuilding destroyed public properties in Lagos. By taking that initiative, the Lagos State government has set the moral tone for all residents to gear up to make the necessary sacrifice to rebuild the destroyed infrastructure in Lagos. So, we commend the state governor for the laudable initiative, which has been well received by the beneficiaries of the law, particularly Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. By taking the step, Sanwo-Olu who stands to benefit at the end of his tenure, has set the pace in self-denial, and we urge Lagos residents to emulate him. It is also a lesson to the protesters who engaged in self-help with regards to palliatives that self-abnegation for public good, is the fundament of common good. Even the outlaws that took over the streets, damaging public and private property, should also learn about self-sacrifice, for the benefit of public good. As many have argued, the outlawry that assailed most parts of Nigeria, after the peaceful #EndSARS protest, may be an indication of the mindset of those involved that self-aggrandizement equates to public service. So, by his economic self-sacrifice Governor Sanwo-Olu has sent a message that those in public service can also make sacrifice. We hope other public servants, and our law makers in the National Assembly would emulate the Lagos State governor. For instance, it is immoral and unlawful that some governors who are on state pensions are also receiving salaries as legislators. Similar principle of self-restraint should also guide those in the private sector who have the powers, and use it to set humongous benefits for themselves. Such acts send the message to those below them to act recklessly. Again, public service should be for those who have distinguished themselves in other endeavours, or for those who are capable of engaging in other works after a stint in public service. It hurts public servants who have worked and retired at the apogee of their career, to see former governors and their deputies who serve as elected officials for few years, earn monthly incomes or pensions which equate to their (public servants’) entire life income for their short period in office.