In a bid to facilitate the realisation of the goals of three bills currently being considered by the National Assembly to boost the utilisation of local content component in critical sectors of the economy, the Federal Government has barred foreign firms from bidding for, being awarded or executing contracts below N5 billion. This is a welcome boost to ongoing efforts to reduce the over-dependence of the country’s economy on foreign expertise and importation of inputs, even when there are suitable local alternatives. It will further strengthen the Presidential Executive Order No. 5 of February, 2018, which sought to improve local content procurement in the science, engineering and technology sectors. There is no way Nigeria can achieve her objectives of meaningful economic development predicated on local skills, utilisation of the country’s abundant local raw materials endowment as well as the deliberate nurturing of indigenous technological capacity without this kind of conscious action by government. The tendency to denigrate the capability of local expertise, the quality of work done by indigenous contractors and companies, and even the suitability of raw material inputs sourced locally is a function of deep seated inferiority complex that ascribes superiority to anything foreign, and can only worsen the challenge of underdevelopment. For, true development can only take place as a country systematically enhances, over time, her capacity for autonomous and self-reliant transformation, thus reducing external dependency to the barest minimum. This is particularly so for Nigeria, which, given serious revenue constraints as a result of the travails of the oil sector on which she has been overly dependent, there is the urgent imperative to cut avoidable costs arising from excessive import dependency. Beyond boosting local content, this policy initiative will help enhance the capacity of indigenous companies and contractors by giving them opportunities to acquire experience and develop the skills of their workforce. It is through patronage that allows them to put their expertise to the test that the quality of the output of indigenous companies can improve to meet global standards. Of course, this requires that indigenous companies and contractors must be engaged on merit and not for nepotistic or other corrupt considerations. They must be subject to the highest standards of performance just like their foreign counterparts, so that the local content policy does not become a ploy to promote mediocrity and inferior project execution. Patronising local firms for contracts less than N5 billion will, in turn, enable them to employ needed workers, thus creating jobs locally. Such rejuvenated firms will also be in a better position to pay corporate taxes, thus contributing to economic growth and development. However, the requisite regulatory and supervisory authorities must also be vigilant to detect and thwart possible attempts to subvert this policy. For instance, it is not impossible for foreign firms to utilise local fronts to bid for and execute projects below the stipulated value. Again, local firms may prefer to employ foreign experts to implement contracts even where there are qualified Nigerians available. In the same vein, there must be ways of ensuring that the local firms utilise locally available raw materials rather than also resorting to importation even when this is unnecessary. Before this policy goes into effect, government must properly do its homework in terms of proper categorisation of which firms belong to what category. For instance, when asked by legislators if a construction firm like Julius Berger would be affected by the policy, the Minister of State for Works and Housing, Mr. Abubakar Aliyu, said “Julius Berger Plc is more or less an indigenous foreign firm going by a high involvement of Nigerians in its operation and management over the years, which makes its categorisation in this respect a bit difficult”. Government must be clear in its mind which companies the policy will apply to, so that this does not become a loophole that can weaken its implementation. In the final analysis, the effectiveness of this policy in achieving its objective will depend on vigilance on the part of the authorities to check possible abuses and impartial enforcement of requisite punishment for any infraction.