Senate President Ahmad Lawan at the weekend launched an expanded medical outreach for 2020 in his Yobe North Senatorial District. The event was held at the General Hospital, Gashua and Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Nguru, all in Yobe State, according to a statement by his Special Adviser (Media), Ola Awoniyi, in Abuja. The free medical services included eye treatment and surgery, free gynaecological check-up and surgeries. The medical outreach also included free surgery for hernia, hydrocele, perineal tear, fibroid and uterine descent. The annual event, sponsored by Senator Ahmad Ibrahim Lawan Foundation Medical Outreach, was started in 2018 with focus initially on eye-related medical conditions, but it has now been expanded in scope of treatment and number of beneficiaries. For this year alone, more than 5,000 patients with eye-related cases are expected to receive treatment and also more than 6,000 patients with hypertension, diabetes and the likes will benefit from the gesture. Lawan said: “This medical outreach is in keeping with what we believe is important and necessary intervention for our people who need either the surgeries or the general treatment to recover their sight or improve their sight. “We started this in 2018 because we noticed that people had those challenges at that time and yet the majority of them didn’t have the means to receive any medical attention. “Since I could afford it, I thought it was my duty to provide means of some intervention. So we initiated this programme in 2018. “In 2019, in addition to eye surgeries, we introduced hydrocele and we increased the number last year. This year we introduced more areas of intervention and also increased the number of patients or beneficiaries. “We believe this is a worthwhile venture that will improve people’s lives. This intervention means a lot, makes a lot of difference in the lives of many. We are doing it to complement the efforts of the Yobe State Government. “The government has been doing well in this area, but we believe we have some areas that we can also bring in our intervention to support the state government. “I think we are doing the right thing and I believe that next year, by God’s grace, we will do more if we see more people who need our intervention.” The Medical Director, FMC, Nguru, Dr. Abubakar Muhammad, said the highest quality of care would be accorded the patients from the screening through surgery, post-operative period and would also follow them up till they were completely healed. The ceremony was witnessed by the Emir of Bade, Abubakar Sulaiman Umar; Emir of Nguru, Alhaji Mustapha Ibn Kyari; and Speaker of Yobe State House of Assembly, Ahmed Lawan Mirwa, among other dignitaries. The Senate president took the opportunity of his three-day visit to his constituency to also launch the building of some township roads in Gashua and Nguru. Shortly before his departure yesterday, he gave out materials to victims of the recent flood that occurred in parts of his constituency in Bade and Jakusko local governments. To those communities whose houses were affected by the flood, 4,000 bags of cement, 480 bundles of Zinc, 1,150 logs of timber and 160 bags of nails were distributed to them. Those other victims whose farmlands were affected shared among themselves food items including rice, maize and millet. Provisions were made for 650 bags of each of the food items. Lawan told the beneficiaries that the gesture was meant to be just support and his personal intervention to complement what the state government had done for them.