 The comb effects of the covid-19 pandemic and external sector weaknesses drove foreign investments to a three-year low of $1.3 billion in second quarter of 2020, President of the Association of Issuing Houses of Nigeria (AIHN),  Ike Chioke has said. Speaking during the Annual General Meeting of the association and the 2020 Investment Banking Awards, in Lagos, he said 2020 will go down as a very difficult year for many countries across the globe as a result of the coronavirus pandemic. He said Nigeria has been hit by multiple headwinds in addition to the pandemic which have affected our economy negatively. “Consequently, the Nigerian economy contracted by 6.1 per cent in the second quarter of 2020 from 1.9 per cent in the first quarter. This is the worst performance on record. This contraction was driven by the reduction in oil output and the shutdown in economic activity in many key sectors following the lockdown and social distancing measures implemented to curb the spread of the pandemic,” he said. He disclosed that if that was not bad enough, the recent “End SARS” protests across the nation halted the reopening of the economy and snowballed into a civil unrest that has led to trillions of naira of economic and financial losses to governments, corporates and individuals. “Furthering the Central Bank of Nigeria’s pursuit of expansionary monetary policy, the Monetary Policy Committee at their last meeting reduced the Monetary Policy Rate from 12.50 per cent to 11.5 per cent, further putting pressure on deposit money banks to lower cost of credit in aid of growth. Cash Reserves Requirements and Liquidity Ratio were retained at 27.5 per cent and 30 per cent, respectively,” he said. He said that in line with the negative GDP growth, Nigeria also saw a drop in foreign investments in the first half of 2020. “Specifically, total capital importation declined 50 per cent from $14.3 billion in the half year 2019 to $7.2 billion in half year 2020. Foreign Portfolio Investments which accounted over 65 per cent of total capital importation declined 59 per cent to $4.7 billion in the first half of 2020 compared to the $11.4 billion recorded in the first half of 2019,” he said. ReadCA He affirmed the notion that crypto-currencies are now a financial reality, stating that the time has come for the AIHN to encourage its members to brace up to the future of capital raising in the digital market. “One of the things the AIHN will be championing going forward,” he said, “is how to prepare our members for the future of capital raising in a digital financial market. “While crypto-currencies emerged as an experimental and alternative way to store value, they have now become the norm with a future that will significantly change the financial markets as we know it.” Chioke said data from Bitcoin promoters in the country have shown that Nigeria recently overtook the United States as the country with the most downloads of the Bitcoin wallet. According to him, 3,473 out of the 18,613 wallets downloaded between July and August this year were from Nigeria, which was well ahead of the 2,802 from the United States America while India remained a distant third with a total of 1,420 downloads during the same period. “According to Usetulips, Nigeria is Africa’s leader on Bitcoin transfers averaging about $8 million in transfers weekly. The same report indicates that Nigeria recorded $34.4 million in trades during the second quarter of 2020. Data from Local Bitcoin also shows that Nigeria “In a recent statement, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) announced that it will be taking a three-pronged approach to regulate innovation in the crypto sector which are safety, market deepening and providing solutions to problems. “Clearly the users and regulators are moving in the right direction with regards to cryptos and hence we the operators cannot be left behind,” he said.