The November 12 inauguration of Edo Governor Godwin Obaseki and his Deputy, Philip Shuaibu for the second term will be sober. Special Adviser to Obaseki on Media and Communication Strategy, Crusoe Osagie, stated this on Wednesday. He said the inauguration would be in line with the prevailing national mood occasioned by the impact of the coronavirus pandemic and destructive turns of #ENDSARS protests. The occasion, he said, will be marked without funfare. Osagie, in a statement, explained Edo Government would not embark on a jamboree but rather respect the reflective mood of the country. He urged Edo people to take advantage of the live broadcast on various media channels to follow proceedings of the day, stressing that limited persons would be physically present to witness the event. The media aide said: “Activities slated for the inauguration ceremony of Governor Godwin Obaseki and his deputy, Rt. Hon. Comrade Philip Shaibu for a second term in office, scheduled for November 12, 2020, will be sober and without fanfare, in respect of the prevailing mood of the country. “The shocks from the outbreak of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic; the fallout of the #EndSARS protests, which was hijacked by hoodlums, leading to the loss of lives of private individuals and security personnel; destruction of property worth millions of naira and the early signs of a second-wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, are enough reason not to go on jubilating when there is so much uncertainty ahead. “Hence, we have lined up activities that will be conducted in a manner that reflect the country’s somber mood for the 5-day period. “As a government, the Obaseki-led administration will continue to pursue reforms and policies to ensure the security and enhancement of the wellbeing of our people. This much is captured in the spirit of this year’s ceremony.” Osagie also admonished all residents in Edo to cooperate and assist the Obaseki-led administration to achieve its set objectives of bequeathing a better state where every citizen would be empowered with opportunities to live life in its fullness.