 PAN-AFRICAN investment company, Ultimus Holdings, has set aside $2billion for investment in Nigeria and other parts of Africa over the next one decade. The firm is seeking to expand its investment portfolios across real estate & construction, services, healthcare, consumer & industrial goods, financial services & ICT. Its President/CEO, Dr. Ifeanyi Chukwuma Odii, gave the hint during a media parley in Lagos yesterday. Dr. Odii said the company is confident that Africa holds great potential for economic growth and as such would continue to play a leading role in harnessing the opportunities that could make the continent an economic superpower. “We are quite optimistic about African economies given the abundance of available opportunities. As a business, we would continue to explore different areas in the rapidly evolving growing economies, not only to make a statement as a brand, but to contribute to further expansion. Moving forward, we would be making massive investments in sub-Saharan Africa that are targeted at addressing the peculiar needs of the African market,” he said. He noted that the company is strategically seeking opportunities for new businesses in strategic sectors, which would guarantee huge returns on investment while also acquiring businesses that visibly deliver solid value for its esteemed customers. “Currently, Africa remains a strategic market for our business. We cannot afford to relax because we are aware of the impact significant investments would have on business growth and socio-economic development in Africa as a whole. We believe investment in critical sectors of the economy would not only create jobs for the youths but also help to improve the economic prosperity of the continent as a whole,” Dr. Odii said. He called on the government in different economies within the continent to continue to support its expansion plan by creating the enabling environment for business to thrive. Also speaking, the Vice President of the firm, Mr. David Ewemie said he is confident of the company’s prospects in Africa particularly, based on the legacy of growth and a strong brand built over the years. According to him, the company, which is fast becoming a household name in Africa, currently boasts of four subsidiaries in its portfolio which include – The Classroom, Parla Di Lusso Ultimus Construction and Viarmor. The Classroom is the retail trading subsidiary of the company that caters to a mix of ambiance fitting solutions which bring interior and exterior spaces to life. In Ewemie’s words, “At the Classroom our brand promise is an appealing natural balance of luxury lifestyle products within your reach” Parla Di Lusso is one of the many luxurious properties to be developed by Ultimus Holdings and built by Ultimus Construction. With a breathtaking waterfront view, Parla Di Lusso is a premium property development offering a haven of contemporarily styled and expertly designed residences with superlative luxury amenities set to redefine the art of Luxury one detail at a time.