 A mortgage expert and Board Chairman of the Lagos Building Investment Company (LBIC)  Plc Hakeem Ogunniran, has advised  estate surveyors and valuers to invest in building and maintaining real estate and property market data in the country. He gave the advice while speaking as a special guest at the second general meeting of the Nigerian Institution of Estate Surveyors and Valuers (NIESV), Lagos State Branch. Ogunniran spoke on “NIESV Lagos @50: Importance of Real Estate Data to the Mortgage Industry.” He stressed that data has become very critical to business to the extent that data and business are in partnership. “Unfortunately, nobody has accurate data about the number of assets being created at any point in time and it is a big problem for the mortgage industry. If you don’t know how many assets are created and where they are being created, it will be difficult to make business decisions,” he noted. According to him, lack of data hinders off-takers profiling, which should show eligibility, age, income group, home preferences for real estate investments, adding that “data also helps to facilitate mortgage origination, because you need insight into customers and borrowers. He called on realtors and the private sector to champion the business data project for the country. “There is a lot of harmful competition in this industry. We should not keep information under our table. Not sharing data among professionals is causing harm to your business. More seriously, why should we rely on the government for data. The private sector should actually take responsibility for business data. We have to start on our own as professionals. Lagos State is a big property market. There are about nine property markets in Lagos State, each market presenting its unique dynamics,” Ogunniran said.   The Chairman of NIESV Lagos State Branch,  Adedotun Bamigbola, said the branch has taken up the challenge to build a reliable data on real estate investment and development in Lagos State. He said the Branch had embarked on a flagship data project called “The Lagos Property Market Consensus Report,” whose maiden edition was released in August 2020 for first half of the year and another one to be released in December 2020 for the second half of the year. One hundered and seventy-eight real estate firms who are members of the Lagos Branch of NIESV contributed to the property data project. “Hopefully, the challenges we have with data will reduce drastically as we continue this data project. Yes, it is not easy getting those data and 178 firms to contribute. It takes a lot of hard work and funding, but we will not relent,” Bamigbola said.