 WAt last, Government Secondary School, Chibok, Borno State, where about 276 schoolgirls were abducted in April, 2014, is now to be rebuilt by the Borno State government. Governor Babagana Zulum made the promise during a visit to the school on Tuesday, last week. Chibok hit global headlines when the girls were abducted. Although many of the girls had either escaped back to their relations or were released by Boko Haram following negotiations with the government, about 100 of them are still in captivity, more than six years after. We commend the governor for this initiative. Rebuilding the school will signal the appropriate message that the state government would not succumb to terror under any circumstance. This is the right thing to do. Although the Federal Government had seized the initiative to rebuild the school when the then Minister of Finance, Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, led a delegation there to lay the foundation on behalf of the then President Goodluck Jonathan on March 5, 2015, not much progress has been made ever since. Also, the rebuilding effort embarked upon by the Presidential Committee on Northeast Intervention (PCNI) too did not go far, as the roofs of some of the classrooms that it fixed then have since been blown off. This leaves the state government with no option but take up the responsibility, which is what Governor Zulum has done. He promised at the occasion “to deploy a team of experts to assess  the entire school and come up with a design and costing”  for its  immediate reconstruction and remodeling.” The governor also promised full components of facilities and teaching as well as non-teaching members of staff to bring the school to the desired standards. “We will also ensure that the school is allocated adequate teachers. Already, I have given a directive for the recruitment of more teachers both on permanent and ad-hoc staffing basis that will include volunteer teachers. “Before the allocation of teachers, the reconstruction will involve the provision of all components of learning materials, including a functional laboratory for sciences,” the governor added. We have no doubt that Governor Zulum will deliver on his promises. In spite of the security challenges facing the state, the governor has been building model schools, complete with everything required to enhance teaching and learning. He has brought the same passion with which he handled his assignment as Commissioner for Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Resettlement under the former Governor Kashim Shetima, a thing that recommended him for his present assignment, to his current position. He has particularly tackled the security situation in the state with uncommon zeal, sometimes at grave risk to his life. It is significant that, despite his state being the epicenter of the insurgency war, he has not allowed that to  obliterate his vision for the development of the state. Some other persons would have surrendered. However, the governor must prioritise security during and after the reconstruction of the school, especially as his decision runs counter to Boko Haram’s hypocritical opposition to Western education. How can people who use products of Western education to prosecute their evil agenda say they are averse to Western education? The Chibok school and indeed all schools in the state should be well fortified to prevent access by unwanted elements. This would not only scare the enemy, it would also imbue parents and the children with the needed confidence required for effective learning. There is also the need to provide therapy for both parents and students in the state, to erase or at least limit the negative effects of the 2014 abduction from their memory. Although the Borno State government has taken up the gauntlet in this matter, it is yet another opportunity to remind the Federal Government not to lose hope on the remaining Chibok girls and others who are still in Boko Haram captivity. We hope, as Governor Zulum wished, that he would “see a completely different scene” by the time he returns to Chibok