Ondo State Governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, has declared that the state is in serious security crisis. Governor Akeredolu made the declaration following the killing of a first class traditional ruler in the state, the Olufon of Ifon in Ose Local Government Area, Oba Isreal Adeusi, by suspected kidnappers around Elegbeka, Owo-Ifon highway. Barely 24 hours later, the wife of the governor’s Chief of Staff was abducted in Owena area of the state. In a statement issued by his Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Donald Ojogo, Governor Akeredolu described the killing of Oba Adeusi as as a heinous crime. He said: “All lives matter, but this is one too heavy and unbearable. It’s a sad day in Ondo State. Clearly, we are in a serious security crisis that requires extraordinary means. “The security agencies, especially the Nigeria Police, have already been directed to fish out the perpetrators of this heinous crime. “On our part as a government, we shall give whatever it takes to unravel this. These criminals who have brought this sad day on our state shall not go unpunished. “In deference to our customs and traditions, the state government will advisedly refrain from making public reference in statements or utterances in respect of the identity of the great loss. “Nonetheless, without prejudice to ongoing efforts towards getting to the roots of this abominable crime, government shall issue a formal and more detailed statement as dictated by tradition after due consultations with relevant stakeholders in the affected community.” The police and the Amotekun corps in Ondo State yesterday launched a search party for the wife of the Chief of Staff to Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, Mr Olugbenga Ale, who was abducted on Thursday night. Mrs. Ale was kidnapped at Owena area of the state a few hours after gunmen shot dead the Olufon of Ifon, in Ondo State, Oba Isreal Adeusi, at Elegbeka community on the Ifon-Benin Highway. The Olufon was returning to his domain from Akure, the state capital, where he had attended a meeting of traditional rulers in the state. Ondo Police spokesman, ASP Tee-Leo Ikoro, confirmed Mrs. Ale’s abduction yesterday. He said the policemen and other security agencies were already combing the forest. He said: “The woman and others were on their way to Akure when the gunmen stopped their vehicle. “As I am talking, policemen, army and men of paramilitary agencies are combing the forest to rescue the people.” It was gathered that Ale’s wife and other women were abducted along Akure-Ondo Road while returning from Lagos State. Other occupants in the car were said to have escaped while the driver was allowed to go. A source said: “The woman was abducted at Owena along on Akure-Ondo Road. “The case has been reported to the security agencies, especially the Amotekun and army to comb everywhere, and we are expecting a feedback soon.” The Egbe Afenifere yesterday condemned the killing of the Olufon, describing the murder as an abomination and one too many. It asked the police to fish out the killers. It said: “There have been other multiple murders across Yorubaland which the police have not been able to resolve. “It has reached a point where only very prominent killings get reported in this state of total insecurity in a failed state. “The killing of any citizen worries us, how much more a first class monarch. “We ask the police to fish out the killers of Olufon as it is one murder too many and absolute failure and lack of competence by the security system in Nigeria to secure lives and property which is the first duty of any responsible government. “We are fed up with the daily killing of our people across Nigeria in the apparent festering of insecurity which now has a very conducive atmosphere in Nigeria. “To President Buhari, it’s a time to get up and secure Nigeria and allow a federal architecture that promotes homeland security. Being the Commander-in-Chief can’t be a title with no responsibility.”