 Nigeria is one of the most under-policed countries in the world. With an estimated population of about 200 million, the number of policemen is said to be under 400,000. Given the role of the police in the maintenance of law and order, it is no surprise therefore that the country has become notorious for the level of insecurity in the land. Social vices like robbery, kidnapping, arson and random acts of violence in the society have all been on the increase, and the people and the economy seem the worse for it. Despite the number of policemen in the country, the political elite and some corporate bodies seem to have the luxury of being privately secured by a good number of policemen to the detriment of the general public. Mr. Solomon Arese, a former Inspector-General of Police had estimated that about two hundred thousand policemen, about half of the force’s strength, were on elite duties and took steps to recall most of them into the regular policing duties, but it seems he was unsuccessful and his successors too could not decisively put an end to the monopolisation of police protection by most politicians and other economically buoyant Nigerians. The recent #EndSARS protests across the country again exposed the paucity of security men for the larger society. Ironically, one of the major demands of the #EndSARS protesters was for government to improve the working conditions of the police in the country and for the police unit, the now disbanded Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) to be scrapped due to its notoriety, and for negating the duties of the police force. Following the widespread protests and the resultant mayhem, the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, directed that all the police personnel attached to some prominent Nigerians and corporate organisations be withdrawn. He equally ordered the deployment of legitimate force against riotous and violent protests so as to protect lives and property. The fact that some of those affected refused to heed the order necessitated the recent order for the withdrawal of police protection from people like the former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Babachir Lawal, businessman Emeka Offor, former aviation Minister, Femi Fani-Kayode, and others. While we commend the action of the IGP, we equally recall that such orders had been given in the past but implementation has always been the problem. The irony in the monopolisation of police protection by those in the news is that most of them had, at some point or even currently been guilty of creating the insecurity in the land through bad and ineffective governance and policy implementation, thereby creating a fertile environment for crimes and criminality they seek protection from. Monopolising the police is therefore in furtherance of the inequity and injustice in the land and must be condemned. The idea of politicians having too many policemen assigned to them and their families is deplorable because they create a safe world for themselves and leave the people bare of protection. It equally points to why most sectors are dysfunctional. They send their children to schools abroad and leave the education sector comatose. They travel for health tourism and the primary and secondary hospitals in the country become mere consulting clinics, often bare of health workers, most of whom have left the country for greener pastures. We advise that this latest order be implemented and maintained in the long run, even if we support the police security for key political figures like the president and his vice, and governors and their deputies, past and present. Legislators at state and national levels, except key officers, do not need extra protection. Judges must retain their police protection given the sensitivity of their duties. The police force must continue to train and retrain its officers to improve performance and the government must improve their welfare as the President promised recently, to make working for the elite few very unattractive. A democracy without a functional policing system cannot be viable. The world is watching whether this order would stand the test of time this time around.