  All the world’s a stage, and all the men and women merely players; … And one man in his time plays many parts, his acts being seven ages.” The above quote by renowned playwright William Shakespeare simply confirms too that there is time and season for everything…time to learn or work and time to rest or retire. This reality played out recently in the life of former Director, Arts and Crafts, National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC), Mrs Chinwe Juliana Abara, when she pulled out of civil service on October 22, after 30 years of meritorious service as a cultural icon. She stepped aside on age ground having attained 60. How well did she fare in this journey that started in 1991 when she joined NCAC (Federal Ministry of Culture Tourism and National Orientation) as a Senior Visual Arts Officer? In appreciation of her service to the culture sector, her office, NCAC headquarters, Abuja held a party in celebration of her retirement, an honour that is not customary at the council. It was held on October 22, at Mexican Restaurant, Cedi Plaza, Central Area Abuja. Her sterling performances were noted in the numerous remarks and messages by various personalities she encountered in the course of her career as a culture adventurer and specialist in documentaries. The testimonials, as contained in Celebrating a cultural icon… (a coffee table book published on her retirement), which drew lessons from her dint of hard work, diligence, commitment to service of the nation, transparency and integrity, was written by her bosses, colleagues, family members, friends, associates and well-wishers. Her husband’s (Chioma Abara’s) special message; Celebrating my jewel at 60, stood out from the pack as it was presented on a chocolate colour background. The seven-paragrph message was filled with favourite family hymn and other biblical injunctions on the need to extol and be thankful to God at all times. The 74-page-book highlights Abara’s biography, exploits and achievememnts,  photo gallery that shows lots of photographs of her outings at local and international arts events, awards and appreciation. No fewer than 61 messages were recorded in the book and spread across 34 pages of the publication. Mufu  Onifade’s two-page tribute presents a holistic picture of Mrs Abara, a woman who will ever remain calm irrespective of the storm. According to her children, “ there is a whole new kind of life ahead, full of experiences just waiting to happen. Some call it retirement, we call it bliss. Don’t act your age in retirement. Act like the inner young person you have always been. Stay young at heart, kind in spirit and enjoy retirement,” they urged their mother. 