No fewer than 600 visually impaired persons have benefitted from sight preservation exercises by Ota Diamond Lions Club (ODLC) under the District 404B1 International Association of Lions Club. The group provided free eye screening exercises to the beneficiaries within Ado-Odo/Ota Local Government Area and its environs. It donated white cane to blind people, protective glasses to iron benders (welders), motorcyclists and other less-priviledged. The exercise was part of the programme to officially installed Mustapha Ajelara as 20th President of ODLC. He is to steer the affairs of the Club for the 2020/2021 Lions year. Sight preservation, according to Ajelara, is one of the major health issues adopted by the largest family in humanitarian service provider to assist the needy in the society. He stressed that Lions Clubs has played a key role in reducing global blindness—building comprehensive and sustainable eye care systems, including projects that deliver eye care services, build or strengthen eye care facilities, train professionals and build awareness about eye health in underserved communities. District 404B1 Governor, Mrs. Lynda Odunmbaku, said the District’s target for 2020-2021 is to ensure completion of Badagry Lion Eye Centre in Badagry General Hospital and Dialysis Centre in General Hospital Ota, Ogun State with required new technology equipment. She urged all members of Lions Clubs to increase membership strengths by at least 21 per cent, alleviate suffering diabetics, providing vision for the blind and visually impaired, give food to the hungers, maximum support in reducing the childhood cancer and environmental degradation which are the main adopted projects of the largest family in humanitarian service provider. Ogun Deputy Governor, Noimot Salako-Oyedele, commended the doggedness of Lions Clubs for their spirit of humanitarian services. The Deputy Governor, represented by the Senior Special Assistant to the office of the Deputy Governor, Hon Kola Salako, commended the largest family in humanitarian services provider for being part of Governor Dapo Abiodun’s led – administration agenda of “Building Our Future Together”. According to her, the state government has pledged committment to always giving priority to youths in making their lives better and bearable in the society, assuring it was protitising programmes that will enhance youths productivity. She encouraged non-governmental organisations to emulate a good gesture that would continuosly help youths and other less-priviledged to free the society from crime related issues. Ajelara said his administration will focus on establishing ODLC income through the wellness centre, completion of Orile Erinko Community Health Centre, continuous donation of drinking water to patient and staff of General Hospital Ota on monthly basis as well leverage on the existing projects of Lions Clubs International. He solicited support of all members to achieve the objectives. 