The global gaming industry is on the up. Sports betting, online casino, console and mobile gaming, and esports: their value is increasing. Nigeria, with its mid-twenties-to-forties weighted and growing population, is seeing this trend first-hand, as a variety of factors enable the country, and its citizen’s help and make the most of it. Technology Technology plays an important role in the gaming industry’s continued boom globally and in Nigeria. According to a BBC report, one-hundred million Nigerians are able to access the internet, “with new subscribers logging on in the last quarter of 2019.” A main means of getting onto the internet – to log onto social media, Google a question, or load up online casino – is via a mobile device. At least 83% of Nigerian citizens have smartphones. More citizens are able to buy and use mobile phones for day-to-day needs and activities. As such, the market has grown with this access. It is a feedback loop. In addition to this, foreign investment in Nigeria’s telecommunication sector in 2019 rose by 725% from 2018. This kind of investment can do a lot of good things. Notably, it can improve the product. Software and hardware technology can be developed and installed to a higher standard. This, naturally, makes the product more appealing to consumers. Exposure – increased advertising, good public relations – is also boosted by foreign investment. Big names and partnerships can attract attention and increase that level of trust from the customer. Gambling Regulation An important step for the country, as a reaction to the industry, was that regulation for gaming and gambling started to be introduced. This scrutiny of new and updated policies – legality and tax – enabled businesses that could thrive to thrive. Not only that, but the handing out of license also enabled customers to trust businesses and the industry. Publications Also, publications have popped up and publish articles to support the industry, and guide both new and experienced players to the best titles and developers. There are plenty of, for instance, online casinos in Nigeria which offer no deposit bonuses, as explained by nodepositexpolorer.com. Comparison sites and reviews can help customers make sense of the industry. Filtering through options, ensuring that they pick the right deal for themselves. Sports Betting With the popularity of England’s Barclays Premier League and the upcoming AFCON where Nigeria will be hoping to play, amongst other sports like basketball, athletics, and boxing, sports betting is a major player in Nigeria’s gaming industry. Publications in this vein will always be prominent, locally and globally. Offering tips, predictions, and breaking news about upcoming matches and events. There’re reportedly sixty million Nigerians who are active in sports betting. Annually, this market generates almost two billion dollars, which is about ten percent of Nigeria’s 2020 national budget. That’s a very high figure. Not only has technology increased access to sports betting sites and safer means of depositing money, but it also increases access to international sports, to check scores and watch matches. Esports There is also major investment in Nigerian esports from the country itself, with the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development supporting the endeavour, and a governing body called Esports Nigeria. It is not just a case of wanting to be competitive globally, to show up to events and finish towards the top, but Nigeria wants to be the esports hub of Africa. In early 2020, Nigeria hosted a PUBG mobile competition, where teams from ten African nations played for a prize pool. Esports is a major commitment though. It is like anything: there needs to be conditions in which players can play and improve: casually or professionally. Cultivating that environment and prosperous conditions is integral to continued improvement and success. It might be worth it, to plug into an impressively growing market.