 WORRIED about the  inadequacy of houses and the high cost of building in the country, a firm, the Pertinence Group, is mulling how to build a house with N3 million. The group, through one of its subsidiaries, RealVest, specially set up to deliver housing to Nigerians with ease, is powering a home delivery initiative tagged HomeVest. The Executive Director and co-founder, Pertinence Group, Wisdom Ezekiel, said his firm, like some others, was not waiting for the government on this hence, it is initiating various programmes aimed at solving the problem. According to him, while the firm may not be able to able to solve the entire problem, it is however determined to contribute its quota. One way it is doing this is to provide affordable housing through HomeVest by staggering payment for housing up to seven years. “It is like paying for your rent and, after seven years, the house is yours. We even allow that once payment of up to 50 per cent, we allow the person to take possession of the house while he continues with the rest of the payment. We try our best to ensure that the payment and house are very affordable, say from about N50,000 to N150,000 monthly payment depending on the location,” he said. Ezekiel assured that through RealVest, the firm would keep driving the process of home ownership to ensure it delivers “real affordable housing” to the people. “What we eventually target is how, with N3 million, we can deliver a full house to Nigerians. We have not been able to crack this but we are not relenting and we are sure of achieving this soon,” he assured. In similar vein, another Executive Director and also co-founder of the group, Sunday Olorunsheyi, regretted that while the government had dwelled on providing solution to the housing challenge, it had not materialised over the years. This, he noted, is perhaps the reason individuals have had to become their own government. He explained that the HomeVest initiative was one of the numerous products the Pertinence Group has put in place to help solve the housing problem. “The HomeVest project is one of such solutions we are offering and it has gone a long way in helping Nigerians. We are not essentially in the home delivery business for profit but to provide solution to the teeming Nigerians in need of homes. In providing the solution, we will eventually make the profit,” Olorunsheyi said. In aiming to attain the N3 million housing plan, Pertinence Group recently merged all its subsidiaries into one outfit. Ezekiel and Olorunsheyi explained that the merger would ensure that cost is maximised and the end result would be the ability to provide cheaper houses. “Pertinence Group decided to align with the vision it had because, from the beginning it was meant to be a group of companies. We started with the investment arm of the business before even the real estate. We are into real estate but now we realise that real estate needs information technology (IT) to run. Also, the investment arm becomes important because in this age and time real estate business require funding. So instead of running to look for funding outside, our micro finance bank within the group can provide the needed finance. It is more like a backward integration system where the group of companies can maximum its advantage to the fullest. In the end, the people benefit more and that makes us happy,” the duo submitted. 