Rivers State Government at the weekend told residents, especially churches that the state could not afford to be complacent on the observance of the COVID-19 protocols. The Chief of Staff, Government House, Port Harcourt, Emeka Woke, said the resurgence of COVID-19 in Europe was becoming a cause for concern around the world, advising the people of the state to keep observing preventive measures. A statement by Special Assistant to Rivers Governor on Media, Kelvin Ebiri, said Woke spoke during the Adults Harvest Thanksgiving service at Ebenezer Anglican Church, Rumuowha, Eneka Deanery in Obio- Akpor Local Government Area of the state. Woke said: “I want to reiterate what Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike had said, let us not relax and assumed that Covid-19 is gone, Covid-19 is not gone yet. “For those watching international news, you will notice that there is almost a second wave in European countries. So let us not relax”, he said. He appealed to the leadership of the Church in Rumuowha and the entire state, to enforce Covid-19 prevention protocols. He said church members should always wear face masks, observe social distancing guidelines and other protocols of Covid-19. He said: “This year 2020, the number of persons who have died of Covid-19 is very alarming. People used to think Covid-19 infection is only for the wealthy, but, look at the number of persons whi died from March to date. But we are here and alive. What else can you give to God than thanksgiving. “As Christians, we know that God values thanksgivings. That’s why His Son, Jesus Christ after healing 10 lepers, took cognisance of the only one who came back to say thank you. Jesus had asked, were there not 10 lepers that were healed? How come it is only you that have come to give thanks? ” So let’s not see harvest like a normal ritual without any significance. For me, the period of thanksgiving is not a period of show off, it is not a period of how much I have, such perceptions are wrong. The concept of thanksgiving is the period of giving back. It’s a time to say God thank you for the gift of life and all you have done for me”.