 FOUNDER and Pro Chancellor, Legacy University, Okija Anambra State, Dr Leonard Nkameme said the institution has surpassed the high expectations of National Universities Commission (NUC) and the accreditation team barely twelve years after its establishment. He said he was almost discouraged by the statement of the former Executive Secretary of the NUC, Prof. Julius Okogie who had described his venture into private university as ‘suicide mission’ in 2008 while working  to be granted a provisional licence to operate. Speaking during the 4th matriculation ceremony of 2019/2020 set of the institution, Nkameme however , said he was grateful to God for the grace to remain committed to the course which had finally paid off. He attributed his determination and risk he took to forge ahead amid obvious challenges to his belief that sound educated youths held the key to Nigeria’s real development. He said : “Today, all the courses offered in the university have been fully accredited while the university has been granted full licence to operate as a private university having fulfilled all the requirements laid down by the law and the commission.” While challenging the matriculants to break all limitations through hardwork to become world changers in  their endeavours, the Pro Chancellor noted that the essence of the matriculation exercise was to acquaint them with the institution’s unique way of speaking and living, which he said were evident in its fundamental norms values and culture. “Legacy University remains a centre for learning, research and character formation of students. You need to continually remember that the period between today’s matriculation ceremony and convocation is quite wide and it will be of immense importance that the journey ends successfully. “For you to achieve this, you need to begin now to mould yourself to adapt to regular lectures, carrying out all your assignments, shunning of deviant behaviours and other vices that can expose you and others to danger”  he said. Nkameme thanked the NUC for maintaining the standards and benchmark for universities’ approval noting that if all other government agencies would toe the same line with NUC without cutting corners or bending rules, the nation’s prospects and future would remain brighter. A total of 70 students participated in the matriculation exercise. 