 Final year students of Government Technical College, Ikotun, have been told to appreciate the advantage their technical education avails them to launch in various directions after their education. The Education Secretary, Lagos State Technical and Vocational Education Board (LASTVEB) Ms. Ronke Azeez, joined other experts to counsel the TEC 3 students to be proactive in making the best of their technical skills during the school’s career guidance and counselling day last Tuesday. She said: “You have chosen well. At the end of your three years (of technical education), you have a lot of options – the option to further your education; the option to go into direct employment in industry; or the option to set up on your own . And if you have a lot of options then what is it that will make you lose confidence in yourself that you can’t find a job? “Right now everybody is talking  about technical education. There are many people who have finished their degrees that are going back to Technical and Vocational Education.  There are many older artisans coming and we are also training them.” Ms Azeez also urged the students to seek out information and remain in contact with their school and LASTVEB so they could be reached for job opportunities. The speakers for the day were Mr Adeyemi Ajao, an engineer, and Mrs. Oluwayemisi Oshagbemi, a Guidance Counselor, and Head NABTEB Lagos Office,Mrs. Sidi Olabintan. Mrs.  Oshagbemi, underscored the importance of focus, mentoring and planning as well as digital literacy to career success of the students. Speaking on digital literacy, Ajao said: “Whatever you have learnt in this college, be sure that you are ICT compliant. Technical and Vocational Education is a twin brother of entrepreneurship. It takes a lot to become an entrepreneur. You cannot do it alone. You need to be mentored,” he said. The event was the climax of a five-week project, The Future Workers initiative of the Development Project and Research Centre (DPRC) funded by the Open Society Foundations for technical colleges nationwide. Prior to the career counseling day, the students had undergone four weekends of practical classes to prepare them for the 2020 NABTEB Examination to cushion the effect of COVID-19 disruption on the school calendar. DRPC Mentor at GTC Ikotun, Mr. Tunde AbdulRahman said he was sure of good performance. “The essence of this programme is to improve the students’ performance in the NABTEB and let them know the advantage they have attending a technical college. I am pretty sure that by 2020 their performance will be far better than 2019. We engaged resource persons to coach the students five good weeks before their final exams,” he said. Principal of the college, Mr. Aaron Alayemi said the project was a great assistance to his students and he was expecting 100 per cent success in the NABTEB Exam. “I will give my students 100 per cent because I am sure that by the time the results come out, you can be given a copy to know how successful they are because of the assistance rendered,” he said. Speaking on the impact of the training, Timothy Omhensele,a student, said the classes helped him  prepare better  for his Electricity Installation examination. “It helped me in my exams a lot. In NABTEB we are to do practical and I wondered how I would do it. But when they created the platform for practical classes, they started teaching us a lot of things we did not cover,” he said.