 THE former governor of Bauchi State, Mohammed Abubakar is working assiduously to come back, to power in 2023, it was learnt. The former Speaker, House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara  and  Abubakar who were political foes are now reunited as leaders of the APC. They are strategising to regain  power in 2023 after suffering a devastating  defeat  in the hands of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) poll. The party’s stalwarts have recognised the need to Join forces and forge a common front to dislodge the ruling party (PDP). According  to a member of the party, who spoke in confidence Abubakar has started some underground politicking. Aside the former governor, the source said seven other APC members have also showed interest. They include Senator Halliru Dauda Jika representing Bauchi Central, Sen. Lawal Yahaya Gumau representing Bauchi South. Others are; Dr. Musa Babayo (Talban of Katagum), Hon. Farouk Mustapha Azare, Ambassador Yusuf M.Tuggar, Captain Bala M. Jibrin Azare, Sen. Abubakar Maikafi (Danmadamin Bauchi), Sen. Adamu Bulkachuwa representing Bauchi North) and Nura Manu Soro, the former commissioner of finance, who resigned from Bala Mohammed’s administration. The  source, however said that  the major challenge of the ex-governor is reconciliation with the major stakeholders in the party. He said Abubakar needs to be proactive in reconciling with  Mallam Adamu Adamu,  immediate past Speaker, House of Reps, Amido Ali, and  Air vice Marshall Sadiq Abubakar. In his words: “It’s not yet time but this are the people  that have showed interest so far and they have started politicking at their various levels. Abubakar is very popular in the party as a former governor  but he needs to be very proactive in reconciling with the critical stakeholders who hitherto worked against him in 2019.” “He ought to do more when it comes to reconciliation. He ought to have learn from his defeat, if not because of the wrangling with critical stakeholders, he would have being in his second term by  now.” The source who admitted that though its too early but the party in a matter of time would know the level of seriousness and their  acceptance  as well by the party members. “By the time this is done, we conduct a primary, who ever emerge as our candidate, we will work in unity to sell the manifesto of the party and canvass support for the party candidate 2023 so that we can conveniently dislodge Bala Mohammed who is being grossly accused of nepotism by friends and families, this is a sad development in the state that we have not seen in the past.” “Now we have a new leader of the party in the name of the Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu and the Chairman of the party remains Ubah Nana, we are working with one voice now in the party towards the sustenance of the reconciliation embarked upon by the leaders of the party at the state level and for the success of the party in 2023.” “A committee  headed by Hon. Isah Matori has also been set up by the Chairman, to resolve other misunderstandings in the party.” “The ticket belongs to the people until when  we  come to that primary then we will decides who flies  the party ticket in 2023. Based on popularity, bases on  agenda, consultations by critical stakeholders and members of the party then will decide.” 