 After 16 matches, gangling Nigerian striker perched on top of the current Belgian Juliper League season with eight goals, even as his team Genk seat in eight positions.  Though, the 6ft 7in player is yet to find his feet playing for Nigeria only scoring once in six appearances, he has notched 17 goals in 30 matches for Genk. Before arriving Belgium, the Owerri-Nigeria born forward has hit gold in Denmark playing for Midtjyland. From 2012 to 2019, left for 2015 when he was loaned to Vejle, Onuachu netted 52 goals in 135 matches. That the Ojo-Lagos bred star is enjoying his career in Europe is to put it mildly because aside, Napoli’s Victor Osimhen, few Nigerian players have scored more goals in Europe than Onuachu. It is however, of interest to know that the 26-year old player, who has likened himself to former Arsenal and Nigeria star Nwankwo Kanu, had a bumpy ride leaving his home country to play soccer abroad. His is like the story of many African youngsters who had to endure great hardship and poor remuneration to a point of giving up before mother smiled on them. Onuachu may be counting his successfully hatched chickens now but said he’s simply a lucky dude to be where he is today. In a recent interview with Omasport, Onuachu chronicles his journey from Ojo to Europe. “It all started from in Ojo-Lagos state, going to school and playing football and when you enjoy what you do the rest is easy. I played a lot of street football and from there was lucky to be picked for greater things. At that time it was fun even though it was not really easy. It was fun playing football with your friends and going to different places to be able to football. It was easy, sometimes you come back and get nothing to eat and sometimes just a little bite but you end up going back to play football. Like I said it wasn’t easy but here I am today.”  PERSEVERANCE Onuachu had to endure a lot of street soccer before his lucky break came. “My journey is that of perseverance. In anything you do you have to keep praying and work hard. In life you have to pass through difficult times to make it. That is my own story which is not so different from others that you hear every day. As I play in Ojo, people were always saying I play good football and appreciate me. I played in a lot of competition in Ojo and environs and in one of them some scouts came, they were like local government scouts and they love what I am doing and that is it. They came to me and said they know some friends that have an academy who would like to give me a trial and possibly help me to travel abroad.” In his search for a means of travelling abroad, he relocated temporarily to neighbouring country Togo. “But the truth is that it is not easier to travel from your own country than to travel through other West Africa country like Togo, Abidjan and Ghana. I was there for almost one year in Togo trying to travel and it was tough and the situation was not all that good. In-fact I had to come back home after eight months and I said to myself that I won’t go back there. I continued playing at home and struggling, striving and playing from one place to the other. Transporting myself was not even easy because it was tough. And one is not earning anything. I was just showcasing my skill. It was a bit tough and at a point my dad told me I have to get something to do and that was when frustration set in. my father was also supportive but resources was limited, he said.” At that point he almost abandoned his plan to play football abroad and started looking for menial job. “At a point I almost abandoned football to try out something that could pay my bill just like my dad was saying. I was out job hunting one day when I met my old coach who connected me with Ebeide FC and here I am today. Churchill Oliseh (Older brother of Sunday Oliseh) welcomed me well and told me I have to work very hard. “I considered giving up football actually when my dad began to find it difficult to give me transport money to go for training and matches. He said I should go learn a handiwork and I was about doing that when luck smiled on me. Playing at Ebedei was the game changer for me. The training was very tough for me and when they had a break and most people went home I took it upon myself to stay back and train on my own. I was alone in the camp and by the time they came back whenever we were doing running I was always top five or top four. That was how I got into the system and from then on I did not look back.”  DENMARK Thanks to Ebedei, Onuachu landed his first contract with Midtjylland of Denmark in 2012 and he said it a dream comes true for him. “In Ojo, many players have gone to EbedeI for trials but they will not tell me. It was when they come back that they will now tell me. So when I got there I challenged myself that I will not give up or come back to Ojo empty handed and God answered my prayers,” added Onuachu. The Super Eagles player has profound respect for another Imo state born player Nwankwo Kanu, so much that he modelled his game after the bundle of skill, who was decorated Africa Footballer of the Year twice. Speaking on his social media handle, Onuachu said his tall frame which makes him the tallest Super Eagles player currently endeared him to the playing pattern of his hero. Kanu played prominent role for country and club and won many laurels including the English Premiership, English FA Cups, Olympic Football gold and Africa Cup of Nations Cup. ‘I had to understudy the former international closely. I’m a big fan of Kanu. I’ve loved him from when I was younger and when I really got very tall I had to start learning how to play like him and his skills too. Papilo is very gifted especially with his feet which I also cherish a lot. Matching his achievement will be a huge challenge for me, but I’ll keep doing my best,” he said. His love for Kanu also endeared him to London big club Arsenal where Kanu spent the greater part of his career. “When I was on a weekend trip to London some years ago with the FCM squad, we were out to see Arsenal. It was an experience. The Premier League is great and Arsenal is a giant club with a nice history. Arsenal hardly comes after me now. But I’m working hard to be where they would notice me. I playing well now and scoring well too. It is my dream to play for arsenal and it might come true. I think I will be able to commit myself to most leagues in Europe, and I feel in good shape and 100 percent ready.” He admitted that he loved the Arsenal style and could fit in. “The way they play is just the kind of football I like to see – and so I would like to play for Arsenal at one point.” However, Onuachu is still a player of Genk, which he has committed to four years-up till 2024 and he hopes to keep honouring his contract and play good football. “The move to Genk is a dream move for me. They treat me well and I’ve made great friends. I’m happy and my plan is going well.”  SUPER EAGLES Reporting back to base after homecoming to Nigeria to play for Nigeria, Onuachu said he had to train alone and underwent a corona test. “It is the standard here and I’m back in the team after testing negative. The pandemic changed the way we do things but it was well handled in Europe and we just have to adhere to instructions and protocol of Covid-19.