Lagos State All Progressives Congress (APC) has said Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu will not be distracted by the antics of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The ruling party alleged the main opposition party was pushing for anarchy in the state. Lagos APC Publicity Secretary Seye Oladejo said the call by the PDP on Sanwo-Olu to resign was unwarranted. The PDP, in a statement by its Publicity Secretary, Taofik Gani, said the Governor has not lived to expectation in the areas of security, infrastructural development, transport, commerce and sustenance of public trust. According to the PDP, Sanwo-Olu was never prepared for the job. But, taking exception to the virtuperation, Oladejo said in a statement that advice by the PDP was in bad faith, adding it was “unfunded and uncouth.” He described Sanwo-Olu as a crisis manager, who is on top of every situation in the state. Oladejo lamented that PDP chieftains were jubilating over the destruction of public ututies in Lagos, adding that their plot to capture power through the back door had failed. The APC spokesman said: “The unfortunate event of the past two weeks which took off as a peaceful nationwide protest and snowballed to the breakdown of law and order remains regrettable and distasteful. “This, to any discerning and unbiased mind, is not the time for blame game but to heal the wounds, provide succor and an environment to prevent a re-occurrence. “The role of the governor of Lagos state, Mr Babajide Sanwo-olu, as a topmost crisis manager is not lost on all and sundry. “The visits to the various hospitals treating the injured and the motivation and incentives provided for the members of the Nigeria Police Force are remarkably commendable. “It’s expedient to yield space to the fact finding panel that has already commenced work to deliver on its mandate. It is lawless and self-serving to pre-empt the panel’s findings.” Oladejo added: “The PDP in Lagos state that suddenly came to life in the past week owes the innocent members of the public detailed explanation about its ignominious and condemnable role in the mayhem. “The intermittent falsehood about governance in the state fed to the unsuspecting public fanned the ember of the unprecedented violence which has left in its wake sorrow, tears and blood. The daylight murder of police officers and the razing of several stations across the state has no doubt taken its toll on our security architecture. “The state government is working assiduously to provide temporary accommodation to forestall the breakdown of law and order. We are persuaded by the firm assurance of the governor to revamp our losses in no time. “The dream of PDP to govern Lagos state through the back door after persistent rejection at the polls remains a nightmare.”