The family of Solomon Akinyemi are appealing to Lagos State governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the Lagos State Hospital Management Board and the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), to investigate how the head of their family, Solomon Akinyemi, 63, who went for prostatectomy at Gbagada General Hospital but ended up a medical mess. This, they say is a result of surgical error upon error. Speaking to The Nation, the man, Akinyemi said his situation has deteriorated from that of a prostatectomy patient to that of recto-vesical fistula, who has now been on colostomy for years. “My name is Solomon Akinyemi, I live in Arigbagbowo Phase 2, Mowe-Ibafo, Ogun State. I had a prostatectomy (prostate surgery) at Gbagada General Hospital, Lagos on the 26 April, 2016. Things however didn’t turn out right, as faeces and urine started coming out from the point where I was cut open. As a result, I was in the hospital for good three months, paying bills, while the doctors tried to correct their mistake. “However, after they had tried unsuccessfully, I asked to be discharged. I was buying cotton wool everyday to cover the operated part. They later referred me to the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, LASUTH, Ikeja, where the doctors decided to carry out a colostomy on me. They asked me to pay a fee of N180,000, which I struggled to raise. ”In June 2017, the colostomy surgery was performed on me and I was made to pass stool through my side. A catheter was put on me. As a result, I cannot eat whenever I am going out, because stool would be coming out along with urine. When going out, I would have to wear a diaper because urine and faeces could come out at the same time. I wore diaper for two years. It got to a stage I could not afford the diapers anymore. So usually, I would just take little tea when I’m at home, and at 2 o’clock, I would eat a little till the following day. Later, they told me they wanted to correct the surgery.” ”In February this year, I was taken into the theatre and operated on; but again urine started coming out from my anus. I spent another three weeks in the hospital because I was instructed not to get out of the bed. I was discharged again but before I could go back, the hospital had closed due to COVID-19. They said they would have to carry out another surgery on me to correct that error. They said they would send me a text. The first surgery was done at the General Hospital, Gbagada, while the other two were at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH).” “I was placed on appointment for another surgery for the 26th of October and asked to to pay a bill of one million, one hundred and fourteen thousand naira only (N1,114,000). But as you can see, that day has passed and I could not go because I could not raise the money. “I have spent a fortune trying to get back to good health. I sold my landed property in Lagos for the first surgery, but as you have heard, nothing came out of it. “I spent over N800,000 at General Hospital Gbagada; I spent a fortune at LASUTH; and I have since lost my job. All my properties are gone. I sold them all off in pursuit of good health. My family and friends, including my church also assisted me financially to pay some of the bills. I once overheard the doctors blaming each other for not doing the correction as early as possible. They pushed me around, even dodged me, while shifting responsibility. “As I speak, I have carried the catheter in my body for about five years. It was passed into me in 2015 in Gbagada by a doctor, whom I learnt has relocated abroad,” Akinyemi finished off. Now Akinyemi says he hardly sleeps. For the past five years, he has not known bodily comfort. His words: “I can’t sleep; I only sleep two hours; the rest of the time, I spend in agonising pain. Usually, I am forced to listen to radio through the night. The pain is unbearable but I have vowed not to commit suicide because I believe God will blame me for taking that route. The sight of my opening is gory even to me, not to talk of other people. My wife is a teacher in a private school, so her salary is nothing to write home about; nothing that can shoulder the financial challenges I have found myself.” “My biggest challenge as I speak, therefore, is how to raise money to go for that fourth surgery. I really have no choice but to hope for the best this time. But I am financially constrained. How does a sick, jobless man like me raise over one million naira? I am using this medium to appeal to the Lagos State government, the Commissioner for Health and the management of LASUTH, as well as well-meaning Nigerians for help. I need to go through this operation so I can get back to living normal life again.” According to Akinyemi’s wife, Adenike, they had opted for a government hospital, hoping her husband would be in the care of experts with lots of experience, even as she added that cost was also a factor. “We could not afford the bills of private hospitals. Besides, there was the fear of falling into the hands of quacks. Our choice of Gbagada General Hospital was therefore based on expert advice and the consideration that we would have experienced hands taking care of my husband. We also chose it because it is a reputable and well-equipped hospital. “This man that you’re seeing does not sleep, as a result of their error; neither can he do any work because of the excruciating pain he goes through every day. I am begging the Lagos State Government and the management of LASUTH to come to our aid. We have exhausted all our savings, sold all properties and now have no more money to spend. Besides, our children are not yet working.” His daughter, Olayinka is not left out. “It is disheartening to see my father crying every day like a baby at night. It has been five years; and according to doctors, his prostate is not cancerous. But see what they have done to him. From surgery to complications. I am appealing to LASUTH to summon their best surgeons to correct this error. Yes, I know doctors bury their mistakes but this one is not yet buried. We have no money. LASUTH should find a solution. While we are not suing anybody, the truth is we do not have one million naira to pay.” She appealed to the Lagos State Government and the Commissioner for Health to wade into the matter and save her dad from the pain and discomfort. “I am not accusing anybody. We are not saying they did this or did that but here is a human being groaning in pains every day. I am jobless and my sister is a Youth Corps member. Please help us. We are poor and we cannot afford the bill LASUTH is asking us to pay again.” Akinyemi’ sister, Dunni also added her voice: “We are appealing to the Lagos State Government and the LASUTH management to wade into the matter. We lost two of our siblings three years ago and now my brother who is the only living male among us is dying gradually as a result of doctors’ errors. It is only here doctors get away with their mistakes. We are fed up borrowing money .The Lagos governor should please wade in I am pleading.’’ RE: AKINYEMI SOLOMON /MALE/63YRS/ HOSP NO 362463 This is to certify that the above named is a known patient of the urology department with the Diagnosis Recto-vesical fistula who has been on Colostomy for 3 years. He is being prepared for Het sical fistula repair and return of colostomy: He is however not financially stable for this procedure. Series of investigations precedes this diagnosis. A total at One Million. One Hundred and Fourteen Thousand Naira only. =N=1114,000 will be needed for this operation. For those willing to extend their generosity to help Akinyemi get back to good health, the following are his bank details: Solomon Akinyemi Bejamin GTB; 0463114798 Telephone: 07038489154