  SIR: Participation of youths in politics and electoral processes in Nigeria year in year out is still far low compared to the so-called old cargoes they are determined to retire. The Nigerian constitution made no provision for independent candidates just as we have in other countries such as India et al. That not being in place, it is incumbent on those with political aspirations to pitch their tents under the already existing political parties or take steps further in creating theirs. Even the few card-carrying members are mostly not serious with the affairs and activities in the parties they belong. Occupying political positions in whatever capacities either through elections or appointment requires many things than just filling the positions. Active political participation, experience, expertise, grassroot connection and others are what are expected of any individual to fill these positions. How will a president/governor for instance, appoint non-party members into offices where there are many of the ‘active’ party members to fill such positions? Available statistics by INEC shows that 51.11% of the registered voters in the country are youths from the 18 – 35 age bracket, with the middle age (36 – 50) having 29.97% and the elderly and old with 15.22% and 3.69% respectively. A survey by NOIPolls shows that of the 51.11% registered youths, 27% have had their cards collected leaving the remaining 73% lying with INEC. Where are the owners of the cards if truly they are ready to bring their dream into a reality? A visit to polling units on election days send a negative signal. People one sees on the queues are predominantly adults from the other classes taking their time and patiently waiting to exercise their franchise while the youths advocating for take over and development disenfranchise themselves playing football on the streets or just sitting in their houses. Some even go as far as telling you “the powers-that-be already know who will win” not knowing their abstention is what affirms their notion. In politics, especially in elections, figures are what matter and determine so much. How best can huge figures be gotten when there is lack of coherence of interest among the youths. Efforts should be geared towards bringing together all necessary figures to add up for success. Selfish interest obviously was what marred the youth ambition at the 2019 presidential elections. Youth candidates emerged under numerous parties automatically splitting the expected figures. Efforts to bring them together was fruitless and the results at the polls says it all. If all could pull support for an agreed candidate with all resources, even if such individual did not emerge, the youth mark will have been victoriously registered. <shotonwa.waheed@gmail.com>