Anambra state Head of Service, Mr. Harry Udu has cautioned civil servants in the state against trivializing COVID-19 protocols, especially wearing facemasks at public places. He said the state could not afford to experience another spike of the pandemic, as it was being experienced in the western world. Udu spoke during the 2020 edition of the State National Union of Local Government Employees (NULGE) week and Welfare Day celebrations as well as the unveiling of the State Secretariat named after its pioneer leader, late Comrade (Sir) Austin Ezepue, popularly known as Agadaga. Udu stressed that wearing of facemasks and observing other COVID-19 protocols would reduce the chances of the resurgence of the pandemic, advising workers to take the western world experience as a warning. “COVID-19 is on the rebound. Everyone must be mask conscious and other protocols, we can’t afford to experience another resurgence. What’s happening in Europe and America should serve as a warning to us,” he said. Describing Local Government employees as critical aspects of the government workforce whose responsibilities impact more directly on communities, the HOS said the occasion was an opportunity to remind them of the sensitivity of their roles. He added, “The workers should be alive to their responsibilities as they complement the efforts of the state workforce, especially in primary health and sanitation matters, including clearing of drainages to ensure roads are secure. “It’s important they are reminded of that critical role expected of them to play with all diligence as well as showcasing the numerous achievements of the current administration evident in the various communities.” Earlier, State Chairman of NULGE, Comrade Chikwelu Adigwe lauded the immense contributions of late Ezepue, describing him as a model for workers and the face of NULGE in the history of the union in the state. He attributed the numerous giant strides of the body including the first State in the South East with a thrift and loan multi-purpose cooperation society with a website to the leadership influence of late Ezepue. “It’s important to note that this land in which the secretariat is built was acquired by Sir Austin Ezepue of blessed memory. He also started this building which was later destroyed by a fire outbreak due to the bushy environment of this area as of then. “31years today, we have gathered to celebrate and immortalize the man who brought NULGE from old Anambra State to the new Anambra State in the year 1989,” he noted.