The Ministry of Youth and Sports Development and the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) on Tuesday parleyed with the aim to review the technical report of the Nigeria/Sierra Leone AFCON qualifiers and sundry matters concerning the Super Eagles. The ministry team was led by the Minister of Youth and Sports Development Sunday Dare while NFF President, Amaju Pinnick led the federation to the parley. The minister urged  the federation to hold Super Eagles’ coach Gernot Rohr to the higher standards as contained in his contract: “The NFF must tightly hold the Technical Adviser to the KPIs( Key Performance Index)  in his contract. “Thus, we cannot wait for those conditions to come to life, before we tighten the screws or demand a higher or better performance, better technical depth, better player mix and team harmony and a functional national team, else Nigeria and football lovers in Nigeria will be the greatest losers. “In this area, NFF must take necessary steps and actions beyond Rohr to protect our football fortunes. “NFF should be more concerned about the failure of technical depth and absence of a defense mechanism which were glaring during the encounter with Sierra Leone rather than the rush to defend the contract of the Technical Adviser,” Dare  demanded in a release  issued by his  media office. On his part, Pinnick provided a background to what happened, assuring the Minister that NFF would not shirk its responsibilities. He said there are plans to make a few changes and adjustments based on the recommendations of the ministry. Among the changes and adjustments according to the NFF chief include setting up a Super Eagles’ administrative structures that will include a physical trainer, nutritionist, a psychologist and two match readers or more. Others include injection of three to four home-based players into the Super Eagles picked from the professional league, while the Technical Adviser must watch weekly NPFL games as well as evolve a scientific template to benchmark the performance of the Technical Adviser and the Team.