 Amber Energy Drink has won the Marketing Edge Excellence Award by winning the “Product launch of the Year’ category at the event held in Lagos. For the management team of the energy drink, it was indeed a memorable occasion as the brand shone brilliantly when its management stepped out to receive the award. Amber was launched at a virtual media event July this year due to the prevalence of the COVID-19 pandemic and other attendant government protocols. The energy drink brand was heralded into the competitive energy drinks market. Barely a month after,  the drink began gaining traction, driving sales in the country’s energy drinks market with the product rapidly penetrating major stores and trade outlets in Lagos State. Speaking on why Amber Energy drink won the award, Publisher/CEO, Marketing Edge , John Ajayi, said: “It is on record that the grand entry of Amber Energy Drink into the market, only a few months ago, shattered myths, broke records, set new standards in innovation, instant market penetration; and carved a niche for itself that will be difficult for any new product in the market to match. Its profile has been rising since inception; and its penetration of the market has been significantly phenomenal” Demonstrating its resolve to be different and stand out of the pack, Amber Energy Drink within three months of market entrance launched a major Corporate Social Responsibility initiative through Amber Free Bus Ride project. The Amber Free Bus Ride project was a major charity project the brand initiated to allow commuters in Lagos metropolis enjoy free BRT bus rides to their destinations for three months. It was one unique effort that resonated quickly with the Lagos state residents many of whom became early converts to the premium energy drink. As if this was not enough, the energy drink brand began an ambitious empowerment programme where over one thousand Nigerians have been assisted to become their own bosses by starting their own enterprises. The empowerment programme which continues to record huge successes with more participants have been providing Nigerians the opportunity to own and grow their businesses through soft loans and business support initiatives. It was introduced as a solution to the challenges of unemployment and targeted at poverty alleviation and also to help generate jobs and income. With reduced caffeine and taurine content, the beverage brand is scientifically formulated to provide an incredible energy boost for those who lead active and exhausting lifestyle, ranging from sports to entertainment. It is also fortified with amino acid, citric acid and essential B-vitamins in addition to Guarana spice, which are required daily to fight fatigue, improve concentration and keep the body energized all day long. The brand has come with amazing innovativeness in its development, packaging, distribution and brand building initiatives, thus flagging off a heritage of uniqueness and consumer-centricism. This award is a recognition, appreciation and celebration of all the above and much more. It is also a pointer to what the future holds for this very promising brand; and a very strong endorsement by the consumers”.