Facts At the High Court of Adamawa State, the claim of the Respondent (Plaintiff) against the Appellants (Defendants) was for special and general damages for falsely and deliberately misrepresenting or crediting to the Respondent the paternity of a child, by reason of which he suffered untold damages. In the alternative, the Respondent claimed general damages for untold hardship, psychological trauma, inconvenience, ridicule, odium and embarrassment for being given false hope, filing fees and costs of litigation. The case of the Respondent in the High Court was that the 1st Appellant, daughter of the 2nd Appellant, alleged that he impregnated her. He did not object and accepted responsibility for the pregnancy. 1st Appellant gave birth to a baby girl. He named the baby Gift. 1st Appellant took him before the social welfare office for maintenance of the baby and later to the Magistrate Court. The baby was born out of wedlock. The welfare office asked him to give five hundred (N500) Naira monthly for the maintenance of the child and the Magistrate Court increased it to One Thousand (N1000) Naira monthly. The 2nd Appellant sued the Respondent at the Area Court Numan claiming Thirty Thousand (N30,000) Naira as damages in favour of the 1st Appellant. When he asked for the custody of the child in 2011, the Appellants refused to give him custody of the child. The Respondent reported the Appellants to their relations. A meeting was held. At the meeting, the 1st Appellant maintained that the child was that of the Respondent. At a subsequent meeting, the 1st Appellant said the Respondent was not the biological father of the child. The first Appellant stated in her written statement on oath that she told her parents that it was the Respondent that was responsible for her pregnancy. That she took the Respondent to the Welfare office and it was the Respondent’s failure to keep to his promise at the welfare office that made her to institute an action in the Magistrate Court. That no kobo was given to her in respect of the case at the Magistrate Court. In the meantime, her conscience was troubling her so she took the child to the real father SkimaAyuba. She denied that the Respondent suffered any untold hardship, psychological trauma, inconvenience, ridicule, odium and embarrassment in any way. Rather, she was the one that went through all these as a result of the deceit of the Respondent and his breach of promise to marry her. In his defence, the 2nd Appellant said that first Appellant told him that the Respondent was responsible for her pregnancy. She also told him that the Respondent was not doing anything about his responsibilities so he had to seek redress since he was the person taking care of the pregnancy. He sued the Respondent and claimed damages before Numan Area Court. He did not have the capacity to give custody of the child to the Respondent. After considering the evidence led and addresses of learned counsel, the High Court in a considered decision entered judgment in favour of the Respondent. Dissatisfied, the Appellants appealed to the Court of Appeal.  ISSUE FOR DETERMINATION The Court determined the appeal on a sole issue thus: Whether on the pleadings and evidence adduced, the Court below rightly entered judgment in  favour of the Respondent.  APPELLANTS’ SUBMISSIONS Arguing the sole issue, the Appellants contended that before the second Appellant took the Respondent before the Area Court for maintenance, the Respondent had admitted responsibility for the pregnancy of the 2nd Appellant’s daughter. That all along, it was not disclosed to the 2nd Appellant that the Respondent was not responsible for the pregnancy of the 1st Appellant and that the 2nd Appellant did what a responsible father would do to protect the 1st Appellant and subsequently the baby. The Respondent, it was contended, acted as if the pregnancy was his own. That the 2nd Appellant also approached the Respondent in good faith without the knowledge that the Respondent was not responsible for the 1st Appellant’s pregnancy. It was submitted that one of the requirements for deceit is that the presentation must be made with knowledge that it is false or may be false. The 2nd Appellant further stated that on realizing that the Respondent was not responsible for the pregnancy, he disclosed that fact to the Respondent and the Respondent insisted that the child was his own. Thus the 2nd Appellant was not liable to the Respondent on the evidence led. The Appellants referred the Court to the evidence of 1st Appellant that it was one SkimaAyuba who impregnated her but the Respondent told her to tell her parents that he (Respondent) was responsible for the pregnancy so that he would do all that was required by their custom and tradition to marry her. The 1st Appellant was not cross examined on her evidence, thus the Respondent had admitted same. See Henshan v. Effanga (2009) 11 NWLR (Pt. 1151) 72 and Philips V. EbaOdan Comm. Ind. Ltd (2012) All FWLR (Pt. 650) 1254. The Respondent cannot thus be said to have proved the tort of deceit against the Appellants.  RESPONDENT’S SUBMISSIONS Arguing the sole issue, the Respondent argued that the 1st Appellant admitted that she took the Respondent to social welfare even though she knew that the Respondent was not responsible for her pregnancy. Her deceit thus admitted needed no further proof. See Ali v. Albishir (2008) All FWLR (Pt. 415) 1681 at 1727.  Respondent further submitted he acted upon the conduct of the Appellants and suffered damages which were as a result of direct and probable action of the Appellants who ascribed paternity of the child to him by suing him in various Courts and yet denied him of the paternity of the child.  RESOLUTION OF THE ISSUE Resolving the sole issue, the Court stated the trite position of the law that in civil cases, the burden of proof is on the party who asserts a fact and the standard of proof thereof is on a preponderance of evidence and balance of probabilities. See Section 131 of the Evidence Act 2011 and Daodu v. N.N.P.C. (1998) 2 NWLR (Pt. 538) 355. Going further, the Court stated that where the adversary fails to cross examine a witness upon a particular matter the implication is that he accepts the truth of the matter as led in evidence. SeeOforlete v. The State (2000) LPELR – 2270 SC, Isa v. State (2017) LPELR – 4347 SC andEwuagba v. State (2017) LPELR 43833 SC. Applying the above to the case, the Court recounted the unchallenged evidence of the 1st Appellant that the Respondent knew that she was pregnant for SkimaAyuba before he slept with her and even persuaded her to abort the pregnancy but she refused. Thereafter he asked her to tell her parents he was responsible for the pregnancy so that he could perform the traditional rites required to marry her. He subsequently failed to keep his promise which led to the 1st Appellant taking the Respondent before the social welfare office and the Magistrate Court. The Court, after considering the unchallenged evidence of the 1st Appellant held that the Respondent knew before the pregnancy was even two months old that he was not responsible for the pregnancy. Which explains why he was reluctant or even refused to cater for the baby and mother despite the fact that he was taken before the social welfare officers and the Magistrate. It also explains why the Respondent only referred the matter of the paternity of child to 1st Appellant’s relations in 2013 even though the child was born in 2001 and why the Respondent did not seek custody of the child in Court. The Court also held that the Respondent obviously did not suffer any psychological trauma, embarrassment, odium, etc. Rather it was the 1st Appellant who suffered all that the Respondent claimed to have suffered. Concluding on the issue, the Court held that based on the evidence adduced at trial, the High Court was in error to have disbelieved the evidence of the 1st Appellant which was not challenged under cross-examination. There was no basis for refusing to believe her evidence.  HELD The Court resolved the sole issue for determination against the Respondent and in favour of the Appellants and allowed the appeal.  APPEARANCES Appellants absent though served through their Counsel C. K. Aliman Esq.  Compiled by LawPavilion.