The Nigerian Armed Forces Resettlement Centre (NAFRC) at the weekend hosted various events in honour of its Commandant, Air Vice Marshal (AVM) Kingsley Lar who will be retiring from service on Wednesday, November 4. Among the events was a Golf tournament held at the 041 Nigerian Air Force (NAF) Communications Depot, Shasha, on Saturday which brought together serving and retired officers as well as other golfers from Ikoyi and Ikeja Golf Clubs. Speaking after the golf tournament, Lar appreciated the organising committee for bringing together friends, colleagues and family members. Reminiscing on his sojourn in the military, the Commandant said he never planned to be an officer and only went to the Nigerian Defence Academy (NDA) to get busy while waiting for his polytechnic admission to be out “But here I am today. Some of my mates retired early, we lost some to death, quite a number of us got to two-star rank and we have one who is a three-star General. Others got to various points. There are few that will still be in service as you know, 35 years is the ceiling for service and officially my course will be 35 years in June, 2021. For my rank you retire at 56 or 35 years in service; whichever comes first. “I will be retiring because I will be 56 on November 4 and I can tell you that it is all God. There are so many things to talk about. For example, I did not set out to join the military but divine providence did it and here we are. “When I was leaving the Nigerian military school my intention was to go to polytechnic to learn something technical and get busy in some productive activity but I remembered that the NDA result was the first that came out that year in 1983 and I said OK, let me report to NDA when the other results come out then I can leave and go to any of those places but as God will have it none of those ones came out again. I remained in NDA and gave it my very best and here we are today.” He advised young officers to work hard and stop trying to influence their postings or promotions, stating that such things cannot help them.