 THE lawmaker representing Enugu North, Senator Chukwuka Utazi and the monarch of Nkpologu community, Igwe Simeon Idu, have thanked Enugu State Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi for his special attention in Uzo-Uwani Local Government through landmark development projects. Speaking when Senator Utazi received Governor Ugwuanyi at his country home at Nkpologu, Igwe Idu thanked the governor for the ongoing massive work on the long-neglected 39km Umulokpa-Adaba-Ukpata-Uvuru-Nkpologu road, which links communities of Uzo-Uwani Council to their headquarters at Umulokpa. The monarch, who expressed the joy of the people of the community to the governor, disclosed that “before now, we have not gone to our headquarters in Umulokpa without passing through four local governments of Nsukka, Igbo-Etiti, Udi and Ezeagu.” He said because of governor’s special love for the people of Uzo-Uwani, “the building of the road (Umulokpa-Adaba-Ukpata-Uvuru-Nkpologu) is ongoing and has reached advanced stage” courtesy of the state government, in collaboration with Rural Access and Mobility Project (RAMP II). Igwe Idu also thanked Governor Ugwuanyi for asphalting of the 26.665km Ukpabi-Nimbo-Ugbene Ajima-Eziani road as well as the Edem Ani-Urobo-Abbi road (earthwork). While maintaining that no past government has channelled infrastructural development to the rural communities as the current administration has done, the royal rather appreciated the governor for choosing Uzo-Uwani as one of the seven benefiting local governments where Type-3 primary health care centres are being constructed. He also hailed the governor for siting the all-important health facility in Nkpologu. He assured the governor of the unalloyed support and solidarity of the people of Uzo-Uwani Local Government and applauded his visit to the community. Receiving Governor  Ugwuanyi in his country home, Ama-Ezikeani, Senator Utazi endorsed the speech by his traditional ruler, stressing that the governor’s achievements in infrastructural development in Uzo-Uwani Local Government are unprecedented and commendable. The lawmaker said Ugwuanyi’s administration has executed “the longest earth road in Enugu State” in the council area and reassured him that they will not take such considerations for granted. Dignitaries at the event included the former Deputy Governor of Enugu State, Chief Okechukwu Itanyi; the state Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Augustine Nnamani; the member representing Enugu East/Isi-Uzo Federal Constituency, Prince Cornelius Nnaji; the President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief Nnia Nwodo; the former state Chairman of PDP, Chief Vita Abba; former governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Okey Ezea; members of the House of Assembly, EXCO and council chairmen from Enugu North Senatorial District, among others.  