Diego Armando Maradona was loathed by a nation for the ‘Hand of God’ in Mexico City but adored by the world for his moment of genius just four minutes later. The combustible Argentinian, who has died at the age of 60, was without doubt one of the greatest football players in history. Maradona – a fiery, indomitable personality, a man so drastically different in his world view from Brazil’s beloved Pele – was an unstoppable force on his course to reaching the very top of the game. But, after winning the World Cup in 1986, his fall from grace was swift, bizarre and, like the man himself, totally unpredictable. Born on October 30, 1960, the son of a boatman from Villa Fiorito, Buenos Aires, he kicked off his prolific career with Argentinos Juniors’ youth team, ‘Los Cebollitas’. And he soon started planning what would be his immortalising performance at the Azteca, in the 1986 World Cup quarter-final win over England. In his autobiography Maradona gloated about first getting away with the ‘Hand of God’ – “You’re trying to reach the ball and the hand moves independently,” he wrote – in the early seventies. Later in the decade a referee warned him not to try it again, but the ever-rebellious ‘Pibe de Oro’, or Golden Boy, who had 100 goals under his belt by the age of 19, could not make that promise. He tried over and over to pull off what would become his famous second goal: with Argentinos, then at Boca Juniors after manipulating their city rivals River Plate to get a better deal at La Bombonera, and then repeatedly with Argentina. When the weaving, inventive and lethal number 10 played at Wembley in May 1980, Ray Clemence stood firm after Maradona had dribbled past the entire England defence with his sights trained on goal. Recalling how his little brother Hugo had later pulled him up on his mistake of blasting wide, Maradona said: “At the World Cup in Mexico I remembered his advice.” Spurred on by the ‘bronca’ – his own made-up word for angry resentment – caused by his omission from the 1978 squad and Argentina’s limp showing in Spain in 1982, Maradona was a man possessed in Mexico. At 25 he was the Argentina captain after replacing Daniel Passarella, who left mid-tournament officially due to illness and partly because he lost a battle of wills with his successor as skipper. Maradona inspired the team to wins over South Korea, Bulgaria and Uruguay to set up a capital clash against England, with the recent bloodshed of the Falklands War adding an extra layer of tension. In the 51st minute Steve Hodge’s poor attempt to deny Jorge Valdano saw the ball loop up to Maradona, who used his left fist to send it beyond the six-foot-one-inch Peter Shilton, finding the open goal. “(Terry) Fenwick was the first one to appeal for a handball. Not because he’d seen it but because he could not understand how I could have jumped higher than the keeper,” said Maradona. “At the time I called it the ‘Hand of God’. B******s was it the hand of God, it was the hand of Diego!” Despite the desperate cries of injustice and dismay at the time, Terry Butcher would hail Maradona’s utter brilliance in fooling England. “I just couldn’t get near him – all I ever saw was his number 10,” said the former number six. “He had a low centre of gravity that shielded the ball. He also had a great leap for such a small man.” No one could argue with the genius of the winner. “It seems like a goal that you could dream of but never actually score. Now it’s become a legend,” said Maradona about the breathtaking individual effort that left the Three Lions reeling and everyone else drooling. After bursting between Peter Beardsley and Peter Reid, Maradona shimmied past Butcher, dummied a pass to Valdano that fooled Fenwick and, with Shilton racing out, rounded the keeper before steering home the “goal of his life”. Gary Lineker, who scored England’s consolation in that quarter-final defeat, said of the diminutive forward’s masterstroke: “The second goal that Maradona scored in Mexico was the best goal ever. “That was the first time in my career that I almost applauded on the pitch something the opposition had done because it was a really good goal.” Maradona would captain Argentina to another World Cup final in 1990, but injuries hampered his own performances and he wept on television after West Germany deposed his countrymen in Rome. Down the road in Naples he was already a working-class hero, the firebrand who had transformed an average second-division Napoli side into the two-time champions of Italy by 1990. The titles were “for the people, for the workers”, and Maradona took great pleasure in trumping the genteel Michel Platini of star-studded Juventus. But Maradona’s personal demons – a cocaine problem, tax issues and alleged ties to crime syndicates – saw him tumble into disgrace and he was kicked out of the 1994 World Cup after a positive drugs test, his international career ending after 91 caps and 34 goals. Months before he had fired an air gun at reporters, an action for which he received a suspended jail sentence and, despite a ceremonial return to Boca, by 1995 his playing career was all but over. Soon ballooning in weight and marking his every public appearance with stranger and stranger behaviour, he surprisingly chose Fidel Castro’s Cuba as the retreat where we would kick his many habits.  He was for many a shock appointment as Argentina coach in 2008 but, despite a confrontational approach to media duties, he led the nation to the quarter-finals of the World Cup in South Africa, stepping down after their heavy 4-0 defeat to Germany. A number of short-lived managerial stints in the Middle East and South America followed. Maradona is survived by his daughters Dalma and Gianinna, who was previously married to Sergio Aguero, son Diego and ex-wife Claudia Villafane.  The love affairs with  Napoli The iconic Argentine transformed not just a football club, but an entire city upon his arrival in the summer of 1984 “We have a lack of houses, schools, buses, employment and sanitation, none of this matters because we have Maradona,” proudly declared a local Neapolitan newspaper. There are transfers in football that transform clubs, which turn good teams to great. There are transfers that turn out to be the missing piece in an expensively crafted jigsaw. Then there are moves that not only completely change the fortunes of a side, but an entire city. This is what Diego Armando Maradona’s move from Barcelona to Napoli in the summer of 1984 achieved. Much has been written, and will continue to be written in the coming days and weeks, but it cannot be overstated the seismic change that one single transfer deal made not just to Napoli the football club, but the city of Naples. If you have ever visited Naples, the Maradona aura permeates throughout the entire city, into every little crook and crevice. San Gennaro may well be the patron saint, but make no mistake about it, it’s Diego’s city. There’s a bar, on the corner of Via San Biagio, that’s dedicated solely to all things Maradona. Order yourself a caffe and indulge in your surroundings, Maradona pictures as far as the eye can see. A single mane of Maradona hair, plucked from the headrest of a flight from Turin back to Naples in the late ’80s, sits proudly atop the Maradona altar. Also present are vials filled with tears of the locals who cried the stormy night his Neapolitan love affair ended in ignominy in March 1991. Maradona became so much more than a football player to the city of Naples, he obtained deity status. Napoli have had other legends: Marek Hamsik, Guiseppe Bruscolotti, Fernando De Napoli and Ciro Ferrara, but nobody comes close to what Maradona gave to Napoli, and by extension the city. Napoli had won nothing when he arrived on that humid July day in the summer of 1984, nothing of importance, at least. Within three years, Maradona had taken a team that were closer to Serie B when he arrived, and transformed them into Serie A champions for the first time in their history. The city of Naples, for so long looked down upon as a destitute and viewed by many in the north of the country as not belonging to Italy, stood with its chest out and head perched. Only a talent like Maradona could’ve even made this feasible. Neapolitans celebrated for two months following their first Scudetto win, writing on the walls of a cemetery “you don’t know what you’ve missed!” And Maradona wasn’t finished: a Coppa Italia a month after the first title; a UEFA Cup in 1989; another Scudetto in 1990. Many will look to Maradona’s month of greatness in Mexico as the pinnacle of his career, and perhaps those people are correct, but the fact that for a brief moment in time, from 1987 to 1990, the balance of power in Italy swung southwards, is arguably his greatest achievement in the game. Only with the creation of Asif Kapadia’s absorbing documentary on the man last year where people outside of Italy and Argentina beginning to really comprehend the magnitude of what Maradona accomplished in Naples. A man who, in spite of himself, became not just the greatest player in the world, but arguably the finest footballer that has ever lived. Maradona couldn’t control himself, nor his life, outside of those four lines of the football pitch, but within it, he could control everything. He could make average teams great, and could break extraordinary teams and make them look amateurish. Nobody in the history of the game could manipulate the ball and bend it to their will better than Maradona. Maradona was the most flawed of geniuses. He rejected his son, Diego Maradona Jnr, for decades. His adultery, excess lifestyle and association with the Neapolitan mafia, the Camorra, all became public knowledge in the aftermath of his exit from Napoli. And yet the city still loved him, in spite of it all. Despite Italian football chewing Maradona up and spitting him out in the aftermath of Italia ’90, the Neapolitan people never forgot telling the world that the most majestic of No.10’s was theirs. A son of Naples. It’s impossible to define what Maradona truly means to Naples, but perhaps his turbulent seven-year spell in Italy is best summed up by his former team-mate Ciro Ferrara, who said in Kapadia’s documentary, “The victory [the first Scudetto] marked the social redemption of our city. “Thanks to Diego, it continued in the following years.” Maradona gave Neapolitans pride, a sense of hope, and bragging rights over the powerful northern establishment, who many locals felt couldn’t care a less about the south of Italy, and in particularly, Naples. Maradona became a representative of the downtrodden south, a symbol of courage. If he’d been a superhero, Maradona would’ve been Batman. And what Maradona achieved at Naples is nothing short of comic book material: taking a mediocre team and propelling them to greatness in the most daunting league the sport has ever seen. Additionally, not just content with fighting against outside forces in the shape of Milan, Juventus and Inter, he was also battling against his inner demons and attempts at self-destruction. The sport of football will never again see the likes of Maradona. The modern game is too professional for a player like him to thrive in. And yet, he was simply the greatest to ever do it.