The $1.5 billion Collaborative COVID-19 Pandemic Response Facility (COPREFA) was a product of a unique international partnership, and it was a major contribution to the global fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. The Facility will work alongside other programmes by the African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank) to ensure Africa’s future remains bright beyond the economic shock caused by the pandemic. Afreximbank President Prof. Benedict Oramah, gave this explanation shortly after the launch of the $1.5 billion COPREFA to support African economies with rapid financial assistance to reduce the impact of COVID-19 in Cairo, Egypt. .”The COVID-19 pandemic has devastated many economies. Africa has not been spared. Afreximbank’s priority has always been to step-up when markets fall. That is why we are supporting African economies forcefully at the time of great difficulties,” he said, in a statement. Afreximbank, the pan-African multilateral EXIM bank, partnered the International Islamic Trade Finance Corporation (ITFC), the trade finance arm of the Islamic Development Bank (IsDB) Group; and the Arab Bank For Economic Development in Africa (BADEA) to launch the facility. COPREFA will be accessed by eligible central banks, commercial banks and businesses to finance the import of medical supplies, as well as agricultural equipment and fertilisers essential for addressing the pressing food production deficit. The $1.5 billion facility was designed to support African economies to overcome a myriad of challenges, including commodity price shocks, a significant drop in tourism, and disruption to supply chains and export manufacturing. A key attribute of the COPREFA facility was the speed at which financial assistance could be provided through all partners involved. The co-financed facility, led by Afreximbank leverages strategic partnerships with other Multilateral Financial Institutions (MFIs) and other international financial institutions in co-financing, risk sharing of transactions and promoting integrated trade solutions, to support African economies on navigating the impact of COVID-19. For CEO of ITFC, Eng. Hani Salem Sonbol, said ITFC has worked extensively since the very start of the COVID-19 outbreak to provide comprehensive support to some of the most vulnerable countries. Also speaking, the Director General of BADEA, Dr. Sidi Ould TAH, said BADEA, with its partners, have been and will always be supporting the continent through tough and good times as a reliable, strong  and resourceful financial institution.