Access Bank’s Executive Director of Technology and Operations, Mr Ade Bajomo, has been appointed the new President of the FinTech Association of Nigeria (FintechNGR). He emerged during the recent FinTechNGR’s virtual annual general meeting. Prior to the new appointment, Bajomo served as Vice President of FinTechNGR for two years. Speaking after his inauguration, Bajomo thanked the outgoing president, Dr Segun Aina and the Governing Committee “for the remarkable accomplishments during the last two years. “This appointment is a responsibility that I take very seriously and I am humbled by your vote of confidence. “With your help, I believe we can position Nigeria as a leading market for global FinTech Innovation and Investment.” He added: “In my capacity as the president, I will ensure FinTech Association of Nigeria works collaboratively as a team to position Nigeria and ultimately, Africa, as a force to be reckoned with in the global community. “Nigeria has all the human resources it needs to be competitive in the global marketplace and this administration will strive to accelerate the growth of the industry and help create job opportunities and wealth.” In an interview on a national TV, he acknowledged that FinTech offerings will be one of the key performance drivers for the Nigerian banking sector post-COVID-19. He added: “The possibilities are endless for a sector that has been responsible for over N700 trillion worth of transactions over the last 12 months. This trend is expected to continue even in a post-COVID-19 world.” He promised an appreciable number of innovative solutions will be introduced in the payment sector. The key drivers of these innovative solutions will include – contactless payments, biometric solutions for financial inclusion and the acceptance of block chain technology as a viable payment option. Bajomo hinted the CBN, through an inter-agency committee and the FinTech Association of Nigeria, is already exploring block chain adoption for the financial sector. In his capacity at Access Bank, Bajomo has led Access Bank’s digital transformation, overseeing the Bank’s use of advanced analytics, cloud computing, artificial intelligence, machine learning and robotics process automation to sustain banking and improve customer experience.