 RECTOR, Federal Polytechnic Oko, Anambra State,  Dr Francisca Unoma Nwafulugo and three others have been honoured by the leadership of Non Academic Staff Union of Educational and Associated Institutions, NASU, for their contributions towards the growth of the education sector in general. Other beneficiaries of the honour were the General Secretary of NASU, Prince Peters Adeyemi, former Registrar of the Institution, Mrs Stella Nnenna Njaka and the immediate past State chairman of NASU, Comrade Luke Nweke. Presenting the award to the beneficiaries at the auditorium of the institution, Chairman of NASU, Fed Poly chapter, Comr. Emmanuel Okolie praised the Rector  for her numerous achievements in one year and half in office. He lauded  her leadership style, including open door policy, easy access, union friendly and special attention in resolving staff welfare issues as well as improving working conditions and providing adequate learning environment for students. He said: “Apart from being the first female to hold the position in the institution, the Rector stands out in many positive ways including the areas of conversion/upgrading of staff, promotions, payment of outstanding earned allowances, upgrading of infrastructure, human capital development, management and union relationship.” Responding, the Rector thanked the leadership of NASU for the  support and cooperation which has ensured peace and progress in the institution, saying the award would spur them to doing more. She encouraged all staff and union members to keep working hard for the overall interest of the nation. She said: “My administration has been in office for a year and eight months. From the day I assumed office as the Rector up till now, I have been enjoying harmonious working relationship with NASU and other unions on campus.” General Secretary of NASU, Prince Peters Adeyemi hailed  the leadership of the union in the institution, saying the Rector deserved another award by the national body in due time in view of the level of developmental strides in the campus.