 CHI Limited has contributed substantially to the nation’s employment challenge in the past four decades, The Nation has learnt. With direct employment to about 5,000 people and 112,500 people under its indirect employment through its robust value chain, Chi Limited has made indelible mark in the growth of the economy and wellbeing of Nigerians in its four decades of operation. According to the company, which is marking its 40 years operation in Nigeria, human capital is one of the most important assets for any organisation’s success. The company has over the years maintained a policy of hiring the best talent into key leadership and middle management roles in all departments. To enable these key talents run the business smoothly, it also makes constant training and re-training of staff a cardinal principle of its business operations. The emphasis on training and development also ensures that CHI Limited employees have the required knowledge, skills and capability to perform in their respective functions – Finance, Marketing, Sales, Manufacturing, Logistics, Human Resource among others. It says investments are also made to support the research and development and production teams to adapt to innovations in manufacturing processes and technology to ensure smooth running of the factories and manufacture of products that meet international standards. The human resource initiatives, programs, and activities which the company has put in place have created an environment where employees have a sense of belonging, a feeling of ownership, and see CHI Limited as a great place to work. The employee engagement initiatives motivate staff to perform at optimum levels and achieve consistent value delivery to its customers and consumers, which in turn results in high levels of productivity. Some of the employee engagement initiatives implemented by the company include: CHI Cares, a multi-phased program aimed at improving the well-being of employees in all areas of life – physical, social, mental, psychological, and emotional. A key intervention that shows CHI Limited puts its employees first is the recently developed Immune Support Programme, a program rolled out for its employees recently to address health and safety issues resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. The plan encompasses preventive measures (provision of supplements and multivitamins for all employees); first aid measures; a fully operational on-site clinic with qualified medical doctors, nurses, and other medical personnel who are available in the office premises 24/7 and on-site and off-site support interventions. Incorporated 40 years ago in 1980, CHI Limited has established and continues to reaffirm its position as a foremost manufacturer in the food and beverage industry in Nigeria. 