 TWO suspected armed robbers were on Tuesday set ablaze by a mob in Benin, the Edo State capital. Since the hijack of the #EndSARS protests by hoodlums who attacked two correctional centres, releasing almost 2,000 inmates, including condemned criminals, there has been an upsurge in criminal activities in the state. It was gathered on Tuesday  that the suspected armed robbers came out very early in the morning and were robbing market women and other passersby. Another robbery suspect was also arrested yesterday inside a new generation bank on Sapele Road, Benin, after stealing N200,000, while pretending to be a member of staff of the bank. A female customer raised the alarm, leading to his arrest, with two knives recovered from him. A Point of Sale (PoS) operator was also shot yesterday by armed robbers in the city, but she survived. Two cars were equally snatched at different locations in the capital city. Police spokesman Chidi Nwabuzor could not be reached at press time, but a police source confirmed the incidents, assuring that policemen were on the trail of the criminals and would soon be arrested and prosecuted. On Monday, Governor Godwin Obaseki, on a solidarity visit to the police headquarters, promised that his administration would rebuild the burnt police stations, provide more patrol vehicles and pick the medical bills of the injured police personnel.’ He also said that the fleeing inmates would be re-arrested through their biometrics and next of kin before Christmas. Obaseki and his delegation were received by Assistant Inspector-General of Police (AIG), Zone 5, Sholla David; Edo Police Commissioner, Babatunde Kokumo in an elaborate ceremony. Edo governor said: “What happened in the last two weeks in Edo State was an excuse by criminals to undertake their activities. The legitimate #EndSARS protesters were not the ones who broke into the two correctional centres in Benin City, who attacked and razed police stations, who destroyed police property and injured policemen. The people who did those things were criminals and they should be treated as such. By the grace of God, we will treat them as such. “I am here to assure you of our support. Criminals cannot take over our land, under whatever guise. You should not be afraid. They should not intimidate you. They should not allow your morale to be low. They are the ones you were hired to deal with. They cannot say they have won. They cannot win. “I want to assure you that the Edo State government will work with you very diligently and we will re-arrest every inmate that escaped from the correctional facilities. We have started. By burning down the documents in the correctional facilities, they thought they had destroyed all the evidence. They did not realise that their biometric data are held outside of the premises and we have all of them. We have data on their next of kin and people they lived with in the past. We will go after each and everyone of them, in every community where they had lived and we will re-arrest all of them. So, we are going to work with you.”        