 Aviation agencies  and other border control authorities are not leaving anything to chance to achieve seamless passenger facilitation  at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos in the coming days as more foreign carriers restart flight operations into the airport. Specifically, they have been having a series of meetings to review the operational and security architecture as more carriers return to the aerodrome following the ease of lockdown and removal of flight restriction occasioned by the COVID – 19 pandemic. Since September 5, 2020 when international flights resumed at the Lagos and Abuja Airports, carriers that have operated flights include : Middle East Airlines, British Airways, Delta Airlines, Ethiopian Airlines, Egypt Air, African World Airlines, ASKY Airlines and  Kenya Airways. But,  the Federal Government last week lifted the flight ban on Lufthansa, KLM and Air France to resume their operations in and out of the country. Following the development, Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) has increased its migrants check – in counters and other equipment at the Lagos Airport to pave the way for improved passenger facilitation. To ascertain the readiness of such facilities , the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Interior, Dr Shuaib   Belgore the weekend, toured facilities of Nigeria Immigration Service Zone A, comprising the Lagos Airport Command. Belgore who toured Nigeria Immigration Services facilities at various sections of the Lagos Airport in company of the Zonal Coordinator, Doris Braimah , who is an Assistant Comptroller General of Immigration along side the Airport Comptroller, Abdullahi Mohammed Usman said Nigeria was complying with other countries in passenger facilitation equipment at airports. Belgore said the visit to Lagos Airport and the Nigeria Immigration Service Zone A formation was at the invitation of the Comptroller General of Immigration,  Mohammed Babandede to acquaint him of the infrastructure and personnel deployed at border control points including the airport for effective security and facilitation of passengers. He said check – in facilities at the passenger and cargo terminal at Lagos Airport could only be compared with equipment at other countries across the globe. Belgore lauded the efforts of Babandede in driving airports clearance and facilitation procedures with state of the art equipment to improve efficiencies. Describing points of entry including airports as strategic in the country’s border control measures, he urged Immigration officers and men to protect themselves and adhere the established health , airworthiness and safety protocols as the second wave of the COVID -19 pandemic. He said :”The world is moving the way  of enhanced technology at border posts and Nigeria has deployed adequate equipment at airports. But, as personnel who interface with international passengers at the points of entry, Immigration officers must protect themselves and adhere to safety and others protocols. “I must admit that the arrival and departure processes at the airports have scaled up for better as well as the measures out up for safety . I admit that it is a very well coordinated process, with well laid out work infrastructure and personnel diligent at their assigned posts . It is quite impressive . With the calibre of personnel manning point of entry at the airports , it speaks volumes about Nigeria’s border integrity. Adequate safety procedures have been put in place considering the COVID -19 situation , the attention to details among personnel is impressive. The government will do whatever is necessary to improve the system.” On technology, ,he  said:“The Ministry of Interior will continue to support the move to scale up operational infrastructure at airports and other places so that Nigeria complies with international standards as prescribed by regulatory organisations. Nigeria will continue to keep up in the areas of airport facilitation procedures and equipment raise the bar.” Also speaking , the Zone A Coordinator, Doris Braimah said the Nigeria Immigration Service will continue to push for training and capacity building for its personnel in the discharge of border control and other responsibilities by collaborating with other security agencies. On his part, Comptroller of Murtala Muhammed International Airport Command ( MMIA) , Abdullahi Mohammed Usman said   personnel on ground were already collaborating with relevant stakeholders to ensure seamless passenger facilitation at the terminal. He said the NIS has increased the number of counters and other infrastructure needed to improve passenger facilitation at the airport. 