 WITH no fewer than 22 policemen killed and 200 police stations destroyed in the wave of violence that trailed the #EndSARS protests, some governors have certainly done a good job to calm frayed nerves.  From appeals to the policemen, many of whom abandoned their beats in the heat of the riots, to have a rethink, to playing the chief mourners to the families of officers and men felled in the line of duty, and then of course, the pledge to restore the broken walls of the police, these governors have, no doubt, demonstrated admirable leadership at a most difficult time. In Lagos, the epicentre of the protests, six police officers were reportedly killed, 36 critically injured, with 71 police operational vehicles torched. Also, 29 Divisional Police Stations and 17 police posts were razed by hoodlums. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu told the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, that the state government will not only rebuild the razed police stations but would also offer scholarship awards to the children of the officers killed in the violence. More than that, he equally restated the state’s commitment to champion a cause to improve citizen-police relationship to prevent a recurrence of the issues that led to the #EndSARS protest. The story is similar in Edo State. There, 11 police officers were reportedly injured, seven police stations and 16 police patrol vehicles burnt, five police officers’ personal vehicles and 31 exhibit vehicles destroyed during the protests. On a visit to the headquarters of the state police command, Governor Godwin Obaseki told the officers and men: “The state government will rebuild all destroyed facilities. We have already ordered patrol vehicles and we hope the deliveries will be made in the next few weeks. “We will pay the hospital bills of police officers who were hurt as a result of the incident of the last few weeks. Above all, we will ensure that we give necessary assistance that we can, within the limits of available resources”. Similar pledges were made by Governor Hope Uzodinma of Imo State to rebuild and rehabilitate all police stations burnt in the aftermath of the #EndSARS protest in the state. We commend the governors for moving swiftly to calm frayed nerves at a most extraordinary period. As chief security officers in their states, it seems perhaps the least they could do in helping to re-establish operational normalcy, given the scale of devastation and the need to restore the confidence of the personnel of the Nigerian Police so badly shaken when those rioters let loose their fury on their personnel and facilities. And, because the states are where the destruction took place, the governors can only be expected to move at a pace faster than what the bureaucracy in Abuja would allow in the circumstance, if only to reassure citizens that the government is still in firm control. In any case, this is hardly a new terrain for the governors, many of whom already have structures in place to assist the police procure vital equipment and to boost the welfare of their men. Here again, is yet another anomaly – call it irony – in our peculiar brand of federalism. The states which are comparatively poorer, forced by exigencies to pick up the bills of a federal police that they have neither administrative nor operational control over. And even this at a time the Ministry of Police Affairs and the Police Service Commission –two powerful establishments with police as core mandates – are practically missing in action! While we continue to make the case for the states to have their own police establishments; it seems only fair that the Federal Government assumes responsibility for rebuilding the police facilities destroyed by the rioters, and to offer such assistance as might be necessary to help the states get back on track at this difficult time. It is, after all, its burden.