 It was a bizarre sight to behold. Hoodlums, in the wake of EndSARS protest, attacked Nigerian Customs Service (NCS) formations across the country. One of the hardest hit was the Adamawa Command. Other commands so affected were the Ogun1 Idiroko, Jigawa, Kwara and Edo commands. The corporate headquarters of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) Marina, was also set ablaze and looted, including its facilities at Tin-Can Island Port (TCIP). While the hoodlums attacked and looted Customs commands of various commodities, especially looking for bags of rice to cart away; the reason for the attack on the NPA building is not clear. Now, clearing agents and other stakeholders are worried that with the attacks, business activities, especially as related to port operations may be affected. Giving this early indication was the NPA Board Chairman, Chief George Rickets, who worried that the vandalisation of the NPA facility would affect the operations of the ports authority and the port economy. However, the Managing Director of NPA, Ms. Hadiza Bala-Usman, has since disagreed with Rickets, insisting that the arson on the authority’s facilities has no correlation with its operations. “The situation has not affected operations of the Authority in any way as we have continued to render our services unhindered.” Observers and stakeholders have however expressed surprise at the discordant tunes from the NPA management, saying that the opposing views may be an indication that may not well within the hierarchy. Yet, for others, especially for Customs brokers and freight forwarders operating at TCIP, the protest was about the perceived high handedness of men of the NCS. Particularly, the freight forwarders’ protest was centred on the activities of officers and men of the Federal Operations Unit (FoU), Zone A, who they accused of constituting a clog in cargo clearing process. For them, the constant harassment by FOU officers in the name of carrying out another round of checks on already-cleared goods after exiting the ports was unacceptable. Now, with full operations returning to the ports, the Public Relations Officer, TCIP, Uche Ejesieme, said the command was not taking the complaints received from the protesters for granted, as legitimate complaints/accusations which concerned them would be addressed by the Service. He also pointed out that they were engaging the relevant commands with the view of finding lasting solutions to the complaints. According to Ejesieme, while the command believes in the spirit of inconclusiveness in dealing with all stakeholders, he nonetheless stressed that the Customs would continue in this spirit without losing sight of its responsibilities nor lower the standard of its implementation of Federal Government’s policies. But the EndSARS protest may just have provided a veil to vent their frustrations openly. Before now, freight forwarders had complained about the array of units they had to go through before clearing their wares. According to them, the units are Form M, PAAR, Unblocking, Abandoned, Examination/Report, DC Report, Releasing, DC Stamping, Gate and Exiting. Others are Valuation, CPC Q and A (Query and Amendment), APM, DC Administration , DC Compliance, CAC monitoring, CIU, Enforcement, Customs Police, OC Gate, Gate Officers and PCA; FOU; Strike force and Head Quarters squad. Ejesieme, however, explained that the role of the NCS in the trade value chain was limited to examination and release of cargo. This is because the automated system allows for self-assessment/declaration by the importer or his agent; hence, the need for compliance by traders and freight forwarders. “Therefore whatever you declare would be captured and treated as such except when physical examination proves otherwise,” he said. For the import procedure, Ejesieme explained thus: “Any eligible importer is expected to fill a Form M with the designated bank, attaching all relevant import documents, which will be processed by the bank and uploaded to customs portal for issuance of PAAR. PAAR is issued based on the information from the importer. Once issued, you proceed to the port for clearance of cargo. Once the importer makes the declaration on our NICIS 2 platform, SELECTIVITY engine is triggered to the appropriate lane and your SGD automatically assigned to a particular Releasing officer for examination and release of cargo.” Ejesieme further said the interference of any other unit was usually on the outcome of physical examination or privileged intelligence report. According to him, of the alleged 21 units, some are statutory requirements for documentation, some for checks and balances, while the rest are actually figments of the peoples’ imagination. He said Customs and the clearing agents have an obligation to the Federal Government as a regulator and a facilitator and as such both sides should ensure compliance as this would help in reducing the constant friction between both parties.