 SENATOR representing Kwara South, Lola Ashiru has said that Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq has transited the state from over 40 years of Saraki dynasty stagnation to phenomenal development. Sentor Ashiru said this in Ilorin, the State capital, at the opening ceremony of a-three day training/workshop for his 34 legislative aides. The theme of the workshop was: “Legislative effectiveness and human capital management.” He said: “This is a very trying time because we are transiting from a long reign of government in opposition to a new regime. It is a trying time too that past two years have been filled with a lot of hurdles like COVID-19, EndSARS and so many other hindrances that have disturbed the economic progress and the socio-equilibrium that we have. “Despite all these, there has been a lot of epochal and physical development of the state and I can assure you that the current government the plan to do more; especially in the areas of youth empowerment, bringing succor for the vast majority of the people. I can also assure you that between now and next year there will be a lot of contracts in the state.” Corroborating the senator, All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart Prince Sunday Fagbemi said the state has started witnessing change. Fagbemi, one time chairman of the defunct Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), said “that what we are seeing Kwara today is a departure from the old order. It is better we don’t lose it.” Founder of Nations Leadership Institute (NLI) Akogun Iyiola Oyedepo attributed the country’s  and Africa’s woes to bad leadership. Oyedepo added: “Africa is a big uncultivated land for leadership. Paucity of good leaders in Africa has made the continent a jungle of anything goes. African jungle must be cultivated, grown and nurtured in good leadership that can develop the continent. Our school system may be good at producing skills, but Africa school system seems to be weak in molding character. Skills without character cannot produce respectful individuals or even race. 