 In England, Odion Ighalo should be ready for today’s league tie for Manchester United ahead of their crunch game with West Brom at the Old Trafford having used the international break to rest and train. United  are still without a home win after four games at the Old Trafford Stadium, ; yet Ole Gunnar Solskjaer prefers Edinson Cavani to the Nigerian but will the story change against the Baggies? West Brom will visit Manchester with Semi Ajayi who was in the Super Eagles team that struggled  over two legs against Sierra Leone. Ajayi has remained an integral part of the Baggies’ side. Fulham  complete with three Nigerians including  Ola Aina, Tosin Adarabioyo, and Ademola Lookman will welcome Everton complete with Alex Iwobi at the Craven Cottage tomorrow. The Cottagers narrowly lost 1-0 to Tottenham in their last game before the international break. They will need a positive result against the Blues to improve from their current 17th  position with four points. Iwobi got his seventh game of the season in their 3-1 home loss to Manchester United when he replaced Gyifi Sigurdsson in the 68th  minute but he has only started one of those games. At Anfield, Liverpool will square up against Leicester City with two Nigerians on the payroll of the Foxes. Wilfred Ndidi is expected back  after being injured since September 20 while Kelechi Iheanacho has been inconsistent for Leicester City. In Spain, Villarreal will have their hands full when they host embattled Real Madrid today. Samuel Chukwueze was only an unused substitute in Villarreal’s last two games in the Europa League and the league but he should make a return against the reigning champions. Granada are still without Ramon Azeez who has remained injured since last month ahead of their home tie with Real Valladolid tomorrow. In Italy, Simy Nwankwo and Crotone will hope to end their long wait for their first win of the season when they trade tackles with Lazio at Stadio Ezio Scida today. Crotone bagged their second point of the season at Torino before the international break and need another positive result that will take them away from the relegation zone. Victor Osimhen’s chances of playing for SS Napoli tomorrow against AC Milan are up in the air after he returned from the international break injured in the Super Eagles 4-4 draw with Sierra Leone. Bologna are still not rushing their Nigerian midfielder, Kingsley Michael yet. He has always been on the team sheet but yet to emerge from the bench. Will he be given a run-in as Bologna tackle Sampdoria tomorrow? In Germany, Kevin Akpoguma and Hoffenheim will hope to return to winning ways when they host VFB Stuttgart today. Akpoguma is yet to miss a minute of action this season in the league and in Europe. Tolu Arokodare and Kingsley Ehizibue were unused substitutes when Cologne picked a valuable away point at Werder Bremen. Cologne will slug it out with Union Berlin tomorrow at the Rhein Energie Stadion and it is yet to be ascertained if they will be restored to the team. Union Berlin have Taiwo Awoniyi who  was introduced in the 73rd minute in their 5-0 win over Arminia Bielefeld before the international break and he should have another chance against Cologne.