 On Wednesday, October 16 last year, there were great wailing and gnashing of teeth emanating from the famous Ochanja Market in Onitsha, the commercial nerve centre of Anambra State. That day, aptly described as Black Wednesday was the day everything went wrong for traders and their customers who had converged on the market for the day’s normal transaction. However, they never had an inkling that it was going to be a disastrous day for them. The traders and their customers were busy haggling prices of when suddenly there was pandemonium. Traders as well as their customers were confused as they were yet to know the source of the confusion. On inquiry, it was discovered that a fuel-laden tanker fell and exploded around the Upper Iweka axis of Onitsha. It was a sad day for the residents of the commercial city as lives, properties and goods were burnt to ashes. The explosion occurred after the petrol tanker had an accident on the road along the Upper Iweka axis of the city. Dozens of residential buildings and part of Ochanja, the second-largest market in the town were razed down. Hundreds of vehicles were also touched. Goods worth millions of naira were destroyed in the incident. After the fire incident, Governor Willie Obiano visited the scene. He consoled the traders and promised to provide them with some money as compensation. Nevertheless, there are still complaints of non-compensation from the Obiano administration, one year after the incident. There have been claims and counter-claims among the traders and officials of the state government over compensation to cushion the effects of the fire incident on the traders. While some claimed to have been benefited from the state government’s assistance, others say they were yet to commence full business as they were yet to receive the compensation as promised by the government. While addressing reporters, The Chairman of the Caretaker Committee of the market, Chief Nelson Ojukwu had said victims of the fire incident received financial donations from the state government which assisted them in restarting their businesses. He said: “With God on our side, we no longer talk of the tanker inferno that gutted the market. “We thank Governor Willie Obiano, corporate bodies and public-spirited individuals, who came to our assistance either in cash or in kind. “All victims of the fire incident in the market received the state government’s financial donation that assisted in restarting businesses after the fire. “We have moved on as we have forgotten the fire incident and focus on the Christmas period sales, as we will not continue to cry until the Kingdom come.” However, the spokesperson of the landlords of the affected buildings, Chief Chinedu Okonkwo described the claim of the Chairman of the Ochanja Market Traders’ Association Chief Ojukwu as false and misleading. He said Ojukwu was not in a position to speak for the entire traders as he did not represent the interest of traders at Emodi/Amobi Street where the fire incident occurred. He insisted that there were scores of victims yet to receive the state government’s compensation, one year after the fire incident. He said: “I want this to be on the record. The Chairman of Ochanja Central Market, Chief Nelson Ojukwu, does not represent the interest of traders at Emodi/Amobi Street, where the fire incident occurred mostly. “We are the ones that were mostly affected; we were the ones that our buildings/plazas got burnt; we were the ones that are rebuilding our burnt structures. “You can see that traders at the Ochanja Market are going about their businesses because they were not affected, but we are still reconstructing the buildings gutted by fire. “If Ojukwu says traders at the Ochanja Market are not complaining; they would not have complained because they are not affected, but we that are affected are speaking on behalf of those landlords/tenants of the victims of the fire incident of October 16, 2019. “Ojukwu cannot speak for us; he has not visited us. He has not come to ascertain the level of destruction to our shops and buildings since the day of the incident. “He would not know the traders that have been compensated or those that have not been compensated. We are still holding what we got from individual donations, because we had a lot of pledges from people and we hope they will come to redeem them.” Okonkwo, however, acknowledged the assistance his members received from religious organisations, describing it as huge. He said: “What the state government and the Roman Catholic Church gave us that time was just so huge, especially from the Catholic Church. The church so much organised hers that it was very impactful. It got to everybody; there was no complaint. “It was only that of the state government that we had problem with. Scores of victims did not receive anything from state government’s donations till date. “We hope the government will revisit it, and by the special grace of God, come to our assistance. There were those that have not received anything from the state government till date. “We commend the state government for attending the burial ceremonies of our dead members, and for the N1 million donated to the families of each deceased trader. “The government should try and compensate the landlords at 23, 24 and 25 Emodi Street, as they were the people that had a majority of their goods destroyed and had not received anything from the government.” Reacting, the Commissioner for Information and Public Enlightenment, C-Don Adinuba refuted the allegations, saying those claiming not to have received any compensation from the government is unfair to the government. He said: “To the best of my knowledge, all the traders affected by the inferno have been duly compensated. The governor did not only pay a visit to the victims of the fire, but also set up a committee to ensure they were compensated. “A committee handed over cash sum of money to the affected individuals. I’m surprised to hear about this complaint more than a year the incident took place. “Whoever that is claiming not to have received his share of the compensation is not being fair to the government.” Ochanja Market, one of the largest in Nigeria, was destroyed in 1968 during the Nigerian Civil War (1967–70) but was rebuilt after the war.