 The Nigerian Army (NA) and the Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB) have held workshops aimed at educating operatives on the need for asset declaration. This is to entrench the culture of transparency and accountability The two-day workshop held at the Army Officers Mess, Marina in Lagos for personnel attached to the 81 Division comprising Lagos and Ogun; was to complement another one held in Abuja on October 27 and 28. Speaking at the workshop, Army’s Head of Monitoring, Brig.-Gen. Ayobami Ibikunle, said the aim was to provide a practical guide on the completion of assets declaration form as well as ensure that the personnel were conversant with extant regulations on code of conduct for public office holders. He said the workshop was a demonstration of the Chief of Army Staff’s (COAS’) unwavering commitment to entrenching the culture of responsiveness,  probity, prudence and accountable responsibility in the service. “The NA is conscious of the fact that this workshop is coming at a time when the collective will, commitment and professionalism of the Nigerian Army is being tested by contemporary events that threaten our national security. “The Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai, has always reiterated his commitment in upholding the highest level of morality in the performance of our operations. This is in compliance with the criteria and action of public officers that are in conformity with highest standards of probity, public morality, openness and accountability.  “Therefore, he directed the establishment of the Nigerian Army Financial Cooperation in the management of the Nigerian Army finances for accountability and transparency in public expenditure.  “The topics of the lectures explicitly justify the relevance of the workshop, as they form the basis for enlightening, educating and sensitising officers and soldiers on code of conduct for public officers and their constitutional responsibilities as well as the inherent dangers for non-compliance with the code,” he said. CCB’s Director of Reforms Schedule Operation and Service Improvement, Zafana Abdulus, said it was compulsory for public officers to declare their assets. “Asset declaration is a very vital tool in the fight against corruption. We have highlighted two fundamental issues officers who do not declare their assets are prone to, which are: conflict of interest and abuse of office. “The workshop is just an encouragement to men and officers of the Nigerian Army that they should follow the ethics and values that are found in the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria,” said Abdulus.