 GOVERNOR Aminu Waziri Tambuwal of Sokoto has said that governors are committed to the peace, unity and stability of the country. Tambuwal spoke in Sokoto at a formal  ceremony ‘Walimat ‘ organised in honour and support of the newly appointed Sarkin Mallaman Sokoto, Mallam Yahaya Na Mallam Boyi, by the Sultan of Sokoto, Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar. He said the 36 states governors’ were in tune by giving President Muhamamdu Buhari useful and timely advice on the recent unfortunate incidence that threatens the peace, unity and stability. He said: “We are thankful to God for His divine intervention over the ugly development which did not escalate . The governor, who attributed recent  negative happenings in the country to alleged influence from outside, noted that the peace, unity and stability being enjoyed in the country were a threat to them. “They are not comfortable with the peace, unity and stability being enjoyed in the country and want to cause disunity and division among us”, he pointed out. Tambuwal said  efforts were being made to get to the root cause of the Santo destruction and killings aimed at dividing the country. Accordingly, while  expressing gratitude to the God for the calm in the North  during the heat of the ugly development , Tambuwal commended the resilience and commitment of Sokoto Ulamas and scholars, who consistently preached peace and continued unity in the state and country at large. He however, noted that the constitution has given citizens the  right to express their grievances through peaceful and organised protest without any form of violence or threat to others right as citizens. “But it is a fact and at the same time sad that  the law enforcement agents threatened the peace by brutally attacking some citizens which require to be investigated and be brought to book for possible action against anyone found culpable,” he called. Tambuwal, who acknowledged the appointment of Mallam Boyi by the Sultan as the new Sarkin Mallaman Sokoto, following the demise of is predecessor, late Shiekh Buhari Siriddawa , described the feat as divine and timely. He commended the efforts of Sultan Abubakar for the wise appointment through God’s guidance. The governor  reminded the appointee, whom he announced as the Chairman of the Sokoto State Arabic and Islamic Board,  of the unique task before him and prayed Allah give him the wisdom to shoulder same in he spirit of justice , equity and fairness towards supporting g the sultanate to achieving it’s desired course of advancing Islam. The Secretary to the State Government, Sa’idu Umar, while expressing appreciation to the Sultanate said Boyi will take advantage to sustain the lasting legacy and virtues  of trust , justice and unity bequeath his predecessors were not compromised towards the course of Islam. He said: “We are confident that he will  strengthen and build a more formidable bond of unity and understanding among Ulamas and scholars in the state.” The new Sarkin Mallamai was born in 1960 and has Masters Degree in Arabic and Islamic studies from the Usman Danfodiyo University, Sokoto. He began his education career with Arabic and Islamic studies under his late father Mallam Muhammad Boyi at U/Gidan Mallam Ubandoma at Kofar Atiku Sokoto as well thought by other  nervous scholars. In attendance at the ceremony held at the Sultan Maccido Qur’anic and General Studies, Sokoto were the Deputy Governor, Muhammad Manor Dan Iya, representative of the Sultan, Wazirin Gwandu Sarkin Mallamai of  Abuja, Dr. Muhammad Muhmad Alkwandawi, Sokoto State Commissioner of Police, Ibrahim Ka’oje, members Sokoto State Executive Council, lawmakers, District Heads, Ulamas and Scholars among others.  