Ekiti State Police Command has said that the protests against the defunct Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) has not in anway forced its operatives to abandon their duty posts in the state. This was disclosed by the State Police Commissioner, Mobayo Babatunde on Saturday. He said the police despite the arson attacks on police stations across the country and threats to their lives, were fully in their duty posts in Ekiti, to ensure security of lives and property. The EndSARS protests, which was perceived to have been hijacked by hoodlums had caused deaths of scores of policemen across the country and burning of many police stations. The sordid scenario had forced the police to tactically withdraw their services in some beleaguered areas prompting the Inspector General of Police, Mr Mohammed Adamu, to issue out message of motivation to his men and officers and advised that they should return to their duty posts. Speaking via telephone conversation with newsmen in Ado Ekiti, on Saturday, the CP, who spoke through the Command’s Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Sunday Abutu, advised the people of the state not to entertain any fear. The CP assured that his men will continually ensure the protection of lives and property in the state no matter how tensed the situation . “We are fully on ground, we have not abandoned our duties in spite of the tensed atmosphere and killings of our police officers in some other states and burning of police stations here in Ekiti. “I want to really salute policemen here in Ekiti for their gallantry. They were fully on ground throughout the EndSARS period, there was never a time they ran away from duties despite that palpable threat. “Let me sound a note of warning to criminals that Ekiti remains a no-go-area for them. We are fully on ground and nothing will be spared to ensure that Ekiti is safe. “If we are to appraise the situation now, we can boldly say that Ekiti is safe, no cause for alarm and our people, I mean the residents can go about their businesses without fear, because we are on ground to discharge our duties effectively.”