Veteran Actress Tina Mba has been appointed as the advocate of Stem Cell therapy with Bentoluene Intl Health Concept. Executive Director of Bentoluene Intl Health Concept, Ogunleye Toluwalope made the announcement in a statement. Mba, he said, has the humanitarian and prolife posture that endeared the organisation to her. He said the veteran is advocating for parents and family to bank their children’s umbilical cord tissue for future and present purposes. Toluwalope said that umbilical cord tissue was once discarded as waste materials but known to be useful and one of the richest sources of stem cells. Cord blood and cord tissue has been used to treat children with certain blood, regenerative and developmental diseases since 1989. He noted that stem cells are the next frontier in medicine. Stem cells are thought to have great therapeutic and biotechnological potential. “Your baby’s umbilical cord is made of tissue that protects and insulates the veins responsible for carrying blood to and from mom and baby during pregnancy. “In addition to playing the role of protector, your baby’s umbilical cord tissue is packed with several types of stem cells, including Mesenchymal Stem Cells (MSCs), which are different than the Hematopoietic Stem Cells (HSCs) found in abundance in cord blood. “Cord tissue is the insulating material surrounding the vessels of the umbilical cord. Upon delivery, the umbilical cord will be clamped and cut, and a section of the cord (usually a piece measuring four inches in length) can then be saved,” he explained. He stressed the tissues contain millions of a different type of stem cell that goes on to form a person’s nervous system, sensory organs, circulatory tissues, skin, bone, cartilage, and more. “It is these stem cells that we collect and preserve for their potential future or immediate use in the treatment of disease or other medical conditions like Autism, Stroke, Cerebral Palsy. “Mesenchymal Stem Cells (MSCs) can rapidly divide, regenerate, and differentiate into many cell types including neural cells, bone cells, and cartilage. They also have the ability to respond to inflammation and aid in tissue repair. “These unique qualities have researchers excited about their potential to help improve certain conditions affecting cartilage, muscle, and nerve cells. “They possess unique qualities, such as their ability to respond to inflammation, help the immune system, and aid in tissue repair”. He noted that a significant amount of research is underway to better understand how MSCs from cord tissue could play a role in future therapies that could benefit from their properties, like Parkinson’s disease, Alzheimer’s, Type 1 diabetes, Lung cancer. “In fact, scientists and researchers are interested in MSCs from cord tissue to help possibly heal the damage done by COVID-19. Clinical Research Studies are underway using stem cells from cord tissue in the treatment of Covid-19”, he said.