 In ENGLAND, Semi Ajayi should be in line to make his ninth league appearance of the season when West Brom host Sheffield United today at the Hawthorns in search of their first win of the season after 10 games. Alex Iwobi will take his new found form to Everton’s home game with Leeds United today at the Goodison Park. Iwobi bagged his first 90 minutes of the season in their 3-2 away win at Fulham last week and with the adulation  received from the Blues’ coach Carlo Ancelotti, he should be on the roster against Leeds. The Nigerian has played eight matches for Everton with six as substitute. Manchester United travel to the St Mary’s Stadium with a fixture with Southampton but Ighalo has not tasted action since September 30th in all competitions. His last game being a Carabao Cup tie against Brighton which they won 3-0. He has not even made the bench in most of the games the Red Devils have played after that game. Kelechi Iheanacho’s contribution for Leicester City has been restricted to the Europa League where he has three goals from three games but has been rooted to the  bench in the  last four league games. The Foxes host relegation-haunted Fulham tomorrow and it is unclear if Brendan Rodgers will change his mind. Wilfred Ndidi on the other hand has recovered from the injury that has sidelined him since September 20th. He has resumed training and should be back in action once he is fully fit. Meanwhile, Fulham will have Ola Aina along with his compatriots Tosin Adarabioyo and Ademola Lookman, to call on when they visit Leicester City at King Power Stadium. Aina has started all six league games for the Cottagers since his move from AC Torino in the last transfer window.  In SPAIN, Kelechi Nwakali played his fifth game of the season for SD Huesca in their 1-1 draw with Osasuna last weekend but they are still without a win in 10 games ahead of today’s tie with Sevilla.  Granada are still winless in their last three games after Real Valladolid shocked them 3-1 at home to add to their misery. They are still without injured Ramon Azeez as they visit Celta Vigo tomorrow in another league tie. Third placed Villarreal with Samuel Chukwueze in their fold will trade tackles with league leaders, Real Sociedad at Reale Seguros Stadium tomorrow.  Chukwueze  has played nine league games for the Yellow Submarines with one goal. He was a 61st -minute replacement for Carlos Bacca in their 1-1 draw with Real Madrid last weekend. In ITALY, Simeon Nwankwo’s Crotone will take the search for their first win of the season to Kingsley Michael’s Bologna tomorrow. Crotone are last in Serie A with two points and even though Simy has scored three goals from eight games . Napoli are still without Victor Osimhen who sustained a shoulder injury while on international duty with the Super Eagles. He is not expected to feature when the Partenopei host AS Roma tomorrow. Osimhen has played six times with two goals for Napoli in Serie A. In GERMANY, Hoffenheim with Super Eagles’ Kevin Akpoguma in the frame for his ninth game of the season , will hope to return to winning ways when they slug it out with Mainz 05 today. They watched  in awe as they were held to a 3-3 draw by VfB Stuttgart last weekend and will need a win that will restore them to the top half of the table.