 GOVERNMENT Secondary School, Chibok in Borno State is back in the news once again. It is the school where over 200 schoolgirls were abducted by Boko Haram insurgents while writing exams in April 2014. More than 100 of the abducted girls, whose kidnap attracted world attention, are yet to be found, six and a half years after. A little over one year after the kidnap, the then Minister of Finance Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, led a Federal Government delegation to the school to lay a foundation of blocks of classrooms. But no significant progress has been made. Even the roof of some classrooms fixed by the defunct Presidential Committee on Northeast Intervention (PCNI) has been blown off. But on Tuesday, Borno State Governor Babagana Zulum offered a new lease of life for the school. He promised during a visit to the school “to deploy a team of experts to assess  the entire school and come up with a design and costing”  for its  immediate reconstruction and remodeling.” Zulum assured the people that the school would have full complement of teaching and non- teaching staff and learning tools. He said: “We will also ensure that the school is allocated adequate teachers. Already, I have given a directive for the recruitment of more teachers both on permanent and ad-hoc staffing basis  that will include volunteer teachers. “Before the allocation of teachers, the reconstruction will involve the provision of all components of learning materials, including a functional laboratory for sciences. By the time I return here next time, I want to see a completely different scene.” Zulum also donated  N11m to  83 families affected by Boko Haram attacks in Takulashi, a community  near Chibok. In Takulashi, Zulum commiserated with the people over the attack on them by insurgents. He said: “What happened in Takulashi is very unfortunate, we share your pains and we all believe that nothing can equal the value of a single life. However, I will present a token to support the 83 families affected” Apart from social support, Zulum inspected a community water project in Mboa about five kilometres from Chibok and the ongoing Damboa – Chibok road project. 