 Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC), at the weekend inaugurated the Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition-Distribution Management System (SCADA-DMS). It is the first functional SCADA-DMS in West Africa. SCADA is a centralised computer system which tracks electricity network operations from physical monitoring, remote coverage and relay of network information. It is one of the most advanced technologies in the power distribution industry and equips DisCos to better tackle customers’ complaints. At the inauguration, which held at the firm’s Head Office on Marina street, Lagos, President Muhammadu Buhari said his administration is committed to addressing the liquidity challenges which are adversely affecting the power sector’s viability, the increased fiscal burden on the federal government occasioned by tariffs shortfalls in the sector which can no longer be sustainable. He said government’s efforts through the Central Bank of Nigeria’s Power Assistance Fund (CBN- PAF), an initiative targeted at supporting tariff shortfalls can no longer be extended and must be phased out to promote financial independence for the sector. Represented by the Minister of Power, Saleh Mamman, the president said the SCADA-DMS project will provide access to real time data that will enable distribution system operators to make informed decisions that improve reliability and availability, consistent with the targets of the Service Based Tariff (SBT) regime. “This project is one of the most advanced technologies in the power distribution business globally and will translate to improved service delivery to customers with their network. The Federal Government has set out different programmes such as the National Mass Metering Programme (NMMP); the Siemens AG power project and the World Bank Distribution Sector Recovery Programmes (DISREP),” Mamman said. He further explained that the President Buhari administration has addressed the metering gap, eradicated estimated billing, as well as supported the DisCos with the much needed financing for the bulk acquisition of one million meters to be distributed to electricity consumers at no installation cost to consumers. Deployment of these meters, he said, has already started in parts of Kano, Kaduna, Lagos and Abuja. This, the Minister of Power sees as part of the administration’s commitment to ensuring that electricity gets to the homes and business of all Nigerians. Mamman listed other initiatives by the Federal Government in this regard to include, but not limited to: the recent unveiling of the five million solar connections programme through the CBN for off grid electricity supply. Upon completion, the five million solar connection is expected to expand energy access to 25 million individuals; five million new connections through the provision of Solar Home Systems (SHS) or construction and operation of mini grid; increased local content through facilitating the growth of local manufacturing industry and creation of 250,000 new jobs in the energy sector. Recently, government commissioned 150MVA 330/132KV Kumbotso transmission substation in Kano, the construction of a 132/33KV transmission substation at Kabba, Kogi state and the commissioning of the 132KV Katampe National station transmission line project and the new 330/132/33KV substation, New Apo, Abuja. The Chairman, EKEDC, Charles Momoh, explained that the SCADA-DMS project is an integral part of the firm’s strategic business plans towards addressing the distribution challenges within five years of the power sector’s privatisation. According to him, with the support the 2015 NEMS facility provided, EKEDC immediately prioritised the SCADA-DMS project for execution. He revealed that the new gadget spans over three phases and currently controls 14 injection substations in addition to the monitoring of 1,000 distribution transformers. He explained that the functionality of the SCADA-DMS will also help its operators in taking appropriate action for restoration, monitoring and analysis of network operations. Furthermore, it will improve operational efficiency, revenue generation and reduction of ATC&C losses. “We have implemented the SCADA-DMS project to automate our electric power distribution network across our coverage area. The SCADA system is fully compliant with global standards and with fibre optic cable communication system, it effortlessly provides the required bandwidth, high network performance, scalability, availability, reliability, security and service capabilities. The SCADA project will bring about higher customer satisfaction levels, assurance of short term load forecasting and load estimation, improvement of network reliability and network distribution operational efficiency,” Momoh said. 