He is an entrepreneur, politician, philanthropist and innovator with a penchant for supporting grassroots initiatives. A graduate of Political Science from the University of Lagos, Idris Aregbe holds the office of Youths Organising Secretary of Lagos State, through which he has been making significant contributions in promoting political participation amongst youths with his grassroots initiative, ‘Our Lagos Your Lagos’. His entrepreneurial acumen led to the establishment of No 1 Heritage Solutions, a brand committed to providing winning solutions, with subsidiaries Connecting Lagos, a high-level business and people networking platform; Lagos Fries, a trendy café for good food and fine dining, as well as Culturati, Africa’s largest cultural fusion, a platform that has been rewarding cultural excellence, empowering young cultural buffs, creating business opportunities. He bares his mind on how the Connecting Lagos project is empowering youths to become manufacturers and self-sustained economic agents and why people need to leverage on the advantages posed by this pandemic, among other things in this interview with Omolara Akintoye.   HOW are you coping with COVID-19? It’s a new challenge to us all. I believe there is an inherent advantage in every disadvantage, and so beyond the disadvantages of the pandemic, we should try to see what advantages we could derive there from, to better our lives and society. Yea, so for me, it’s just a new learning curve. Tell us more about Connecting Lagos through arts and culture. Cultures help people connect with each other and build communities, within the same cultural backgrounds. The Connecting Lagos brand uses its Culturati arm as a voice to African culture, a vehicle to connect Africans in celebrating their rich culture, exploring its enormous diversity as an effective tool for enhancing creativity, increasing productivity, turning passion into profit and entrenching progressive human development for the common good, and by so doing, restoring Africa’s eroding cultural pride, while arresting the cycle of poverty and unemployment. Through our educative, informative and entertaining cultural programmes, in partnership with stakeholders and the Lagos State government, we work at augmenting governments’ efforts at empowering creative youths, while expanding and sustaining the creative industry. It has been 14 years of promoting African culture, would you say the brand has accomplished its purpose so far? Yes, we are achieving that purpose, and it can only get better as we continually seek new ideas and ways to up the ante. The diverse underpinnings of the African culture readily provide a veritable source for creative expressions, wealth creation and empowerment, if properly explored and harnessed. This is what we have been doing with our Culturati platform. Through this platform, many young people have been given the opportunity to discover their talents and make rewarding collaborations and partnerships over the past 14 years. What are some of the challenges encountered with these successes? I would say funding principally. The availability of funding is critical to deliver on our programmes and initiatives. Global economies have been hit hard by COVID-19 and the recession, which has also had ripple effects. As a cultural operator, we have always worked to enhance the import of our culture, foster good policy tools, create collaborations with creatives, and all to ensure the adequate positioning of culture in the overall development strategies and policies. These come with some of challenges. But we’re forging on. As a business operator, you have managed to stay afloat as the pandemic takes its toll on businesses; what is the secret? Whether we like it or not, the global economy is facing a major crisis currently, and no one can anticipate how long it will last. With social distancing and isolation being the preventive measures put in place to curtail the spread of the escalating pandemic, it has forced businesses to fathom new and creative ways of operating. As a business owner, there is no denying that many businesses have struggled. For the Connecting Lagos brand, we have leveraged the digital presence to offer some of our services which has been a huge advantage. With online marketp lace being the only succour for delivery of essential items during this pandemic, there has been an astronomical increase in demand and we have tried to take advantage of this, while at the same time trying to stay safe. Having said that, let me say that, COVID-19 is testing our social, economic and even political resilience. Today, African countries are coming up with different in-depth and strategic approaches to human development, economic diversification and solidarity which hold good prospects for us all. We have to rethink many prior assumptions and find new balances for our collective behaviour. Your advice to business owners in the post pandemic era I dare-say despite the losses and negative impact of the COVID-19 pandemic,   it provides a rare opportunity for businesses. This may be the best time to dot the i’s and cross the t’s, making necessary adjustments to strengthen operations, service delivery and other major aspects that are vital to the growth and stability of any organization. The pandemic provides a good opportunity for businesses to do some re-evaluation and ask questions about how to improve efficiency after this blows away. The use of digital platforms has been on the increase during this period as businesses are trying to gain market share and are competing for audience attention. So it is a very good advantage to have a good online presence and key to that is focusing on the platform that targets your audience. Also, the success of any business lies with its people. Given the current reality where people have been forced to work from home, businesses can encourage employees to take advantage of this opportunity to develop themselves and build in-demand skills. Let’s continue to observe stipulated protocols in the fight against COVID-19. Together we shall come out stronger.