 I made more money than I ever made during the lockdown Founder of Julz Hair, Juliet Okonkwo, has said that she made so much money than she had ever made in her life, from selling raw human hair during the coronavirus pandemic lockdown. Speaking in an interview in Lagos, the Edo State-born entrepreneur, who graduated from the University of Benin, and worked in an insurance firm before quitting after getting married to a loving Igbo man from Anambra State, said she derives passion from making and selling human hair. Stating that she started the human hair business about four years ago from home, without  taking  it seriously, but as a passion, the alluring founder of Julz Hairs, said her primary motive at the onset, was to let people around her have the  beautiful and 100 per cent human hair without tangible profit. Dazzled by the quality of the raw human hair that she sells, the number of clients patronizing her shot up to roof top, forcing her to turn it into a full-fledged business. According to Mrs Okonkwo, ”when I saw the way people kept coming to me, I decided to turn it into a business. It was challenging in the beginning, but it was a passion for me as I love beautiful hair. I love making wigs and beautiful hairs, which made my son to call me the queen of fancy. ”I asked him what he meant by the queen of fancy and he said: ”Mummy because you love beautiful things”. On how her passion for all things hair started, the thriving entrepreneur said: ”Before I left the UNIBEN in 2002, I used to love to fix my hair and that of others. I used to go to Cotonou to go get hair extensions popularly called (Amina attachment) which was in vogue then. I would buy a lot and I return to school to sell without my parents knowing I did all that. It was just a passion.  Even my friends used to seek my input on how their hair looked when they came back from the beauty salon to fix their hair’. hair business in 2016 when I travelled for summer” added Mrs Okonkwo, whose Facebook page is @Julzhair. She said that attending a beauty school during her summer trip abroad equipped her for the challenges and demands of the hair business. “I went to a beauty school to learn more about hair. When they started this human hair stuff, I had to incorporate wigs into my business, so I had to learn more about it. It was not something that happened by accident or luck. Even with my passion, I had to learn more about”. Speaking on how she made her biggest fortune so far in the first two months of coronavirus pandemic lockdown this year, the straight-talking Julz Hairs CEO, with Instagram handle, @julzhair, said ”people are impressed with our products and they keep coming back, with more referrals to other clients. We keep having orders from USA, Canada and all over the country.  They know that our product is 100 raw human hairs and our quality is top-notch. “Raw human hair is expensive. In fact, some are very expensive. During this lockdown I made my biggest sales ever  when we were home just as I usually make during the festive season, and there was no movement I had to ask my husband ‘where do  these women wear this hair to’. I asked one of my customers why was she buying these things and she said she wanted to wear it for her husband to admire her the more”, added Mrs Okonkwo. With a growing clients’ list, she said plans were afloat to expand the business line in order to meet the challenges of the future and satisfy the tasty appetite of her clients.  Some shell out N300, 000 for a luxury 100 per cent raw human hair sourced from Vietnam, Argentina and Cambodia. ”We have started our expansion plan, with the launch of our wholesale package. People kept coming to me, saying they wanted to resell and for me to do the wholesale, I had to now partner a reputable company abroad  so that I can actually get at a very good rate,” she  added.