Super Eagles coach Gernot Rohr is tight-lipped on Nigeria’s reported interest  in PSV starlet Noni Madueke  amid claims  that  the  starlet is town between  playing for his native  country and adopted England. In his usual style taciturn  attitude  on players planning to switch allegiance to Nigeria, Rohr is keeping his cards close to his chest even as he awaits  the scan result on injured  Moses Simon before naming his replacement. However, Rohr who is looking forward to  next week’s  double head AFCON qualifiers against Sierra Leone  said his replacement is subject  to the scan result. “We will wait for Simon’s scan result tomorrow (today). We are focusing on our Sierra Leone list and see later if we can find better players,” Rohr told NationSport yesterday. Meanwhile,  former Tottenham forward 18-year-old  Madueke  is the latest target for Nigeria in an attempt to convince dual nationality English players to switch allegiances.  Madueke has played for England from U-16 up to U-19 level and has emerged as the latest British youngster to star abroad. But he is also eligible for Nigeria through his parents and there are efforts to tempt Madueke by handing the teenager a senior international call up. Madueke left Spurs to join PSV in June 2018 and impressed for their youth sides before making his senior debut last season and this year looks set to be Madueke’s breakout campaign after his stunning start in the Eredivisie and Europe. He has scored four times and set up four more goals in just 11 appearances. Only three of those appearances have been started and he displayed his potential once again with a two-goal performance off the bench in PSV’s 4-0 win over Den Haag on Sunday. Nigeria’s interest represents a dilemma for Madueke, while his present form in Holland could earn him a promotion up the England youth ranks, perhaps to Aidy Boothroyd’s U-21s, but Nigeria want him for their first team now. Yet It would be recalled  that  Rohr has the penchant  for not discussing  on prospective players  for the Super Eagles with  the case of Bukayo Saka in point. “I don’t speak about players who can play for two countries,” the German coach  said then.