With many businesses counting losses estimated in billions of naira, most insurance firms who are faced with the grim prospects of settling claims arising from loss of properties and assets destroyed by hoodlums who cash in on the EndSARS protest are already groaning. Giving insights on the capacity of insurance firms to settle claims, analysts have projected unprecedented rise in insurance claims judging by level of damages perpetrated across the country recently. Aftermath of the #EndSARS protest hijacked by hoodlums may have a rippled negative effect on the insurance segment of the economy, which is currently in the process of recapitalisation. As December deadline for phase 1 recapitalisation of the industry is fast approaching, pressure is already mounting due to expectation of massive claims by policyholders affected by protest turned red. Analysts said insurance penetration in Nigeria is quiet hollow, but most of the government properties are expected to be covered comprehensively. The Lagos State governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu was reported to have said the state alone would need about N1 trillion for reconstruction after the destruction caused by the hoodlums. The massive destruction of both public and private property has sparked worries on the ability of the insurance sector to cope with the expected number of claims. Shedding more light on the development, CSL Stockbrokers in a note said the Nigerian insurance sector remains largely underdeveloped. “Insurance penetration still at about 2% and with the sector contributing less than 0.5% to the nation’s gross domestic products,” CSL Stockbrokers added. The Insurance sector is currently reeling from the effect of the Covid-19 pandemic, with the sector posting a contraction of 29.53% in the second-quarter GDP report published by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS). It is likely to drop into a recession when the NBS releases its third-quarter GDP report in a few weeks’ time. CSL stated that though it is yet to recover from the effect of the Covid-19 pandemic which has resulted in an increase in in health, travel and business disruption claims. Expectedly, the #EndSARS loss incident is covered in insurance under policies that extend to riot and civil commotion. So, fire and burglary or Commercial property insurance if extended covers damage that results from vandalism, rioting and civil commotion. These policies specifically include coverage for acts of looting in connection with a riot or civil commotion. With many insurance firms in Nigeria set to incur claims following the violence and looting across Lagos and other parts of the country, operators fear this may be a setback for the industry. It is however not too clear how much of the #EndSARS loss incident is covered under the different types of available policies. According to NAICOM, Insurance companies paid a total non-life insurance claim of N64 billion in 2018 compared to N56.4 billion a year earlier. Out of this total, claims on fire insurance were about N9.1 billion while Motor Vehicle was N17.3 billion. The massive destruction of both public and private property has sparked worries on the ability of the insurance sector to cope with the expected number of claims. Ademayowa Adeduro, managing director/CEO, Law Union & Rock Insurance plc, says the loss is colossal and I am not sure whether we have witnessed this before, apart from the Civil War era. “The destructions are massive and because there was curfew, the perpetrators had a field day going around looting, setting houses, banks, shops on fire. Insurance industry is going to pay heavily for it,” Adeduro states. In what may be a reaction to these fears, the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) Insurance Index, a benchmark to measure the performance of the insurance sector closed lower by 0.59% for the week (ended 30-Oct-2020). Speaking with a cross-section of operators, they said the quantum of destruction caused by the hoodlums is massive. In the words of Hajia Saratu Iya Aliyu Chairperson, the Organised Private Sector of Nigeria (OPSN) incurred humongous losses following the mayhem unleashed by hoodlums who cash in on the EndSARS protest across the country thereby looting and burning of properties and destruction of infrastructure across the country. The OPSN is made up of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN); Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA), Nigerian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises (NASME); Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA); and Nigerian Association of Small Scale Industrialists (NASSI). In a statement issued on behalf of the OPSN, she expressed sadness over the scores of deaths across the country, stressing that these deaths are regrettable and should not have occurred if the crisis had been handled properly from the onset. In the view of the Chairman, Lagos chapter of Nigerian Association of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (NASME), Dr. Adams Olu Adebayo, goods and properties worth over N2billion is said to have been destroyed and stolen by the hoodlums coupled with the loss of lives. Adebayo said, “It is disheartening and saddens with various complaints received from our numerous members on how the hoodlums hijacked the protests by destroying factories, warehouses, shops, stores, malls etc. in the name of expressing their frustration and anger while some are searching for Covid-19 palliatives.” He called on the affected members to take advantage of the rebuilding funding opportunities provided by the Lagos State Government through LSETF. “NASME as one of the Entrepreneurship Development institute is ready to partner with the government In this regard in mentoring the youth into profitable and productive enterprises. This will go a long way in solving the social menace and economic problems affecting the state in particular and the country at large,” he pointed out. Also speaking on the outcome of the EndSARS crisis, President, Computer and Allied Products Dealers Association of Nigeria (CAPDAN), Mr. Ojikutu Adeniyi, the EndSARS protest may not have affected Computer Village directly but some of our members that have branches in Surulere and Lagos Island got their offices looted and they loss goods that worth over hundreds of millions. “With what just happened in the history of Nigeria, the Foreign Direct investment we have been clamouring for would suffer a big setback, because these foreigners value their lives and money. Nobody would take such risk, the high rate of violence is a big discouragement to intending investors, and some that have lost their investment may likely be pulling out.” Checks by The Nation further revealed that many operators expect claims to run into billions of naira which may be overwhelming for the insurance players if the government fails to offer some sort of aid especially as the sector is right in the middle of a recapitalisation exercise.