A Federal High Court in Abuja has elected to commence hearing on November 16 in a suit by the All Progressives Congress (APC) and one other, accusing Edo Governor, Godwin Obaseki of lying about his academic credentials. Justice Ahmed Mohammed chose the date on Wednesday following application by plaintiffs’ lawyer, Akin Olujinmi (SAN). Justice Mohammed reminded parties the suit was filed on July 14 this year and that, being a pre-election case, it has a life span of 180 days, which will end sometime in January next year. The judge urged lawyers in the case to cooperate with the court so that it could be determined before the expiry date. Justice Mohammed noted since both the plaintiffs and defendants would call witnesses, they must be mindful of the life span of the case. The marked: FHC/B/CS/74/2020, with APC and Edobor Williams as plaintiffs, has Obaseki, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as defendants. It was filed on July 14, 2020 at the Benin division of the Federal High Court, was later transferred to the Abuja division. The plaintiffs claimed, in their writ of summons, that Obaseki forged his university certificate which he presented to INEC in aid of his qualification for the governorship election in Edo State. They also claimed there were discrepancies in the subject Obaseki claimed he passed in his West African Examination Council (WAEC) exam and that in his testimonial. The plaintiffs want the court to declare that Obaseki’s claim in his INEC form EC9 at column C, sworn to on June 29, 2020 at the Federal Capital Territory High Court Registry to the effect he obtained from the University of Ibadan in 1979, a Bachelor of Arts Degree in Classical Studies is false and contrary to Section 31 (5) and (6) of the Electoral Act, 2010. They also want the court to declare that Obaseki lied on oath when he swore to an affidavit on June 29, 2020 that he worked in Afrinvest Limited from 1994 to 2014 when he retired. The plaintiffs also want a declaration that Obaseki “is disqualified from contesting election to the office of Governor of Edo State for non-fulfilment of the constitutional requirement in Section 182(1)(j) of the Constitution of Nigeria and upon presenting false/forged certificate to INEC contrary to Section 31 (5) and (6) of the Electoral Act, 2010.”