 Unlike its counterparts, Ekiti State Government set out early to prepare for the hosting of next year’s National Festival of Arts and Culture (NAFEST). Since the close of last year’s edition of NAFEST in which it emerged the most- culturally creative and innovative state, beating 29 other states to cart home the prize, it has not rested on its oars. It took a step further to host Ekiti State Festival of Arts and Culture (EKIFEST) in December 2019, with the theme, Arts and Culture, Tool For Restoration of Values And Socio-economic Empowerment, ostensibly as a dress rehearsal for the hosting of the National Festival of Arts and Culture.  Interestingly, while other states were still undecided on when to formally bid for the festival, Ekiti State has submitted a bid letter to National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC) in February this year. This was done personally by the state Commissioner for Arts, Culture and Tourism, Prof Rasaki Ojo Bakare. For the first time in its 24 years of existence, Ekiti State will be hosting a national festival as it has recently won the host bid for 2021 edition of National Festival of Arts and Culture (NAF$EST).  The hosting right for NAFEST 2021 was fiercely contested for by Ekiti, Anambra and Taraba States. However, Ekiti finally won the bid due to a combination of factors. Ekiti was the first state to submit a bid letter. This was done personally by the state Commissioner for Arts, Culture and Tourism as far back as February 2020. Ekiti State now has one of the best performance facilities in the country- the newly completed Civic and Cultural Centre. The super visibility that Ekiti State has acquired in the Culture and Tourism Sector since last year was also an added advantage. However, the biggest advantage that Ekiti State has is the personality of their Commissioner for Arts, Culture and Tourism, Prof Rasaki Ojo Bakare who is a heavyweight and highly influential personality in the culture sector. Prof. Bakare’s profile as the first Professor of Dance in Africa, former Choreographer National Troupe of Gambia, former Assistant Director National Troupe of Nigeria, former Artistic Director Nigeria National Carnival, Abuja and a veteran NAFEST Consultant, is obviously a huge asset to Ekiti State. Expectedly, at last month’s Chief Executives of Culture technical meeting in Jos, the Plateau State capital, the National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC) headed by Otunba Segun Runsewe ratified Ekiti State as host of next year’s NAFEST. Speaking at the technical meeting in Jos, Prof Bakare gave the credit to his Governor Dr John Kayode Fayemi who also is Chairman Nigeria Governors Forum for strengthening the sector in the state and for supporting the hosting of the festival and for already approving funds for the hosting of the festival. Prof Bakare who spoke on behalf of delegates at the technical meeting on Nafest 2020 holding in Jos Plateau state capital between November 21 and 28, noted that Otunba Segun Runsewe-led committee on palliatives would bring a rapid turn-around to sectorial players whose businesses were battered by the pandemic. He also charged the Federal Government to institute the long- awaited Arts Endowment Fund “We want to appeal to President Buhari and the minister through Otunba Segun Runsewe to approve this initiative. It will help the industry to find financial solution and succour, which will help us each time we run into problems such as we experienced under COVID-19. Meanwhile, three states, Kwara, Taraba, Anambra have indicated interest to host NAFEST in 2022.  The General Manager and CEO, National Theatre Iganmu, Lagos, Prof Sunny Ododo, indicated interest to host the 2023 edition of the festival, thus becoming the first culture organisation to bid for the hosting of the festival. 