 Why is the national Water Bill generating so much controversy? Once you don’t understand something, the chances are you misconceive it, the chances are, you will interpret it wrongly because you don’t have a clear understanding of that thing. It’s not only about law, also general life, general human life, once you don’t understand something, the easiest thing is, you are more likely to give it the wrong interpretation or wrong understanding. So, it’s understood, but what I admonish Nigerians and those that are interested, let them grab a copy, this bill is a public document, let them grab a copy and go through it, let them particularly give it to people in the industry. People in the industry are more likely to understand the advantages of this bill. Why this bill? This bill is not new. It is a combination of four acts that have been in existence for the last 35 years. So, we are just consolidating them, improving them, by coming up with a one legislation under water sector because you are better off with one legislation than having pieces of legislation under one sector- just like what we are doing in aviation, and quite a number of other sectors, like what the states are doing under health, they bring all health legislation under one roof. And this is an innovation that’s going around in legislation- bringing pieces of legislation under a sector in one bundle. And that’s what all this bill is doing. When you say the House is governed by certain rules. And the House brought back this bill, in accordance The House is governed by certain rules. And the House brought back this bill, but members are saying the bill was passed without their knowledge. Nobody was shortchanged. Remember, this bill has been on the order paper of this house for about a month. It was read for the first time, it was read for the second time, then sent to the Committee of the Whole for consideration it has been re-occurring on the floor. Are you saying the members don’t know about it? Are you saying the general public didn’t know about it? Why are you saying the house is rushing? Who is rushing it? It is the rules of the house if the house is rushing it, it is the rules of the house that is rushing it. When you say the house is rushing it as if there is any sinister motive about it. What is the sinister motive about it, whose benefit? It is not my benefit, is the benefit of all Nigerians, because water is a common resource to all people. And wherever water is common to the good of all people, it must be subjected to a certain level of statutory control, whether local government, or state government or federal government. And when you talk about certain kilometers of line to be ceded, that is not true. Show me, which section of that bill that said about that.That clearly showed the people were not following. When public hearings were conducted, such issues that were raised, were taken off the bill. And this provision that we are talking about has been in that waters resources for the last 37 years when its talking about the riverbanks, it has been there for the last 35 years. That provision has been there. But, there are concerns that the riverbank will be taken and given to herdsmen… And what do you mean by taking riverbanks and give it to herdsmen. Excuse me, please? Excuse me, please? Let’s not be so skeptical. Let’s not be mischievous. What do you mean by herdsmen? Do you mean you take certain kilometers on the river Niger and give it to herdsmen? Do you know the hydrological baseline and formation of river Benue or Niger? You don’t know that people are talking– is there any river without bank? Some banks need to be protected because they’re a threat to the community. Some river banks who will take the banks of river Benue and River Niger and do anything, but they need to be protected because they’re susceptible to erosion, they’re susceptible to other communities- who will protect them? So, when people begin to speculate this kind of mischievous and egregious kind of comment about something that has been there for the last 35 years, it only gives us a reason for people to sit down, reflect, hey, what are people talking about? Because the herdsmen issue, it’s now the common phrase that people will be using as blackmail in this country, that people are associating this legislation that has been there for the last 35, 34, 27 and 10 years. Those are the legislations that we have brought together, consolidated so that we have a common water sector legislation to develop a regulatory framework, manage it, develop it and conserve it because water is an important issue, it has economic good, it has social good, it has environmental good, and it has human right goods. This is what this bill is talking about. It has identified all these issues and then let’s see how we can sustain this and develop it. Can you imagine we have over 700 billion Naira value chain in the water sector? So the issue of taking the riverbanks, do you find kilometers in a riverbank? No, it’s because people don’t even seem to understand the hydrological formation of rivers. What is the consequences of this bill for the water sector? I cannot see sentiment, what is coming-for investors in water sector, they’ll be regulated.  Big time investors in the water sector exploit, obstruct, and extract the water resources of local, state and federal government without paying anything, and end up selling to the public, and this is this is the crux of the matter. Who will make legislation on the river where there are four or five states on it. This is what this bill is talking about. So, there must be a habitat in the in the process, which was not there before. The bill is being futuristic, because in the future, because the crisis that we have in climate change, the possibilities that our rivers, or our harvested water would dry up one day. So, we need to be proactive, to have a legislation that is futuristic, that will avoid some of these states or communities getting into crisis. already you can see it between Ethiopia, Sudan and Egypt, is all about water. Singapore inputs 40 per cent of its water. Look at the proliferation of water table in this country. Look at the proliferation of water table in this country. Look at the big time water users in this country, how much do they pay to government, state government, federal government or local governments? How much? So, water should be free? If you read the bill, the bill clearly stated that cultural use, customary use and then domestic use of water is free. Sona, Swan, hundreds of them, even those big time people that are doing sachet water, they end up selling it to people, innocent Nigerians, how much do they pay to the government? How much do they pay or water is not natural resources? Then if water is not a natural resources, then oil is not the natural resources, then gold, then coal, then kaolin, then all the natural resources that we have that are considered as natural resources, resources of the country are not resources all because people see and use water freely. Water is not free. If people think that water is free, water is not free. So, what exactly is the focus of this proposed legislation What the law is saying is regulation. You develop a regulatory framework; how some of the participants in the water sector will operate. Like you have quack bore hole drillers. They do not understand the geophysics of an area. They will just go and drill a bore hole without knowing whether that bore hole is near a septic tank or is near a toilet. If there is no regulator, either whether at the state level or at the federal level or at the local government level, how do they operate? So, the law is saying the states will create a framework whereby there’ll be a national policy on how business will operate, then the state and local government would derive from that national framework, how they can regulate water sector participants in their location. That’s what it’s saying. remember, the borehole Drillers Association of Nigeria were part and parcel of this law. They were part and parcel of this law. I have the technical report submitted before the public hearing in the previous assembly the National borehole drillers association of Nigeria, were part and parcel of this bill. In fact, even the initial drafting because they know the implications. Look at the proliferation of drilling of bore holes all over the country. Do you mean that is how we will continue, they will not be regulated? The law is not saying the state government, the federal government should regulate a borehole driller in Delta State or in Ebonyi State or in Kaduna State, or in Adamawa State. No, but it is opening a window whereby the states can come up with this legislation, therefore, they can regulate this activities. Why give Nigerians a bill when all citizens are speaking against some of its provisions, especially ceding some kilometres of water in certain states? All these critics or skeptics that are talking about this bill cannot cite one section of the bill that talks about this, give me one section; give me one section of the bill, that says that 34 kilometers or so kilometers will be taken and 18 kilometers will be taken and given to RUGA. What do you mean by RUGA? Look, we must not start to bring trivial things in this country. Is it something that is being orchestrated against a section of this country? What is the take of the North? Let me break it down. What is the take of the north on the bill? People are trying to hang this bill on the neck of Northerners, because that’s the whole intention. That’s the whole crime. We must not try to degenerate into this kind of things. These laws are there. They have been there for the last 35 years. They didn’t know Afenifere; they didn’t know about this; Wole Soyinka didn’t know about the water sources act? You mean Ortom didn’t know about this water resource act? About the River Basin Development Act for the last 34 years; They didn’t know of Nigeria Hydrological Services Agency for the last 10 years; They didn’t know about water resources act of 27 years? These are the laws that are trying to consolidate and come up with a framework that will regulate people that participate in the water sector. The way I see it is like a gang up against a section of a country on a national law. You see, it is because they didn’t read the bill. Section 86 of this bill, specifically talked about the restriction on acquisition of land. Let me read you what Section 86 says, “no River Basin Development Authority may acquire or lease land or take over any existing project without the knowledge and the consent of the state government in its area of operation in which such is located subject to the land use Act, and the control of land, land development for irrigation by each authority shall be provided under Section 6 and 20 of the Land Use Act.” That is what the law says. So, it is because they didn’t read it. And they don’t want to read it because there is a mischief, there is a gang up in trying to accuse a section of the country because that’s the whole intention, we know it and about those that are talking about this, some of these things are sponsored by big time investors in the water sector. These big time investors don’t want to be regulated by the law. But, as time goes on, all the truth will come out and you will hear these people will shut up. And when people from Southsouth are talking about it– Look, this bill is in the interest of the Southsouth, because the Southsouth is downstream of river Benue and river Niger. And I’m sure that my brothers and sisters that are in the Southsouth, that are downstream these rivers do not want people of other jurisdiction to obstruct these rivers because it will affect their livelihood. And that’s what this bill is talking about, which we didn’t have this protection in the previous legislations. If this bill was subjected to public hearing, why are people still against it? This bill was subjected to public hearing. It was subjected to public hearings, and a technical Committee, which all states water resources commissioners were part and parcel. Remember, this bill is trying to come up with the National Water Resources Council, which all states of Nigeria are involved and they are the ones to develop the framework as this bill takes off. They are the one even to suggest a major section of this bill. Do you know we have a National Water policy? Or people have forgotten? These skeptics that are talking about it have forgotten that we have National Water policy, which was formulated by federal government and then the state governments keyed in. they have forgotten about that. They have forgotten that we have National Water Resources Council which all state governments are part and parcel of? And many other policy frameworks that govern different sectors, not only necessarily water sector. My fear is when we begin to bring this kind of personal and trivial attitude and sentiments to national laws, It doesn’t help the country. Remember, now we have PIB coming before the National Assembly; What would happen to it? What if a section of a country decided to kick against it? So, we have to sit down and work for the common good. All these cultural groups, and then pressure individuals don’t help this country. They have lived in this country, They have lived on resources, they have gotten everything they want in this country and then they are trying to destroy it for the future generation. When you have these laws that have been there for the last 35 years? Look, let’s not try to take the hand of the clock behind. Let’s not try to give these skeptics an opportunity to slow down any national development because they will not stop at that. It is incumbent on every reasonable Nigerian to get on board over this and let’s move on. It is for the future of this country. We must come up with a beautiful, progressive, sustainable framework that will regulate our water sector. What is it going to benefit President Buhari?  What is it going to benefit Sada Soli, what is it going to benefit the Minister of Water Resources if they do this bill? What is the benefit? My town is on a river that traverse four states. We have a dam on that river. But, before they would dam that river, Niger republic and Nigeria  drew up an agreement that had to be signed, we have to release the water at one point of the year for it to get to the villages and towns downstream. And that dam was built by federal government, not state government. We have just made a confirmation, The water that goes to Lagos state is from Oyo State. Because Lagos is an island which is encircled by sea. So, the federal government has to build that dam in Oyo State and then water is reticulated to Lagos state. These are some of these things that operates. Go to the US, all the rivers are regulated. Not only USA, all jurisdictions; go to Malawi, go to Zimbabwe, go to South Africa. Recently in Cape Town, water dried up, they have to rush in water. Let’s put in a situation whereby water is rushing in this country then that’s when people will wake up and see the need for government to intervene in managing, controlling, regulating and conserving the water sources that we have. Cape Town here in South Africa recently, the water dried up. And you know how big Cape Town is, it’s bigger than Abuja; people were queuing up to pick water. Look at the proliferation of people indiscriminately using our water resources. The car wash, everybody has no respect even for water because they think it’s common, it’s not common. How much do they pay? They’re not regulated. Apart from the pollution, entire Southsouth depend on groundwater because their surface water is polluted. And then people don’t want federal government or state government to regulate those that are polluting that water for the common good of the people of the Southsouth. And even the ground water that people are using in the Southsouth must be regulated by those that extract it because they need to extract it where there is no linkage with oil. Who would do that? It is government. We are not saying the federal government would do that; the state governments are the one develop those frameworks because we have a National Water policy. Those frameworks are there. 