 LAGOS State Police Commissioner Hakeem Odumosu on Tuesday said moving cash without security escort contradicted laid down procedures. Gunmen on Thursday riddled a bullion van conveying cash with bullets, deflated its tyres, shot open the save and emptied the cash on Ado Road, Ajah. Although two persons allegedly died, the police said no life was lost. Odumosu said investigation was still ongoing. He said: “The Ajah robbery is under investigation. The bullion van was waylaid. It created the environment for that incident to happen. The rule is that for a bullion van to move money, there must be escorts in front and behind. “But this one had no single escort. No vehicle in front, no one behind. There was no single reaction to that attack which shows it’s a premeditated one. Notwithstanding, actions have been taken, laws have been violated and investigations has begun.” Commercial motorcyclists yesterday went on rampage on the Oshodi-Apapa Expressway following disputes with officials of the Lagos State Taskforce. The violence, which started at Second Rainbow Bus Stop in Amuwo Odofin, extended to Oshodi. The motorcyclists set bonfires on the expressway. It was gathered that trouble started when some officials of the taskforce went to enforce the ban on motorcycles from plying major roads. Many motorcycles were impounded and taken away. Angered by this, the motorcyclists reinforced and attacked the officials. The aggrieved riders started vandalising vehicles in the traffic build up caused by the bonfires. Odumosu said the motorcyclists reacted to the Taskforce’s enforcement of the traffic law. “The crisis started this morning because Taskforce officials were doing their job. Officials went there for these Okadas that have taken over the expressway. There is a law in Lagos State; those places they occupy are highways and they cannot be allowed to continue posing environmental nuisance there.” A statement by the Taskforce spokesman Taofiq Adebayo said a paramilitary officer, Ganiyu Mustspha, was injured and two of their vehicles damaged. Adebayo said about 74 motorcycles were impounded for plying one-way or operating on the highway, adding that a meeting was held with leaders of motorcycle operators and it was discovered that those engaged in such practices do not belong to any of the unions.