 New threats are emerging in the production of maize. They are  in form of newer pests, some of them voracious crop-destroyers that can reduce farm production and farmers’ incomes. Among a flood of new pests that has emerged over a  couple of years, is the fall armyworm. The worm has a voracious appetite for crops. According to the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO), it has spread to more than 30 countries since being discovered, potentially destroying $5 billion worth of maize, its favourite snack. Another pest is Striga. It  currently remains the biggest threat to maize production. With Striga-related losses estimated at $1 billion per year, a number of research bodies in Africa, including the International Institute of Tropical  Agriculture (IITA), the International Centre for Insect Physiology and Ecology (ICIPE), International Wheat and Maize Improvement Center (CIMMYT) and the African Agriculture Technology Foundation, launched in 2009 a concerted effort to tame the weed. Nigeria produces over 12 million metric tonnes  of maize annually and it is a major source of farm income. Farmers have been applying maize crops resistant to the widespread Striga plant parasite. The crops were developed at IITA. According to IITA, the varieties dramatically cut maize losses from the root-infecting Striga, or witch weed, during two years of trial cultivation by farmers in Borno State. In support of this, the Institute for Agricultural Research has begun distributing the new parasite-resistant maize seeds. The varieties, known as Sammaz 15 and 16, contain genes that diminish the growth of parasitic flowering plants such as Striga, which attaches to the maize root. Both Sammaz varieties tolerate heavy Striga infestations without suffering. Sammaz 16 is a late-maturing variety requiring 110 to 120 days of growth, whereas Sammaz 15 can often be harvested at 100 days and is more suitable for regions with short growing periods or unpredictable water supplies. Other maize varieties are that will be able to resist Striga and pests and confer resistance are being bred in partnership with IITA. In line with this, the National Agricultural Seed Council (NASC), under the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, has introduced disease-resistant maize. It has been distributed to farmers in Akwa Ibom State. Known as OBA SUPER 13, it has the capacity to produce 5000 to 7000 tonnes of maize per hectare and it comes three times a year. The Regional Director of NASC, Southsouth Zone, Mr Mmoeyak Usua, who disclosed this in Uyo, during the 2020 Farmers’ Field Day organised by NASC, in collaboration with Premier Seeds, Du Pont and Bayer Seed Companies, said the high-yielding seed passed through a series of international research and it has superior quality over the local materials. He said the regulatory agency has tested the seed and it is also a grass resistance. “This particular demonstration was meant to compare the superiority of the hybrid seed over local materials. The hybrid do better than the local materials.” They are disease and grass resistance, and the cobs are very big. They are matured and they are doing well because when we planted them, the whole of August 2020, there was no rain but they survived. It can be planted three times a year. “The seeds have passed through series of research, first of all it had an origin from IITA, they passed it down as foundation seed where it was certified. We want farmers to know that there is an improved seed and the new variety has high yielding capacity of 5000 to 7000 tonnes per hectare,” he added. Usua urged farmers to locate only registered seeds companies to purchase the new seeds. The Commissioner for Agriculture, Akwa Ibom State, Dr Glory Edet, praised the agency and seeds companies over the improved seeds introduced to the farmers. Edet, represented by the Assistant Director, Agric Directorate, Mr Edet Udoaka, appealed to both federal and state government to continue to support maize growers and farmers at large, to enable them produce sufficient food for the nation. Meanwhile, scientists, part of the Seed Production Technology for Africa (SPTA) and the Maize Lethal Necrosis Gene Editing projects are leveraging innovative technologies to transform seed production systems and speed up the delivery of disease resistance in elite new hybrids. A report said the research was helping smallholder farmers in sub-Saharan Africa to access high-quality seed of new hybrids that were bred to perform under stressful low-input, drought-prone conditions, including farming regions impacted by maize lethal necrosis (MLN). The fight against maize lethal necrosis (MLN) has persisted for almost 10 years now. The report said collaborative efforts in diagnostics, management and systematic surveillance have limited its spread and confined the disease to the eastern Africa region. However, ongoing work is required to efficiently develop MLN-tolerant varieties for smallholders in endemic areas and prepare for the potential further movement of the disease. 