With aggressive efforts to ensure that more people know their HIV status, and those who are positive are placed on treatment to contain the spread of the epidemic and keep them alive, the National Agency for the Control of AIDS (NACA) is revamping its response strategies to involve community players, youth and teenage ambassadors, social networks of vulnerable group and working with states and local governments to commit their human and financial resources to see that the country meets the UNAID target of ensuring that 95 per cent of the population know their HIV status by 2030. However, the Director-General of NACA, Dr. Gambo Aliyu, believes that in the effort to reduce the spread of the disease to the barest minimum, not less than N75 billion would be needed to place 1.5 million people on HIV treatment yearly. He spoke with ONYEDI OJIABOR and MOSES EMORINKEN in Abuja. What is NACA doing to reduce mother-to-child transmission of HIV?
Mother-to-child transmission is really worrisome. It is one of the things we have to do as other nations are now eliminating mother-to-child transmission. We are still preventing mother-to-child transmission and our numbers are really not so great. Recently, I requested a meeting with UNICEF and we discussed at length. We are going to call a stakeholders’ meeting to discuss this. If for the last 15 years you have been working with one strategy and it is not working, you don’t need anybody to tell you that you need to rethink, rejig and look outside the box. You need to look for fresh ideas for you to achieve what you want to achieve. One of the problems is that access to pregnant mothers is limited. How then do you increase those numbers in terms of pregnant mothers accepting the services that are made available nationwide? This is partly because some of the pregnant mothers don’t come to a facility throughout their pregnancy period and they do not have access to HIV testing during their pregnancy period. If they unfortunately have HIV, the likelihood of them transmitting this disease to their unborn or newborn babies is very high. What we are looking at is how do we use community structures this time around?  If the facilities are giving us only 50 per cent, that is, the clinics, hospitals, primary health care clinics where we see some of these pregnant women, If they only give us like 50 per cent of what we need, then how do we figure out getting the 50 per cent that we don’t have access to? And this is the critical question that will come up at that stakeholders’ meeting. We need to look inwards and see what have worked in terms of our interventions for other diseases where we reached out at the community level, and we got the support of the people. We therefore need to do more enlightenment. Whoever is pregnant, the husband should know and the mother should know that their best chance of preventing HIV in their new born is to first know their status. And whenever a mother is pregnant, that pregnancy needs to be looked at as a separate entity. You need to retest and see if during that pregnancy the mother is negative. The fight against HIV seems to be slowing down… Concerning the fight against HIV, on my side, I think we have been very aggressive this time around. A look at our activities since this Nigeria HIV/AIDS Indicator and Impact Survey (NAIIS) took place shows us where this epidemic is raging. It was able to tell us what is taking place nationally and what is taking place at the individual zones, and at the state level. Very soon, our analysis will also help us to know what is taking place at the local government areas level. That is what is helping us now to focus, localise, target and hit. If you look at the communities where we are increasing our presence now, that is, the community that we see if they have a high burden of the epidemic, obviously transmission is taking place, and I don’t need anyone to tell me, having this data before me, that transmission is taking place in these places and the earlier I go in there to arrest this transmission the better. How do I do that? It is by identifying individuals who have this disease, put them on treatment and make sure we keep them on treatment. That has been on an aggressive mode. And if you look at the way we operated in the past, we were operating from the clinics. Now you will see us both at the community level and at the clinic level. There is a programme that was started last year immediately after NAIIS survey. We call it the SURGE Art, and that thing has been concentrating at the community level; identifying communities that are affected or  that are bearing this burden more, and going to saturate that community with HIV activities. We also identify people that have the disease, test them, and bring them for treatment. The push has never been this strong in the history of HIV response in the country. The people that have HIV now are not easy to find – the people that don’t come to test themselves for HIV and the people that run away when you discuss HIV. These are the people we are now trying to convince, first to know their status, and when they know their status, if they have HIV, they should come forward for treatment, convince them that with that treatment, they are going to be fine in terms of destroying the HIV in them, and help them to limit only the HIV in them, without it leaving them to affect other people. How do you hope to reach the underage who are not covered in the HIV health policy or services? I was in Kigali last year for a meeting and there was a presentation by a group called Adolescence and Young Persons. Some of the representatives were from Nigeria. It was interesting to hear what they had to say at that meeting. One thing that I picked and we are working with right now is that there is nothing for us without us. My response to them is that everything for you going forward will be with you. They have said something really important, which is – if you really want to get to work, then, you need to work with us to know how to reach us. The way you approach an adult and the way you convey messages to an adult to understand and to work with it is entirely different from the way a kid understands and a kid can work with. The best way to do this is to use their groups by identifying their groups. You will have to go in and see their social networks, identify the social networks, describe it, and figure out how you can penetrate. That penetration is not easy. The age is different. You have to find ambassadors – young people who will take the bull by the horns to do this campaign for you. But if it is somebody like me doing it, the connection will be lost. So, you have to identify those we call Agents Of Change, and those Agents Of Change are the groups we are now nurturing so that they get out and reach out to this community which is a very interesting one; work with them and see how you begin to see changes in that. We are worried because what we are seeing from our data are 15 years and above. Even if 15 to 17 years is not much, you also see 18 years and above. This is because legally, adulthood begins at the age of 18 years. These guys when they go to facilities and demand for test, they get embarrassed. They don’t have the temerity and gut to ask for a test. Therefore, you have to create an opportunity for them to access services. We are working on that. We know it is not easy but we are working on it. Can you shed more light on the prevalence rate of HIV in Nigeria? The HIV epidemic in Nigeria we always say is a dual epidemic. By dual epidemic we mean that you look at different populations and do not try to describe the epidemic population-based. If you look at the general population, it has generally declined. Four years back, we started from about 1.8, we went up to 5,  then, we came down to 2.8 two years back. We are now talking about 1.3. 1.3, we think at the moment, is the closest to the accurate estimation of disease distribution among the general population based on our household survey that we did two years ago – the NAIIS survey. However, if you are talking of the key drivers of HIV in communities and among populations in Nigeria, they are the key affected populations. The key affected populations are sex workers, men who have sex with men, injection drug users, people who are transgender. This is simply because of behaviour. Behaviour is what is putting them at high risk of getting HIV and it is also what is putting them at higher risk of transmitting HIV. As it is today, this epidemic is raging among them, and it is declining among the general population. Therefore, this is the group we are targeting. Right now we are doing a survey that is targeting this group. We just want to identify the size of their network, where they stay, how they congregate and how they access services, the services type that is acceptable to them, the services type that when we use can work for them, knowledge about prevention messages and access to these prevention messages. We also consider how we can increase access to these prevention messages to ensure access to treatment services. This is very important because identifying these and coming back to re-tune your strategy is really key and we do this every two years for this population group to make sure that we are in tune with reality because things keep changing. We want to make sure that we move with the tide in terms of the services they want, especially in terms of the best way they want these services delivered. Why is the HIV prevalence rate higher in some areas and lower in others? This is largely because of behaviour. The second reason is culture. If you look at North Africa, you will see that the prevalence of HIV is very low simply because of religious and cultural influence. Even here in Nigeria, if you look at the far north, you will see that the prevalence is low because of the way of life and cultural and religious influences. If you look at some communities nationally, because of culture and behaviour, you will see that the prevalence is very high because of the way people live and the way people interact and the way people socialize. These are very important. Lastly, education – it is not the level of education that a person has but the level of education that individuals have in terms of awareness about the disease, in terms of prevention measures and in terms of the ability to use those prevention measures. It is one thing to know that this thing works in preventing HIV and it is another thing to use it. How much funding does NACA still get from foreign donors? The funding in terms of foreign donors has not reduced. It is even increasing because now we have reached the stage where everybody is feeling the heat. We are moving HIV off the cliff and we are reaching the tip of the mountain. And as the weight is coming back, everyone is feeling the weight. Therefore, the only way you push forward is through resources, programmes and efforts. We are putting all these together and we are moving it up. The more you go up, the more resources it absorbs and the more you look at it and see the resources that you have are not enough. Our call to Nigerians is that if you cannot help us with money or facilities or with vehicles to move around, just do us one thing – test yourself and know your HIV status. If you test yourself and know your HIV status, if you have HIV please keep it in your body, don’t let it go out. And if you do not know how to do that, we will help you do that. This way you also help yourself because you are not going to allow it to destroy you. With these, I think we are fighting two things: stigma and discrimination. And at the same time, we are increasing access. Once this epidemic is under control, then our vision is getting to materialise; that is, ending AIDS by the year 2030. What is the incubation period of HIV? HIV is entirely different. The incubation period for HIV, like most virus diseases, is still the short period that you see. But unlike Covid-19 and other viruses where you see clinical manifestations – high temperature, coughing, and others – for HIV, most of the people that have it, the very few weeks they have it, they do not know. And that is the dangerous period because that is the time when they distribute it like no other period. The virus is multiplying in them unchecked, and because of this multiplication without check, it is in billions in them. Anybody they come into contact with in terms of sex, it is very likely the person will get it within that period. After that period, the immune system of the body identifies it and they will start fighting it and they reach an equilibrium point where the immune system has denied the virus access to rise up beyond certain levels. At that level, it stays there steady, and can stay as long as five or ten years. The problem is that people don’t know when all these take place, and there is nothing you can see in a patient that will tell you this is taking place. The best thing for people is to know whether they have acquired it now or for a long time. They need to avail themselves of a test. Many Nigerians no longer care about using condoms. What is your agency doing about it? This comes down to behaviour. People don’t want to change and they resist it at all costs. Adopting certain behaviour of change is key if you belong to the risk category. If you have a wife and you are faithful to her, why should you use any condom? This is because that is not the place for condom. If you and your wife are faithful to each other, you don’t need condom because it denies you of pleasure. But if you are the type that jumps around, then you have to know that you have a responsibility and a duty to first of all help yourself, because if you get the disease, you are going to stay for the rest of your life taking medication. This medication may work well or give you some trouble from time to time depending on your body type and the rest. So, why should you subject yourself to all these stress and tension and subject your family and friends to them? Why don’t you just do the right thing by not jumping around? If you think you cannot stop, make sure you are protected. How much will it cost to get 1.5 million people on treatment by 2023? Our fear is not about getting to control this epidemic, because we have the resources and backing and we are getting the help we need at this point in time to control the epidemic. However, after we control this epidemic, what happens? This is the problem. Going forward as a country, we will be expected to sustain this tempo and maintain these people on treatment. Maintaining 1.5 million people living with HIV/AIDS on treatment daily for life attracts N75 billion yearly. And that is not something at this moment we can sit down and feel like all is well. When we reach that bridge, we start looking for N75 billion. If we do that, we do that at our own risk as a nation. It is now we need to start figuring out where the N75 billion is going to come from. Eventually, when we are able to control this epidemic and the big donations begin to shrink or disappear, and this is what we are worried about. This is what is bringing all the changes in NACA nationally in terms of our sustainability plan. We cannot afford as a country to continue to buy these drugs through middle men or vendors. It just cannot work. And we cannot afford as a country with this magnitude of people that need these drugs, to say that we don’t manufacture these drugs locally. We must encourage local manufacturing of these drugs, and we must ensure that that takes place. We cannot look at this thing and say we leave all the work to the Federal Government. It is not going to work. One, the states must contribute, and two, the private sector which has shown great willingness to contribute must be encouraged to continue to contribute. Having all these on the table and making sure that we streamline our funding, where the funding come and where gaps these findings fill, is the way that will help us eventually when we say we control this epidemic. We are not going to be asking where the funding is going to come from to continue to give the people the life saving medications needed. Can you give us a progress report on the FG’s commitment to placing 100,000 persons on treatment by the end of 2020? The progress report is that we have made this promise, and this promise was made in 2017 by the President, and it is expected to begin this year. We are happy to tell everyone that we are on course. We are now treating 100,000 persons a year from the government’s side. So, it is a big thing that has happened courtesy of His Excellency’s approvals of our budget and making money available, and also our staff that have worked tirelessly to make sure we change the way we do things to enable us fulfill that pledge. We are fulfilling that pledge, and very soon, we will call our partners to come and witness that the pledge Nigeria made has been fulfilled. I know some female journalists who are into business because it is more convenient to raise their children and make their husbands happy. That is why you don’t find a lot of women there. It is not as if there is a lot of money in it. Your husband is going to tell you: ‘What exactly is this about? What are you coming home late for? You can’t change your car without my assistance.’ So you need passion and lots of grace of God to keep going.