Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu says his administration will make the state more prosperous for residents and businesses with a world-class road network. Sanwo-Olu also said his government was rebuilding the because “we have too much at stake to be daunted by recent happenings.” He gave the assurance while flagging-off the rehabilitation and upgrading of the 40-year-old Eti-Osa/Lekki-Epe Expressway on Sunday. The road was constructed in 1981 as a single carriageway, but underwent an upgrade to a two-lane carriageway in 2006. The reconstruction will be in two phases, with the first covering 18.75 kilometres from Eleko Junction to Epe-T-Junction. The second phase will cover 26.7kilomtres from Abraham Adesanya Roundabout to Eleko Junction. The scope of work will encompass an upgrade in both capacity and pavement structure, the provision of reinforced concrete drains, culverts, and median barriers, the relocation of public utilities, provision of reinforced concrete rigid pavement with road markings. It will also include installation of weighbridges in each direction of the road, preservation of a rail line corridor within the 50 metre right of way, the provision of transverse and longitudinal service ducts and the provision of a crushed stone base course among others. When completed, the road will complement the new network of roads in Epe and ease transportation of goods and services through Epe to other neighboring states. The governor said: “Our commitment to the people of Lagos, businesses, and the corporations in our state is that of a more prosperous state with a world-class road network where citizens can travel from one end of the state to the other without unnecessary encumbrances. “This will, in turn, lead to improved socio-economic activities in the Eti-Osa-Lekki-Epe corridor. “As we place our state on the path of continuous  transformation, we will continue to pursue the right strategies for a greater and wealthier Lagos. “The reconstructed road will also reduce travel time and loss of man-hours since it will cut through several communities like Eleko, Onose, Alatishe, Aiyeteju, Ajaganabe, Oko orisan, Ilasan, Lekki village  and Epe.” He said his government would  not be distracted by challenges, but rather  continue to take every challenge as an opportunity for significant economic development. His words: “We are in government to make life easier for our people: without any consideration for class, religion  or ethnicity. “We recognise the importance of the Eti-Osa-Lekki-Epe Expressway to the economic prosperity of this state and its people. We are aware of the agitation and concerns of people about this road. “Today’s significant ceremony will eventually culminate in a three-lane dual carriageway reinforced concrete road pavement with a dedicated lane in each direction for trucks and a rigid pavement to accommodate the envisaged axle loadings expected to ply the road when it is completed. “You will agree with me that this is a radical departure from the present two-lane dual carriageway flexible pavement: a rural road cross-section without drains, except for intermittent chutes.” Sanwo-Olu appealed to the people of Ibeju Lekki and Epe axis to stop selling their land because of the prospects of development and prosperity in the axis. He also urged the youth in the area to protect government property. Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Works and Infrastructure, Olujimi Hotonu, said government settled for the rigid pavement option for durability and longer life span of about 40 years.