 ALL things being equal, commercial activity on the Lagos-Ibadan Standard Gauge rail line may begin before the yuletide. Though it is coming several months behind schedule, the eventual take-off of commercial activity on the track, despite the lockdown and debilitating effect of COVID-19, is a clear testimony of the current administration’s commitment to actualising railway modernisation  and deepening the speed train system in the country. The Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, gave the nod for the commencement of commercial operation during his last ministerial inspection of the project in October. Amaechi further directed the train service to begin in December to help ease the travel blues on the road ahead of the yuletide. Two years ago, the minister had given similar order for the test run of the 36 kilometres of the journey from Lagos to Abeokuta and thereafter to the entire 157 km route to Ibadan. Assessing the scope of work in October, Amaechi also projected the possibility of the operations taking place inside the train stations, seven of which are expected to be completed ahead of the roll out of operation in December. According to him, seven of the stations categorised as minor stations have been slated to be completed by November end, (a month ahead of the commercial activity roll out), while the remaining three station located in Lagos, Abeokuta and Ibadan, including the Apapa station, (all but the latter, which were classified as major stations) are expected to be delivered in December. The minister said he would be glad to midwife President Muhammadu Buhari commissioning the 157 km project as his new year gift to Nigerians. Amaechi said the government already envisaged heavy traffic on the Lagos-Ibadan Standard Gauge, a fact he said was responsible for the acquisition of more locomotives and coaches to service the corridor. The minister praised the China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC) for sticking to the project’s timelines in spite of the COVID-19, adding that the impending delivery of the world class project would go a long way in changing the nation’s narratives on rail transportation system. Amaechi said: “While praising the Chinese for their engineering prowess which has turned a rain forest into an emerging city, our engineers must see this as a challenge and save Nigeria from the clutches of foreign domination in the area of construction. The Nigerian Railway Corporation’s (NRC) Managing Director Fidet Okhiria said the corporation is ready to take off with commercial activity on the corridor. He said the corporation would be liaising with the contractor with a view to on when to take off commercial activity on the corridor. He said the Corporation is planning to roll out hourly train services on the corridor. “I can tell you, in no distant time, the hourly train service between Lagos and Ibadan that we have been talking about will become  a reality,” he said. CCECC’s Lagos-Ibadan Standard Gauge project coordinator, Leo Yin, said the CCECC had been working round the clock on the track. “We have been working round the clock, and have engaged more workers to meet the demands of the government to get the stations ready,” Yin said. He disclosed that the Chinese firm already employed over 9,000 workers among whom are engineers, and artisans on the project. The Lagos-Ibadan rail project is the first double-track standard gauge modern railway in West Africa. The project, the second leg of the Lagos-Kano Railway Modernisation Project is being constructed by the China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC) an affiliate of China Railway Construction Corporation Limited (CRCC). The government is linking the Apapa ports with the rail project as a permanent solution to the protracted gridlock cause by truckers parking on the roads and bridges in Apapa. The Minister of Information and Culture Lai Mohammed on one of his visits to the project described it as a legacy that would change the road mode transportation forever. He said the Federal Government is determined to make a difference in the way Nigerians commute and the modernisation of the railway is going to play a huge role in the nation’s transportation. Jude Olanusi, a business executive said he is looking forward to the commencement of commercial operation of the speed train on the Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge. Olanusi an agro-allied exporter said the corridor offers him a new opportunity as he would be to reduce his cost of operation with the eventual take off of the Ibadan dry sea port, which would stimulate international trade by local importers and exporters who would operate more the dry ports thereby decongesting traffic on the Lagos and Apapa roads. Tunde Olaposi, said the Lagos-Ibadan speed train would give Nigerians a new travel experience. He said he, and others like him, may begin to have another look at rail travels. “I have seen the beautiful coaches that the Federal Government intends to use on the Lagos-Ibadan corridor and I look forward to riding on it myself,” he said. 