The police have arrested Onwuka Chidiebere (32), a graduate of Business Administration from Imo State University (IMSU), who specialises in business email compromise and hacking. Force Public Relations Officer Frank Mba, in a statement on Thursday, said a forensic analysis showed that Chidiebere had over 50,000 email accounts and websites, including passwords of individuals and corporate entities, on his laptop. Chidiebere, a.k.a Ceeceeboss TMT is one of three suspects arrested by the police’ Cybercrime Unit, INTERPOL National Central Bureau (NCB), Abuja. The others are Ikechukwu Ohanedozie a.k.a Dozzy (34) and Onuegwu Ifeanyi a.k.a SSGToolz (35). They were arrested following intelligence report received from INTERPOL Cybercrime Directorate in Singapore on global attacks by Nigerian cyber gangs who engage in mass email phishing campaigns and distribution of malwares aimed at stealing authentication data from browsers and email header, Mba added. According to him, Chidiebere recruited Ohanedozie, a medical student of IMSU, to profile e-mail accounts to determine financial strengths of prospective victims.  Ifeanyi specialised in creating, designing, selling of phishing links and hosting malwares on website used by the gang for phishing and hacking purposes. “His charges running into several millions of naira from other fraudsters he mentors and improves their phishing capabilities. The suspects will be charged to court after investigation and prosecuted in line with the Cybercrime Prevention/Prohibition Act, 2015,” Mba added. The spokesman also hinted that the police has unveiled a Cybercrime Reporting Web Portal – https://incb.police.gov.ng/ – as part of efforts to ensure ease of crime reportage, enable prompt investigation, arrest and prosecution of perpetrators of cybercrime and other related offences. He added: “The portal caters for complaints pertaining to cybercrimes. With this, victims/complainants can now report cases of cybercrime online, at any time and from any part of the world. The cases are promptly attended to by the Cybercrime Unit of the Force domiciled with the INTERPOL National Central Bureau (NCB), Force Headquarters, Abuja and the newly created Cybercrime Unit at the INTERPOL Annex, Alagbon Close, Ikoyi, Lagos…”