 The attacks on The Nation Newspaper offices, and Television Continental (TVC), both in Lagos, penultimate week came to Nigerians as a very rude shock. The arsonists had taken a very sinister cover under the #EndSARS protest to violate press freedom in a democracy, ignoring the principle that press freedom is a valid and necessary ingredient in viable democracies. From preliminary reports, the arsonists carried out premeditated acts, given eye witness accounts. They were not some random #EndSARS protesters who, largely, were very organised and peaceful until their protest was hijacked. They were alleged to have come in commercial motorcycles locally known as Okada and spoke fluently. Their choice of offices to attack was not random as the two corporate offices were far flung from each other, and only the two offices suffered such damages in the two localities they are situated in. We condemn the very thought of attacking media houses in a democracy. It is almost suicidal to attempt to silence the media in an info-tech age. First, the press is proudly the fourth estate of the realm, the watchdog of the society, the symbol of the people’s collective voice. Freedom of the press is the freedom of the people because they operate on that communication and expression through various channels, including print and electronic media, especially published materials, and their rights, as such, should be considered a right to be exercised freely. The arsonists might assume, wrongly though, that their actions can speak politically, but the foolery is limitless. The #EndSARS protesting youths decried, among other things, the unemployment situation in the country, how would burning down media outlets that provide jobs for thousands of youths speak to such a complaint? How can governments in a democracy be held accountable without a free press? We ask for a thorough investigation into all acts of brigandage throughout the #EndSARS protests across the country, including all the extra-judicial killings and those at the Lekki tollgate on the ill-fated October 20. The full accounts must be unearthed as the country seeks healing after the incidents. We suggest that all tiers of government must do a thorough job of documenting the victims of the lootings and arson across the country, and provide not just material compensation but some counselling and psychotherapy, as most victims are totally traumatised. Economic productivity and social relevance of victims must be assured through provision of proper mental health. As the victims count their losses across the country, we equally suggest the recognition of the economic role that insurance plays in viable economies. Most domestic economic policies often compel citizens and corporate bodies to invest in insurance policies, not only to mitigate loses but as a socio-economic duty to communities. When losses are involved through human or natural disasters, the chain effect is normally huge, especially in terms of job losses. Insurance is there to substantially put individuals and corporate bodies back to their before-disaster positions. It is unfortunate that the country’s domestic financial policy does not seem to push for insurance and as such most of the citizens do not insure both material possessions and lives. Insurance companies and the government must begin to create solid and consistent awareness about the value of insurance policies. Economic chain of progress often gets interrupted by both accidents and planned human disasters; only insurance policies well-tailored to be trustworthy and effective can fill the gaps. We equally believe that time has come for governments in Nigeria to invest in population and social policies that can document and care for citizens with the correct data. If this is done and the streets are well-lit with functional CCTV gadgets, crimes like the ones in the past weeks might be on a lower scale, as the perpetrators will realise they can always be caught. This means that the clamour by citizens for 24-hour electricity and general structural reforms must be heeded. This period of healing must equally birth justice for all victims, now and previously.