 Folarin Balogun became the 876th player to represent us in a first team game after coming off the bench in our 3-0 win over Dundalk during the Matchday 2 of the ongoing Europa League. Born in New York to Nigerian parents, his family moved to England when Folarin turned two and settled in London. The 19-year-old forward has forged a reputation as a formidable goal scorer at both under-23 and under-18 level – and was duly rewarded by Mikel Arteta with his first senior minutes. Folarin was elated on making his senior debut and helping to win convincingly with E Nketial, J Willock and N Pepe scoring within six minutes. He said: “Yeah it feels great. It’s a moment I have been waiting for for a little while so to finally get it feels great. I can only thank Mikel ad the staff for this opportunity and I look forward to doing it more often.” Getting first team shirt of the London club, Balogun said has not been easy. He had to keep working hard and hoping to get his break sooner than later. “It’s been tough, I’ve been at a few other clubs doing trials and stuff like that but I’ve been working my way through the academy and I think as time has gone on I’ve become a better player. I think that’s shown in my performances and I think it’s good now to get the recognition that my performances deserve.” “Loads of emotions really. I knew that this was the moment I’d been waiting for but at the same time I knew there was a job that needed to be done. So I just tried to come on, make runs, be a nuisance and just help the team.” He promised to keep on digging to achieve his best and reward manager Arteta and fans. “They are going to see lots of energy, and I’d like to say lots of goals. But yeah I think I’d like to carry my performances from the youth team into the first team. That’s what got me here so it’s important I carry on playing the way I do.” Balogun admitted that been likened to Arsenal top scorer Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang is a plus for him and due to his style of play. “I am the sort of striker that likes to play on the shoulder of the last defender and make runs behind them, similar to the way that Aubameyang plays. Even Arteta has great things to say of Balogun. “He’s a player that I really like. Obviously I’ve got this situation and I believe it’s later than what I would like because I wasn’t here when everything started to develop but yes, he’s a player that I would like to give chances to.” Balogun started kicking football as soon as he was old enough to do so. After playing for Sunday League side Aldersbrook, he had a trial period with Tottenham but eventually decided to join Arsenal when he was 10 years old. The teenager scored 28 goals in 28 matches across all youth competitions last season as the Gunners won the Under-18s Premier League title. He was promoted to the Under-23 side in 2019-20 but that hasn’t slowed him down, scoring 10 goals and registering four assists in 15 appearances in Premier League 2. Arsenal reportedly rejected a £5million offer from Brentford for the forward in January 2020, while he has also attracted interest from a number of Europe’s top clubs. The 19-year-old had to wait patiently for a chance in the first team before making his senior debut as a second-half substitute in their 3-0 Europa League win over Dundalk. He has represented both England and USA at under-18 level and is also eligible to play for Nigeria on the international stage. Balogun is an instinctive striker and clinical finisher with either foot, consistently finding the bottom corners with power and precision. He has also displayed quick feet, blistering pace and excellent movement to run in behind defences. Reacting to reports linking him to clubs outside Arsenal, he said: “I am where I’ve always wanted to be right home and I still have a lot of things I want to do here. It all depends on what the club wants me to do,” Balogun added.