 The Federal University, Oye-Ekiti has approved the promotion of 27 academic  staff to the  professorial cadre in the institution. The announcement  was made at a  council meeting Wednesday last week  and was confirmed by the  Registrar, Prof. Olatunbosun Odusanya. The newly promoted professors are : Dr Fakoyede Segun Bamidele- Department of Agricultural Economics and Extension; Dr Bolanle Tajudeen Opoola- Department of Linguistics; Dr Olubukola Olugasa-Faculty of Law; Dr Olusola Atilade Adeeyo- Department of Anatomy; Dr Isaac Ayodele Olatunji – Department of Estate Management; Dr Gbenga  Olumayede – Department of Industrial Chemistry; Dr Modupe Orunmuyi – Department of Animal Production and Health; Dr Musiliu Oluseun – Faculty of Pharmacy; Dr A. O. Olaniyan – Department of Political Science; Dr Dosu Malomo – Department of Industrial Chemistry and  Dr A.A Fajinmi – Department of Crop Science. Those promoted to reader cadre otherwise known as Associate Professor are: Dr. Matthew  Arowolo – Department of Mechatronics Engineering;  Dr Jonathan  Mbachaga – Department of Theatre and Media Arts; Dr Folasayo  Fayose – Department of Agric. & Bio-resources Engineering;  Dr Chika  Asogwa – Department of Mass Communication; Dr Habibat   Adubiaro – Department of Industrial Chemistry; Dr Adegoke  Tirimisiyu – Department of Criminology and Security Studies. Others are , Dr Oyebamiji  Oketayo – Department of Physics;  Dr O. E. Abolarin – Department of Mathematics;  Dr Oyedokun-Alli Wasiu Ademola – Department of English and Literary Studies;  Dr Omodele Ibraheem – Department of Biochemistry;  Dr Bolupe Awe – Department of Educational Management;  Dr Oyelaran  Ajani – Department of Mechanical Engineering,  Dr Jonathan  Amassoma – Department of Economics; Dr Opeyemi  Enoch – Department of Mathematics;  Dr Taofiq  Nasir – Department of Theatre and Media Arts and  Dr Olorunwa  Omofunmi – Department of Agricultural and Bio-resources Engineering. In a related development, the  management of the Federal University, Oye-Ekiti, Ekiti State, has directed all staff of the institution to resume normal duties, with effect from Monday, November 23. This is  contained in an internal memorandum, issued and signed by the  Registrar, Mr. Olatunbosun Odusanya. According to him, the  management approved the resumption date for all staff of the institution, following the Federal Government’s directive on the resumption of duties by all categories of staff in tertiary institutions across the country. Mr. Odusanya, therefore, urged all members of staff to abide by all necessary precautionary measures to prevent the spread of coronavirus in the institution. The memo reads: “ The university management at a recent meeting, considered and approved  Monday,  November 23, 2020 as the resumption date for all staff.This decision is in line with the directive of the Federal Government on the resumption of duties by all categories of staff. “Consequently, all staff are hereby requested to resume normal duties. Staff are therefore, enjoined to abide by the necessary precautionary measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19.”