Lagos State has ordered full enforcement and clampdown on belligerent okada riders, including tricycle operators, who have continued to defy traffic laws and attack Task Force officials on enforcement duties. On Tuesday, a mob of okada riders attacked Task Force officials in Mile 2, vandalising three vehicles and injuring one para-military officer. On Wednesday, another mob attacked and chased Task Force officials from Iyana Ipaka to Ikeja along Bus Stop. They also damaged BRT buses. Commissioner for Transport Frederic Oladeinde, who addressed a news conference on Thursday at the Bagauda Kaltho Press Centre, Alausa, lamented that the state had, in the last few months, witnessed lawless activities of okada riders as they violated traffic laws and perpetrated crime. Oladeinde directed all law enforcement agencies, including the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA), Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Vehicle Inspection Services (VIS), Police, Task Force and others, to begin immediate enforcement of the law. The commissioner also warned vehicle owners to desist from plying one-way and driving on BRT lane as anyone caught would face the wrath of the law. Oladeinde added that a joint Task Force would be set up to enforce the law. He said: “Okada and tricycles remain banned in six local governments and nine Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs) of Apapa; Lagos Mainland; Surulere; Ikeja; Eti-Osa; Lagos Island; Onigbongbo LCDA; Ojodu LCDA; Ikoyi-Obalende LCDA; Iru-Victoria Island LCDA; Lagos Island East LCDA; Apapa Iganmu LCDA; Yaba LCDA; Itire-Ikate LCDA; and Coker-Aguda LCDA. “They are also banned from plying the bridges at Dopemu, Iyana-Ipaja, Agege, Airport Road, Ojuelegba, Apapa-Iganmu, Liverpool, Mile 2, Cele-Ijesha, Agege Motor road/Oshodi loop, Mushin/Isolo link Bridge, Dorman Long Bridge. “Others are National Stadium Flyover, Apapa-Ijora link Bridge, Amuwo-Odofin, Okota (Cele) Ijesha link Bridge, Apakun/Apapa-Oshodi Brodge network and Ikorodu Road/Anthony Clover leaf Bridge, among others. “Failure to comply with the law will attract sanctions as stipulated in the TSRL 2018, with penalties ranging from N20,000 to three months imprisonment. Any motorist caught driving against traffic will have their vehicles impounded and forfeited in line with TSRL 2018, while the drivers will be equally charged to court. “We will continue to engage with the transport unions and associations to ensure their members cooperate with us to ensure public safety.” Vice Chairman of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) Alhaji Sulaiman Ojora said the union is ready to work with the government to sanitise transportation. According to him, many of the riders found on the highways are not members of the unions. He, therefore, urged government to come hard on errant operators. Ojora added that the unions are also curtailing their members from flouting the traffic laws.