 Flutterwave, Africa’s fast-rising payments technology company has announced the launch of its payment protection promise, a new policy that protects customers when shopping online and dealing with merchants on its payment platform. The policy acts as a money-back guarantee to shoppers when an item or service purchased does not arrive, is faulty, damaged on arrival or does not match the item that was listed. The new policy is part of the company’s attempt to alleviate the fears of online shoppers and boost their confidence and sense of security when using Flutterwave’s payment solutions. The Payment Protection Promise is primarily meant to further strengthen the growing online shopping culture in Africa and displace the scepticism often associated with patronising e-commerce businesses. The policy is being kickstarted in Nigeria and covers only Nigerian transactions with a transaction value starting from N 10,000 and below. Flutterwave’s Founder & CEO, Olugbenga GB Agboola, while commenting on the new policy, stated that “The goal of the Flutterwave Payments Protection Promise is to ensure that all who shop online and pay with Flutterwave are confident that they can shop safely and get value for their money. We understand that with the rising online shopping culture in Africa, there are bound to be issues of lack of trust in online businesses and we are using this policy to close that gap. “When anyone sees the Flutterwave logo while shopping online, we want them to feel safe and confident knowing that they are covered. This policy is also beneficial to our merchants as it will boost patronage and sales due to increased customer confidence and assurance of value” he added. Under the Flutterwave Payments Protection Promise, merchants can file counterclaims when wrongly accused. However, merchants found to be repeatedly fraudulent will be delisted from Flutterwave’s payment platforms. The company has highlighted various means through which customers can dispute a transaction, they can either self-serve through the Flutterwave dispute page or make use of Flutterwave’s support channels via email, the live chat on the Flutterwave website, or  or their social media platforms.