When it comes to the issue concerning a man and a woman, the intrigues involved cannot be overemphasized. Especially when they are both romantically inclined a lot is really involved. They try to impress each other with everything within their reach. They try to look and act good just to get the other party to fall deeper and deeper in love. Then comes a time in the relationship when the man needs or wants to know how old the lady he is involves is really is. So he summons up the courage and asks ‘Baby@, how old are you? She hesitates a little thinking in her head” how old would be appropriate to tell this guy; or she thinks: “How old would he want me to be”; so she quickly responds oh; I am 30 or less depending on how old the guy is. I once read somewhere that. “a lady that can tell her age, can tell anything come to think of it, what has age got to do with anything. To me, you are as old as you feel! It is because of the emphasis our men folk attach to our age that makes ladies to lie about their age every lady wants to win an ideal man depending on her taste. And if reducing the age will make some women win the men of their dreams, well…. Why not? Once upon a time, I read somewhere that Nancy Reagan, the former first lady of United States, once celebrated her 60th birthday when in actual fact she was 62 years old. I have a mischievous female friend who has celebrated her 35th birthday for the third time. Another female colleague of mine come September will be celebrating her 40th birthday when in fact she will be 44. Well, guess why she reduced her age? She met and fell in love with a 45 year old divorcee who is proposing marriage to her. In order to keep him hooked she had to slice off four years from her age. Fortunately or unfortunately, it is working, for some reasons it is considered rude to ask a woman her age. Why should this be? I sometimes wonder. Surely age should not be such a big deal or should it? Clearly, for some women it is particularly for those who have reached their forties and fifties, and if they look younger than their years why would they want to admit to being older in a society which is obsessed with youthfulness? Women face a hard enough time as it is, since they are more likely to be discriminated against because of their gender, once you throw in age as well, then they could also be subject to ageism. This is a common problem faced by older women; studies have shown. So, it is hardly surprising that some will lie about their real age to make themselves appear younger than they are. In a situation where they are unable to get away with such a lie since they actually look their age, or may be even older, there are those who are prepared to take significant step to change their appearance so that they can look younger than they are. There are those women who were born with good genes according to Michelle Wilkinson, so that wrinkles and other tell-tale signs of age are not as much of a problem for them as for women who weren’t as lucky with genes they were given. Ultimately, however, limiting the signs of ageing depends on the kind of lifestyle a person leads. If you eat well, exercise regularly, avoid siting in the sun for too long, have never smoked and only drink alcohol in moderation, chances are you will look younger than a hardworking chain smoker. Women these days are prepared to spend a lot of money on cosmetic’s and anti-ageing products more out of hope that they will have an effect rather than actual belief they will work. Older women want to be as attractive as when they were younger so that they can still turn men’s head, particularly if they find themselves single as older women or lady. They dye their hair, shed some weight. If they can and apply various products to their face in an attempt to disguise their age and will even lie if necessary. The isn’t enough for some women and there are those who spend money undergoing plastic surgery, from breast implantations to nose lifts, cheeks filled out, their lips pumped up and their wrinkles obliterated with the help of minimally invasive cosmetic procedures. In a youth-obsessed world, older women are having to compete with their female counterparts; in terms of jobs and relationships; and some are prepared to use rather underhand measures to stay on top, which means hiding their real age. The truth remains that it is a youth obsessed world here and our females are definitely playing their part.