The Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, has assured men of the Ondo Police Command of adequate protection if they follow the right procedure in enforcing law and order. Adamu urged the Ondo command not to be demoralised nor afraid of carrying out their duties in the event that followed the #ENDSARS protest. He said the police authorities would defend any personnel that is diligent and adhered to the professional ethics of the force. The IGP spoke on Thursday in Akure while addressing officers of the Ondo State Police Command as part of his tours of states affected by the #ENDSARS protest. Adamu noted that no nation could survive without policing even as he informed them that the Buhari administration has taken various steps to reform the Nigerian Police. According to him, “The government has approved an extension of health scheme to retired police personnel. The police salary structure has been reviewed affecting all ranks. “Your job is important. Without you coming out, there will be chaos and you are special. “Plans have been concluded for the renovation of police barracks across the country. “You will not be demoralised. You’re being given a task to protect and you must do your job with confidence and you will also be protected. Follow the right procedure and do the right thing. Nothing will happen. “The law allows you to protect citizens and yourself,” he said. Commissioner of Police in the state, Bolaji Salami, said the #EndSars protest caused the destruction of the ‘A’ Division, the former SARS office along with the Oda Road Division, the Police Band office and the Police Officers’ Mess, all in Akure. Salami added that in the Okitipupa area, the Command suffered massive destructions of the Area Command and its Divisional Police Headquarters. POWA shops, Ore and ‘B’ Division, Owo were also not spared, not to mention the fatalities the command suffered in Ondo town and Ore respectively. According to him, the police in the state have returned to their respective duty posts since it is their duty to protect lives and property. He promised that the command would remain loyal and more professional in its desire to serve the people of the state, thanking the IGP for elevating the junior ranks to their next levels.