The Northeast representative on the All Progressive Congress (APC) Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, Professor Tahir Mamman (SAN) on Thursday urged the party faithful in Taraba to close ranks and work together to ensure victory in subsequent elections in the state. Mamman made the call in Jalingo while addressing members at the party’s state Secretariat. He noted that there was a serious need for reconciliation of all party members as the house was big enough to accommodate all members and even welcome a lot more. “There should be justice and a level playing ground for all, regardless of their background and class. “We must work together if we really want to achieve the desired results. We are all critical stakeholders and must allow unity and party interest to prevail. “You must begin to select leaders and your representatives based on their track records of good works and worthy characters rather than sentiments and biases. “It is very important that we distinguish ourselves from the norm that has kept the party system in the country backward for so long,” Mamman said. He further urged the people to carry women along and ensure that they are fully represented in all the activities of the party and give them chances for elective positions so that they do not feel sidelined. Earlier, the state party chairman Mr. Tukur El-Sudi lamented that despite working hard for the success of the party, the APC in Taraba was poorly represented at the Federal level and urged the federal government to consider giving more positions to party members in the state. El-Sudi lamented that many federal government empowerment schemes in the state were high jacked by the state government, repackaged and shared to PDP members to look as though they were incentives provided by the state government. He insisted that the APC has demonstrated steady progression in the state in the last two general elections when the party scored over 290,000 votes and 335,000 in 2015 and 2019 elections respectively and is positioned to take over power in the state, with adequate support of the government at the Federal level.