As Nigeria officially enters its worst economic recession in over three decades, a diaspora Yoruba coalition, the Yoruba One Voice (YOV), has restated its commitment to self-determination. It said Nigeria cannot work under the current arrangement. In a statement issued to reporters by its Secretary-General, Dr. Sina Okanlomo, the group said it was committed to liberating the Yoruba nation from the shackles of bondage the current political class had plunged it into. Okanlomo, who said YOV, which is in 176 countries across the world, is the umbrella body of over 300 groups of Yoruba descendants worldwide, added that its reason for seeking self-determination was to save the country from impending implosion. Blaming the political elite for the sorry state of the country, the body said: “Now that the country is in recession, politicians in Abuja who have been paying lip service to the issue of true federalism and restructuring have realised that the country cannot make headway with the current unitary structure. “The money these politicians are sharing in Abuja is the major reason they cannot speak the truth on the need to urgently restructure the country in order to save it from implosion. “Nigeria has failed. The country is failing by the day. Prominent Nigerians have raised the alarm that the country can break up even before 2023, if we continue to be irresponsible and reckless, yet the current government is not bothered.” The group opposed the planned regulation of the social media by the President Muhammadu Buhari administration, saying it was worrisome why a government that admitted it came into power through the social media would want to clamp down on it now. “The same social media bill in Nigeria cannot work because it is calculated to silence Nigerians, especially the media. It is surprising how a government that admitted that social media played a crucial role in its emergence in 2015 will be contemplating killing the same social media now.” Also speaking about the lingering border closure, the body condemned the secret granting of waiver to Dangote and BUA group, describing it as selective treatment. It said the Federal Government should extend the goodwill to others or lift the order on the border closure.