 The Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) Benin Branch has decried the high rate of criminality in Edo State in recent times and the inability of the police to contain the scourge. It appealed to the government and police authorities to rise to their constitutional duties and not to allow the state descend into anarchy. The Lion Bar said it was roaring over the incessant armed robberies, cult killings and insecurity within Benin metropolis, adding that it was worried over the increasing wave of violent crimes such as armed robbery, kidnapping, assassination and cult killings in Edo. It passed 10 resolutions at its emergency meeting held on Wednesday, at the Constance Momoh Hall of its secretariat. The resolutions were contained in a statement issued by the Chairman, Pius I. Oiwoh, and the Secretary, O. A Lawani. They include: “That the Police should rise to the occasion and perform their statutory roles, which have now been largely abandoned despite the directives and appeal by the Inspector General of Police (“IGP”) and the Governor of Edo State respectively. “The state government is hereby urged to urgently make good its laudable promises of rebuilding the various Police Stations torched by criminal elements in the recent crises across the state and the provision of vehicles to aid movement by the Police. “The government should live up to its constitutional responsibility of protecting lives and properties in the state. “The Lion Bar throws its weight behind the clamour for state police. It commends the efforts of the state government in recently churning out over 700 special constables aimed at community policing. “The Lion Bar is worried about the perceived failure, neglect and refusal of the Police to carry out their statutory duties which inaction is a fallout of the #EndSARS protests. It is hereby requested that those who are unwilling to work, should honourably resign to pave way for those willing to work. “Other security agencies, aside the Police should collaborate with one another to ensure the security of lives and properties of citizens.” It further urged parents to keep watch over their children and wards. The branch added: “It is unfortunate that a large number of our children have been denied proper parenting, consequently resulting in their joining of different secret cults and committing acts of violence in the society. “Religious bodies and traditional institutions should imbibe in their members the core values of honesty, hard work, the fear of God, and the need to shun evil practices. “The Lion Bar demands the immediate dismantling of road blocks in the G.R.A. axis of the city centre, particularly around the state police headquarters which is largely responsible for the traffic in the city and also poses a security risk.” “The Lion Bar expresses with dismay the near absence of the five units of Mobile Policemen deployed by the IGP to Edo State as their effect is not in any way felt.”