  A United Kingdom-based company, Jozolu has promised to empower African artisans and entrepreneurs while attracting foreign capital to the continent. The firm, which opened its Lagos office at the weekend, is focused on creating wealth for Africans, empowering young entrepreneurs and supporting economic development through job creation and capacity building for the population. Speaking during the grand opening of its Lagos office at Ikota Shopping Complex, Victoria Garden City,  Ajah, Lagos, Chief Executive Officer, Jozolu, Olga Dicuasa, said Nigeria’s over 190 million population is a great advantage that entrepreneurs and businesses should explore. She explained that Jozolu was established to create employment opportunities for the teeming young population in Nigeria and other African countries, where it will also expand in the nearest future. She said the fashion company specializes in men’s shoes and leather products, and will soon start hand-made of women bags, belts, wallets, and shoes, among others. In a report on its website, Dicuasa said the need to be financially independent and support young entrepreneurs was motivation for the business. “It has always been my dream and desire to support young and talented entrepreneurs, from the motherland, to achieve their dreams. There is so much raw undiscovered talent over there that I made it my mission to discover them, offer them a platform where they can showcase their talent and create a brand at the same time,” Dicuasa said. Managing Director, Jozolu, Adetayo Adewole, said: “Jozolu searches for creative local artisans who have great talent and ambition and together we build a brand of high quality premium leather products. All our products are handcrafted with love and passion, therefore they are unique on their own.” Continuing, Dicuasa said the company, which deals in premium leather products, began an online shop in January to promote Africa to the world. “The idea that Africa is a place people do not love good things is not correct. We want to show the world that we can produce good products with high quality and standard.  After Nigeria, we will expand to The Gambia, Ghana, Burkina Faso, among others. We are currently in search of good artisans, from black community,” she said. 