 Crisis is brewing in Ugbonla community in Ilaje local government area of Ondo over plans to install village head (Baale) by His Royal Majesty, Oba Frederick Obateru Akinruntan, Olugbo of Ugbo Kingdom. The community is under the leadership of Dr. H.M. Ogunfeyimi Atarioye Ajigbade Lene II, who is regarded as the Spiritual Head and Supreme leader of Zion Ministry Worldwide. Residents of Ugbonla in a statement appealed to Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu to call Oba Akinrunta to sustain peace in the community. The residents said the non-interference in its affairs would enable Ugbonla Zion to remain in cohesion and maintain the powerful, indivisible and strong worldwide religious organisation for which objective the founding fathers founded the Zion ministry. A statement in Akure and signed by its General Secretary Superior Boanerge Claudius Omogbemi, the Ugbonla residents said they occupied the area in 1925 with the approval of Oba Josiah Ejagbomo, who was the reigning Olugbo of Ugbo land. The statement noted that having a Baale installed in Ugbonla Zion was dangerous and negatively at variance with the statute , doctrine and practice over which Zion ministry was founded by the founding fathers. According to the statement: “This Zion Community, Ugbonla has been harmoniously living together for 72 years. “It brokers peace, unity and communal development across Ondo State and Nigeria at large . “For the past 72 years, the ministry has being in existence, there has being only one church in the land. That is to demonstrate the level of unity, harmony and cohesion in the community. It is indeed Jerusalem in Africa , with one denominational church, where diverse nations across the world troop down to peacefully worship God Almighty. “This is another ENDSARS crisis gathering momentum in Ilaje land of Ondo State. We believe it is ideal and rational to allow sleeping dog to lie.” When contacted for comments, a close aide to Oba Akinruntan, said they were celebrating 11 anniversary of the Olugbo of Ugbo and would respond at the appropriate time.    