The police have arrested three persons in connection with the attack on the Christian Universal Church International belonging to father of Rivers Governor, Nyesom Wike. Hoodlums numbering about five sneaked into the church on 25 Azikiwe Street Mile, 3 Diobu, on Saturday night and detonated the explosives suspected to be dynamites. It was gathered a significant part of the church was damaged by the explosion, which created panic in the area. Though no group had claimed responsibility for the dastardly act, three of the miscreants were said to have been apprehended by a vigilant group and handed over to the police. The operatives of Eagle crack, an outfit of the state police command, Mopol 19 and other security agencies were said to have cordoned off the area. The Assistant Chief Security Officer of the Azikiwe Street Security, Collins Johnbull, said one of his men was hit by a bullet in the process of chasing the suspects. He, however, said the affected Local vigilant group member was immediately rushed to a nearby hospital for treatment. Narrating the incident, Johnbull said: “On Saturday, 28th November, 2020, while I was on my duty post, we observed some movements around 8pm to 9pm and we were on the alert, before then we saw some strange faces, about five of them that entered into the governor’s father’s church. “We thought they were church members having their normal evening programme, but we were suspicious of them because of the way they were moving. “By God’s grace, we were able to apprehend three of the criminals that attacked the church, while two escaped. We did everything in our power to apprehend the hoodlums, as we are talking now, one of my men who was hit by a bullet is receiving treatment.” The Police Public Relations Officer, Nnamdi Omoni, said the arrested suspects were helping the police in their investigations. He said: “I can confirm the attack on the Church and three suspects arrested in connection with the attack. They are helping us in our Investigation. The Church has been swept by the Bomb Department”.