 SIERRA LEONE fought back from 4-0 down away to Nigeria to draw 4-4 on Friday in their 2021 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier after a spectacular comeback in Benin City. The Super Eagles were coasting towards a third win from three in Group L after racing to a 4-0 lead inside the first half hour of the match. Everton forward Alex Iwobi scored twice, with his first goal coming in the fourth minute. Napoli’s Victor Osimhen found the net after 21 minutes on his return to Nigeria’s team. Osimhen then set up Iwobi who got his second goal six minutes later and Villareal’s Samuel Chukwueze added a fourth, with another assist from Osimhen. Sierra Leone began their stunning fight back just before half-time when Kwame Quee grabbed what looked to be a consolation goal. Alhaji Kamara began to stamp his mark on the match. He added a second for the visitors after 72 minutes to make it 4-2. Mustapha Bundu then added a third for Sierra Leone to make it 4-3 with 10 minutes remaining. Nigeria were left stunned as Alhaji Kamara completed an astonishing performance by his team with an equaliser four minutes from time. Nigeria remain top of their group on seven points – with Sierra Leone third, five points adrift. Second placed Benin play bottom side Lesotho on Saturday. Also on Friday, Niger beat Ethiopia 1-0 in Niamey thanks to a second half Youssef Oumarou penalty. Niger and Ethiopia are both on three points in Group K behind the top two, Ivory Coast and Madagascar, who are both on six points. The Africa Cup of Nations finals will be played in Cameroon in 2022. Meanwhile, disappointed Nigeria football fans at the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium prevented the Super Eagles players from leaving the match venue after disappointing 4-4 scoreline in the Nigeria versus Sierra Leone match-day 3 CAF African Nations Cup qualifiers BSNSports.com.ng can report. The Super Eagles had scored four goals in the first half only to lose the four goals to Sierra Leone in the second half. The fans stayed back as Nigeria were leading 4-0 only to be shocked when the Sierra Leoneans levelled up.