A Finance Management expert, Nick Agule, has advised accountants to always be prepared for the tasks by upgrading  their competencies and techniques. He gave the advice while presenting a paper on Financial Management Innovations and Sustainable Growth at the 25th Annual Conference of the Association of National Accountants of Nigeria (ANAN) in Abuja. According to him, financial management is one of the most important aspects in business and refers to the strategic planning, organising, directing, and controlling of financial undertakings in an organisation or an institute which also includes applying management principles to the financial assets of an organisation, while also playing an important part in fiscal management. “The gold standard in Financial Management is more revenue, less costs, more investments. Under these prevailing global economic conditions, the accountant has no choice than to be innovative, and technology is a Siamese twins with innovation. The place of the accountant must be at the forefront and should even be the one initiating the disruptive technologies and not just being hit by them,’’Agule said. He mentioned public sector finance opportunities including Extractive – oil and gas, solid minerals;  Agriculture – farming, fishing, agro-processing; Manufacturing services – financial services, utilities, communications, real estate, information technology, hospitality & leisure, tourism, He also mentioned Quaternary sector – knowledge economy, education, research and development; Low tax regime and wide tax gap – scope for increased revenues as well as largest market in Africa – Virgin economy – enormous untapped pot. According to Agule, the strengths of the Nigerian economy include: a virgin economy largely unexploited where any product or service well-produced and delivered is bound to locate significant market. He said: “The options open to the Nigerian public sector for financial management innovations include: Grow the economy – translating to growth in revenues to support increased government expenditure that generates sustainable economic development; End Power cuts – Presidential intervention urgently needed at the leadership of oil and gas companies to convert gas flares into electricity. “Monumental economic growth will result from adequate power supply to the nation; and Technology: run Nigeria with one database.’’ Agule said the 21st century post-COVID-19 financial managers could consider the following areas for innovation: Expand funding platforms – hedge funds, private equity, weather derivatives, retail structured products, exchange-traded funds, multi-family offices and Islamic bonds (Sukuk) are options to consider for financial management innovation. He also listed Capital market – the capital market provides great options in the regime of falling money market yields, saying that there was room for creation of new securities, markets and institutions which were all worth a look into by financial managers. According to him, Shareholder’s wealth – a goal-oriented financial management system that maximises shareholder’s wealth by paying high dividends and/or causing the market value to increase will be a beautiful bride for any capital market play to attract investors. Agule said that financial management was at the heart of the well-being of public and private sector organisations and businesses.