As industry practitioners in the tourism and transport summit prepare for the third edition of the annual event, the Nigerian Institute of Hospitality and Tourism, Nigerian Institute of Transport Technology  (NITT) and Nigerian College of Aviation Technology (NCAT) will headline the third edition of the summit. These are apex public sector training bodies in the sector. The agencies are playing a greater role in this year’s event due to the focus on capacity building and professio- nalization of the tourism and transportation sector. The chairman of the summit’s organizing committee, Chief Abiodun Odusanwo said the industry will be faced with new challenges in the post COVID-19 era and that building industry capacity and professionalization of the workforce has become key  for the sector.   He said NIHOTOUR, just like NITT and NCAT are making giant strides in capacity training. “These are some of the things we are going to focus on during the summit.  The industry, post COVID-19, has changed. It is important to look at these and how we can deliver for the sector of the country’s economic growth. These are some of the things that have made this year’s edition very crucial The third edition of the annual National Tourism and Transportation Summit and Expo (NTTS) earlier postponed a s result of the COVID-19 Pandemic will hold next month (December) on 7th and 8th at the Abuja International  Conference Centre (AICC).  The theme for this year’s summit is ‘Repositioning tourism and transportation connectivity and mobility to revitalize the economy.’  Sub-themes to be discussed at the summit include: Repositioning, the nation’s maritime for sustainable growth and improved contribution to Gross Domestic Product (GDP); Tourism and transportation interdependency: best practices and impact; Blue economy: Panacea to sustainable development of transportation and tourism in Nigeria. The Chairman of the Summit’s organizing committee, Chief Abiodun Odusanwo, said  as countries’ economies  gradually pick up from the COVID-19 pandemic, it has made it important for  different sectors of the Nigerian economy to re-strategise on how to get the nation’s economy back on track. He said further: “It has been a trying period for individuals, families, organizations and nations; the NTTS was not an exception. We have been consulting daily and finally saw the need to still hold the Summit and Expo as one of the strategies to kick-start our sector of the economy.” He once again re-iterated that   some other developments like the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) Agreement which is going to be the largest single Free Trade Area among the World Trade Organization (WTO) and many more have made holding the summit of great importance. The summit is expected to hold on December 7 and 8 at AICC, the award and gala nite will hold in the evening of December 8 also at the AICC.