Youths of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the South East have warned the Imo state Governor, Senator Hope Uzodimma to desist from his campaign of calumy against Senator Rochas Okorocha’s Presidential bid ahead of the 2023 general elections. The group under the South East APC Young Progressives Forum also cautioned Ohaneze Ndigbo from being used by those it described as scrupulous and hungry elements to drag its name to the mud. The National Convener, Comrade Paschal Candle, in a statement on Wednesday, particularly frowned at the comment credited to one Osmond Nkeoma, claiming that Okorocha was unfit to be the President of Nigeria. He insisted that the statement was not only petty, uncalled for and embarrassment to the group and Ndigbo in general, but a demonstration of the weakness of the apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation. He called on Uzodinma to concentrate on governance, stressing that his recent activities had shown he was out to fight Okorocha for no just cause. The statement partly read, “Our Attention has been drawn on the recent visit of one Osmond Nkeoma and some scrupulous elements to Imo State government where they claimed that Senator Rochas Okorocha is unfit to become the President of Nigeria. Their reasons were based on baseless fact that Okorocha achieved nothing while he was Governor. “Ohaneze Ndigbo is a reverred umbrella body and voice of Ndigbo and should not allow some scrupulous and hungry elements to bring its name to the mud. The South East Young Progressive Forum finds the statement issued by Osmond Okeoma as an embarrassment to APC Young Progressive Forum and Ndi Igbo in general. “We warn Mr Osmond Okeoma and his cohorts to desist from such act of pull him down syndrome. We stand for Nigerian President of Igbo Extraction, not Igbo President of Nigeria. The likes of Senator Rochas Okorocha, Chief Peter Obi, Senator Orji Uzo Kalu, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, Governor Dave Umahi, Okonjo Iweala and so many others are eligible and qualified to become Nigerian President in 2023 if eventually zoned to South East. “We make bold to say that the visit of the so called Mr Osmond Okeoma and his scrupulous elements was a hatchet job of Imo State Governor to discredit Senator Rochas Okorocha Presidential bid and we will not allow such to happen. “We as a group are not here to highlight the achievements of Senator Rochas Okorocha as Imo State Governor, but to make it clear that Igbo President is a collective project achieveable by collective efforts with love, unity of purpose and brotherhood. “We urge Ohaneze Ndigbo to desist from being used by some elements who did not mean well for Ndi Igbo. Ohaneze Ndigbo and Governor Hope Uzodimma alone cannot determine the Igbo man that can be President of Nigeria. We will want them to learn from history. “We call on Ohaneze Ndigbo to call their members to order and for them to mind their utterances. If there is one person who has brought peace to Ohaneze Ndi Igbo and supports Ohaneze ndi Igbo, it is Senator Rochas Okorocha. “We urge our leaders mostly those in APC from South-East to re-strategise for 2023. Our leaders should start now to consult, interact and negotiate with other parts of Nigeria on why they should support South East this time. We maintain that power is not given, power is taken.”