Former Ambassador to Thailand Ahmad Nuhu Bamalli was on Monday presented with the Staff of Office as the 19th Fulani Emir of Zazzau. Amidst funfair and the colourful traditional horse riding, popularly known as Durbar in the ancient city of Zaria, Bamalli’s coronation was witnessed by eminent personalities. The include President Muhammadu Buhari; the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar (III), former Vice President Namadi Sambo; Emir of Kano, Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero and the Etsu Nupe, Alhaji Yahaya Abubakar. The President was represented by Environment Minister Dr. Mohammed Mahmoud Abubakar. Bamalli, who is of the Malawa Ruling House, succeeds the former emir, the late Alhaji Shehu Idris of the Katsinawa Ruling house, who ruled for 45 years. His appointment sparked controversy as he was picked from outside the three topmost contenders for the throne recommended to Governor Nasir El-Rufai by the Zazzau kingmakers. Presenting the Instrument of Office to him at the Race Course in Zaria, El-Rufai explained that Bamalli’s appointment afforded his government an opportunity to redress a colonial injustice done to the Malawa clan. The governor recalled the emir’s grandfather Aliyu Dan Sidi was unjustly deposed by the colonial Governor of Northern Region, Herbert Symonds Goldsmith 100 years ago. According to him, the handing over the Staff of Office to Emir Bamalli  ‘’is taking place exactly 100 years since the colonial Governor of Northern Region, Herbert Symonds Goldsmith, unjustly deposed your grandfather, Emir Aliyu Dan-Sidi of blessed memory.’’ The governor noted that the vacancy created by the demise of Alhaji Idris also gave the government the opportunity to return to the enduring principles that guided the appointment of emirs under the Sokoto Caliphate. He said: “Shehu Usman Dan Fodio in his seminal work ‘Bayan Wujub Al-Hijra’ was crystal clear that there are nine qualities of Islamic leadership – wisdom, learning, clemency, generosity, kindness, righteousness, patience, gratitude, and leniency which entails avoidance of harshness. “It is on the basis of due regards to these customs, rules and enabling laws that Almighty Allah chose Your Highness to be our emir, and imposed on me the constitutional duty to appoint you. I therefore call on all those that contested the emirship to accept the will of Allah and join hands with the 19th Emir of Zazzau for progress and harmony in the Emirate.” The governor appealed to “title holders, district heads, members of the Emirate Council, the good people of Zazzau Emirate, and indeed all the citizens of Kaduna State, to rally around our new emir by extending to him their full support and cooperation in the same way they extended support to his predecessors to enable speedy development of the Emirate and the State in general. “This administration expects the loyalty of all persons to our emirs and chiefs and will take firm and decisive action against any person that attempts to undermine, in any shape or form, the non-partisan and noble status of our traditional institution, particularly Zazzau Emirate.  “The new traditional institution’s law will also legislate clear dynastic succession order in all emirates and chiefdoms with more than one ruling house, outline guiding principles for the recommendations of district heads, traditional council members, emirs and chiefs, for appointment, consider expanding the membership of councils, and clearer roles of the kingmakers.” In his tribute to the late emir, El Rufai noted that Alhaji Idris had a most distinguished reign. He said: “In his 45 years as emir, he was regarded as a just and fair ruler, a peacemaker par excellence, an outstanding administrator and a kind hearted leader and father. “He contributed immensely to the successes recorded by our administration, especially in the critical areas of education, preventive healthcare, peace building and mass mobilisation. “His fatherly advice and guidance in our then weekly Security Council meetings would remain indelible in our minds.  May Jannatul Firdaus be his final abode.” The governor urged Bamalli to consolidate on the solid foundation already put in place by his predecessor. “The admirable effort you are making to unify Zazzau Emirate should continue, while remaining open and receptive to positive contributions from all the relevant stakeholders,” the governor said. Speaking through his representative, President Buhari urged the emir to be fair and just to all in the Emirate. He also urged Bamalli to emulate the good virtues of the late emir, whose contributions towards the peace and unity of Zazzau Emirate, Kaduna State and Nigeria as a whole, has been widely acknowledged. In his acceptance remarks, Emir Bamalli said his accession to the throne, though seen as controversial by some, “is undoubtedly the will of Allah.” He said: “This is an auspicious day in more ways than one. Not only am I being formally installed as the Emir of Zazzau, significantly, today marks 100 years since Mallam Aliyu Sidi Abdul-Qadir was deposed as Emir of Zazzau by the British. “This honourable and principled man was the fourth and last reigning Emir from the Mallawa Clan to which I belong. I am therefore proud to be his successor, as well as that of Mallam Abubakar Musa, Mallam Sidi Abdul-Qadir Musa, and Mallam Musa, who was the flagbearer of Shehu Usman dan Fodio, first Fulani Emir of Zazzau, my great great grandfather and the founder of the Mallawa Clan. “My accession to the exalted throne of Zazzau, whilst seen as controversial by some, is undoubtedly the will of Allah and I urge you all to come together so that united we can collectively rebuild our fragmented society, region and indeed the country at large. “I would like to reiterate what I have said before since being proclaimed Emir. I reach out to all the contenders who put their names forward for the emirship following the death of Sarkin Zazzau Alhaji Shehu Idris. “I employ you all to join me in showing a united front in the work ahead. We have much to do in the service of our people and more experienced hands than few will make the work lighter and more impactful. “I reach out to you to work in the spirit of the brotherhood we share in Islam as well as that we share through the many blood connections between our clans. There are many societal issues that we wish to help our people surmount, this can only be effectively achieved through the concerted efforts of us all.” “I have always taken a great interest and have a deep commitment and strong appreciation for the traditions and history of Northern Nigeria, which, like my late father, Magajin Garin Zazzau Mallam Nuhu Bamalli, I have endeavoured to promote at every opportunity. “There is no greater time to enhance and promote the institution of traditional leadership than as an Emir. We therefore make a pledge to you today of our intention to continue the good works of all our predecessors, most notably the late Emir of Zazzau, Alhaji Shehu Idris, whose long reign of close to 46 years brought enormous changes and development to Zazzau Emirate. I intend to build on his legacy as well as adapt methodologies to reflect modern times, by embracing technology and communication in order to keep up with the rapid changes taking place all around us. We intend to do this without losing the essence of our traditions and practices. “I would like to thank the Kaduna State Government for its tireless efforts in undertaking a great number of public works under the stewardship of His Excellency the Governor of Kaduna State, Mallam Nasir Ahmad El Rufai. “These works and policies have positively impacted the people of Zazzau Emirate. We look forward to working closely with Your Excellency in our efforts to improve the condition of our people.” Other dignitaries at the coronation include: Shehu of Borno, Alhaji Umar Ibn Garbai El-kenemi, Emir of Bauchi, Alhaji Rilwanu Adamu and Deputy Governor of Kogi State, Mr. Edward Onoja, among others.