The immediate past Bauchi Governor Mohammed Abubakar is working assiduously to return to power in 2023, The Nation can exclusively report. It was also learnt former House of Representatives Speaker Yakubu Dogara and Abubakar who were political foes before the latter rejoined the All Progressive Congress (APC) have reunited. The duo has been mobilising APC executives in the state to regain power in 2023 after suffering a devastating defeat in the hands of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) at the 2019 gubernatorial poll. They were said to have recognised the need to join forces and forge a common front to dislodge the ruling party (PDP) in the state. A high ranking member of the party in the state, who spoke in confidence with The Nation, said Abubakar has started some underground politicking. Aside from the former Governor, the source said seven other APC prominent members have also shown interest in the governorship seat. According to him, they include Senator Halliru Dauda Jika representing Bauchi Central and Senator Lawal Yahaya Gumau representing Bauchi South. Others are: Dr.Musa Babayo (Talban of Katagum); Hon. Farouk Mustapha Azare,
Ambassador Yusuf M.Tuggar, Captain Bala M. Jibrin Azare, Sen. Abubakar Maikafi ( Danmadamin Bauchi), Sen. Adamu Bulkachuwa representing Bauchi North) and Hon Nura Manu Soro, the former Commissioner of Finance, who resigned from Bala Mohammed’s administration. The confidential source, however, stated the major challenge of the ex-Governor is reconciliation with major stakeholders in the party. He said Abubakar needs to be proactive in reconciling with Mallam Adamu Adamu, immediate past Speaker, House of Reps member Amido Ali and Air Vice- Marshall Sadiq Abubakar aside Dogara. According to him: “It’s not yet time but this are the people that have showed interest so far and they have started politicking at their various levels. ” Abubakar is very popular in the party as a former Governor but he needs to be very proactive in reconciling with the critical stakeholders who hitherto worked against him in 2019. ” He ought to do more when it comes to reconciliation, He ought to have learnt from his defeat, if not because of the wrangling with critical stakeholders , he would have to be in his second term by now.” The source, who admitted though its too early but the party is serious about regaining power. He explained: ”By the time this is done, we conduct a primary, whoever emerges as our candidate, we will work in unity to sell the manifesto of the party and canvass support for the party candidate 2023 so that we can conveniently dislodge Bala Mohammed who is being grossly accused of nepotism by friends and families, this is a sad development in the state that we have not seen in the past. ”Now we have a new leader of the party in the name of the Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu, and the Chairman of the party remains Ubah Nana. “We are working with one voice in the party towards the sustenance of the reconciliation embarked upon by the leaders of the party at the state level and for the success of the party in 2023. ”A committee headed by Hon. Isah Matori has also been set up by the Chairman, to resolve other misunderstandings in the party. ”The ticket belongs to the people until when we come to that primary then we will decide who flies the party ticket in 2023. “Based on popularity, based on agenda, consultations by critical stakeholders and members of the party then will decide.”