On Saturday 3 October 2020, a video showing a SARS police officer shooting a young Nigerian in front of Wetland Hotel, Ughelli, Delta went viral on the internet. It was alleged the police officers took away the young man’s vehicle – a Lexus SUV. The trending video caused public outcry on social media, especially on Twitter, with the #ENDSARS hashtag trending. Just as the ENDSARS trend began on Twitter, on Monday 5 October 2020, another report surfaced of SARS officers killing a 20-year-old upcoming musician named Daniel Chibuike, popularly called Sleek in his neighborhood. Sleek was said to be sitting in front of a hotel with a friend when the SARS officers approached them, prompting them to flee. According to an eyewitness, the SARS men pursued the pair, shouting “thief”, before shooting Sleek as they ran through a supermarket. His friend was arrested. On Thursday 8 October 2020, nationwide protests on ENDSARS started after weeks of outrage and anger with videos and pictures showing police brutality, harassment and extortion in Nigeria. The protests were led predominantly by young Nigerians in different cities alongside many activists and celebrities. The protests started on twitter by social media influencers and human right activists. Around 6:50 pm on October 20, security agents believed to be soldiers members opened fire on peaceful #EndSARS protesters at the Lekki toll gate in Lagos. Nigerian musician, DJ Switch, who recorded the incident, claimed armed soldiers and police officers shot at her and other peaceful #EndSARS protesters at the Lekki toll gate on Tuesday night. She claimed at least 15 people were killed in the shootings and she and other survivors took the victims’ bodies to the soldiers who took them away. Hoodlums, who hijacked the protests, moved on to warehouses were COVID-19 palliatives were kept. They looted and vandalised the warehouses before moving to private residences of prominent Nigerians, which they also looted and set on fire. It was a trying for the country as anarchy reigned while rule and order took the backstage. · Burning of police stations: The breakdown of order emboldened hoodlums to attack police operatives and formations across the nation. According to the Inspector General of Police, no fewer than 22 police operatives were killed while 205 police formations were burnt and vandalised. Some hoodlums on October 17, 2020 attacked Osun Governor Gboyega Oyetola shortly after he addressed #ENDSARS protests. The Governor later insisted it was an attempt on his life. The attack at the popular Ola-Iya Junction, Osogbo saw his convoy pelted with stones, sticks and cutlasses. On Oct 19, hoodlums stormed the Correctional facility in Oko, Benin and set inmates free. Over 2,000 inmates were said to have been set free while only a handful of them were rearrested. The hoodlums also made away with arms belonging to prison officials. A similar incident was recorded in Calabar. In Lagos, security agents repelled a similar attempt at the Ikoyi Correctional Centre. On Oct 22, President Muhammadu Buhari spoke to the nation about the unrest but without making any mention of the shootings of peaceful protesters at Lekki toll. This caused international outrage. Nigerians reacted on social media, describing the speech as lacking in inspiration.