In January 19, 2013, villagers in Amansea, Awka, Anambra State woke up to find the bodies of over 35 people floating on Ezu River. The identities of both the killers and the killed were unknown. Four years later, a report released by the International Society for Civil Liberties and the Rule of Law, on July 2017, accused the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) of Anambra State Police Command of being responsible for the 35 corpses. The rights group in the report titled, “The Untold Story Of Ezu River Police SARS Killings, said it decided to revisit the matter following increasing, shocking, saddening and alarming rate of torture and killings of some, if not many of the arrested and detained citizens by the Anambra State Police SARS operatives in the course of their so-called combating of violent crimes of armed robbery and kidnapping. At that time, the now defunct SARS in Anambra State was headquartered at Awkuzu, a town in Oyi Local Government Area, where it had a major detention facility. Over the years, SARS was said to be the most- dreaded specialised police unit in the country. One story from Awkuzu SARS that has refused to fade away is the disappearance of Chijioke Iloanya, following his arrest in 2012 at a friend’s child dedication. Chijioke’s younger sister Obianuju Iloanya recently narrated how he was last seen in 2012 when he attended a child dedication at Ajali, Orumba North Local Government Area of Anambra State. She said:  ”It was at this child dedication that officers from Ajali Police Station rounded up everyone who was at the celebration, including Chijioke, from where they were transferred to the Special Anti Robbery Squad (SARS) Awkuzu. “The last time any member of the family saw Chijioke was the day our parents went to SARS office in Awkuzu. Our mum saw her son in their premises, (but) the officer in charge, James Nwafor, denied he was there. Some officers said he was bluffing and told my parents he wanted them to bring money.” She said her parents could not afford to make any offers because they had no money. “When we heard that SARS had dumped some bodies at Ezu River, my dad went to search for my brother but he was not there, it was such a hard time for us.” On October 15, Anambra State Governor Willie Obiano said he had sacked Nwafor as senior special assistant on security. Obiano announced Nwafor’s sack while speaking with #EndSARS protesters in Anambra. “James Nwafor, former OC SARS in Anambra State, is sacked and will be prosecuted,” Obiano said. Also part of his promise was to release those illegally arrested by the operatives of Special Anti-Robbery Squad. Obiano again on Saturday visited the Awkuzu SARS station and bailed three detainees. The Chijioke Iloanya disappearance is one of the cases to come before the 32-man Judicial Panel of Inquiry on SARS brutality in Anambra set up by Obiano in October 22. Last Tuesday, Ndukwe Ekekwere was brought before the Lagos Judicial Panel of Inquiry and Restitution for Victims of SARS Related Abuses and Lekki Toll Gate Incident in a wheel chair by his mother. He said he became paralysed and was confined to a wheelchair after he was pushed off a two-storey building in 2008 by men of SARS. The panel also heard how the dissolved police unit allegedly tortured a pregnant teacher and her husband for 22 days, till the wife lost her pregnancy. Ogechukwu Obiechina and his wife Ndubuisi said the incident occurred in June 2017, after the operatives falsely accused her of being a thief and kidnapper. Mrs Ndubuisi, who spoke for the couple, said she was two months pregnant at the time, but that during beatings, the men threatened to “force the baby out of me”. The private school teacher said on June 1, she received a text message from an unknown number that she had a parcel from DHL. A caller using different numbers asked for her home or office address and she gave him her school address upon her husband’s advice. It was the next day, June 2, 2017, that her ordeal began. She said the men arrived at her school in a black Sports Utility Vehicle (SUV). Mrs Ndubuisi said: “I saw a black jeep with huge men inside it. One of them was in a DHL uniform… “Immediately, they approached me, they started beating me. They said I should enter inside. They said I was a thief, an armed robber. The one in the DHL uniform removed it. My HM (Headmistress) was peeping at us. I said let me go and tell her. They said no.” The petitioner said she had a five-year-old son at the school, but they didn’t care. “ I said my kid is there, they said no, that I should follow them, that my kid would die there. My HM came to the gate; they pointed a gun at me. She asked what was going on. They said ‘This woman is a thief, a kidnapper. She must follow us and go. They said they were Police, SARS.” They pushed me inside the car and moved. The men were slapping, beating me. I was two months pregnant. I started vomiting. That’s when they found out I was pregnant. But they kept torturing me. I told them I did not know the suspect. “They took me to their office at Ikeja. They took me to a shrine. They hanged me, beat me. They said they would force my baby out of me. They said I must produce the person or die there,” Mrs Obiechina said. The witness testified further that her husband who had been searching for her at different police stations in Lagos was also arrested and tortured. She said: “they beat him. They put a tyre on his head, and said they would burn him alive. They started interrogating him, beat him with gun butt, hit him on the head with a stone. “During the beating, I urinated on my clothes; they said my pregnancy was not my husband’s, that I should bring the man who impregnated me.” She told the panel that they were put in different cells. “… I told them I had a five year-old son in school. They said ‘let him die there,” the petitioner said, adding that they eventually allowed her and her husband to call people to take care of their son. “My husband was in Cell 1, I was in Cell 2. It was a high open room. Rain and sun beat us.” They were eventually released upon payment of N250,000 and N150,000 “bail”, but her husband was re-arrested in October same year, during which she lost another pregnancy due to the fresh torture and trauma. She said: “While we were preparing for church on a Sunday, Philip Rilwan, Haruna and other SARS operatives intruded into our house. She said as a result of the “emotional trauma” she lost her second pregnancy. She testified that following further trauma from the torture SARS operatives meted out on her husband during his second arrest in October 2017, she lost another pregnancy. She said they sued the Police at the Federal High Court, Lagos in 2017 and won. According to her Justice Mohammed Idris ordered the Police to pay them N2 million as compensation. She said they also won at the Court of Appeal in Lagos in 2020 but the Police refused to comply with the judgment. The panel chair admitted the two judgments as exhibits. Like Anambra and Lagos, other states have also set up panels of enquiry looking into activities of the disbanded SARS. They include Osun, Edo, Ebonyi and Bayelsa states, among others. The panels were set up following directives from Vice President Yemi Osinbajo (SAN) after a meeting of the National Executive Council (NEC). The setting up of the panels was a core demand of #EndSARS protesters. Osinbajo stated on his Twitter handle on Friday, October 16, after the NEC meeting, that he chaired a meeting of 36 governors and the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory FCT (NEC), where they resolved to set up panels of inquiry to ensure  justice is not only  served but also fast to assuage victims. He said he had also been meeting with the Senate President, House of Reps, the Police and the Human Rights Commission over the nationwide protests. He explained that state governments were directed to set up the panels in accordance with the law. Osinbajo said: “The reason being that only state governors, by law, can set up judicial inquiries in their states. The hearings will be public. “We understand that you want to see action from us and I’m here to tell you that work is ongoing. I chaired a meeting of 36 state governors and the Minister of the FCT (NEC), where we resolved to set up judicial panels of inquiry so we can see justice served, and fast. “Dear Nigerians, I know that many of you are angry, and understandably so. We could’ve moved faster and for this we are sorry. “I fully understand how many young people feel. Many feel that we have been too silent and have simply not done enough. These feelings of frustration are justified,” Osinbajo said. He admitted that many Nigerians have been brutalised by the Police and the Federal Government must take responsibility fopr protecting the youth. Osinbajo said he had meetings with key people as the Federal Government followed the protests. “We understand that you want to see action from us and I’m here to tell you that work is ongoing. “We have proposed that each state government set up a Victims’ Support Fund, which the Federal Government will support. This is the least that we can do to compensate for the injustice suffered at the hands of errant officers.” Osinbajo admitted that the issues Nigerians were protesting about are bigger than just scrapping of SARS but assured that the government would take comprehensive measures to revamp the Police by addressing issues of welfare, service conditions, and training. The #EndSARS protesters demanded, among others, the dissolution of SARS, whose members were accused of abuses and atrocities including extortion, abduction, torture and extra-judicial killings. The protesters also asked for investigations into the allegations against SARS personnel as well as the immediate suspension of officers accused of committing atrocities. Although the Inspector General of Police Adamu Mohammed announced the scrapping of SARS three days into the protest, angry youths continued the protest as they demanded that President Muhammadu Buhari issue an Executive Order to back dissolution of SARS. The protests which kicked off in Alausa, Ikeja spread gradually to Abuja and later other parts of the country, particularly southern Nigeria. They were organised and peaceful until they were infiltrated by persons suspected to have been sponsored started attacking them. A video recording that went viral showed a lorry load of some people brought to the venue of the Abuja protest under the protection of the police, who attacked and disrupted the peaceful #EndSARS protesters. But in other parts of the country, the protests were conducted peacefully despite attacks by persons suspected to be pro-government hoodlums. On Wednesday, October 20, the protests in some parts of Lagos, especially at Orile and Mushin, turned violent after police officers shot some protesters. The Orile and Mushin police stations were razed by angry mobs. At least one police officer was lynched, and several others injured in the riots that ensued at Orile. The #EndSARS protests at Lekki Toll Gate attracted the widest condemnation from within and outside the country. The protest was peaceful until the evening of Tuesday October 20 when soldiers drafted to the scene shot at the protesters, leading to the killing two persons. Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, described the killing as “unavoidable and painful” in reaction to high number of casualties resulting from gunfire at the Lekki Toll Gate. To check the rising wave of activities of hoodlums who had embarked on looting spree in Lagos, the government imposed curfew to restrict movements which eventually brought peace to the mega city. State governments have constituted the Judicial Panels of Inquiry to look into various cases of abuses and violations by SARS, with a promise that such panels will sit and carry out its assignment independent of government. But there have been concerns about whether the panels can do justice without fear or favour. For instance in Bayelsa State, Governor Douye Diri, who is also the chief security officer of his state and head of the Executive arm of government, appointed himself as the chairman of the Judicial Investigative Panel of Inquiry into SARS activities. Analysts are concerned that Diri’s case is akin to a judge sitting over his own matter in clear violation of one of the twin principles of natural justice “Nemo Judex in Causa Sua”. Also in Lagos, the two youth representatives on the panel, Rinu Oduaya and Temitope Majekodunmi, refused to sign an oath of secrecy administered on other members. Majekodunmi had last Tuesday posted the oath of secrecy on his Twitter handle, sparking outrage among Nigerians. They, however, signed an undertaken not to reveal anything said in the chamber and which a source said was signed to protect the identity and statements made by victims. Considering the manner of the investigative panels in some states, can such panels truly be independent? How best can victims of SARS abuses get justice and appropriate compensation from such investigative panels when the fact is considered that Police are federal organs not given to obeying court orders, especially damages? Lawyers who are vast in constitutional and fundamental rights issues, including Chief Louis Alozie (SAN), a law lecturer in the Faculty of Law, University of Lagos, Wahab Shittu and Dr Fassy Yusuf, expressed divergent views on the mater. According to Alozie, the Federal Government is abdicating its constitutional responsibilities by mandating state governments to embark on investigation into human rights abuses by the disbanded SARS, which is a department of the Nigeria Police. Alozie said: “Issues of national security or members of the armed forces including the Police are within the exclusive domain of the Federal Government. It is a matter under the Exclusive List in our Constitution. It is a no-go area for state governments. The President is the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” He argued that the issue of allowing states to create their own police is still being debated. “So, in my humble view, state governments have no power to dabble into investigating abuses by the Police. The NEC directive is deceptive and aimed at dousing tension in the land. No panels set up by the state government will be objective or independent. The panel can only cover the sins of the Federal Government, which ought to be vicariously liable for the misconducts of the Police personnel, being the employers. “No state government panel will be courageous enough to indict members of the Police force. Remember the IGP can withdraw their security. The Director-General (DG) SSS can equally do so. It happened during the time of Dr Chris Ngige as gGovernor of Anambra State. Because it is the responsibility of the Federal Government to compensate victims of police abuses, would they be bound by findings and recommendation of state government panels? I don’t think so. The state governments will also go about the investigations cowardly.” He said: “If the Federal Government is serious in investigating police abuses that set the nation aflame of recent, it ought to set up a judicial commission of inquiry in the mold of Hon Justice Oputa Panel, or mandate the National Human Rights Commission to carry out the investigations. “In my humble view, the government is simply playing politics with the lives and destiny of Nigerians. The current exercise is nothing but another fraud on Nigerians,” he maintained. Alozie said the law has recognised the Nigeria Police as a federal agency, created by an Act of the National Assembly and the Constitution. “So it doesn’t fall within the responsibility of state governments to investigate what has gone wrong with the Police, recommend compensation they are not the ones to pay or make reforms. The best that can come out of their investigations will be offering an advice to Federal Government which is not binding. This is even as they do the investigations with fear and trepidation, realising any honest and impartial opinion will have consequences adverse to their interests,” he argued. Shittu, however, argued that in the composition of judicial panels of inquiry, what is critical is the sense of justice and integrity of the members in addition to the element of courage as well as independent-mindedness of the members. Shittu said these essential qualities cannot be over emphasised. “The focus ought to be that members appointed across the states would be guided by conscience and quest for truth. In the words of Uthman Danfodio, ‘conscience is an open wound. Only Truth can heal it,’  he maintained. For Yusuf, it is against natural justice for a governor to be on such panel. He however noted that the constitution of panels to look into cases of human rights abuses, harassment, extortions, and other inhuman treatment by the Police was in furtherance of the undertakings of government to assuage the feelings/demands of  youths. “It is absolutely in tandem with the directive principles of state policy. In doing this, transparency, accountability and probity must be held sacrosanct. Justice must not only be done but must be manifestly seen to be done. “The governors that have included themselves on the panels should recuse themselves. The action is offensive to the principles of natural justice. The issues the youth raised had to do with the government and their agents. It is, therefore, ridiculous and antithetical to natural justice for any governor to include himself on the panel. The report of the panel would be implemented by the same government. Governors should, therefore, recuse themselves from the membership of the panels. “Justice and restitution must be dispensed by the panels and the respective governors through sincerity, commitment, and the need to ensure peace and concord in the land. “This period calls for strategic engagement, sincerity and good governance.”