 Abiodun Fadehan had just  returned from his office on Lagos Island to his residence on Herbert Macauley Way in Ebute Metta, hoping to take his dinner and retire to bed early enough so he could set out early in his Toyota Camry car the next day. But he was robbed of his dinner and denied the comfort of riding in his car the following morning by a staccato of gunshots and machete sounds from warring members of two rival terror gangs which shattered the peaceful shade of nightfall in the Lagos Mainland neighbourhoods a few minutes past 8 pm on October 15, 2020. ‘’I was devastated beyond words when gunshots rented the air as soon as the boys stormed our street, yelling and calling out people who have guts to dare them. While I was in a panic mode, I did not realise that the boys had destroyed several vehicles, including mine. ‘’By the time the dust settled on the orgy of violence that lasted two hours, I could no longer eat, having seen my car destroyed by the heartless boys.’’ Like Fadehan, another resident, Olamide Olabisi, whose car was also vandalized, lamented his plight on social media, cautioning other residents in the community to avoid the area in their own interest. “Be careful if you are coming to the mainland via Oyingbo. Over 2 hours, cultists are clashing on Herbert Macaulay Way by Ondo Street and they are not stopping. They have with them short rifles, cutlasses and daggers. All cars vandalized, including mine. Stay safe folks,’’ he wrote. It was said that other adjoining streets like Ondo and Freeman were also turned into theatres of war during the clash between rival cultists in the area. Another eyewitness, Okereke Julianah, described the scene of the incident, saying: “This is happening live on Freeman Street Ebute, Metta, Yaba, Lagos. Someone lost his life in the process.” While Fadehan and other residents of Ondo Street were lucky to escape being hit by bullets fired by the hoodlums, an unidentified man was said to have been killed during the fight.  Other neighbourhoods Ebute Meta is not the only part of Lagos where rival gangs attack one another. A fight between some gangs in Abule Egba area of the state led to the death of a youth and policemen on October 22, 2020. The incident was said to have occurred when some boys from Captain area and Shaki Boys broke into a fight after rejecting a truce brokered by a community leader in the area. Sources said a policeman was also killed by the hoodlums who were armed with guns and machetes. It was said that the boys mutilated the cop when the bullets they fired couldn’t penetrate his body. A source said: “The boys are members of rival gangs with sympathy for feuding rival commercial motorcyclists’ popularly called okada around Captain and Ekoro areas of Abule Egba. “A fight broke out following the rejection of a parley at the instance of a community leader cum businessman, whose hotel was also destroyed during the clash. One of the Shaki Boys was killed while a policeman drafted to the scene was also gruesomely killed by the cultists who wielded charms and dangerous weapons including guns and machetes. The Nation gathered that some of the Shaki Boys who allegedly triggered the fight have since fled the area for fear of a reprisal. In Itire area of Surulere, the gang wars between groups like Ijesha Boys, Berry Boys Secret Cult, Aguda Boys and Pako Boys have assumed a frightening dimension as rival gangs have taken turns to unleash terror on residents, killing and destroying vehicles parked on streets within the communities. In one of the recent attacks, Ijesha Boys went on the rampage in reprisal for the alleged killing of some of their members, It will be recalled that reported cult clashes by members of KK, Omo Kesari, Eiye and Aiye Confraternities in Mile 12, Ogudu, Mile 12 and Ikorodu areas of Lagos, have also claimed lives and created panic lately in the neighbourhoods. No fewer than 13 persons were reportedly killed between Wednesday January 22 and February 23, 2020 when rival Aiye, Eiye  and KK cultists clashed around Ijede, Ladega and Laketu areas of Ikorodu.  Reasons behind endless fights Ebute-Metta had fallen under the grip of different cult groups like Otto Scorpion Joint, Otumara Boys, Lion Junction Boys, Oko Baba Boys, Fagbayimu Boys (on Apapa Road) and Ayewa Boys. The rival cult groups had been engaged in supremacy fights since 2011, resulting in loss of lives and properties. Three persons have been allegedly killed in Ebute-Metta in the last two days by gang members fighting for supremacy. Sources pinned the endless cult fights on the scramble for the control of bus parks and petty business and street markets in the neighbourhoods. ‘’The fights are a show of supremacy by the gangs in their bid to overwhelm their rivals. They have been at loggerheads over the control of some markets and bus parks located on some of the long stretch of roads where different gangs have their strongholds,’’ said a resident who craved anonymity for fear of retribution. ‘’The gangs usually embark on attacks as reprisals for similar attacks on their members by rival gangs, and that is what was responsible for the latest attacks on several streets in this community,’’ he added. Sources said the Abule Egba gang war is also about control of parks operated by okada riders, many of whom have the sympathy and loyalty of different gangs. ‘’Shaki Boys and Ekoro Boys queued behind different okada operators battling for the control of parks and units in the area. The issue again resulted in a clash after a failed peace parley initiated by a popular community leader, which led to the killing of one of the Shaki Boys and a policeman,” a source said. The killing of members of rival gangs has also been cited as reasons for endless mayhem in Itire, Ijeshatedo and other parts of Surulere. According to the state police command, some suspected cultists were arrested on June 8, 2020 on Ogunmuyiwa Street, Itire, where they were attacking passers-by. One of the suspects, Quam Gabriel, was said to have confessed at the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID), Panti, Lagos that they were on a revenge mission following the killing of one of their members, Emeka, by members of a rival gang. Gabriel, according to police, said: “Those behind Emeka’s death are rival gang members who invited their friends from outside the area to carry out the hatchet job. “Emeka was macheted many times and left to bleed to death, but he still found his way home. He was unconscious when we found him in his house. “We took him to the hospital but he never recovered. He passed away in that state. The machete cuts on his body showed that he was attacked.” About seven persons were also killed when suspected Aiye cult members stormed Ijede area of Ikorodu in retaliation for the gruesome killing of one of their members in January this year.  Residents cry out over clashes, urge security forces’ intervention Concerned residents have however cried out on the need to stop the carnage associated with incessant mayhem caused by the hoodlums. A community leader in Otto, Wasiu Agbaletu, noted that the ceaseless attacks and killings by the cultists have become unbearable for the residents, leading to exodus of people from the area. He said: “The intention of the gangs is to create a sort of anarchy. We are appealing to the police authorities and other law enforcement agencies to rescue us from the grip of the gangs who have become unrestrained in their mindless orgy of terror. ‘’Their style has been that whenever there is police onslaught against them, they will cease fire only to renew attacks when normalcy returns,’’ he said. ‘’Residents are the victims of the mayhem. Many people have either been killed or dispossessed of their valuables while shops and vehicles belonging to residents were destroyed and looted by these hoodlums in spite of efforts by the community to stop the crisis lately. Condemning the activities of Shaki Boys in Abule Egba, a resident, Tajudeen Kukoyi, urged the police to embark on proactive surveillance of the area to contain the boys. ‘’It is known to everyone in this area that Shaki Boys have become terrors to the community. They attack, intimidate and brutalise residents with charms and weapons. ‘’After the recent mayhem during which one of them was killed after they killed a policeman, the boys ran away for some time but they have been returning in trickles to the community. The fear now is that they might cause further attacks in their bid to retaliate the death of their member.’’ In his words, a chieftain of the residents association in Ikorodu, Mr Michael Adeola, said the gangs were undeterred by ceasefires and amnesty brokered and granted by the state government in recent times, urging security forces to step up actions to stop the boys. ‘’In spite of ceasefire and amnesty offered by the state government, the boys are still attacking one another in the vast neighbourhoods of Ikorodu. “In places like Ijede, Igbogbo, Odogunyan, Ladega, Laketu, among others, there are pockets of attacks on a regular basis. Fearful residents are hapless, hence, I urge security forces to stop the menace of cultism through proactive measures.’’  Police arrest notorious cultists In a bid to stamp out cultism in the state, the Lagos State Police Command on November 10, 2020 arrested no fewer than 13 notorious cultists in Mushin and Ikorodu. A statement issued by police spokesman, Mr Muyiwa Adejobi, said the suspected cultists were busted by operatives of the command at their hideouts. According to the statement, four of the cultists allegedly belong to Omo Kesari Confraternity while nine others were members of the Aiye Confraternity. The command, Adejobi said, had vowed to rid the state of cultists and hoodlums who foment trouble and threaten the peace and security of the state. The statement reads: ‘’The names of the cultists are: Daniel Adome, 18; Popoola Michael, 20; Kayode Thomson, 18 and Taiwo Okiki, 18. They were arrested in Mushin. ‘’Others arrested in Ikorodu are: Opeyemi Oderinde, 19; Otubu Samson, 17; Otako Jeremiah, 16; Kayode Agoro, 17; Agbelusi Sunday, 20; Kazeem Ishola, 20; Olasojo Gbolahan, 18; Ayodele Olasunkanmi, 18 and Segun James, 21.’’ He noted that the Commissioner of Police Hakeem Odumosu had recently ordered Area Commanders, Divisional Police Officers and Heads of Department via Police Wireless Message to fish out miscreants, cultists and hoodlums from their hideouts and prosecute them accordingly. “According to the Commissioner of Police, cultism precedes and precipitates other heinous crimes and social vices hence it must be tackled headlong. “In compliance with the order, police operatives attached to Mushin Division of the command have arrested some suspected cultists that were on the rampage at Moroluke/Wey Street, Mushin on 8th November, 2020 at about 10pm. The suspects arrested include Daniel Adome, m, 18; Popoola Michael, m, 20; Kayode Thomson, m, 18 and Taiwo Okiki, m, 18. They are members of Omo Kasari Confraternity. He added:  “Similarly, due to the recent cult related crises in Ikorodu area of Lagos State, on 9th November, 2020, at about 1215pm, a special operational team that was dispatched by the Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, led by the Divisional Police Officer in Ipakodo, arrested some members of Aiye Confraternity fomenting troubles in the area. “The arrested suspects include Opeyemi Oderinde, m, 19; Otubu Samson, m, 17; Otako Jeremiah, m, 16; Kayode Agoro, m, 17; Agbelusi Sunday, m, 20; Kazeem Ishola, m, 20; Olasojo Gbolahan, m, 18; Ayodele Olasunkanmi, m, 18 and Segun James, m, 21,” Adejobi said. ‘’Items recovered from the suspects include locally-made guns, live cartridges, axes, cutlasses, charms and some other offensive weapons.’’ “The Commissioner of Police has concluded plans to work hand in hand with the Lagos State Ministry of Justice to secure speedy trial of the suspects as the command’s ‘Operation Say No to Cultism’ continues. “The Commissioner of Police, however, recognises and appreciates the roles being played by community members in making the operations successful. He also calls for more supports from all and sundry in the fight against cultism and other vices in the state,” he said. It will be recalled that operatives of the Special Strike Force on Social Miscreants set up by the state police command in February this year arrested the notorious leader of Berry Boys terrorising the Itire area of Surulere. The 22-year-old supreme leader of the gang, Maliki Bello, according to the statement issued by the immediate past police spokesman, Bala Elkana, is a native of Lalupon in Kwara State. 