 NO fewer than 300 students from secondary and tertiary institutions in the North Central are being trained as ambassadors to fight against corruption and promote accountability in Nigeria. The students are being drawn from four North central states which include Niger, Kwara, Plateau and Abuja in a student leadership camp organised by Lux Terra Leadership Foundation in collaboration with the Islamic Education Fund. Speaking at the end of the Student Leadership Camp in Minna, the Project Officer of the Development Initiative for West Africa (DIWA), Musa El-thani Muhammad said that the participants are mainly students of Senior Secondary School and early years of the university, polytechnic and college of education. He said that this is the third year of engagement with adolescents in the effort to curb corruption, adding that in the past three years, 600 Muslim and Christian students have been trained on how to curb corruption and demand accountability from the leaders and the government. “This year, the events target another set of 300 young students across the North Central states. The overall objective is to explore the potentials of the young student leaders towards the fight against corruption and promoting integrity and accountability in Nigeria.” He said that the students, parents and a host of community leaders have hailed the initiative and recommended that the programme should continue. The Director of Education, Islamic Education Trust (IET), Abubakar Yahaya,  urged the participants to be good ambassadors of the nation, their homes and groups. The Chief Executive Officer of the Development Initiative for West Africa (DIWA), Dauda Kai, said that the essence of the leadership camp is to remind the country about the value attached to the youth. He told the youth that they have become ambassadors of accountability and anti-corruption, urging them to confront  corruption bedevilling the nation. “You have become our ambassadors and you will create awareness to your peers about corruption and what it means to promote accountability. We are hopeful that you will become agents of change in your various groups and communities.” The training covered nine subject areas in three days which include, curbing corruption through an understanding of its causes and consequences, the pathway to excellence, financial literacy, principles of productive civic engagement, conflict management, resolution and transformation and social media for social good. 