 An enthusiastic David Adeleke, widely referred to by his musical moniker, Davido is optimistic that his third album, ‘A Better Time’ will surpass his previous albums after surviving a sophomore slump. In an interview with Rollingstone magazine, the 27-year-old Afro-pop star justified why his upcoming album will be better than his previous projects saying he has never had ample time to focus and record a project as he has done. “My sophomore album was called A Good Time, so, obviously, A Better Time, is a better album,” the ‘Fem’ singer said. “I took my time. Better visuals, better production, everything as a whole package. I’ve never really had time to refocus, sit down, and record a project because I’m always on tour. I’m always all over the place. For the first time, I had the opportunity to sit down and focus with my producers and take our time on each and every song.”  Continuing, he said, “I didn’t plan the album. I just dropped ‘A Good Time,’ almost a year ago. My plan was to tour with the A Good Time album. Do America and go to Europe, and then I was meant to go to Asia, Australia, and do mad festivals. That being said, we had to cancel the whole tour, obviously, because of the pandemic. So I was like, You know what, I’m not about to just sit at home and not do nothing. So I got back in the studio, and funny enough, I was making better music than I had previously dropped, and we just kept going. Before I knew it I had 20 songs in the studio, all done and recorded and finished. Then I was like, Should I just put it out?” Famous for his gravelly voice, the father of three revealed the recording process for his third and highly anticipated album saying: “For my last album, the actual work was literally over the internet to talk to my producers. The difference was this time, I was on the ground. I was in Lagos. So the process was way more hands-on, rather than with A Good Time, [where] I was in America the whole time, sending beats over emails, writing songs over emails, with my producers in Nigeria. “With this one, it worked out well. Just the vibe of recording this album in Nigeria, you know what I’m saying? I felt like I needed the vibe around me. I needed back that old-school Davido. I was around my friends and family. I think being in Nigeria helped a lot.” Davido’s “A Better Time” is scheduled for global release on Friday, November 13. The album features collaborations with international music stars that include Nicki Minaj, Lil Baby, Nas, and Young Thug. Other collaborators on the album are Bella Shmurda and Tiwa Savage.