The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and unions in the universities have blamed lingering strikes in the Education sector on Federal Government’s failure to keep to its agreement with the unions. NLC President Ayuba Wabba said government’s penchant for reneging on its agreements with labour unions was responsible for frequent industrial actions in the sector. National President of the Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities (SSANU), Mr. Samson Ugwoke, echoed Wabba’s statement. The SSANU leader said the biggest challenge the union faced was government’s lack of respect for agreements it duly and freely entered into with unions at all levels. But the Executive Secretary of the National Universities Commission (NUC), Prof. Abubakar Rasheed, disagreed. He said the demands by various unions in the universities had made it difficult for the nation’s universities to catch up with its peers across the world. The NUC chief regretted that constant strikes by unions in the universities were affecting the robust growth of the system. The union leaders and the NUC chief spoke at the second quadrennial delegates’ conference organised by SSANU with the theme: Respecting the Sanctity of Collective Bargaining in Democracy. Wabba said: “You don’t sign an agreement for the sake of it. You sign so that it can be implemented. You can’t sign an agreement and then wait till it is due for implementation before raising issues. “I think that has been the problem of collective bargaining administration in this country. It is not so elsewhere, and we do not have to celebrate a Nigerian standard. Are we looking for a global standard or Nigerian standard? We should be aiming at a global standard, not a Nigerian standard, and the global standard is enshrined in Convention 198 of International Labour Organisation (ILO). “The important one, which we constantly refer to, is the collective bargaining agreement of 2009 between the Federal Government and ASUU. If that agreement was signed in good faith and was implemented, I am not sure we would be where we are today.” Ugwoke said the 2009 agreement was an example of how agreements between the government and the unions were either not implemented or breached. Rasheed urged the unions to enter into negotiations with the Federal Government in one accord rather than segment them. “No university in the world can operate effectively in insolation. It is frustrating that the university system in Nigeria has been polarised by various unions. You have NAAT, ASUU, SSANU, all negotiating for different things. “Most times, while one group is negotiating with government, others are warming up for strikes unless their demands are met,” he said. The NUC chief also said the Federal Government had reconstituted an eight-man committee to harmonise and finalise existing agreements between it and the unions. He said Education Minister Adamu Adamu had got approval President Muhammadu Buhari’s approval to constitute visitation panels to oversee the activities of all Federal universities in the country. According to him, the panels, which will soon be inaugurated, are expected to tour the universities and bring back a 10-year report in two separate batches of five years each. Also, the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) has said Federal Government’s insistence on its members’ registration on the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS) was the reason negotiations had continued to break down.