Six persons died in Sunday’s accident at Nkwelle junction on the Nteje/Onitsha expressway in Anambra State. The accident involved a commercial mini bus and a tanker. An eyewitness said bodies littered the road. “There was a fatal accident at Nkwere (33) involving a mini bus and a tanker. Many lives were lost,” he said. Sector Commander of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) Andrew Kumapayi said 17 persons were involved in the accident. According to him, 11 persons sustained injuries. He said: “Six persons died and 11 sustained injuries in the accident involving a bus (BGT 313 XA) which belonged to a transport company and a truck without registration number. “Eyewitness reports said the accident was caused by excessive speeding which made the driver lose control of the steering. “Seventeen persons – 11 men and six women were in the accident. The injured were rushed to Iyi-Ene Hospital, Ogidi, by the FRSC rescue team from Nteje Unit Command and bodied deposited at the mortuary. “Road obstruction is being cleared to ensure free flow of traffic.” Also at the weekend, expectant mother and two others were feared dead when a commercial bus rammed into traders at Rumuodara junction in Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of Rivers State. The bus was reportedly being chased by another vehicle when it veered off the road and rammed into traders and passers-by. An eyewitness said: “The incident happened about 6pm on Saturday night. The driver was speeding when he lost control and hit some people standing by the road. One expectant mother and two traders were injured. “The expectant mother lay on the ground faced down for a long time before she and others were rushed to the hospital.” But a tricycle rider said one of the victims he rushed to a nearby hospital was confirmed dead by the doctors. He said: “The bus came from Eliozu area on high speed. I guess another driver was chasing the driver and in the process he lost control of the steering and hit people standing by the road. “The girl I rushed to a nearby hospital was confirmed dead. After the accident, the driver rushed to seize the key of the driver who was chasing him before policemen from Okporo station came to arrest them.”