  A CHIEFTAIN of the Peoples Democractic Party(PDP) in Ekiti State, Mr Ekundayo Akinleye has raised the alarm over alleged attempt on his life by some gunmen suspected to be sponsored by the state government. Akinleye alleged that the arm-wielding attackers that invaded his hotel in Ado Ekiti last Saturday were allegedly sent by the  government to assassinate him and other loyalists of former Governor Ayodele Fayose. The former lawmaker who narrated his ordeal to reporters in Ado-Ekiti yesterday, lamented that thugs invaded his hotel with pump action guns and other dangerous weapons primarily to unleash terror on them. According to Akinleye, his GNN Guest House and Restaurant was invaded by the thugs at about 9:30pm on Saturday,  October 24. “I was sitting in the bar with some of the lodgers when we heard gun shots. “Some of the lodgers rushed into their rooms while I remained where I was. I then saw about six men coming in, they were  armed with guns, axes and cutlasses “Immediately I saw them, I ran to the restaurant while the armed men began to pursue me until I was caught inside one of the guest rooms. They brought me and other lodgers outside and started beating us. “After beating us thoroughly, they took me and others, including two ladies one of whom was naked inside one white coloured Previa vehicle. “Initially I thought they were kidnappers and I was begging them promising them that I would give them money, until I recognised one of them. It was then I realised that they were actually government thugs. “They drove off and stopped at a place where l managed to look up and got to know that it was in front of the Civic Centre in front of the Government House. All of them came down from the vehicle except one. “I heard them saying let us take them to Ilawe road and delete them. Delete means to kill us. After a while, they came back into the vehicle and continued beating us. They told me to remove my knicker and used that to cover my face so I was left with my boxer,” he said. Calling for the arrest and prosecution of the assailants, Akinleye said it was worrisome that those who attempted to kill him and others, destroyed his car by shooting at it severally, shot at his hotel and everything in it. Reacting to Akinleye’s allegations, through telephone, the Special Assistant to Governor Fayemi on New media and Public Communication, Mr Segun Dipe described the allegation as laughable. Dipe said that if there was anything Governor Fayemi is known for, it is intellectual combat and not associating with thugs. ” Fayemi doesn’t mingle with thugs. He is an intellectual. This man in question accusing the governor,  what is his weight politically that Fayemi will be contending with him. I am sure Fayemi doesn’t even know him. For what reason would Fayemi go after him?”, he asked.