  Barcelona registered three wins from three in the Champions League as they beat a depleted Dynamo Kyiv to go top of Group G. Lionel Messi scored from the penalty spot inside five minutes and Gerard Pique headed home to secure an unconvincing victory. Messi is yet to score a goal from open play this season. A consolation tap-in goal was a deserved reward for a spirited performance from Kyiv. Dynamo Kyiv fielded a significantly depleted side, with only 13 first-team players travelling to Spain along with a further six youth players. Six players had tested positive for coronavirus at the Ukrainian club before the tie. It was an uncomfortable night for Barcelona, who struggled to assert themselves in the second half despite enjoying the lion’s share of the possession. A valiant performance from 18-year-old Kyiv goalkeeper Ruslan Neshcheret on  his first-team debut ensured the goal deficit was held to just one. In London, Chelsea maintained their unbeaten Champions League start as they strolled to victory over Rennes at Stamford Bridge to continue their smooth progress towards the knockout stage. Frank Lampard’s side, who had opened their campaign with a draw at home to Sevilla and a win away to Krasnodar, took full advantage of an injury-hit Rennes side who were then harshly reduced to 10 men before half-time. Timo Werner gave Chelsea a comfortable interval advantage with two penalties, the first after he was fouled by Dalbert and the second when the same defender was penalised for handball – Rennes’ sense of frustration exacerbated when the defender received a second yellow card for the offence. The second penalty seemed harsh, as Dalbert blocked an Abraham shot and saw the ball deflect onto his raised arm. German referee Felix Zwayer awarded the contested penalty after a visit to the pitchside monitor, and then sent off Dalbert. Chelsea, who were without Kai Havertz after he returned a positive test for Covid-19, were in total control and emphasised their domination five minutes after the break when a superb delivery from Reece James was turned in at the near post by Tammy Abraham. Manchester United suffered a chastening night after conceding an embarrassing opening goal as they were humbled by Champions League rookies Istanbul Basaksehir. Basaksehir, formed only in 1990, claimed their maiden Turkish Super Lig title last season and had not scored a goal or claimed a point in their opening two games in the competition. They could not have wished for an easier way to get off the mark as United’s defence went missing, allowing former Chelsea and Newcastle striker Demba Ba to run clear from the halfway line and fire past Dean Henderson. United’s defensive efforts for the second goal were almost as bad, Deniz Turuc dispossessing Juan Mata and finding Edin Visca in acres of space in the box to smash home. The visitors were given hope when Anthony Martial headed in from a Luke Shaw cross two minutes before the interval, but they could not salvage a result in a shabby second half showing, Basaksehir picking up a famous victory.    Zenit St Petersburg 1-1  Lazio Istanbul Basaksehir 2-1  Manchester United Chelsea  3-0  Rennes Sevilla  3-2  FK Krasnodar Club Bruges  0-3  Borrussia Dortmund FC Barcelona  2-1  Dynamo Kyiv Ferencvárosi TC  1 – 4 Juventus RB Leipzig  2-2  PSG   