An aspirant for the position of the President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Prof. Chidi Osuagwu, says he joined the race to succeed Chief John Nnia Nwodo in order to stop the killing of the Igbo anywhere in Nigeria. This is just as Osuagwu has vowed to prioritize the quest by the Igbo nation to produce Nigeria’s next President in 2023, if elected leader of the apex pan Igbo organization. Ohanaeze Ndigbo is expected to hold its election in January 2021 to elect a new president-general and other officials of the socio-cultural union to replace Nwodo. The presidency of the group has been zoned to Imo State. Declaring his interest in a press conference in Owerri, the Imo state capital, Osuagwu said the spilling of Igbo blood in any pretext must stop. He stated that the leadership of the Igbo has the obligation to listen to the grievances of the youths, address their worries and guarantee a brighter future for them. The aspirant regretted that the leadership of the Igbo has become apologetic in matters in which it should be assertive and provide strong leadership. “While we seek peace and cordial relationship with all people, we must not continue to thrive on unwarranted appeasement (of other interests) and being apologetic where we ought to be assertive and provide strong leadership. “As a people guided by OFO NA OFU (justice) and the very basic and primordial basic life’s principle of “Live and let live”, we are far from being aggressors from the historical context and relationship with our neighbours and others. It is still this hand of peaceful coexistence and mutual respect that I’ll pursue if elected”, Osuagwu said. He stressed that what the Igbo needed at the moment was a leadership anchored on great antecedents, proven ability and deep insight and understanding of their true nature. That leadership, Osuagwu said, is what he has come to provide, hence his decision to be the President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo. Part of his primary goal, he added, is to unite all in the greater Igbo family, where there will be peace, freedom, justice and mutual respect. Osuagwu said his administration will be grassroots oriented, adding that he will seek for an arrangement that will ensure the security and progress of the people.