 WITH the launch of its Skooleeo Learning Centre, an adaptive online learning app that provides students with unlimited access to highly-engaging learning content and a school management system tool to advance education management in schools, Skooleeo has said it will redefine the online learning experience for students in Nigeria. According to the Chief Executive Officer Skooleeo Technology, Tunbosun Abioye the app is designed with the educational success of every child in mind. It is a unique learning tool that offers a new approach to online learning by providing students with vast learning content which they can use to engage in independent and self-directed learning for their academic and personal development. He said: “We are thrilled about introducing our products to the Nigerian education sector. The way technology has impacted our lives is evident in every walk of life. Technology has affected how we learn and it is creating room for us to close the educational gap by making quality learning content available to students in various classes. People from various parts of the world can also gain access to better learning content. We’ve worked with experts to put together all the materials available on our app and we believe that they are engaging enough to help student to grow their desire to learn.” When students subscribe to the Skooleeo Learning Center, they will have unlimited access to learning content, from recorded videos lessons to colourful and engaging educational slides, past examination questions, flashcards, podcast, for their learning and development. The app is carefully designed to help students find learning more interesting and learn on their own without being coerced. In addition to launching the Skooleeo Learning Center, the firm also announced the launch of its School Management System app,an easy-to-use tool to improve school management. With the tool, schools can efficiently manage billing records, staff and students’ records, calendar and event records, exam records, students’ attendance, health records and a lot of information that is important to the school and parents.