 Ogun State communities of Arepo, Magboro,  lsheri, Opic, Sparklight  and others  along the alignment of the proposed 4th Mainland Bridge will benefit from the project in terms of enhanced  property values, shortened travel time and improved livability, Permanent Secretary, Office of Civic Engagement, Adeniji  Oduyinka, said yesterday. Speaking at a stakeholder engagement held for communities along the Lagos/lbadan expressway, at the Journalists Estate Arepo, he said there was no need for residents to be afraid as consultants to the project has given ‘an all clear bill’, for most of the communities along the bridge allignment. Responding to questions on traffic management, flooding and environmental impact of the bridge on residents, an engineer in the Lagos Ministry of Works & Infrastructure, Tokunbo Ajanaku  said traffic will be professionally managed, adding that the state is not depending on old ideas to solve any challenge. He said the project will be delivered as a Public Private Partnership (PPP), adding that it will be timely and tolled for the investors to recoup their investment. Responding to a question by the Chairman Journalist Estate Residents Association ( JERDA), Mrs Funke  Fadugba on the impact on Arepo and adjoining communities, he said: ” The challenge to residents in Arepo, Magboro and lsheri will be minimal and marginal, the bridge will come  all the way from Abraham Adesanya in Eti Osa Local Government, lkorodu and criss cross to Opic and Sparklight Estate.  For Arepo residents the construction will impact positively  on them as a result of enhanced property prices.” Driving to the lsland will also be pleasurable as a journey of hitherto 5 hours will be reduced to about 30 minutes. The iccessant flooding problem experienced by residents around here will be mitigated by the channels that will be constructed to take -off water from the road”. Earlier, Senior Special Assistant, on Works and infrastructure,  Raheem Owokoniran said the government needs the input of those who may be impacted by the construction. He explained that the project will create multiple jobs opportunities, investment opportunities and property enhanced value. He pleaded with traditional rulers and land speculators to refrain from unrestrained selling of land adding that the government as a result of it’s sensitivity and the need to evolve new ways of doing things had cut down the number of houses and properties that will be affected from 4,000 to about 800. He said that the government will not be responsible for anything that it  is not aware before now. Baale of Farewa community had in his speech lamented  the possible plight of those that bought land from them before but was assured that the government will not unnecessary put the public in harm’s way except for those who encroached on the right of way. A resident of  Citiview Estate, Olanrewaju Smith expressed concerns on poor infrastructure, flooding and drainage in neigbouring communities and estates,  but he was assured by the officials of the Lagos State Government officials that no community along the Bridge allignment will suffer for the construction but rather that needed infrastructure will  be allocated to each of the communities to make life meaningful for them. The construction timeline was put at between 2-3 years.