The excitement about the cryptocurrency market has attracted many entrepreneurs. They are making money from offering services and products. One of them is the founder, Multiple Vineyard Business Club, Josephson Peter. The founder, Lagos-based Multiple Vineyard Business Club (MVEC) Josephson Peter is among the real smart entrepreneurs, exploring the rising prices of crypto currencies to make a living. Established in 2011, MVEC is a private empowerment club, where members are linked to business opportunities, profitable ventures, and money-making ideas. When you first have a look at Peter, the first thing you will see a young man wearing glasses with a baby face rather than a self-made successful entrepreneur. However, he is influential in the digital currencies community. Despite the success, Peter has been through the vicissitudes of life. He didn’t bargain for what life offered him. He felt helpless and vulnerable. He was devastated. He understood what poverty was. He was once homeless and had to sleep in a danfo bus until somebody offered him a place to squat. That drove him into several things, including financial information brokerage. Today, he is an entrepreneur to watch. He is a business man and investor. His main activities are in Fintech, with a focus on cryptocurrency and block chain technology. When he knew about Bitcoin, he realised its potential and started investing his money in cryptocurrency. He invested his savings and soon money started pouring in. Then, he explored more diverse dimensions of cryptocurrency trading and tried his luck with altcoins as well, especially Ethereum, thus changing his fortune through cryptocurrency. As cryptocurrency rocketed, Peter would check on its rise every now and then. He has landed up in the fortune list. Taking advantage of the business opportunities provided by cryptocurrency, Peter has been able to explore them to enlarge his worth. He is among a few young entrepreneurs who have amassed their wealth through cryptocurrency projects and exchange platforms. With his efforts, he has been able to fetch for himself a good net crypto worth. Peter is an inspiration for many to try their luck with cryptocurrencies. Having recorded success, he is offering to empower more Nigerians and entrepreneurs on the secrets of making money. He has demonstrated that one can climb to the top from the bottom. Through MVEC, Peter teaches people how to create a profitable business from the beginning. He said: “We are also in partnership with non-governmental organisation called Labuena Vida that specialises in business mentorship and showing people how to achieve financial freedom with little or no capital.” He said the club has secured a deal with Lifepage, a reputable real estate company in Lagos, to promote affordable housing. He added: “We have an opportunity for people who cannot afford to buy a land or home. You can invest as low as N100,000 and earn rental income for life from your investment. “Peter is an e-money researcher and leading a campaign for digital currencies. For him, digital currencies remove the cumbersome operational and security apparatus which surround conventional forms of money transmission.’’ He believes the application of emerging technologies will enable more small and medium enterprises (SMEs) participate in e-commerce and digital payments.