Shell lubricants products will be widely available in the Nigerian market later this year, following a new deal with Ardova Plc. Chief Executive Officer, Ardova Plc, Olumide Adeosun  said the company has reached agreement with Shell as the main distributor for Shell Lubricants branded products for the automotive and industrial sectors in Nigeria. Chairman, Ardova Plc, AbdulWasiu Sowami, noted the company’s goal was to provide customers with best in class products and services, build partnerships that optimise synergies and create value for all parties involved. “This deal ticks all those boxes and we are excited to add the Shell range of lubricants to the portfolio of products available to our customers,” Sowami said. Chairman, Shell Companies in Nigeria, Osagie Okunbor, said the deal was a reinforcement of the group commitment to continue to optimise its footprints in Nigeria while working with local companies for mutual benefits and to create opportunities for the people. “ Shell lubricants products will offer improved performance for automobiles across the country through Ardova’s chain of retail stations and resellers,” Okunbor said. Adeosun noted that with investments in marketing and workforce training, Ardova also plans to deepen its participation in other segments of the lubricant market in Nigeria, including transport and industrials, thus making it easier for customers to access Shell’s range of lubricants products.  He explained that the deal followed an earlier Memorandum of Understanding signed between Prudent Energy, Ardova Plc and Shell Trading International Limited laying out an exploratory framework for harnessing the local and international capabilities of the respective parties including possibilities on how to progress opportunities intended to develop cleaner energy solutions. Shell currently has a leading presence in Nigeria’s upstream sector with oil and gas exploration, production and distribution network in the southern parts of the country and deep offshore. Ardova is one of Nigeria’s foremost indigenous integrated energy companies with an extensive network of over 450 retail outlets from which it distributes petrol, diesel, aviation fuel and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG). Ardova also produces its own range of lubricants and has warehouse facilities across Nigeria. 