Residents of Osun State on Friday commended the administration of Governor Adegboyega Oyetola for running an all-inclusive, participatory and people-oriented government. The residents also expressed satisfaction on the policies and programmes of the administration, which they described as people-friendly. The participants said these at the special programme organised to commemorate the second year anniversary of the governor in office. Speaking at the occasion, which was held at Aurora Event Centre, Osogbo, the former Deputy Governor, Senator Iyiola Omisore, attributed the achievements of Oyetola’s administration to a reflection of the governor’s pedigree, competence and experience in both public and private sectors. He commended the governor for prioritising the welfare and wellbeing of the people of the State, just as he assured him and his government of stakeholders’ support. In his response, Governor Oyetola expressed gratitude to the people of the State for being the pillars of support for his administration. He said the administration was bent on serving the citizens with a clear conscience and unalloyed devotion to the common good. Earlier, the Speaker, Osun House of Assembly, Hon. Timothy Owoeye, lauded the administration of Governor Oyetola for upholding the mandate freely given to him by the people of the State through the ballot. He said the administration had justified the confidence reposed in it by the citizens as manifested in the series of the developmental projects being orchestrated and inaugurated in the last 24 months. Speaking on behalf of the members of the National Assembly, Hon. Taiwo Oluga, representing Irewole Federal Constituency, assured the governor of their unalloyed support. In his welcome address, the Secretary to the State Government, Prince Wole Oyebamiji, extolled Oyetola’s sterling qualities and thanked him for exhibiting courage and sagacity to redefine and reposition the state. The State Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Prince Gboyega Famodun, also applauded the governor for making the party and its members proud through his good works. Speaking on behalf of traditional rulers, Ogiyan of Ejigbo, Oba Omowonuola Oyeyode Oyesosin, lauded Oyetola for his swift response to rehabilitate and fix Ara-Ejigbo road after several years of agitation by the residents of the affected areas. Former Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole and former member, House of Representatives, Hon. Ayo Omidiran, also showered encomiums on the governor for taking the State to enviable heights. The leader of the State market women, Iyaloja-General, Mrs. Awawu Asindemade, also hailed the governor for embarking on massive infrastructure development to boost commercial and business activities in the state. The grand finale of the 2nd Anniversary was  attended by the Wife of the Governor, Mrs. Kafayat Oyetola; Deputy Governor, Mr. Benedict Alabi; former Osun Deputy Governors, Senator Iyiola Omisore; Titi-Laoye Ponle and Chief Sooko Adeleke Adewoyin; Speaker, Osun House of Assembly, Hon. Timothy Owoeye; former Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Folorunso Adewole, former Chief of Army Staff, Gen. Alani Akinrinade; members of the National and State Assemblies; members of the State Executive Council; Local Government Chairmen; top civil servants and several traditional rulers.