The Movement for the Survival of Ogoni People (MOSOP) has urged President Muhammadu reverse the conviction of Ken Saro-Wiwa and his eight colleagues to assuage the Ogoni people. An outspoken critic, Saro-Wiwa and others were tried by a special military tribunal for allegedly masterminding the gruesome murder of Ogoni chiefs at a pro-government meeting. He was hanged in 1995 by the administration of former military head of state, the the late Gen. Sani Abacha. MOSOP factional President, Fegalo Nsuke, in a statement ahead of the 2020 Ogoni Martyrs’ Day on November 10, said the nine Ogoni leaders were wrongly prosecuted, convicted, sentenced and executed. The group maintained that since the men were “wrongfully” killed, at least the murder charge should be dropped and the names cleared posthumously. The statement reads in part: “The 1995 hanging of Ken Saro-Wiwa and the other eight was an injustice. We are not talking about whether a crime was committed; our worry is that their trial was not fair. “They were not given a fair hearing, and their hanging was way too swift – just 10 days after the kangaroo judgment was passed. “In normal circumstances, they had 30 day to appeal. That is the injustice we are talking about. As far as MOSOP is concerned, these martyrs were innocent. Their trial was unfair. They were executed as murderers whereas they were actually innocent. “Hence, there is a need for the Federal Government to clear their names from the list of murderers which it wrongfully placed them.” Nsuke noted that doing this would set the pace to resolving several other issues in Ogoniland. “Having been killed already, there is nothing more the Federal Government can do to right the wrong already done them and the entire Ogoni people but to clear their names. “They cannot remain as murderers; and again, clearing their names will set the pace towards resolving larger Ogoni problems.” On the Ogoni Development Authority (ODA) initiated under his watch, said the platform was in line with the Ogoni bill of right, and would fast-track development in the four council areas and create jobs for Ogoni indigenes when it comes on stream.