 The Nigeria Institute of Management (Chartered) on Thursday called for a peaceful society to enable businesses succeed in the country. For the NIM, meaningful development, cannot take place in a chaotic community. President of the Institute, Mrs. Patience Anabor, FNIM, speaking on Thursday, urged Nigerians to join the present administration to move the country forward, ensuring peace in the society. In her words “For Nigeria to move forward there must be a break from the past. The operating environment must be conducive and peaceful. We all know that no meaningful development can take place in a chaotic atmosphere. The Institute, therefore, urges all Nigerians to join hands with the present administration and move the country forward. Speaking on the topic “De-escalating Crisis: Management Issues, Challenges and the way forward”, the guest speaker, chairman of Goldfield Group, Mr. Bade Adeshina  advised that “managers treat every crisis faced  as an opportunity for country and company growth” He noted that the COVID-19 pandemic caused governments all around the world to make a choice between life, death and economy. “The COVID-19 Global pandemic caused Governments all around the world to make a choice between life, death and economy. Businesses and individuals have had to respond promptly to the pandemic in various ways”, he said. Speaking to managers in the public sector, Adeshina, who doubles as the chairman of governing council, Ladoke Akintola University, Ogbomosho said they should employ inclusive and transparent decision making, and there should also be the adoption of fiscal federalism. Strong and resilient institutions should also be adopted by sectors. Adeshina made a comment on the recent #ENDSARS comment. He said “The #ENDSARS protest representing an end to bad governance should be a wake-up call to those in leadership positions to begin to institutionalize good governance. The programme had few persons in attendance, with others joining virtually. One of the virtual audience was the immediate past president of the NIM, Professor Olukunle Iyanda. 