The Plateau State judicial panel of Inquiry to investigate complaints of Police brutality and related extra-judicial killings has pledged to be fair and just to all complainants. Retired Justice Philomena Lot, Chairman of the Penal, made the pledge on Monday during the formal inauguration of the commission at Dadin Kowa Youths Centre, Jos. Lot said that with the inauguration, the panel was ready to receive genuine complaints and petitions, bothering on the police brutalities and human rights violations. “We urge those with genuine complaints to come forward and file them before us given the six months’ time frame given to us by the state government. “Each complainant is required to submit to us 10 copies of his/her complaint addressed to the chairman dully signed with the name(s) and address(s) of the complainant,” she stated. She further stated that at the receipt of such complaints, dates will be given for oral evidence. The chairman said, “We, therefore, urge those appearing before this panel to be precise in their submissions to avoid unnecessary arguments and legal technicalities to enable us to do justice to the matters.” “We assure you that this panel will do justice to all those that will appear before us, ” Lot assured. Also speaking, the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Barr Chrys Ahmadu, described the panel as “independent of any external influence that might influence its activities”. Ahmadu advised that whoever comes to lay a complaint or grievance should have faith that he or she would get Justice without any fear or favour. But he warned against frivolous claims padded with lies, which he said would not be condoned warning “anyone caught doing so will be charged with prejudice which attracts seven years imprisonment.” Chief Garba Pwul (SAN), a representative of the body of Senior Advocates of Nigeria, Plateau Chapter, commended the state government for constituting the penal, which he noted would provide the enabling environment for the aggrieved public in the state to table their complaints. Pwul noted that the prompt establishment of the Penal by Governor Simon Lalong ‘has gone to show its sensitivity to the plights of the aggrieved youths in the state. Mr. Yakubu Bawa, State NBA Chairman, pledged to offer good and free representation to aggrieved persons, wishing to come before the panel.