Director-General of the Progressives Governors Forum (PGF) Dr. Salihu Lukman has rated the governing party far ahead of its political peers in terms of being liberal with strong internal contestations. He however warned leaders of the party against complacency, saying APC should be ideally encouraged to consider testing political proposals meant to deepen democracy. Lukman, in a statement in Abuja on Sunday, also stressed the need for the party to take steps to further open up its structures and invite patriotic Nigerians, members and leaders of organised groups to join it. According to the PGF boss: “APC is far ahead of its political peers in terms of being a liberal party with strong internal contestation. “But such liberalism is yet to produce the corresponding requirement for interest representation and negotiation within the party, which is responsible for why our elected and appointed political leaders in the party estimate citizens’ demands as disagreement and subversive when it doesn’t correspond to their positions. “It is also why fellow party leaders would appear intolerant to positions of other party leaders regarding both citizens’ demands and internal disagreements. “We need to appeal to our leaders at all levels, especially in APC to liberate themselves and shed off any fear of citizens’ engagement, internal disagreements, political negotiations, and the possible compromises that may emerge both within the party and in the country. “Fear of citizens’ engagement and political negotiations is largely what is emboldening political opponents whose credentials on this score are anything but attractive. Commending efforts of the party leaders at various levels of party structure, Lukman appealed to all members to support the efforts to retain its progressive status. “Our leaders have broken the country’s political ice twice. They have led us to negotiate the first successful merger of political parties in the history of the country. “They have also led us to successfully negotiate a major leadership crisis of existential magnitude, which is arguably the first of its kind that has not led to a breakaway and split in the party. “As party members, we need to support our leaders and appeal to them to introduce all the required initiatives to enhance the democratic orientation of both the party and the country. “At this critical point of our development, both as an emerging democracy and as a party, the catchphrase should be producing political comprises through debate and negotiations. This should be our new standards for political contests in the country, based on which we are able to command electoral advantages and assert our political superiority.”