 Dear Ma, I am 30 and a virgin. Whenever I was under pressure to compromise and fornicate I will visit your timeline and read and my brain will immediately reset. I have since vowed to remain a virgin until marriage. Thank you for all you do ma. Adedoyin E.  Dear Ma, I came across your articles in the newspaper and I’m most grateful for your guidance ma. I am a young lawyer and a virgin and it’s my earnest desire to wait till marriage. I am a hard working lady but going through lots of hardship ranging from being in a highly abusive home, poorly paid or no pay job in law firms and undue comparison and high financial expectation from my mom despite not having a good job. I just want to disappear, I mean why has death refused to come for me? I suffer greatly from depression and suicidal ideation and this is eating me up daily. Some men are evil, they want to mess a lady up in exchange for helping her but I vowed never to let any man have me before marriage! I only wish God will make it easier for me because no matter how I try to act ignorant of the fact that lack has pushed many ladies into misbehaving, it does happen. God said He will not tempt us more than we can bear but this is more than me already, I am overwhelmed! Please why do good and decent girls suffer?  Sunshine My Sunshine and my darling, precious, glorious, dignified, world-famous and heavenly celebrated Nigerian daughters, Sunshine’s message not only strikes a chord in my heart but makes me wish I could give her EVERYTHING she needs right away and make her happy! In actual fact, 50% of Nigerian girls are in her shoes! And believe me, it’s so difficult to counsel anyone in this situation and convince them to wait on God and be of good courage. It’s one of the worst challenges a woman can face and it only takes a lady who’s fiercely-determined and loves God with all her heart not to bow to pressure from men to live a comfortable life. If you are reading and have suffered so much pain from men refusing to help except you sleep with them and have had to deprive yourself of goodies and even your basic necessities for righteousness sake and yet it appears your situation is not changing- sorry…sorry…sorry please! However, did you know God has a record of all the goodies you’ve ignored just because you fear Him? DO YOU THINK THAT’LL PASS JUST LIKE THAT? If only you knew how committed God is to those who fear Him, you’d never spare a thought to your friends who would sleep with every Tom, Dick and Harry to have all their dream goodies! Even if from their promiscuity they ended marrying good men and even have children, what A’s destiny can endure, could destroy yours! Do you know the type of star you carry? Do you know God’s plan for your life? This may be difficult to stomach but anyone in my darling Sunshine’s shoes could just be going through a process or test master-minded by God, with a huge crown awaiting her. And the more you suffer for doing things God’s way, THE GREATER YOUR REWARD FROM GOD! BELIEVE ME, YOUR LIFE WILL TURN TO A BEAUTIFUL DREAM! Isaiah 49:23 But this is what the Spirit of God said I should tell you- “For I will have respect unto you, and make you fruitful, and multiply you, and establish my covenant with you.” Leviticus 26:9 KJV Hmm…a whole God is saying that to you- believe me, you may not even look or smell good now because you can’t afford to yet you stick to God – little did you know that fear of God in you is building you up into a fiery furnace, a spiritual house and a formidable weapon in the hands of God- a city set on a hill that will be saluted till eternity, a light to the world! I wish you wouldn’t be depressed and instead make the most of your situation. It’s not easy but there’s so much you can gain from what now seems a huge disappointment from life! Even though I plan to fashion a way out for you to have a more comfortable life- inbox, please note today’s date, by the time God who sent me to you is done with you, not only will you be superbly-established- no longer needing help, some of world’s wealthiest and most honourable men would jostle to supply your needs without asking for anything in return! YOU’LL SAY I SAID SO! Before then, may you receive help from an unexpected quarter this month in Jesus name! I love you my sweets!  I invite you to follow me on Facebook –TEMILOLU OKEOWO Instagram @ Okeowo Temilolu.