 THE United Nations has described Saturday’s Boko Haram attack of some rice farmers in Jere, Zabamari, Borno State, as the “most violent” targeted at civilians this year. Its Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator in Nigeria, Edward Kallon, made the remarks in a statement issued on Sunday. The statement reads: “I am outraged and horrified by the gruesome attack against civilians carried out by non-state armed groups in villages near Borno State capital Maiduguri. Tens of civilians were ruthlessly killed and many others were wounded in this attack. “I extend my sincere condolences to the families of the civilians who lost their lives in this atrocious attack. I also wish a speedy recovery to those who were wounded in the incident. “We have also received reports that several women may have been kidnapped. I call for their immediate release and return to safety. “My thoughts are also with the rural communities in the area, who are shocked by the brutality of yesterday’s attack and fear for their safety. “The entire UN system and the humanitarian community working to provide life-saving and development assistance to the most vulnerable in Borno State is outraged by the incident. “Such direct attacks against innocent civilians jeopardise the ability for the most vulnerable people to survive the adversity there are facing, and which we are striving to alleviate. “The incident is the most violent direct attack against innocent civilians this year. I call for the perpetrators of this heinous and senseless act to be brought to justice.” Noting that such attacks could worsen the food crisis already being experienced in Borno, Kallon called on the government to ensure adequate protection of residents in the state. The UN coordinator said: “It is unfortunately one of too many such attacks targeting farmers, fishermen and families who are trying to recover some livelihood opportunity after over a decade of conflict. “I strongly condemn this attack and any act of violence against innocent civilians and I firmly urge all actors on the ground to respect international laws and humanity. “Rural communities in Borno State are facing untold hardships. Helping them to farm land and rebuild livelihoods are amongst our priorities and the only way to avoid the looming food crisis in Borno State. They and all other civilians need to be protected and spared from any kind of violence. “Innocent women, children and men desperately need food and other support and assistance, particularly at a time when we are recording some of the highest levels of food insecurity in Borno State. We owe to do our utmost to help them survive these difficult times.” 