State governments and capital market stakeholders on Wednesday held a strategy session on the enabling rules and frameworks for the privatisation of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) as critical factors in economic growth. At a webinar on “Privatization in Nigeria and the Outlook for Sub-national Economic Development” organised by the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), in collaboration with the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) and Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC), Governors, capital market regulators, operators, finance and investment experts agreed that privatisation would unlock potential value in SOEs. Participants were unanimous that privatisation and other forms of public private partnerships (PPPs) would not only assist governments to overcome funding challenges in the face of dwindling resources, but also enhance efficiency of the SOEs to deliver better services to the citizenry. The chairman of Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) and Governor of Ekiti State, Dr Kayode Fayemi, who delivered a keynote speech, said privatisation would create a symbiotic partnership enabling private sector operators to manage critical areas of the sub-national economy while government concentrates on key social infrastructure, including education and health. He reaffirmed the commitment of the NGF to work with the NSE and other stakeholders to channel long-term funding for the infrastructural development of the states. According to him, federal and state governments are experiencing fiscal and economic consequences triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic, which has culminated in significant vulnerabilities in their capacity to increase investment and protect business and livelihood. “Privatisation will, therefore, not only include private sector investments but also participation in health service delivery and public governance. We believe that if private sector takes over critical segments of the economy, governors can focus on social investment initiatives such as health care and education,” Fayemi said. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu said the state has been working on securitisation of dormant building assets to unlock them and make them productive. He acknowledged the need to address policy imbalances due to malfunction in the federal structure , pointing out that central government policies should take into consideration of the peculiarities of each federating unit rather than a one-size- fits-all approach that tends to place a state like Lagos at disadvantage . According to him, Lagos State understands the importance of private sector in the management of the state economy, adding that the government gives precedence to private ownership and management while the government provides enabling regulation and operating environment. Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun also spoke on the importance of a working partnership between the central government and sub-national authorities, which allows the states to take over critical assets and unlock these for economic growth through PPPs and privatisation. He said the state government has already identified possible assets for PPPs and privatisation and would be willing to work with capital market stakeholders to further deepen the development of the state. Kaduna State Governor Nasir El-Rufai said privatisation of SOEs in line with due process, could bring more benefits, stressing that appropriate legal and regulatory framework. He said Kaduna State would be considering accessing the capital market to fund some of its development projects. He urged the capital market regulators to provide flexible regulatory framework that will encourage state governments to access the capital market and use it for implementation of their economic plans. Governor of Bauchi State Alhaji Bala Mohammed expressed the willingness of the state to partner with private investors, pointing out that his administration has been working to provide enabling environment for private investments to thrive. Director General, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Mr Lamido Yuguda, said the brainstorming session on privatisation was timely, given the current financial difficulties and the adverse impact of the COVID-19. According to him, privatisation presents an avenue for state governments to unlock potential in their assets as most SOEs are underperforming due to inefficiencies. Yuguda, who was represented by Mr. Reginald Karawusa, SEC’s Executive Commissioner for Legal and Enforcement, said governments could use proceeds from privatisation to augment shortfall in revenue, save scarce resources from the stoppage of cost of funding on privatised SOEs and improve tax revenue from more efficient and robust privatised SOEs. He added that additional investments and rejuvenation of privatised SOEs could lead to creation of more jobs and empowerment of the general public. Chairman, Presidential Economic Advisory Council, Professor Doyin Salami described privatisation and an enabling the private sector as the focal points of economic development because governments lack the huge resources to finance catalytic economic growth. He said sub-national authorities must also develop sustainable economic development plans with clear growth priorities, resources and avenues for obtaining the resources towards achieving the objectives. According to him, investments are catalysts for economic growth, adding that since the public sector does not have huge money to fund the  investments for growth, privatisation of SOEs are critical to the achievement of economic growth. Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), Mr. Oscar Onyema, pointed out that privatisation occupies a unique position in global economic liberalization and provides an avenue for raising productivity. According to him, in Sub-Saharan Africa between 2000 and 2008, total proceeds of privatization were valued at $12.6 billion, which contributed to the growth of the sub region during the period. “We are, therefore, excited to lay emphasis on the positive outcomes of the National Privatisation Programme in 1987, which includes the deepening, and broadening of the capital market by a large body of shareholders. The outcomes of the programme which includes success in relieving the government of the burden of financing public enterprises, creating liquidity for the government to pay off debts and finance new expenditures, thus raising the level of investments in infrastructures,” Onyema said. Chairman, First Bank of Nigeria, Mrs Ibukun Awosika, said financial institutions would be willing to support privatisation of SOEs and other PPPs with state governments if they offer good value propositions. Other participants included Executive Secretary, NIPC, Ms. Yewande Sadiku, Director General, Bureau of Public Enterprises, Mr. Alex Okoh, Chief Executive Officer, Financial Derivatives and Member, Presidential Economic Advisory Council, Mr. Bismarck Rewane; Chief Executive Officer, Chapel Hill Denham, Mr. Bolaji Balogun; Managing Director, Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority, Mr. Uche Orji; Partner and Chief Economist, PwC Nigeria, Dr. Andrew Nevin and Chief Executive Officer, InfraCredit, Chinua Azubike among others.