 Notwithstanding the COVID-19 pandemic and its attendant restrictions to physical meeting, the National Association of Nigerian Theatre Arts Practitioners (NANTAP), in collaboration with National Institute for Cultural Orientation the (NICO) and support from Goethe Institut Nigeria, British Council Nigeria and National Film and Video Censors Board, recently provided artistes with training on how to successfully run their businesses. The two-day event, which held online attracted seasoned writers, actors, theatre directors, movie producers, dancers, and other allied art practitioners was a capacity building workshop. President, NANTAP, Mr. Israel Eboh, reiterated the spirit behind the concept of the workshop, saying it is to improve the business and management skills of practitioners, to enable them make optimal use of their skills and be able to compete favourably with their counterparts around the world. He said: “We want to further build the capacity of practitioners within the art and culture space beyond the exhibition of talents, but have a better idea of how to successfully run their businesses, theatre companies and other art related agencies whenever they are called upon.” Mrs. Bridget Yerima reiterated the institute’s commitment to capacity building efforts like the workshop, adding that considering the mandate of NICO, ‘’I can assure you that this is only the first in the series of workshop of this nature to come. We are committed to energising the various cultural agencies in Nigeria to move from mere practitioners to administrators.’’ Former Deputy Vice Chancellor, University of Lagos, Prof. Duro Oni, took participants on Leadership and Administrative Skill which was a practical summation of the entire workshop. It was more like a review of the life of the lecturer himself, who had transformed over the years from a young artiste into becoming one of the major cultural administrators in Nigeria. He identified some core attributes of creative management such as self-awareness, strong communication and learning ability. According to him,  “there is one thing that has propelled my life and career and that is self-improvement efforts. How much are you improving yourself towards the leadership goal.  Productivity, focus and mentoring are important in all of these.” German Cultural Diplomacy specialist from Goethe Institut, Germany, Dr. Patrick Fohl, spoke on Art as a tool for cultural diplomacy.  His lecture elicited some feelings of frustration from Nigerian participants as he reeled out some aspects of Germany’s cultural policy and how they shapes Germany’s diplomatic policy around the world. He said ‘’in Germany, art and science, research and teaching are free.’’ He stressed that cultural institutions in Germany enjoy a lot of funding from the government as culture is deliberately created and funded down to the grassroots. “And this includes the huge investment in infrastructural development, which is considered especially important in preserving and promoting cultural heritage,” he added. The German’s lecture brought to the fore the fact that culture is particularly important. The understanding that the larger society is developed through art and culture is the spirit behind the German cultural policy, which has remained elusive to Nigerians because Nigerian cultural policy keeps gathering dust for years. Prof. Mabel Evwerhoma of  the University of Abuja reinforced the need to enhance cultural community. She stated that it would help to arouse cultural consciousness in the people. “Development needs to start at the local level. Issues of culture are beyond tourism and profit. Hence, there is need to rejig the cultural policy along this line. This impetus is what would help internationalise our culture,” she said, adding that post-COVID Nigeria needs empathetic leadership, especially in the culture sector. Speaking on Business and Financial Strategies for Marketing Nigerian arts locally and globally, Joseph Edgar, a theatre entrepreneur and investment banker, took participants through strategies that appeal to investors, corporate partners, advertisers and sponsors. Professor of Theatre and Communication, Nasarawa State University and Nigerian President, International Association of Theatre Critics, Prof Emmanuel Dandaura, spoke on Overview of Cultural Administration in Nigeria, and highlighted administrative challenges as one of many adversaries of the cultural sector in Nigeria. He noted that the administration of former President Olusegun Obasanjo was the only one that came close to understanding the needs of the cultural sector in Nigeria in terms of funding, policy development and management. “I can tell you categorically that each time you see N10m being voted to a cultural agency, they hardly have access to N2m of such amount because of the interference of the members of the National Assembly in the name of constituency project,” he added. To him, Nigeria’s emphasis on the economic ends of the cultural sector is in itself a challenge, hence he said ‘’as far as culture is concerned, we need to develop those humane feelings in us, and then the economic angle would be taken care of.’ Mr. Elvis Asia took the participants on Entertainment Law and Ethics admonishing participants to begin to take contractual agreement serious, either as the ‘contractor’ or the ‘contractee’ as this legality help ensure some level of professionalism in the sector. He gave an overview of performance rights, image rights, copyrights, piracy and other related rights within the entertainment industry. Other speakers at the workshop were Producer BAP Productions and General Manager Terra Kulture, Mr. Joseph Umoibom, Head of Programme British Council Mr. Fusi Olateru-Olagbegi, and founder and CEO Zuri24 Media Mr. Femi Odugbemi. The opening ceremony of the workshop was attended by the Director-General and CEO National Council for Arts and Culture, Otunba Olusegun Runsewe, Country Director Goethe Institut Nigeria, Ms. Friederike Moeschel; General Manager National Theatre, Prof. Sunny Ododo; former President and Secretary of the NANTAP Board of Trustees, Mr. Mahmoud Balogun, and the Executive Secretary, National Institute for Cultural Orientation, Mallam Mohammed Ado Yahuza, who was represented by Mrs. Bridget Yerima as Chief Host. The workshop was anchored by Uju Ukwu of NICO Training School, Lagos and veteran journalist and culture activist, Jahman Anikulapo.