 In recent times – you could say, as for all times – there was a rash of accidents involving container trucks, fuel tankers and other articulated vehicles, mostly leaving human fatalities in their trail. The mishaps resulted from a consistent pattern of challenges, namely indiscretion on the part of truck drivers, which poses grave hazards to other road users; poor maintenance of the vehicles, leading to mechanical emergencies such as brake failures and unlatched containers tipping over, among other things; and terrible road conditions that often derail the momentum of heavy-duty vehicles, making them crash into anything nearby. On October 28, in Mgbowo, Awgu Local Government Area of Enugu State, a low-bed trailer operated by a construction company crashed into a school bus conveying 61 pupils of Presentation Nursery and Primary School owned by the Catholic Diocese of Awgu, along with two teachers and the driver. That accident claimed no fewer than 21 lives, including those of some of the pupils. Reports said the trailer developed brake problems, following which its driver lost control and hurtled down Mmaku slope on Oji River-Awgu Road by Nkwo Junction linking Old Enugu-Port-Harcourt expressway, where it rammed into the school bus, and then into a shop where a welder and his apprentice were working. Also killed in the mishap were a vulcaniser, a commercial motorcyclist, and an auto mechanic. Some other road users in the vicinity as well sustained injuries and were rushed to nearby hospitals. Barely 24 hours later, a truck inbound Onihale area, near Owode-Ijako in Ogun State lost control owing to brake failure and crushed a middle-aged woman dismounting a motorcycle in front of her father’s hotel. Officials of the Ogun Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps (TRACE) said three other persons were impacted by the accident, with one sustaining severe injuries. On that same day in Lagos, many people suffered varying degrees of injuries and a remarkable number of trucks got razed when a petrol laden tanker exploded at ‘Mile-Two Oke,’ along Oshodi-Apapa expressway. Eyewitnesses said the tanker, which had loaded products from a nearby tank farm, upturned while trying to navigate a bad portion of the highway. Upon tipping over, the tanker exploded in flames, with tongues of fire trailing spilled petrol to other parts of the highway. Incidents are too numerous to be recounted, and casualties are not limited to other road users but include the drivers of articulated vehicles themselves. Penultimate week in Lagos, the driver of a truck laden with iron rods inbound from Ikorodu got killed when his vehicle hit a bad patch at Owode-Elede and tipped over, discharging its content on the road. Eyewitnesses said a car that ran into the scene got trapped, but its two occupants were swiftly rescued by sympathisers. We have repeatedly said this phenomenon is ruinous to our collective road culture and is unacceptable. Lives are lost almost daily, and not much headway appears being made to tackle down the challenge. The Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC), in August, said it impounded more than 800 articulated vehicles within two weeks and prosecuted 150 offenders under its ‘Operation Scorpion II’; but it is doubtful this has substantially minimised the problem. Many articulated vehicles plying our roads aren’t well maintained, and there is legitimate concern over the psycho-physical fitness of the drivers. The issue goes beyond the FRSC policing trucks on the highways to Vehicle Inspection Officers (VIOs) doing a thorough job of pre-assessing the fitness of those vehicles. Besides, there is need for a transportation policy under which minimum conditions for plying the roads are strictly enforced; weak  enforcement has been the bane of road safety till date. Actually, sub-nationals should head up their own set of standards that could be strictly enforced in respective jurisdiction. Again, we must state that a long-term solution would be to decongest the highways of truck cargoes by developing the rail system and the seaports in other parts of the country for long cargo hauls. We can’t keep having avoidable carnage on our roads.