 In a world almost exhausted by the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, nothing can be more uplifting than the news that a Nigerian-born American, Dr. Onyema Ogbuagu, is leading the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine development that is said to be at least 90% effective in checking the virus. This is especially so, coming barely a few months when Nigeria was in the news for the wrong reasons, following the arrest of some Nigerians over internet fraud. Dr. Ogbuagu is a researcher, a specialist in infectious diseases, internal medicine and an expert in modified genetic code. Prior to the outbreak of the pandemic, his interest had revolved around improving the care and health outcomes of individuals living with or at the risk of HIV/AIDS domestically and internationally. He has been a visiting Professor to the National University of Rwanda since 2012. He mentors and teaches medical residents and junior faculty while also conducting clinical research projects in and around infectious diseases. For a world that has held its breath as medical professionals and scientists battle to find a solution to the global pandemic, the success of Dr. Ogbuagu and his team is very remarkable. He merely joins the list of Nigerian professionals making history in different fields, especially in medicine and economics, around the world. It is instructive that he graduated from the University of Calabar in 2003, the same university that produced the controversial Cameroonian Dr. Stella Emmanuel who claimed, without clinical approval though, that hydrochloroquine and Zithromax can be used to treat COVID-19 patients. That Ogbuagu’s father was a former Vice- Chancellor of the Abia State University,  while the mother is a Professor of Sociology goes to show the quality of human capital available in Nigeria. That they returned to the United States is another pointer to the depth of brain-drain, especially of intellectuals and those in the medical field. It is a fact that about 4,000 Nigerian medical professionals are practicing in the United States, and about 5,000 in the United Kingdom. Other countries equally have a sizeable number of Nigerians in these and other fields. We felicitate with Dr. Ogbuagu who is now a global icon given the feat under reference; we regret that Nigerian institutions continue to train and lose the best of us to other countries due to poor planning or no plan at all, since independence. Nigeria’s health sector has been in a shambles for decades and it’s not for lack of qualified human capital but just that successive governments have not prioritised education and health like other countries. What a joy and a leap Nigeria would have made had a Dr. Ogbuagu led his Nigerian medical researchers to achieve this feat in Nigeria. Poor and dilapidated infrastructure is the bane of most sectors in Nigeria and that is the reason Nigerians make waves outside in climes that prioritise infrastructure. The twenty-first century and future would continue to be dominated by countries that make the appropriate investment in their human capital through education and health. We love that the Nigerian government is elated at this rare achievement by a Nigerian, in a way validating the fact that it is not all bad news from Nigeria and Nigerian youths. We however hasten to add that other Ogbuagus would be glad to come back home when the conditions are right. For him to be a visiting professor of medicine to the University of Rwanda speaks volumes. Why is no Nigerian university on his list? This must be food for thought for those whose business it is to make and execute policies for Nigeria. Jubilating and claiming affiliation with Nigerians excelling abroad while doing nothing to promote excellence at home seems to us a futile effort and can never take the country anywhere.