Nollywood has witnessed the glowing careers of top actors and actresses who started as kids in the movie industry and made a name for themselves. While some former child stars decided to leave the spotlight and pursue careers outside of the entertainment industry, others completely transformed their careers, becoming more famous than they ever once were. Funke Akindele is a renowned actress who started her career as a young girl. The superstar came to limelight in 1998 when she played Bisi, a brilliant secondary school student, in the sitcom “I need to know.” She gained massive fame in 2009 for her role in the movie “Jenifa.” Since then the actress has gone on to make a name for herself in this industry and is one of the heavyweights in the industry. Son of veteran Nollywood comedian, Kayode Olasehinde, popularly known as Ajirebi, Samuel began his career as a child and was shot to limelight for his many roles in movies where he had to play the stubborn child that was notorious for making fun of people. Destiny Etiko joined Nollywood industry while in primary school. She acted in her first movie, Twin Brothers, as a child actor alongside Osita Iheme, Hanks Anuku and the late Sam Loco-Efe. She rose to fame in 2012 after starring in the hit movie, Idemili. Regina Daniels made her debut in Nollywood in 2010 at 9 and became a sensation where she starred in ‘Miracle Child’. The teen actress has grown into a fine young woman married to Nigerian billionaire, Senator Ned Nwoko, She has starred in over a hundred movies. Khabirat started her career 1999 when she starred in her first move as Araparegangan in the famous Yoruba movie, ‘Saworide’. She has since evolved and featured in many other movies and has become a Nollywood director and producer. William, who started his career pretty young, was one of the most popular child stars to emerge from Nollywood in the 90s. His acting prowess was undeniable. He is currently African Youth Representative to the UN. After his long break from Nollywood, he made a big comeback and has been able to win the hearts of many with his funny Instagram skits. Born May 8, 1999, Somadina started his acting career as a child actor in 2006. He got his first role in the movie, Beyond Death, when he acted along with Osita Iheme. Somadina is also a model and TV presenter.