 THE Rivers State Government on Friday said it had recorded successes against the coronavirus pandemic, attributing its feats to the strategies adopted by Governor Nyesom Wike. Secretary to Rivers State Government, Dr Tammy Wenike Danagogo, said Wike’s style was the reason why the state was fast overcoming the challenges posed by the pandemic. Danagogo, while interacting with students of the Armed Forces Command and Staff College, Jaji, in Government House Port Harcourt, explained that Wike’s political will and proactive,  pragmatic and dogged approach to containing the virus lowered community transmission of the pandemic. He said: “Rivers State Government started very early to wage the war against the pandemic. Governor Wike was very vocal about the dangers of the disease and implemented strict protocols backed by executive orders to ensure we do not allow community spread in the state. “The governor gave good account of himself in terms of proactive, pragmatic and rational leadership in the war against Covid-19. We are lucky that we have this kind of proactive governor. “I am certain that if that same level of proactive and pragmatic approach was adopted nationally, we would not have been exposed to the virus as the nation experienced. “Our borders were quickly closed and a lot of people insinuated we were challenging the Federal Government but that was a parochial view. “The Security Council insisted on closing the borders because the moment Lagos was experiencing community spread, the next focal city was Port Harcourt. “The heads of the security agencies were patriotic and supported the efforts to implement strict measures, but politics played into the challenge and the security heads were removed and our borders were opened which caused community spread in the state. “However, despite the challenges presented by the change of security heads, the governor was not perturbed as he had already set up different committees starting with the State Covid-19 Response Team headed by the governor himself to tackle any such emergencies. “Note that no matter what government or security agencies do, we need the understanding from the masses if we must win the war against the predicted second wave of the virus. But we are ready and hoping that we will succeed once again”. In his remarks, the Commissioner for Information and Communication, Paulinus Nsirim, said besides the tactical measures by different committees, an all-encompassing communication strategy was implemented to create awareness and attitudinal change. He said: “Currently, we are transiting as a state. The State Executive Council Committee is going round schools to enlighten pupils and teachers as we transit,” he said. The Commissioner for Health, Prof Chike Princewill, and the Commissioner for Environment, Dr. Igbiks Tamuno, presented the state efforts in the health and environmental sectors. The team leader of the participants, Brig. Gen. Victor Ebhaleme, thanked the governor for his leadership and magnanimity. He acknowledged that the participants benefitted enormously from the data presented by the government. 