 HOW does it feel to be 70? Well, I still feel the same; except for the encomiums and eulogies, telling me how sweet and great it is to attain this age. Some of my elders too who have attained the age of 70 several years back have also been welcoming me to the club of highly responsible citizens. What was growing up like? I grew up like a normal child from a humble background. I was born in the town but because my father was a farmer and my mother, a merchant in the village, I had to live with them for a while in the village before moving back to town. But in those days, the villages were like the most beautiful part of the world. Everything around us was natural and exciting, and we were very happy and optimistic of the future. You come from a rather large family, tell us about your relationship with your father? I loved my father so much. He had me at an old age and people thought I may not reward him before he died. But thank God, my father lived to be 95 and I started work early; so for six years, I was able to look after him and do exciting things for him before he passed on. I was number 20 out of his 25 children. So my father loved me so much and I loved him too. I never cried when anybody died but I cried when he died. How did he impact your life and career? My father was a disciplinarian, who never condoned any form of indiscipline. Once, I went out to watch Egungun festival and came back home reciting one of the exciting songs rendered there. When he overheard me, he beat the hell out of me. On another occasion, I fought at a public tap. The person jumped the queue and we resisted him. When he heard  that his son joined others in fighting at the public tap, he scolded me vehemently. At above twenty years when my mates were already taken their girlfriends home and entertaining them, I brought mine home but had to escape with her through the window. That was why I got married, a virgin. I thought he was wicked then but realised later that he was molding us. Today I am grateful to God for him. How did your path cross with your wife’s? Initially, I was not too lucky with marriage. I think that’s the way God had destined it. My first marriage lasted about six years. She was tough because we were classmates in school, so the familiarity was there. However, I believe in the Yoruba and a biblical injunction that requires wives to submit to their husbands. For that reason, our marriage didn’t work. I got married again and encountered similar problems. But my present wife is God-sent. She had just finished a three-day fasting and prayers when I met her. She was asking God for a husband who will be like a father and friend. The day I met her, I said to myself this is my wife and she was shocked. The following day she was in my car and I drove straight to their house. I told the father that this is my wife and the man was looking at me like someone who was dreaming. To cut a long story short, the marriage was consummated within a period of three weeks. And I thank God that after sixteen years, I have been enjoying marital life in a way that I never did. When you have a wife who subdues herself, is humble, respectful and dutiful, what else does a man want? What are you most thankful for in life? A lot. I said earlier that never thought I would amount to anything. But here I am today. God has been so faithful, great and wonderful. If you want to serve Him, do so diligently and unalloyed because His hand is not too short to deliver; neither His ears too heavy to listen. I thank Him for bringing me this far in my business and family. How did the journey into insurance begin with you? My plan was to become a medical doctor or pharmacist; but man proposes and God disposes. By the time I was in secondary school, my father was already aged, so there were no sufficient funds. Even when I was writing my final school examination, they had not finished paying my school fees. But to the glory of God, I finished second best out of 73 in the examination. As God would have it, a club wanted to sponsor someone to a higher school, they conducted an exam for us and I came first. That was how I won the scholarship. I attended the University of Lagos at an old age. General Bajowa and I were schoolmates; he was 43 and I was 33. But thank God we were able to show so much concentration and we graduated with Second Class Upper. I wanted to study medicine but there was no fund, so I decided to work briefly with UBA; then I thought for about two months before moving to Royal Exchange Assurance, which was training ground for all insurance company in Nigeria at that time. My branch manager took special interest in me and within a period of one year, I had attended about five different courses in insurance. That was how my journey into insurance began. I moved to Amicable Insurance Company as the client’s manager; from there, I moved to pioneer what is known today as LASACO Assurance. I was the pioneer Fire and Claims superintendent. In 1988 I established Prestige Insurance Brokers. I showed more interest in insurance broking aspect of insurance. The biblical injunction that ‘whatever your hands findeth doing, do it diligently’, guided me. So I showed so much interest in insurance and I became a board member. In1999 I was elected vice president; in 2001, I became deputy president and in 2003, I became president of Insurance Brokers in Nigeria. Few years later, I was elected president of Insurance Brokers in Africa in Zimbabwe. At 70, I believe I’ve gotten to the peak and it is time to take the back seat. In 2011, I was given a national award of Member of Federal Republic of Nigeria (MFR) as a diligent insurance practitioner. So here we are. I’m neither a medical doctor nor pharmacist but I think I am somebody. I return all the glory to God. Leaving a paid job to start your own business must have been a tough decision; was there enough patronage to keep you afloat? Leaving a paid job to start one’s business shouldn’t be a difficult decision for a dynamic person. Change is of the essence and it’s the only thing that is permanent in nature. At that time, I was restless and not ready to stay long in a place. At Royal Exchange, it took 3-4 years to get increase in notch. It took the man ahead of us in my department 16 years to get to that position. I was not ready to wait that long. Yes there was patronage. Most of the charlatans we have in the industry today, if they existed at all, were scanty. But today it’s becoming increasingly difficult because there are many people who believe they can run faster than their shadows. Aside charlatans in the industry, what other challenges does insurance face in Nigeria? The nature of the economy is one. The income of those who buy insurance is not getting more buoyant. You only think of insurance if you have excess. The nonchalant attitude of people towards insurance is another. Some people, especially in the North, don’t believe in insurance. They see it as working against God. So religion is part of it. But the industry is moving and we shall get to a level of which we shall all be proud. COVID-19 has made insurance an important item for discerning Nigeria. What do you think can be done to make insurance more acceptable? We need to do more thorough orientation to educate people. Let the economy also improve, so that when people have surplus, they can then think of insuring life and properties. Some people die when armed robbers snatch their cars on the highway, out of panic when they remember their investment on the car that is not insured. But if you have comprehensive insurance cover, you’ll save your life. This pandemic has created awareness, especially in the area of life assurance and it’s a big loss for us in the industry because at the time we were drafting the policy, we didn’t anticipate anything like the coronavirus pandemic. But because it is covered under the policy, we have no choice should anyone die of the virus. What is the most important lesson you have learnt in life? To put my trust in God. I read a portion in the Bible that says ‘Many are the afflictions of the righteous but God deliver him from them all’. When you trust in God and ask the spirit of God to lead you, then you are the best in the world and become a wonder to people. How would you like to be remembered? I will like to be remembered as someone that God used for peace and human development around him. I love peace and want to be remembered as someone who came to this world and ensured peaceful co-existence among his people.