 AN indigenous engineering, construction and safety services, Tomsey Engineering and Services International Company, has announced the appointment two top new management executives. They are Mr. Ifesowapo Olatunji, as General Manager and Chief Operating Officer and Babafemi Ojo, as the Manager, Engineering and Construction Services. Olatunji is responsible for overall business strategy and operational excellence of the business. He is also charged with managing internal and external stakeholders, including regulators, clients, partners, and vendors. He is an experienced and versatile professional with several years of experience, who started his career in the banking sector, before transitioning to management consulting, and now engineering services. A former management consultant with PwC (PricewaterhouseCoopers), he has led and participated in multiple business transformation, operational efficiency, and people management projects in helping business better navigate the Nigerian and global markets. His experience spans across Africa and Europe, with a focus on oil and gas companies operating in different sectors of the value chain. He holds a degree in Economics and a Master’s degree in Management from the Alliance Manchester Business School, Manchester, UK. Ojo is an experienced and professional individual who promotes and champion world-class engineering principles across various industries. He is an expert at planning and prioritising engineering activities and resources to get projects completed on time with quality. He has an extensive experience of developing engineering teams into effective and pro-active units. His wealth of experience spans across several engineering companies and has worked on supervision/design of several buildings/civil engineering and road construction works (private & public sector), including mechanical/fabrication works in oil & gas sector and more. He holds a degree in Civil Engineering and a Master’s degree in Project Management and he is a member of the Nigeria Society of Engineers (NSE) and a registered engineer with the Council for the Regulation of Engineering in Nigeria (COREN). 