 GOVERNOR Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq of Kwara State on Friday announced plan to stop pensions for  all former governors and deputy governors of the  state. The governor said a bill was currently  in the works on the matter. But a former governor of the state, Dr.Bukola Saraki, berated Abdulrazaq of allowing   politics to becloud his sense of  judgement as the pension scheme had been abolished by the State House of Assembly in February 2018. Abdulrazaq said on Friday that he would  put in place measures to repeal the law that awards pensions to all former governors of the state and their deputies. The governor, who personally broke the news on Twitter, said: “In line with our campaign mantra and the yearnings of our people, next week I will be sending a bill to the State House of Assembly to revoke the law awarding pension packages to former governors and former deputy governors in Kwara State. “Our state needs all the resources it can get to improve our human capital development.” The governor said his action was based on  “voices of the majority of the citizens opposing the pension law for former governors and deputy governors.” The announcement by the Kwara State governor comes on the heels of that made on Tuesday by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State who said the Public Office Holder (Payment of Pension Law 2007) in the state would be repealed. Sanwo-Olu spoke while presenting the government’s budget proposal for the 2021 fiscal year to members of the Lagos State House of Assembly in Alausa, Ikeja. Saraki to governor: You got it wrong, check your records In a swift reacting to the development, a former governor of the state, Dr.Bukola Saraki said Abdulrazaq should check his records before copying policies from other states to avoid embarrassment. Saraki said the law which the governor wanted  to repeal now was revised and abolished by the state House of Assembly in February 2018. The former Senate President, in a statement by his media aide, Abdulganiyu Abdulquadir, said: “It is worrisome how politics is beclouding the judgement of the present administration under Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq and making it become desperate to score cheap political points, not minding the embarrassment it is causing the good people of the state “It would be recalled that in February 2018, the Kwara State House of Assembly revised the law and abolished payment of the pensions, a move that was publicly hailed by then Senate President, Dr Abubakar Bukola Saraki. “Since the review of the law in 2018, Saraki has stopped receiving any pension from the state government. These are verifiable facts that are in possession of the Kwara State Government. If there is any contrary information to this, we urge the incumbent governor to inform the public. “It is now worrisome and an embarrassment to all Kwarans that a law that has since been repealed in the state is the same law Governor Abdulrahman is claiming that he intends to abolish. “Must this administration copy everything from Lagos word for word? One needs to advise His Excellency, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, to desist from the copy-and-paste system without properly checking the record to know what is appropriate and what is not relevant in the state. “This attitude of the copy-and-paste system of government demonstrates crass incompetence. It shows the governor is not aware of what is going on in his government.” 