 We cannot make the police a fall guy of budgets even if, at times, the force has been part of the nation’s problem with security. They have been perceived as a necessary evil in our society. We need them, but we sometimes loathe them. But they belong to us, like family. So, when the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, told the House of Representatives that the proposed budget of the police force was far below what it needs to secure Nigeria, he needs to be taken seriously. Hear him: “The Nigeria Police Force as the primary security agency in charge of national security is being challenged by the enormous financial challenges.” Hence he noted that the proposed N18.4 billion the Federal Government has earmarked for it in next year’s budget will make it impotent for the task ahead. He is right. In a N10.3 trillion budget for the nation, the amount for the police is a trickle, especially when the budget for the Ministry of Defence is over N840 billion. It was in order for the police chief to take his battle cry to the floor of the Green Chamber so members of the House could hear his lament in person. The legislators were appropriately surprised that a mere N11 billion was appropriated for capital expenditure for a year where it has to restore a lot of broken infrastructure from the perversions of hoodlums as well as years of neglect. This must also be understood in the context of the vow from the lips of Femi Gbajabiamila, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, that the chamber would not append its approval to any budget that does not adequately cater to the welfare and amenity of the force. We may recall that the police force, especially the now defunct Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), were the trigger for the #EndSARS protests that rocked the country recently. Apart from remonstrating against the savage daring of the force, the youths also wanted a civilised working condition for the police officers. The police have always been at the bad end of budgets in this country, and for a long time. The police stations have always been an eyesore. They are unkempt, smelly and bare. They hardly get official funds for operation. The officers are left to care for themselves. So, they resort to bribes to buy and power their generators, fund facilities from plumbing to furniture, and even to as routine a need as pens and paper for documentation. The cells also destroy the sight and human beings, guilty or innocent, are supposed to live year in and out in a sty. Some essentials like tear gas canisters necessary to quell riots are rare. They needed them to save their stations, when they were forbidden to shoot live bullets. As for the police force, the members earn miserable pay, and promotions tend not to come to many and merit suffers in a milieu of cronyism and ethnocentric pathologies. It was this realisation that forced Gbajabiamila to insist that this welfare nightmare must end. If the Federal Government promised to reform the police and give welfare a lift, the budget does not signal progress. Recently the police stations in some major cities, especially in Lagos, caught fire from arsonists’ hands. They became victims in a public orgy of vandalism and anarchism. Police men and women had to run for their lives. A few lost their lives in the course of duty. Hoodlums took over the entrails of our cities, and the police value suddenly became premium as most citizens were at the mercy of street gangs, robbers and never-do-wells. The police are the frontline of community defence. We must cater for them. It is no favour to them. It is our duty to the Nigerian citizen and the integrity of our constitution that enshrines security as the first duty of any government.