Sixty prominent Nigerians and organisations, including the immediate past Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr. Babachir Lawal, former Aviation Minister, Femi Fani-Kayode, and frontline businessman, Emeka Offor, on Saturday lost their privilege of personal police security. The police personnel attached to them were ordered withdrawn by Police Inspector General Mohammed Adamu forthwith. The IGP also ordered the deployment of legitimate force against riotous and violent protests to protect lives and property of citizens. The police boss, in a circular with reference number CB: 4001/IGP.SEC/ABJ/VOL.116/32 of November 4, 2020, listed the names and organisations whose police security should be withdrawn. On the list are: Emeka Offor, Femi Fani-Kayode, Amen Rochas, Magnus Abe, Babachir Lawal, Lado Yakubu, Yuguda Bashir, Uche Chukwu, Boroface Ajayi, Mutiu Nicholas, Tokunbo Afikuyomi, Edozie Madu, David Adesanya and Chris Giwa. Organisations mentioned include Christ Embassy, Oriental Energy Resources, ECWA Academy, and Sunti Golden Sugar Estate. The letter, which was signed by the Principal Staff Officer to the IGP, DCP Idowu Owohunwa, reads in part: “The attention of the IGP has been drawn to the fact that the police personnel attached to the corporate bodies and personalities are yet to be withdrawn despite extant directives to that effect. “In line with the subsisting order, the IG directs that you withdraw all the PMF, SPU, CTU, or conventional police operations attached to the affected companies or individuals in any of their locations across the country with immediate effect.” The IGP directed the senior officers the letter was addressed to, to submit a report confirming compliance not later than November 10, 2020.” Adamu had earlier in an  October 21, 2020 wireless message, directed  that all policemen serving such purposes be recalled as part of efforts to reorganise and boost internal security nationwide. Those exempted from the order were those attached to Government Houses, the Senate President and the Speaker House of Representatives. The October order appeared not to have been obeyed, prompting the latest circular which was addressed to Commissioners of Police across the country, Police Mobile Force and the Special Protection Unit. Also on Saturday, the IGP ordered the deployment of all legitimate force against riotous and violent protests to protect lives and property of citizens. The protection covers police officers and personnel of other law enforcement agencies and their families, as well as private/public assets. The Force Public Relations Officer, DCP Frank Mba,  said in a statement that Commands’ Commissioners of Police and their supervisory Assistant Inspectors-General of Police “should resist all riotous elements forthwith and checkmate any form of violent/riotous protests in line with Section 33 (1) & (2) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended) which, among other things, provides for the use of such force as is reasonably necessary – “(a) For the defence of any person from unlawful violence or for the defence of property; (b) In order to effect a lawful arrest or to prevent the escape of a person lawfully detained; or (c) For the purpose of suppressing a riot, insurrection or mutiny. “The IGP affirms that the Force will not tolerate a repeat of the horrendous attacks and killings, arson and wanton destruction, and looting of public and private assets witnessed during the recent violent protests in some parts of the country. He warns that the Force shall deploy the full weight of the law and legitimate force (if necessary) in preventing a recurrence. The IGP assures law abiding citizens across the country of the Force’s renewed and unwavering commitment to their safety and security, especially as we approach the yuletide. He calls for the collaboration and support of citizens in the ongoing reforms of the Force.” The Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, has ordered a probe into the issues concerning the posting of a photo on social media by a Kannywood actress, Rahma Sadau, and ensure it does not threaten public peace. The actress, a Muslim, had recently been in the limelight over a controversy about the photo of herself she posted on social media. In the photo, she wore a backless dress and did not cover her hair in a manner not consistent with Islamic norms. The post had generated a lot of heat, especially from Muslims, who called her out for the inappropriateness of the post. She was consequently banned by Kannywood, the Hausa movie industry. The actress had eventually taken down the post and apologised, but one Mallam Lawal Gusau, from Kaduna State, had written a petition to the Inspector-General of Police, complaining that the post caused and acknowledged derogatory and blasphemous comments against Prophet Muhammed. In a letter signed by the Principal Staff Officer to the IG, Idowu Owohunwa, in response to the petition, the Commissioner of Police of Kaduna State was ordered to look into the matter. The letter, dated November 3, 2020, with number CR:7000/IGP.SEC/ABJ/Vol.508/313, sighted by The Nation on Saturday, reads in part, “I am to convey the directive of the Inspector General of Police that you treat proactively with a view to ensuring that the development does not result in any act that could threaten public peace and security. The Inspector-General of Police further directs that you furnish him with updates accordingly.” The letter was titled, ‘Complaint of Causing and Acknowledging Derogatory and Blasphemous Comments Against Prophet Muhammed on Rahma Sadau, Kaduna, Kaduna State and Request for Urgent Intervention’.