 OF all the places attacked by mobs during the #EndSARS –related mayhem in Lagos State, the palace of Oba of Lagos Rilwan Akiolu at Isale Eko, Lagos Island, was the most striking. Known as Iga Idunganran, it is the official residence of Oba Akiolu, the most important traditional ruler in the country’s economic and commercial capital. His palace is a place of traditional power and may be likened to a government house, the official residence of a governor.  In a sense, the attack on the palace was like an attack on a government house. It is ironic that the palace was attacked by locals expected to be loyal to the king. The attack suggested that the king was unpopular. A popular king should have more friends than enemies in his kingdom. There was an ugly twist to the widespread #EndSARS non-violent protests against police brutality and abuse of power in the country when other elements introduced disorder and destruction. The protests that prompted the disbandment of the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF), known as SARS, did not justify wanton destruction. It is tragic that things went awry not only in Lagos, the hardest-hit state, but across the country. It is unclear whether Oba Akiolu’s police background counted against him.  Before he became king, he had served in the police force. He spent 32 years in the police force and became assistant inspector-general of police in 1999. He retired in 2002. Lagos Police Commissioner Hakeem Odumosu announced that “a total of 520 suspects” were arrested for various offences including “arson, robbery, murder, rioting, malicious damage, and unlawful possession of firearms.” The list of destroyed public assets in Lagos includes the High Court complex, Igbosere; Lagos State DNA and Forensic Centre, Broad Street; Ejigbo LCDA secretariat; City Hall, Lagos Island; COVID-19 warehouse at Monkey Village; Ajeromi Ifelodun LG secretariat; and NPA head office, Marina. It is disturbing that 16 police stations were burnt by rampaging mobs across the state, and 13 police formations were vandalised as well as police posts at Mowo, Morogbo, Ikota and Mawa, symbolising a breakdown of law and order. Odumosu said:  “Some private facilities, as well as other investments that were partly torched and vandalised/looted, include the Oba of Lagos’ Palace; Television Continental (TVC) at Ikosi-Ketu; Access Bank, GTBank and Ebeano Supermarket at Victoria Island; The Nation office at Fatai Atere Street, Mushin; Shoprite Malls at Ajah; LTV 8, Alausa, Ikeja; Samsung outlet at Apple Roundabout, Festac; Shoprite at Festac; and Samsung Office, Oyingbo.” It is thought-provoking that Oba Akiolu’s palace was among the casualties. The king had to be evacuated from the palace by military protectors who saved him from becoming a casualty as well. Oba Akiolu’s personal assistant, Prince Deoye Olumegbon, was reported saying, “Kabiyesi is safe. Soldiers came to rescue him. But thugs have vandalised and looted the palace. No one is dead but they carted away valuable properties.” Dramatically, those who invaded and looted the palace stole Oba Akiolu’s staff of office and displayed it as they marched through the streets. It suggested that the mob had dethroned the king, if only temporarily.  It is significant that his staff of office was said to have been recovered, and rites were performed to welcome the king back to his palace. A prominent Lagos royal, Princess Abiola Dosunmu, the Erelu Kuti of Lagos, explained that the stolen staff of office “is a ceremonial one and we have dozens of such staff.” She added: “It’s the one they take to parties, public functions and so on. It doesn’t have that serious significance. Of course, it’s wrong that anyone should take it; it’s still the property of the palace.” Oba Akiolu  was crowned in 2003, 17 years ago,  but his kingship was challenged by royal rivals, resulting in a long-drawn-out legal battle that ended in his favour in 2019, 16 years after he ascended the throne. “My appointment as the king is the first time in history that kingmakers will be unanimous in selecting an Oba of Lagos,” he had said in court during the battle. The attack on his palace did not reflect his assertion. The palace of the Oba of Lagos, built in 1670, is a tourist attraction.  The ancient palace has been modernised over the years, including in Oba Akiolu’s era. There are ancient shrines within the palace grounds, and some of the previous kings are buried at Iga Idunganran. These features were insignificant to the mob that desecrated the palace. It is noteworthy that the palace is located in a poor locality. Isale Eko is an urban eyesore. The picture of a beautiful palace amid visible poverty is unappealing.  It is always a possibility that the poor will protest against poverty and aloof prosperity. The Forum of Eko Princes and Princesses condemned “the wanton desecration of our traditional heritage in Lagos,” referring to the actors as “miscreants and vandals.”  The group called for an investigation by the state government. Similarly, the Association of Lagos Titled Chiefs said it was “a taboo for instruments of office (traditional staff) or any of its replicas to be carted away from the palace” as well as “other traditional artifacts” stolen by people described as “miscreants and hoodlums.” Those who desecrated the palace should be tracked down and punished, these traditional stakeholders demanded. But the matter is not so simple. Beyond investigating the incident and punishing the guilty, the traditional authorities need self-examination. How has the traditional leadership helped to develop the locality and the locals? Have the traditional leaders done enough to alleviate the obvious poverty in the area?  How many of the people in Isale Eko are among the   more than 83 million Nigerians living below the national poverty line, according to figures released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) this year? Nigeria’s population is about 206 million. The NBS 2019 report on Poverty and Inequality in Nigeria deserves the attention of not only the federal, state and local governments but also the traditional authorities across the country.  Every level of leadership has a development role and should be development-conscious. Oba Akiolu, a lawyer, turned 77 on October 29.  He got the shock of his life when the mob violated his palace on October 21.  May he not experience such a shock again; may he have the wisdom to prevent a recurrence.