 FORMER governors, political associates and friends of   the late  Alhaji  Balarabe Musa  thronged  the  Sultan Bello Central Mosque in Kaduna on Wednesday to pay their last respects to the Second Republic Governor of old Kaduna State. His  remains were  interred at  the Ungwar Sarki Cemetery in Kaduna after a funeral prayer led by Sheikh Ahmed Gumi. Musa, a left-wing politician, died on Wednesday morning at the age of 84. The former governors that attended the funeral prayer conducted immediately after the Asri (early evening prayer) were Ahmed Makarfi and Mukhtar Yero. Governor Nasir El-Rufai, who is abroad, was represented by Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Balarabe Lawal. Others present were Chief Judge of Kaduna State, Justice Mohammed Lawal; a former Peoples Democratic Party Governorship candidate Alhaji Lema Jibril; a  former Executive Secretary of  the Petroleum Technology Development Fund, Isah   Ashiru;  Alhaji Hussaini Jallo, Senator Shehu Sani and several serving and former commissioners and district heads. Yero described Musa as a politician with integrity, whose virtues should be emulated by the current crop of leaders. The trip from the Sultan Bello Mosque to the Ungwar Sarki Cemetery, a distance of three kilometres, took longer time as residents in their large numbers trooped out to bid the deceased farewell. Musa   was elected governor of the the old  Kaduna State (comprising today’s Kaduna and Katsina states ) on the platform of leftist Peoples Republican Party (PRP) which   founded by the late Aminu Kanu. He championed the cause of the poor in his lifetime. He held office from October 1979 until he was impeached by the then National Party of Nigeria-   dominated   House of Assembly on June 23, 1981. Musa was the PRP candidate for the presidency in the 2003 elections, and later Chairman of Conference of Nigerian Political Parties (CNPP). On August 31, 2010, he quit active politics due to health issues and announced his immediate resignation from chairmanship of the PRP. Musa, in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on October 4, said the aspirations of Nigeria could be achieved, if both the leadership and followers resolved to play their part in earnest nation building . He had said “Honestly, the country has not fared well at 60. It is very disappointing that this is where we are. “But things can be better; we can still achieve the dreams of our founding fathers if we all play our role in nation building.” He also advocated the restructuring of the country politically and economically. “The economic and political models we are currently operating only empower a few. Governments must be structured to impact positively on the masses,” the former governor said.