 SUPPORT has come  again for  embattled Super Eagles coach Gernot Rohr  amid calls for  the termination of his contract after recent poor run of results. Over the weekend, Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) President Amaju Pinnick  said  calls  for the sacking of the 67-year-old  German is ill-timed since  the Super Eagles are still  on course  for the delayed  2021 Africa Cup of Nations to be held  in  Cameroun in 2022. Yet foremost facility expert and chief executive officer of  Monimichelle, Ebi Egbe,  has attributed poor playing surfaces  to the Super Eagles recent listless results   including the  dramatic 4-4 draw and drab goalless  draw against the Leone Stars in the  2021 AFCON  double header  respectively held in Benin and  Freetown. Egbe claimed  the Super Eagles given  the calibre  of players at the disposal of  Rohr  would  eventually bounce back  should  the team be offered the necessary support by football stakeholders. He said:  “ What we have presently in the Super Eagles are  refined players  and many of them grew up training and playing under smooth surfaces  and as we all know, the AFCON pitches are always  refined  and I think we are going to see the best of our team in Cameroun. “I don’t think the coach (Gernot Rohr) is bad,” noted . “ He can’t succeed alone; most people might not really understand  when I dwelled on the fact that we have ‘refined players’  and because of their up-bringing, we just need to give them refined pitches to play upon.” Egbe stressed that Sierra Leone did their homework on our players, hence they took them to the ‘rice field’ in Freetown where no player can play to his full potentials:“ We need not to make our players struggle in home and away games. At home, our boys should enjoy the luxury of playing on the kind of pitches they play on out there in Europe and this is why I’m clamouring for Nigeria to have world class pitches with zero undulation and lush green.” Egbe re-echoed the vision of his outfit which is the eradication of bad pitches not just in Nigeria but the African continent.