 The Nigerian Computers Society (NCS) yesterday identified information technology (IT) as a vital tool for quick economic recovery from the pangs of COVID-19. It also said it is the path to achieving sustainable national development. Its President, Prof Adesina Sodiya, who spoke to reporters in Lagos ahead this year’s edition National Information Technology Merit Award (NITMA) being organized by the Society, urged both the public and private sector players in the economy to leverage IT tools to boost productivity and pull through the debris of the virus. He said: “IT is critical to enabling economic recovery and growth as well as achieving sustainable development. All who desire progress should work with NCS to recognise, honour and reward those that are doing great work. The society not just NCS should reward them for their impact, service and untiring efforts. “We must encourage those in our environment who are using their knowledge, creativity and resourcefulness to develop local tech solutions that are so essential to the drive for socio-economic, growth, recovery and development.” He said NITMA is a strong and purposeful indication of NCS commitment to celebrating talent and highlighting the innovation, excellence, vision, and dedication of individuals and organisations within the IT industry and community. He said the Governor of Nasarawa State, Abdullahi Sule, and his Zamfara State counterpart, Dr. Bello Mohammed Matawalle, CEO First Bank of Nigeria Ltd, Dr. Adesola Kazeem Adeduntan,  and the Registrar, Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB), Prof Ishaq Oloyede, would be get the Honorary Fellowship awards while  Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwolu, his Sokoto and delta states counterparts, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, and Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa respectfully would bag the Digital Governor of the Year award. Prof Sodiya said the CEO, Rack Centre, Mr. Ayotunde Coker, CEO eTranzact, Mr. Niyi Toluwalope and MD/CEO Fintrak Ltd, Mr. Bimbo Abioye have also been nominated for the IT Personality of the year award category while the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Pantami will get the IT Gold Merit Award for his innovative ideas towards moving IT to the next level. 