The hitherto volatile crude oil and gas-rich Niger Delta is now experiencing peace, which can only be sustained through the continuous engagement of the stakeholders and empowerment of the peace-loving people. Many oil companies operate in the nine states of the Niger Delta, with some of them having challenges in their host communities, thereby resulting in their being given quit notices or already chased out of their areas of operation, due to the oil firms’ insincerity and lack of commitment to develop the strategic region and empower the people. Seplat Petroleum Development Company PLC, however, stands out, in its dedication to the welfare of the people of its host communities in Edo and Delta States, as well as ensuring commensurate development of its areas of operation. The leading indigenous Nigerian oil and gas exploration and production company (Seplat), with a strategic focus on Nigeria, is listed on the main market of the London Stock Exchange (LSE) and the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), while pursuing a Nigeria-focused growth strategy and well-positioned to participate in future divestment programmes by the International Oil Companies (IOCs), farm-in opportunities and future licensing rounds. Top officials of Seplat, mostly from the oil and gas company’s Lagos head office, last week, had two-day engagements with its critical stakeholders in the Niger Delta. The first day was dedicated to quiz competition, a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative, tagged: “Seplat Pearls Quiz,” which took place at Imaguero College on Sapele Road, Benin, the Edo State capital and was attended by eminent personalities from far and wide. The General Manager, External Affairs and Communications of the leading Nigerian independent energy company (Seplat), Dr. Chioma Nwachuku, disclosed that the quiz challenge started in 2012, out of the determination of Seplat and its Joint Venture (JV) partner, the Nigerian Petroleum Development Company (NPDC), to inspire excellence in students of public and private secondary schools in the host states, thereby inculcating in them the principles of teamwork and hard work. She revealed that the oil firm had through the quiz initiative provided scholarships for 63 students, implemented projects valued at over N30 million in more than eight schools, given out four brand new 16-seater buses and consolation prizes to the last seven schools every year, since inception. Nwachuku noted that Seplat had been consistent in organising the quiz competition for an uninterrupted nine-year stretch, with 45,140 students already positively impacted by the programme, while stressing that the company was delighted with the numerous benefits of the competition and remained committed to holding it annually. Seplat’s general manager, external affairs and communications described the quiz as a unique CSR initiative of the oil giant, aimed at promoting and rewarding academic excellence while raising the quality of education of secondary school students in the company’s operational areas. Through the competition, many schools earlier had a boost to their infrastructure through many projects, including language laboratories, roofing projects, blocks of classrooms, the interlocking of the entire school premises designed to stave off erosion, computer laboratories and brand-new school buses. The quiz is actually addressing the Sustainability Development Goal (SDG) 4, by ensuring inclusive and equitable quality education for both public and private schools in Edo and Delta states, thus promoting lifelong learning opportunities for the teeming youth population. This year’s programme commenced over six months ago when 574 schools started vying to reach the much-coveted final stage of the competition. The quiz competition this time around, amid the COVID-19 pandemic, Seplat opted to become innovative by asking the students of all the participating schools to write the qualification test online, with the oil firm providing data for them, while out of the 574 schools that took the test, 104 (52 each from Edo and Delta states) progressed to the next round. After rounds of rigorous stages of the competition, four schools emerged and advanced to the last step. St. Michael College, Benin and Mc Nell Academy Secondary School, Sapele, Delta State competed for the first and second place trophies, while St. John’s Academy, Oleh, Delta State and Gloryland Secondary School, Igarra, Edo State vied for the third place. The competition ended with St. Michael College, Benin emerging the overall winner, while Mc Nell Academy Secondary School, Sapele and Gloryland Secondary School, Igarra emerged as the first and second runners-up. The first-prize school won N7 million project-based cash and N100,000 scholarship grant to the three students that represented the school, while the second prize was N3 million project-based cash, with N75,000 scholarship grant to the three winning students, with the third prize having N1 million project-based cash and N50,000 scholarship grant to the three winning students, while the teachers of all schools that qualified for the competition got attractive prizes. Events of the next day commenced with a courtesy visit on Edo Governor, Godwin Obaseki, at the Government House, Benin by some members of the management and board of Seplat, led by the company’s Chairman/Co-founder, Dr. Bryant Orjiako. Obaseki said: “We will like to go into an understanding with you to co-finance Benin-Abraka Road project or the stretch leading to your area of operation, to enable to us have access to good roads in that axis. “We plead with you to help us provide electricity in Orhionmwon Local Government Area of Edo State, which is exposed to gas flaring. Thank you for your quiz programme.” Seplat’s chairman had earlier congratulated Edo governor on his well-deserved victory during the keenly-contested September 19 governorship election in the Southsouth state and his November 12 inauguration, along with his deputy, Philip Shaibu. He assured that Seplat would continue to create value for the state and federal governments, through the payment of royalty, taxes and levies, as well as the communities, through robust corporate social investments, especially in capacity development, sustainable community infrastructure projects and economic empowerment programmes. Orjiako thanked Obaseki for the cordial working relationship between Seplat and Edo state government, stressing that the oil and gas company had been and would continue to be a responsible corporate organisation. The Seplat team then proceeded to Orerokpe, the headquarters of Okpe Local Government Area of Delta State, where it visited the Orodje of Okpe Kingdom, His Royal Majesty Felix Mujakperuo, Orhue 1, at his expansive palace, with Orjiako lauding the monarch for the cordial working relationship between the company and the communities in Okpe kingdom while assuring that Seplat is committed to the development of the ancient kingdom. The monarch, in his remarks, hailed the oil company for its commitment and support to the host communities, stressing that the relationship must remain a win-win situation for his people and Seplat, while urging the firm to continue its good works, but enjoined Seplat to provide additional support in healthcare infrastructure, employment of graduates from the area and award of contracts to Okpe vendors, among others. The team, which then moved to Oben in Orhionmwon LGA of Edo state, was received by the  Enogie (king) of the community, HRH Odoligie Frederick Ogiemwonyi, and leaders of the four host communities: Oben, Obozogbe-Nugu, Ikobi and Iguelaba. Seplat’s massive state-of-the-art gas plant is located in Oben field’s Oil Mining Lease (OML) 4, with the plant supplying gas to energy companies and industries across Nigeria, while also providing gas that had been facilitating the provision of over thirty-five per cent of electricity in the country. The Enogie of Oben and the leaders of the four host communities expressed appreciation on the visit of Seplat’s team and the company’s activities in their area while requesting the oil and gas firm to employ the area’s teeming qualified youths; provide uninterrupted electricity and patronage of indigenous contractors. The people of the four host communities of Oben oil field also requested the tackling of the effects of gas flaring on their health, while vowing to create an enabling environment for Seplat to flourish unhindered in its daily activities, stressing that the area was devoid of rancour and bitterness, with the people not only peace-loving but determined not to allow “unholy” practices in the area. Seplat’s new Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Roger Brown, while also speaking, stated that it was pertinent to visit the critical stakeholders while assuring that the company would walk the talk. Brown noted that Seplat had continued to drive its commitment to increase the country’s energy security and boosting Nigeria’s gas-to-power initiative, through deliberate significant investments in its gas business. He said: “To date, Oben remains a major gas hub. Seplat recently drilled additional gas wells in Oben to increase our production and ability to meet growing demand.” The CEO of Seplat also hailed the people of Oben field communities for ensuring the enabling peaceful environment for the company to operate. He emphasised the importance of Oben to Seplat’s business and Nigeria’s progress, in view of the abundant gas in the area. Brown gave an assurance that the firm would sustain the cordial working relationship with the Oben field communities, while it would continue to execute sustainable community development projects and programmes, to the benefits of people of the host communities. To ensure lasting peace in the Niger Delta, other oil and gas companies should emulate Seplat in developing the region and empowering the people, thereby ending youth restiveness and moving forward.