 Popular You Tube child comedienne, Emmanuela Samuel, has built a house and presented it to her mother as a Christmas gift. Taking to her Instagram page on Saturday, the 10-year-old girl, who is made popular by her role in Mark Angel Comedy’s web series, shared pictures of herself, her mother and other members of her family within the premises of the newly constructed building. She hinged her decision to build a house for her mother on her (mother’s) care, support and encouragement. She said: “I built this for you, mum, for all the prayers, the encouragement and support. I know you said you want a portable house, and this is it. “But forgive me because I must complete your mansion for you next year. Don’t worry, it won’t make us go to hell. My super Christmas mummy, I love you.” Emmanuella had started comedy as a five-year-old. She was said to have been on a family holiday when she met Angel, her colleague who needed children for his comedy shoot, and enlisted those he knew for an audition. Unfortunately, the children enlisted by Angel could not memorise their lines, forcing him to turn to Emmanuella, who was said to have done very well in spite of the eighteen-hour video shoot, a stunt he pulled to test the endurance of the kids. With Emmanuela selected for the comedy series, the onus fell on Angel to convince her (Emmanuela’s) parents to let her be a part of the Mark Angel Comedy team, and he got their approval. Emmanuella would later become well known after the comedy skit ‘This is Not My Real Face Oh’. In 2018, she was invited to the National Assembly after she got a role in a Disney film. She also won the ‘Top Subscribed Creator’ prize of YouTube at the inaugural edition of the Sub-Saharan African YouTube Awards. Emmanuella was named the ‘Best New Comedienne & Princess of Comedy’ at the Afro-Australia Music & Movie Awards (AAMMA) months after she had bagged the G-Influence Niger Delta Special Talent Award in 2015. She has continued to thrill her audiences with hilarious jokes centered around the everyday life of the average Nigerian.