 SIR: When every government policy is motivated by the desire to exploit the people, the nation is doomed. From the presidency to the National Assembly to the judiciary, every single arm in the chain of executing government policies is playing the role to undermine the progress of society. They all scheme to divert public fund to their private interest not minding that the consequence of their action denies the people basic necessities of modern living. When everyone that nurses political ambition is driven by the quest to enrich him or herself by embezzling public fund, the future of government is mired in corruption. The individual politician that is supposed to orchestrate the agenda that will support a strong institution is caught in the misnomer of focusing on self-aggrandizement. The rot is hopelessly embedded in the mindset of the politician before he or she manifests the act in public office. When every citizen is bought over by the conviction that it is every man to his turn to rob the system, the future of society is eclipsed with misery. The same people that are going to bear the brunt of bad government have succumbed to the defeatist ideology that they stand to benefit by festering the structures of public good like termites. And when the roof collapses, they throw blames to politicians. It is a self-fulfilling disaster when the people lay the foundation of their doom out of ill conception. The society is supposed to grow like a baby by showing maturity with time. Every new day is expected to usher progress. The bad experiences of yesterday should propel the wisdom for the society to function better tomorrow. The scourge of our system is the intractable tendency for it to squat like an imbecile in the same filth from one generation to the next. We have to wake up from our stupor and realize that we are the architect of our unhappiness. We envy the progress in Western societies and yet we refuse to toil in the virtues that will make such realities manifest in our own clime. One cannot help but to be depressed about the way our country sluggishly functions. I have considered acquiescing to acceptance for the things one cannot change just so to maintain one’s sanity. However, each day, the rot is eating deep into one’s mind. If only one has the wings to fly away to a place where law and order is respected and life is lived with regards to the richness the universe offers. We should let every misery we go through out of the incapacity of our leadership teach us to build a conscientious society.