 As the deadly COVID-19 pandemic continues to ravage  the  world, a  don at Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida University, Lapai(IBBUL),  Dr  Dickson Achimugu Musa, with some other researchers are working tirelessly on  possible local vegetables   that could serve as a therapy to the virus. Making a presentation to the management at the  2nd COVID-19 Workshop in the Senate Chamber of the university, he  explained that there are pieces of  evidence to prove that some Nigerian vegetables have therapeutic elements that could be a solution to the  coronavirus. According to him,  the research was progressing steadily.He,therefore, thanked the university for its   unwavering support and cooperation, assuring that the outcome would be made public. The Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Abu Kasim Adamu, praised  the efforts of the research team particularly when COVID-19 pandemic  is rising in some parts of the country and the world at large. He also expressed satisfaction with doggedness of the Central Research Team of the institution  for initiating a zeroprevalence study on the pandemic which has been adjudged by reputable national and international organisations to be the first of its kind. The VC  assured that  the university was determined to support every viable research project that would impact meaningfully on humanity. The Coordinating Director, University Research and Development, Prof.  Nuhu George Obaje, reaffirmed that the Central Research Team of the institution was determined to pursue  every valid research project that could place the universityon a higher pedestal  with its peers worldwide. The Registrar, Alhaji Musa Ango Abdullahi,  thanked the research team for  the bold steps already taken  and charged other members of the academic staff to initiate research efforts that would boost the ranking of the institution at global level. Meanwhile, the management of Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida University, Lapai, Niger State, is determined   to increase   tuition fees due to the nonchalant attitude of the state government towards the development of the institution. This was disclosed by the  President ,Students ‘ Union Government (SUG), Idris  Baba. He said:  ” To be honest with you, it is a battle and struggle we are into for quite some time now just to ensure we halt the entire proposal. “But the reality is that it will be difficult as the institution’s hand is seriously tied and government doesn’t care”,  he added. The union leader, however, disclosed that efforts are being made to ensure that the fees  are not too  high such that  the  students, parents and guardians wouldn’t be able to  afford it. He said: “Representing the good interests of our fellow students, we are passionately appealing to the management to ensure that the hike won’t be so high that we won’t be able to bear it.” He added that the internal strike of the institution is still on because the issues fuelling the strike have not been resolved. The  Chairman of Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), IBBUL chapter, Dr Kudu Dangana, said the strike was  still on but efforts have  been made to suspend  it. “The new council we have is  making efforts, because they have been meeting with us so that they can forward our demands to the state government. We have articulated our demands so that they can present them before the governor,” he said. Kudu emphasised that if the issues are resolved before the national body calls   off  the strike, they will have to also  suspend the action. The chairman, however, pointed out that, even if the national body calls off the industrial action  and the internal issues are not resolved, the strike will continue. 