Director General of the Progressives Governors Forum (PGF) Salihu Lukman, has warned against the use of courts by some politicians to negotiate their return to power. He took a swipe at this practice in a statement titled: “Nigerian democratisation and internal party contest for leadership,” in Abuja, on Sunday. Lukman, who is also a chieftain of the governing APC was apparently referring to the Friday court case instituted by the party’s former National Vice Chairman South-South, Ntufam Hillard Eta. He however argued that the absence of an internal mechanism in resolving crisis and pacify aggrieved chieftains were responsible for recourse to Courts to seek redress. “Once we are able to institutionalise internal leadership contests in APC, some of the avoidable distractions based on manipulative strategies using both legal and extra-judicial strategies can be avoided. “Absence of democracy within our parties has not only blocked open leadership contests but is criminalising political aspirations. “Most of the needless court cases within our parties, including the APC, are initiated based on the anger that open and transparent leadership contest are blocked. “A simple legal audit of all the legal cases by party members and leaders against their parties will show that the objective is mainly to negotiate leadership positions. “Even the recent suit instituted by Mr. Hilliard Eta, former APC National Vice Chairman, South-South, against the APC Caretaker Committee, it is basically aimed to negotiate the return of Mr Eta to the leadership of the APC. “A major unfortunate collateral casualty of many of the legal cases against parties is the process of democratisation. “With a daring mindset of must-win, litigants engage in legal contestations basically to destroy any electoral advantage of the party if they can’t get what they want.” The PGF boss also warned the ruling party to put in place a strategic succession arrangement if it must retain power and all the electoral advantages at the expiration of President Muhammadu Buhari second term. He maintained that once APC is able to institutionalise internal leadership contests some of the avoidable distractions based on manipulative strategies using both legal and extra-judicial strategies can be avoided.    