 At just 19 and only 5ft 10in, the rising tale of Arsenal left-back Bukayo Saka has surprised even his manager Mikel Arteta.   The player with Nigerian heritage, having been born to a Nigerian father and mother, got his senior competition debut in late 2018 and has since established himself as a regular in the Arsenal first team under Arteta. His fluid contribution from defence to attack has earned him 32 first team matches, extended contract and call up the England senior team. On October 1, 2020 Saka made his Three Lions debut in England’s 3-0 friendly win over Wales at Wembley Stadium playing for 76 minutes and contributing to the emphatic victory. An impressed Arteta said of Bukayo exponential ascent, which he attributed to his surging ambition. “He is always pushing. He’s pushing in every training; he’s pushing in every game. He’s pushing in the way he conducts himself. First of all I am delighted for him, I think he completely deserves the chance to represent his country and he just needs to keep doing what he’s doing, and he will keep evolving.” Saka has however paid tribute Arsenal legend and former assistant coach of the team Freddie Ljungberg. He said Ljungberg as trainer of the youth team played pivotal role in maturing him and many players in the Arsenal Academy. Saka enjoyed a breakthrough campaign in 2019/20 and was championed by Ljungberg ever since the Swede took over as Arsenal under-15s coach. Though Ljungberg has left for new challenges Saka still speaks about him with fondness. “The first time I met him, of course I was quite young so I was obviously in awe of him because he was a legend for Arsenal and he played in many successful Arsenal teams,” said Saka. “As soon as we started to work with him he always gave me advice because he played in my position as well. He gave me different advice on running in behind, finishing techniques, little things that have also helped my game. “He knows the game as much as anyone else. He’s been there and played in the Premier League for many years. He would normally tell me how a game was going to go. If I was playing against a certain opponent, [he would tell me] how I’m going to match up against him and what I need to do to get the better of him, his weaknesses and stuff like that. He’d help me with that and of course on the mentality side he’d always encourage me. In all the aspects of the game, he was always trying to help me.” Before he was shoved under the tutelage of Ljungberg, however, Saka had his father pushing him to excel. “I had been here 10 years earlier with my dad, sitting in the away end with the Newcastle fans. My dad has always been a big football fan; he supported Newcastle because he loved Alan Shearer. I hadn’t been to many stadiums at all, so it was a big moment for me, as an eight-year-old, to go to a game. But now here I was as a player.” “To be honest it all really started a long time before that. From the age of three or four I would be playing football at home in the garden with my dad, and my older brother, Yomi. “It was always like that. After school we would eat and then it was straight into the garden to play football. We would play for hours. My dad and brother would want to go back inside but I never let them. We kept playing until I won. I’m serious, you can ask them! As long as they were winning, I wouldn’t let them back inside. “When I got a bit older I would also play on the green outside our house. I loved being outside. I was never one for movies or anything, but I do admit to liking cartoons as a kid – especially Spongebob Squarepants. I loved that! “I grew up in Greenford, west London with my mum, dad and Yomi. We’ve always been close and we’ve always been sporty. My brother played as a defender for Watford until he was about 14. “Weekends in our house were always about football. My dad would usually take me to Arsenal – I joined when I was about seven – and my mum would take my brother to Watford. I spent a lot of time being taken to and from football in my dad’s car. I remember there were a lot of road works round Hale End; sometimes it took us an hour and a half. But it was all worth it. I loved it.” His parents however ensured Saka maintain a balance between football and education. “My mum and dad always encouraged me. They never stopped me from playing football, they just wanted to see a balance and that I was also interested in my education. I actually got quite good grades, so they were pleased on that side. I got four A*s and three As in my GCSEs, so I did quite well at school. My favourite lesson was obviously PE, but I also liked business studies a lot, I got an A* in that. “I was lucky enough to travel a lot when I was younger as well. Every year my mum and dad would take us away. We went to Nigeria of course, where my mum and dad are both from, we went to Dubai, and to America a few times because my cousins live there. I remember going to Chicago and LA, and a few other places too. “I still live with my parents, but we’ve moved away from Greenford now, closer to the training ground, and my brother has moved to Reading to go to university. We are still really close though, he was one of the first to text me after the FA Cup game at Bournemouth when I was man of the match. My mum text me too, telling me how proud she was. My dad will always tell me what I could have done better, even when I’ve played well, and my cousins and uncles support me too. I know they pray for me, and always ask how I’m getting on.” Football became the centre piece of Saka’s life and he began to dream and looked forward to playing in the English Premier League. “I just enjoyed playing, but I don’t think I ever really thought I was going to make it to the first team until I actually signed my first professional contract when I turned 17. “You go through the youth teams, year by year, and you see all these great players around you – some of them could be the best in the year – and slowly they are all let go, to other clubs or even stopping completely. Saka loves to drag his family along whenever he’s playing saying their presence gives him a comforting atmosphere. “My first-team debut was in Ukraine, so that wasn’t an easy one to get to for them, but two weeks later my family were all there when I started my first game at the Emirates. It was a few months after my 17th birthday, against Qarabag in the Europa League, and I was told I would be starting the day before the game. I couldn’t sleep at all! My dad told me he was that same. They came to the game to support me and I remember seeing how happy they looked afterwards. I framed my shirt from that game – it’s on the wall at home. I will never forget that day. I actually had a big chance to score in that game too, but the way I see it is I learnt from that, and now I want to keep on learning.”  