 NOLLYWOOD actress, Stephanie Zibili, has sent out words of encouragement to Nigerians. In a recent interview, the actress expressed her sympathy to the families of those who lost their lives to police brutality as well as during the protests, saying that they are true heroes whose sacrifices towards building a better Nigeria will not be forgotten. She also commiserates with those who lost businesses when the protests turned violent, noting that the government must protect lives and property. “I know these are trying times for us because of the destruction that happened, but we must remain hopeful that there are better days ahead. There is still a lot of work to be done and we will never back out of the fight. “Meanwhile the government needs to be alive to its responsibility of protecting the lives and property of its citizens. Only a secure nation prospers,” said Stephanie who took an active part in the protests. She also applauded the effort of the Nigerian youths who have been working hard to put a permanent end to police brutality and bad governance in the country. “As much as we are trying to resume our normal lives, we should make sure we stay safe, protect our mental health, and observe all the procedures laid down by the government. Coronavirus is still out there, so we should do all we can to protect ourselves,” she noted. Barely three years ago, the young Stephanie Zibili made the headlines as one of Nollywood’s young starlets at age 18. She has since featured in films and TV series that include ‘The Johnsons’, ‘Superstory’, ‘Assistant Madams’, ‘Tinsel’, ‘Ajoche’, and a host of others. “I’m not where I want to be yet, but I’m proud of how far I have come. I was determined to feature in some shows I grew up watching like ‘Tinsel’, ‘The Johnsons’, and Superstory, and that happened. In ‘Superstory’, I played a lead role and the experience was beautiful,” she further stated. Asides from acting, Stephanie also has her sights on entrepreneurship and human rights advocacy, especially as it affects women, orphans, and motherless children, the underprivileged, the homeless, the voiceless, etc. She also notes that it is important we protect our girls, boys, and women from all sorts of abuse.