Born in Yaoundé in November 2004, Moukoko spent the first 10 years of his life living with his grandparents in Cameroon’s capital city before joining his father, a German citizen since the 1990s, in Hamburg in the summer of 2014. The young Youssoufa soon started playing in the youth academy of local Kult club St Pauli and wasted little time in displaying his incredible goal scoring prowess. Over the course of two seasons, Moukoko plundered 23 goals in just 13 games for die Kiezkicker’s underage teams and it wasn’t long until Dortmund came calling. His progress with Die Schwarzgelben in the nearly four years since has been astronomical. Moukoko first played with BVB’s U17s aged 13, their U19s aged 14, and after a total of 127 goals and 26 assists in just 84 appearances in all competitions for BVB at youth level, was first promoted to first-team training in January, some 11 months before his 16th birthday. He has since scored 13 goals in four U19 games whilst waiting to be eligible for his full debut. Moukoko has represented Germany internationally, already gaining two U20 caps after scoring three goals in four appearances for Michael Feichtenbeiner’s U16s. In continental competition, meanwhile, he became the youngest player ever to feature in the UEFA Youth League when he took to the field for Dortmund’s 2-1 win over Barcelona last September at the tender age of 14 years, nine months and 29 days old. Another record is surely around the corner for Moukoko. The DFL reduced the age that a player could legally make his Bundesliga debut without special dispensation to 16 in April, meaning he could potentially turn out for Lucien Favre’s side as soon as the Matchday 8 trip to Hertha Berlin, the weekend of his next birthday. Though there must be  caution  in comparing any player to Messi – a six-time Ballon d’Or winner who has revolutionised the sport – there are some parallels which are difficult to ignore. Often players playing up an age group or four are physical specimens, fortunate to have evolved into manhood ahead of most of their peers. But whilst Moukoko is by no means lacking in strength or speed, reducing his incredible goal-haul simply to those factors would be lazy journalism at best. Having only recently hit 5’10” in height, the majority of defenders Moukoko has lined up against have towered over him throughout his career to date. Instead, Moukoko uses his low centre of gravity, sharp control and incredible game awareness to make and take chances.