 The Head, Electrical and Electronics, Standard Organisation of Nigeria, SON, Engr Alewu Cherry Achema has called on engineers across the country to promote standards as they consider promoting emerging technologies through innovations. He spoke during the 16th International Conference and Exhibition on Power and Telecommunications organised by the Nigerian Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers, NIEEE. Speaking on the topic, ‘Prospects of Standards in Emerging Technologies,’ Achema who represented the Director General, CE, SON, Mr. Farouk Salim said the Federal Government is promoting innovations by making standards and quality a process of procurement. Speaking further, he said engineers must rise up to all standardisation readiness levels to support the roadmaps developed by SON and relevant stakeholders in her latest approved and published Nigerian National Standardisation Strategies (NNSS). Achema who listed out what engineers seeking development in technology like other nations must do said all fields of engineering technology must engage SON, must aggressively get involved in standards development beyond the moment, among others. “Nigerian engineers have distinguished themselves in research and development globally; we must not wait endlessly for others to develop standards for us. The Nigerian National Committee of IEC is hungry and thirsty for participation and involvement of Engineers, manufacturers of EE products, Individual experts, academia, consumers,” he added. On his part, National Chairman, Nigerian Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (NIEEE), Engr. Kings Adeyemi who spoke on ‘Benefits of Standards in Power & Telecoms Industries,’ said there are a lot of opportunities provided by standards in electricity industry. Addressing the theme of the conference, tagged, ‘Emerging Technologies: Driving Energy and Communications Development,’ he said standards development is driving industry technological advancement, and, in some cases, defining utility business practices. Also speaking during the virtual conference, Chief Electrical Inspector of the Federation, Nigerian Electricity Management Services Agency (NEMSA), Peter Ewesor who spoke on Prospects of Technical Standards in Nigeria’s Electricity Industry, said compliance to standards would ensure and guarantee adherence to industry international best practices. 