Access Bank has received the highest level of sustainability certificaton under the Sustainability Standards and Certification Initiative (SSCI). It was presented with the certification during the World Development Finance Forum (WDDF) in Karlsruhe, Germany.
With it, Access Bank has become the first-ever commercial bank in Africa to be sustainability certified.
This certification only features financial institutions from around the world who are pre-qualified for the SSCI certification program and demonstrated a strong commitment to sustainability. Reacting to the recognition, Access Bank’s Group Managing Director, Herbert Wigwe, said: “Over the years, we have mainstreamed sustainability into our business activities and operations, thereby supporting innovative and equitable green economies across Africa. “We are delighted to have our Sustainability performance audited and certified by a prestigious international organisation like the European Organisation for Sustainable Development, within its SSCI program. The certification is a testament of our sustainability performance and commitment,” he added. Head, Sustainablity Access Bank Omobolanle Victor-Laniyan, assured the bank will continue to strengthen its commitment towards supporting vibrant communities and influencing positive market transformation in the areas wherein it operates. “The bank’s investment in community development remains focused on addressing pressing societal issues and unlocking new market opportunities for our customers and communities, thereby, ensuring the economic viability of the nation. “Furthermore, we will continue to propel the world towards a more sustainable path, whilst ensuring that no one is left behind in alignment with the UN Sustainable Development Goals and other global sustainability standards,” she added. Access Bank was also appointed a member of the International Council for SSCI.
The council helps ensure the work and strategies of certified institutions are in alignment with the global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and national development agendas.