The Chairman of the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission (ICPC), Prof Bolaji Olufunmileyi Owasanoye, an Assistant Director, Federal Ministry of Justice, Tijjani Alkali Gazali and former National Legal Adviser, All Progressives Congress (APC), Babatunde John Kwame Ogala are among the 72 lawyers awarded the rank of Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) this year. They are named with the the son of former Chief Justice of Nigeria, Aloma Muktah – John Mofolorunso Mustapha. Majiyagbe, ex-National General Secretaries, Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Afam Osigwe and Isiaka Abola Olagunju, a Lagos lawyer, Oladapo Akande Akin osun and others in the list released around 7.30pm on Friday and signed by the Director, Press and Information, Supreme Court on behalf of the Secretary of the Legal Practioners’ Privileges Committee (LPP). The statement said the 72 SAN designate would be sworn-in on December 14, 2020. According to the statement, “The Legal Practitioners Committee (LPPC) at its 143rd plenary session held on November 13, 2020 has elevated 72 legal practitioners to the inner bar. “The rank of Senior Advocates of Nigeria (SAN) is awarded as a mark of excellence to members of the legal profession who have distinguished themselves as advocates and academic.” Also on the list are: Obafemi Anthony Adewale, Chukwuemeka Obiajuru Nwagwu, Jacob E. Ochidi, Mela Audu Nunghe, Lawrence Fubara Anga, Akintola Olugbenga Akintoye, Abdullahi Yahaya, Uzoma Henry Azikiwe, Efefiom Otu Efiom Ekong, Taiye Abimbola Babajide Oladipo and Funmilayo Adunni Quadri. Others are Jean Chiazor Anishere, Taiwo Johnson Kupolati, Aliyu Omeiza Saiki, Richard Oma Ahonaruogho, Yusufu Nya Akirikwen, Adedapo Osariuyime TundeiOlowu, Olumide David Ayeni, Robert Egwono Emukpoeruo, Oluwtoyin Ajoke Bashorun, Chukwudi Chudi Nwabufo ObIeze, Boma Florence Ayomide Alabi, Olusegun Jonhson Fabunmi, Latonna Chuka Okoli, Peter Adogbejire Mrakpo, George Olatinde Babalola, Osayaba Omorodion Giwa-Osagie, Ejike Chukwuekwu Ezenwa, Jomoh A. Mumini, Muhammad Katu Sani Ndanusa and Yakubu Abdullahi Hussaini-Ruba. Also on the list Henry Okechukwu Akunebu, Uwadiogwu Sonny Ajala, Gideon Musa Kuttu, Ukachi Fredrick Onuobia, Uwemedimo Thomas Nwoko, Joseph Nnabuezeh M. Mbadugh, Nureini Oladoye Jimoh, Remi Peter Olatubora, Abimbola Oluseun Mobolaji, Moses Alfred Ebute, Nasiru Adamu Aliyu, Yusuf Asamah Kadiri, Festus Kayode Idepefor, Dada Adekunle Awosika, musibau Adetunbi, Abdulwahab Muahammad, Fatai Ajibola Dalley, Chukwuka Nwabueze Ikwuazom, Terkera Douglas Pete, Rasheed Okiki Adekunle Adegoke, Hussaini Zakariyau, Tochukwu Dominic Maduka and Magmud Kola Adesina. There are also Abdul Muhammad, Mohammed Ndarani Mohammed, Prof Afeisimi Dominic Badaiki, Prof Oghenemaro Festus Emiri, Prof Damilola Sunday Olawuyi, Prof. Zacheus Adangor, Prof. Edward Oyelowo Oyewo, Prof Sani Mohammad Adam, Prof  Prof Joseph Efeyeminen I. O. Abugu, Prof. Sampson Ihesiene Erugo and Omo-Eboh Omgbai Ikheowa.