The Fiscal Responsibility Commission (FRC) will on Monday begin its 2020 physical verification of selected federal government capital projects across the six geo-political zones of the country. The projects earmarked for the first leg of verification are those in the South-East and North-West zones of the country. The projects to be verified are valued ₦1.6 Trillion. Addressing the verification teams in the Commission on Friday, the Acting Chairman, Chief (Barr) Victor Muruako told them to verify the actual existence of the projects as well as monitor the progress of the work done so far. The Commission’s Chairman also enjoined the team to carry out the assignments with diligence and sense of purpose. Chief Muruako noted that the verification exercise is intended to meet the yearnings of the people and “designed to give fillip to the next level agenda of the present administration in the area of prudence, value-for-money and transparency. The verification, he continued must also be done within the ambit of the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF). The reason for this, he explained, “is to ensure that government embark on projects that it has ability to fund.” He added that “with MTEF, cases of abandoned projects will cease to exist.” The verification exercise will also determine projects that need funding in line with the completion targets and to reduce to the barest minimum, approvals for new capital projects for Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) ensure there is value for money. Some of the projects earmarked for verification in the South-East include construction of main works for the 2nd Niger bridge linking Anambra and Delta States, Mbaise ring road intersection Owerri-Umuahia Road with drainage, Construction of Uzi-Uhabiri-Umuchime Orioji Ossah Community road Umuahia North of Abia State. Others are Construction of Orie Lomara (Igwebuike) road Abia State, rehabilitation of outstanding section of Onitsha-Enugu Expressway: Amansea–Enugu State border, rehabilitation of Old Enugu Port-Harcourt road (Agbogugu-Abia border spur to Mmaku), reconstruction of Elele–Owerri road, Construction of road with link bridge (Onukpaka) between Okwu Ikeduru and Ogwuma Community Ahiazu Mbaise in Imo State, They will also verify the equipment of rental dialysis centre, Completion of a two story Ward Block, Completion of construction of MRI Building and Equipping, Construction of Specialist Out-patient Building Complex, Abakaliki Amasiri 132kv Dc line and Construction of Town Hall Ezieche Awulu. Projects earmarked for verification in the North West include ABU Zaria Water Project, Completion of Renovation/Facelift of Female ward, Male ward, Pharmacy Blockes, Conveniences. Also to be inspected are the Construction of Administrative block with concrete facia and construction of Sanitary and Quarter Guard at Funtua Area Command Head Quarters in Katsina, Construction of bedroom SPO’s and boys quarters with concrete fascia and construction of Main Rank and file Quarters with concrete facial at Funtua Command Headquarters in Katsina State. Others are: Rehabilitation of Sokoto -Tambuwal-Jega-Katangora-Makera Section in Sokoto/ Kebbi States, Completion, furnishing and equipping of Dialysis Centre in Zamfara State.