 THE management of Seplat Petroleum Development Company (SEPLAT) has reiterated its commitment to stakeholders, including host communities in its quest to deliver on critical infrastructure such as power, energy, etc. Giving this charge recently was the top management and board of the company, including its Chief Executive Officer, Roger Brown, its Chairman, Dr. ABC Orjiakor and the Chief Finance Officer, Emeka Onwuka, during a tour of facilities in Edo and Delta states respectively. The first port of call was at the Edo state Government House, where Governor Godwin Obaseki, received SEPLAT executives who were on a tour to the host communities of the Oben gas Plant facility sited at Oben Field situated in Oben, Edo state, as well as a courtesy call on His Royal Highness, Odoligie Frederick Ogiemwonyi, the Enogie of Oben community. SEPLAT has deepened its business and investment in energy infrastructure in Oben Field with its construction, years ago, of a massive state of the art ultra-modern gas plant which today supplies gas to energy companies and industries across Nigeria. The Oben gas plant provides gas that facilitates the provision of over thirty-five per cent of electricity in the country. During the courtesy visit on the governor, the SEPLAT CEO, congratulated the governor on his victory at the recent elections and for the successful inauguration for another four years in office just as he said SEPLAT would continue to create value for the federal and state governments through the payment of royalty, taxes and levies to communities through robust corporate social investments especially in capacity development, sustainable community infrastructure projects and economic empowerment programmes. Brown further reaffirmed that SEPLAT has continued to drive up its commitment to increasing the country’s energy security and boosting Nigeria’s gas to power initiative through deliberate significant investment in its gas business. He added that “To date, Oben remains a major gas hub and that the company has recently drilled additional new gas wells in Oben to increase further our production and our ability to meet growing demands.” Brown further elaborated the numerous benefits of the Oben Gas Plant to the immediate communities, the state and the country. He also harped on the different activities and programmes of the Company in Edo State. He enumerated a few to include the provision of medical equipment/items to the state government to support containment of COVID-19 pandemic and also provision of palliatives to communities to cushion the effects of the lockdown arising from the COVID-19 pandemic. The SEPLAT CEO added: “As a responsible corporate organisation, we are committed to contributing to the development of Edo State, economically and otherwise. Since the commencement of operations in the State, the Company has undertaken important health, education and numerous community development projects to support sustainable development in the state. He highlighted to the governor that in addition to the yearly Seplat PEARLs Quiz programme for Secondary Schools which has boosted students’ academic performance in the state, the company has just introduced a new programme targeted at the teachers. The new educational programme called SEPLAT Teachers Empowerment Programme (STEP) will debut in Benin on November 24, 2020. It aims to systematically support and encourage embedding Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and Mathematics (STEAM) in schools. The STEP programme will develop the competencies of teachers to improve the quality of their teaching. The select teachers will in six months, undergo a customised programme. A total of hundred Teachers from Edo and Delta will be the first beneficiaries, in the first instance. In his remarks, Governor Obaseki commended the company and its partner NPDC for the significant investment made in the State. He pledged the state’s government continual support of the company in its quest to drive development in Edo state. He also assured of the state’s and communities’ continued collaboration with SEPLAT in providing the enabling environment for the company to operate. The governor expressed his appreciation for the company’s social programmes. He noted that the goals of educational initiatives of SEPLAT align with that of the state, which hinges on improving the standard of education. Obaseki continued: “We are focused on education, retooling and resetting our educational system. Thank you for your quiz programme. Our children are now learning because we have retooled our educational system in Edo state. We would like to work with you on the teachers’ employment programme because as a state, we have experimented a lot in terms of teachers’ reforms. I just reviewed the progress we have made in the three-year teachers’ programme that we have just introduced in Edo state.” The governor requested to partner with the company in the construction of roads in some parts of the state. Also, he charged the company to provide electricity to some immediate communities within its operations. At the courtesy visit on the Orodje of Okpe Kingdom, His Royal Majesty, Felix Mujakperuo, Orhue 1, the Chairman, Dr ABC Orjiako, thanked the Monarch for the cordial working relationship between the company and its Communities in Okpe kingdom. He also expressed appreciation for the support given to the company since inception regarding its operations, adding that the Company is committed to the development of Okpe kingdom. Also speaking during the courtesy call on the Orodje, Brown also expressed appreciation to the monarch for the support given to the company for its operations. He assured that the company is committed to the infrastructural and capacity development of communities in the Okpe kingdom. The Orodje of the Okpe kingdom, who received the SEPLAT team, commended the company for its commitment and support to host communities, stressing that the relationship must remain a win-win situation for the people and SEPLAT. He urged the company to continue its good works while enjoining the company to provide additional support in healthcare infrastructure, employment of graduates from the area and award of contracts to Okpe vendors. At the palace of the Enogie of Oben, Brown commended Oben Field communities for providing the enabling peaceful environment for the company to operate. He emphasised the importance of Oben to the company’s business and the nation with the colossal gas infrastructure in Oben community. The Enogie and other leaders while expressing their appreciation of the SEPLAT visit and activities in their locality requested the company to employ its teeming youth; provide uninterrupted electricity and patronage of indigenous contractors from the communities. Brown also pledged the company’s willingness to sustaining the cordial working relationship between it and the communities whilst reiterating the commitment to contributing to their socio-economic development through SEPLAT’s continued sustainable community development activities and programmes. Other SEPLAT officials on the entourage included: two Non-Executive Independent Directors, Basil Omiyi and Mrs. Ifueko Omoigui Okauru; Emeka Onwuka, Chief Financial Officer; Dr. Chioma Nwachuku, General Manager, External Affairs and Communications; Folorunso Afolabi, General Manager, Western Assets 1; Okechukwu Mba, General Manager, Gas amongst others. 