 THE #EndSARS protest should be distinguished from the destruction and looting of public and private property that followed and enveloped it. The protest was peaceful and civil, while the looting was downright violent and criminal. The majority of the protesters are well educated and come from middle and upper class families. Some of them even trained abroad. The looters were frustrated, largely unemployed or underemployed youths. Most of them have experienced no other world than the corrupt social and political space that Nigeria has become. Their rampage has left jaws ajar, with federal and state governments groping for answers and solutions. This is particularly the case in the Southwest, which suffered the most widespread destruction in the region’s history. Not even the three-year civil war brought anything close to the damage that occurred within the four dark days of destruction and mass looting during October 21-24, 2020. Two basic types of destruction took place during the short period. One type of destruction was carried out to provide access into certain facilities, such as the palliative warehouses, malls, stores, shops, police stations (to steal guns), and so on. The other type of destruction appeared calculated, perhaps to wreak vengeance or run some nefarious errand. This applies in particular to the destruction of personal and business assets associated with targeted members of the All Progressives Congress across the Southwest. Moreover, some destruction took place where there was little or nothing to loot. This was particularly the case in Lagos, where as many as 89 municipal buses; several local government structures; and historic monuments, such as Lagos City Hall and Igbosere High Court (Nigeria’s oldest judicial building) were destroyed. Clearly, huge gaps in the nation’s moral fabric and the intelligence architecture provided room for these horrendous activities to take place unhinged. But, first, we must not lose sight of the underlying causes of the discontent that made the looters lose their moral compass to engage in these criminal activities. They include the deep-rooted social, economic, educational, governance, and ethical lapses that have been allowed to fester for far too long. Even the Nigeria Governors Forum acknowledged some of these underlying causes in its communique after its virtual meeting on Wednesday, November 5, 2020. The NGF noted that the destruction and looting were “attributable to social and economic inequalities in the country”. Ironically, governors and other top federal, state, and local government officials are viewed as responsible for the inequalities, which they often showcase in public spaces, especially on the highway and in social gatherings. They are perceived as looters of public treasury, corruptly draining resources away from desirable political goods, such as good roads, adequate power and water supply, quality healthcare, and valuable education. These deficits have made it impossible to sustain industries and the enterprises needed to create employment opportunities for the teeming youth population. Development agencies have repeatedly warned that Nigeria sits on a keg of gunpowder due to a bulging youth population and a high poverty level. Nigeria has one of the largest youth populations in the world, with about 60 percent of her total population aged 0 to 35 years. It is also the poverty capital of the world with at least 60 percent of the population living below the poverty line. Yet, there is no realistic manpower planning that factors in this explosive demographic trend. History shows that any nation with high youth unemployment and rising food and rent costs sits on a ticking time bomb. The bomb exploded in France during the French revolution, which began in 1789, and eventually ended the monarchy. It also exploded in Egypt in 2011 and led to regime change. It only ticked aloud in Nigeria during the #EndSARS protest and nearly exploded with the destruction and looting that followed. The next explosion may be uncontrollable. However, Nigeria is not the only country in the modern world where these problems exist. They exist in Venezuela, where citizens had to scramble for food donations by foreign governments and agencies. Yet, the youths neither destroyed structures nor looted property. It takes a serious erosion of values to engage in such criminal activities. But such a morality gap has been evident for quite some time in Nigeria, and politicians are viewed as contributing to this gap, by promoting thuggery and violence; by looting the public treasury, thereby shortchanging the people of needed resources; and by neglecting the youths. The nation witnessed wanton destruction of lives and livelihoods, especially of political opponents in the Southwest in 1965 and 1983 as well as in the North in 2011. The arson was executed largely by youths operating as party thugs. Such post-election arson was often passed off as mob reaction to stolen mandate. However, arson has spread to higher institutions. For example, in April 2016, even in the middle of their examinations, students of Adekunle Ajasin University destroyed property within the university, blocked a major arterial highway, and looted shops outside the campus in reaction to the death of one of their colleagues due to a motorcycle accident outside the campus. Two months later, part-time students of Auchi Polytechnic destroyed various structures within the institution and numerous staff vehicles in reaction to the institution’s ‘no pay, no exam’ policy. The above shows that we’ve known for quite some time that some of our youths express anger and frustration, by destroying property. This is the crop of youths that has hardly known a better climate than one in which politicians, police officers, essential service providers, and gatekeepers everywhere are corrupt to the teeth. Nothing in the foregoing should be strange to an effective intelligence agency. Yet, at federal and state levels, the intelligence architecture collapsed in October. It could not foresee trouble, even as skirmishes of violence occurred in Osun on Saturday, October 17, 2020, when the governor’s convoy was attacked while addressing protesters, and in Edo on Monday, October 19, 2020, when hoodlums broke into the Correctional Facility to release prisoners. The Department of State Services has a lot to learn from the United State’s Federal Bureau of Investigation. It will be recalled that the FBI arrested a right wing group accused of plotting to kidnap the Michigan state Governor, Gretchen Whitmer, following a barrage of attacks on her by President Donald Trump and his supporters over her strict measures to combat COVID in her state. 