 THE 21st edition of the Abuja International Motor Fair will hold next month between December 2 and 8. The fair is targeted towards reviving activities and further boosting investments in the automobile sector, which despite the challenges of COVID-19 and global economic downturn, is set to assume its rightful place as the key sector that drives socio-economic development. Chairman of the Organising Committee, Ifeanyichukwu Agwu said: the event has been packaged to ensure the government pays more attention to challenges in the sector. The sector, Agwu said, could drive the nation’s economic diversification policy as well as the dual-fuel autogas policy of the government. Agwu, the Managing Director of BKG Exhibitions Limited said: “Every effort has been deployed to ensure that the sector receives the needed support from both the government and the private sector to enhance its’ rapid development. “We are packaging a show that will showcase all the existing and potential investment opportunities that abound in the nation’s automobile industry, which we believe remains the best sector to invest in- in Nigeria”. The event which holds at the International Conference Centre Annex, Garki, Abuja. Agwu said, is capable of catalysing and sustaining the nation’s quest for economic development. He said: “Hosting Auto Shows of international standard such as the Abuja Motor Fair will go a long way in placing Nigeria on the map of World automotive business and will equally fast track the making of the nation the hub of the automotive business in the continent. For over 20 years, we have been able to create a comprehensive automobile exchange platform drawing global attention. We believe that with high attention from all levels of government leaders, joint efforts of sponsors and organisers, strong support from the motoring journalists and people in all fields, and powerful market and social demands, the Abuja International Motor Show is now ‘ a must be’ place for any serious player in the industry.” 