The Nigerian Army has assured residents of Delta State, especially those residing in the coastal areas communities, of adequate security and safety ahead of the yuletide. The Commander 63 Brigade, Brig. Gen. Ibrahim Jallo, gave the assurance during the flag-off of Operation Crocodile Smile Six at the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), jetty in Warri, Saturday. Present at the occasion were Chairmen of Warri South, Uvwie and Udu council areas, Dr Michael Tidi, Hon Ramson Onoyake and Chief Jite Brown. The Warri Area Police Commander, ACP Ibrahim Argungu, was also in attendance. Speaking at the occasion, Brig-General Jallo explained that Operation Crocodile Smile has become an annual event in the calendar of the Nigeria Army. He noted that the exercise was aimed at providing adequate security for residents of the state during the yuletide and to consolidate on the gains achieved so far, in the course of the year. The Army General disclosed that the main event was earlier flagged off at Asaba, the state capital, under the chairmanship of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, adding that it was taking place simultaneously in Koko and Ughelli towns. Jallo emphasized that the exercise was for the benefit of Deltans, stating that the Army would spare no efforts in ensuring peace and security across the state during the coming Yuletide. He urged other security outfits to abide by the rules of engagement, while maintaining professionalism throughout the exercise. On his part, the Commander, Sector 1, Operation Delta Safe (OPDS), Col. Sanni Ahmed, assured that his troops would carry out their assignment professionally, diligently and within the ambits of the law. Ahmed attributed the success recorded in the past to the synergy the Army enjoyed with other security agencies and promised to sustain it. On his part, Area Commander of the Nigeria Police Force, ACP Ibrahim Argungu, pledged the cooperation of his men towards the success of the exercise. Earlier, the Commander, 63 Brigade had inspected the Guard of Honour mounted by men of the 3 Battalion of the Nigerian Army, Effurun. Warri South Chairman, Dr. Tidi, who spoke on behalf of his Udu and Uvwie counterparts, commended the army for its commitment towards the security and safety of lives and properties in the state, positing that the exercise would boost the confidence of residents and investors in the state.