 THE Assistant Inspector-General of the Nigeria Police Force in-charge of zone 9, Headquarters, Umuahia, Abia State, Baba Tijjani has debunked media reports that he imposed the incumbent chairman of the Police Community Relations Community (PCRC), Dr. Collins Obi on members. AIG Tijjani in a statement signed on his behalf by the zone’s Public Relations Officer; SP Janet Egwu who described the allegation as baseless and unfounded, reminded anyone accusing Tijjani to recall that he (Tijjani) had not been transferred to the zone 9 Command Headquarters in 2018 when they (PCRC) conducted their election. According to Egwu, the incumbent leadership of PCRC led by Dr. Obi was handed over to him by his predecessor, AIG Wilson Inalegwu, now retired. Egwu while countering the allegation that the incumbent zone 9 PCRC leadership has served for ten years said that the command views the continued running of the zone’s PCRC by caretaker committee set up by the National Body of the Police Community Relations Committee as a clear manifestation of unconstitutional conduct. Putting the record straight, Egwu said “The allegation that he-Dr. Obi has served for ten years is false. His first tenure started in 2014 and expired in 2018. During the 2018 election, Dr. Obi was re-elected for a second tenure which will expire in 2022. PCRC Constitution in Article 20(1) and (2) is relevant “..However, it is pertinent to note that this is the third (3rd) time caretaker committee is set up since 2019, from the onset; Sir James Uzoma was appointed as caretaker chairman in a letter dated 30th March, 2019. “The second appointment of Chief (Hon.) Egenti Raymond Ezenwata (KSM) as chairman of a seven (7) man committee to function for three months in a letter dated June 30th, 2020. “Surprisingly, the third letter for the caretaker committee appointing Chima Chukwunyere as chairman in a letter dated 2nd October, 2020 was sent. “In view of the above series of caretaker committees set up by the National Body, it is a clear manifestation of unconstitutional conduct.” AIG Tijjani in apparent move to nip the zone 9 PCRC leadership squabble which has lingered over the years in the bud informed the national body of the PCRC that the Command would henceforth recognise and deal with the Obi led leadership whose tenure, he maintained would end in 2022. “Zone 9 Command Headquarters hereby affirm that Dr. Sir Collins Ugochukwu Obi and his elected members remain Zone 9 PCRC recognised Executives and comfortable with same.”