•Aisha Buhari’s intervention is laudable   Cancer is one of the most serious challenges confronting Nigeria’s health system. It is a health dysfunction that, for obvious reasons, has more damaging implications for the poor and underprivileged than those who are higher up on the economic scale and enjoy a reasonable measure of wealth. For one, the latter have access to nutritious diet that either helps to boost the body’s immunity against cancer and, even when they fall victim to the disease, access to the right type and quality of food mitigates its ravaging effects on their bodies. Again, unlike the wealthy who easily jet out of the country for treatment in the best facilities abroad, poor cancer patients are forced to make do with the utterly inadequate medical treatment centres at home, particularly in the public hospitals that seem tailor-made for them. It is against this background that we commend the reported plan by the wife of the President, Mrs. Aisha Buhari, to establish cancer treatment centres in the six geo-political zones of the country, including Abuja, to enable rural women have access to screening, early detection and treatment of the disease. This is a worthy cause to which Mrs. Buhari is deploying her clout as wife of the President, that deserves utmost support. We cannot agree more with her that the rate of cancer infection in women calls for urgent attention from government and stakeholders. And it is noteworthy in this respect that structures have already been identified in designated places for the construction of the state-of-the-art facilities to fight and contain the cancer menace. Earlier in the year, during the commemoration of the World Cancer Day in February, the Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, noted that cancer kills 72,000 persons annually in Nigeria and that an estimated 102,000 new cases are detected in the country every year. The minister identified the most common types of cancer in the country to include breast, cervical, prostate, colon and rectal cancers. Others are lung, liver, pancreatic and brain cancers. Dreaded as this disease is, the good news is that, thanks to advances in science and technology, it does not have to be a death sentence to those infected by the scourge. As the Director-General of the National Centre for Women Development (NCWD), Mrs. Ekpere-Eta, said while announcing Mrs. Aisha Buhari’s initiative, “the good news is that with early detection, breast cancer is treatable. Cervical cancer, on the other hand, can be prevented by vaccination using the HPV vaccine”. Of course, Mrs. Buhari’s initiative is just one necessary and desirable measure against this veritable enemy. But there are other steps that must be taken to address current weaknesses in the management of the cancer epidemic in Nigeria. For instance, the National Chairman of the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA), Dr Francis Faduyile, recently called on government to find better ways of preventing the disease. Specifically, the NMA chairman expressed concern over the alleged low rate of implementation of the National Cancer Control Plan (NCCP). In Dr Faduyile’s words, “We are worried that there is no clear national policy on cancer, which is very important to drive the various activities and actions needed to prevent cancer and its attendant morbidities”. There has also been the call for the establishment of cancer immunisation centres across the country, where young people in particular can be immunised against the scourge of cancer as is reportedly done in several other countries. In the same vein, adequate and intensive cancer information dissemination, education and cancer outreach centres nationwide can help inculcate habits and induce lifestyle changes that can mitigate the incidence of cancer in the country.