Two former housemates of the 2020 Big Brother Naija lockdown edition, Rebecca Nengi Hampson and Tarimotimi Sinclair aka Trikytee, have been appointed as a senior special assistant to the Bayelsa State governor, Douye Diri respectively. Diri appointed Nengi as a Senior Special Assistant on Girl Child Development. Nengi, the 22-year-old entrepreneur from Bayelsa state who was the second runner up of the season, thanked the governor for the huge support she got while in the Big Brother house, stating that she enjoyed projecting the image of Bayelsa in a positive light. “I want to thank His Excellency the Executive Governor of Bayelsa State Senator Douye Diri on my appointment as Senior Special Assistant to the Governor of Bayelsa State…What an Honour, I am grateful…” Trikytee also tweeted. Meanwhile, former housemates have taken to their social media accounts to congratulate Nengi and Trikytee respectively. Winner of the Season 5 edition, Laycon, tweeted, “My SENIOR SPECIAL ASSISTANT MA. MY SSA. YES MA; ANYTHING FOR YOU MA. CLEAR THE ROAD FOR THE SSA. @nengiofficial.” Another housemate, Ozo, said via his Twitter account, “Congrats to @nengiofficial on your appointment for the position as the Senior Special Assistant to the Governor, Face of Bayelsa State and Ambassador for the girl child Bayelsa state. Many more blessings.” The third runner-up of the show, Neo Mobor Akpofure also tweeted, “Omo my girl oo.. Senior Special Assistant to the Governor and Face of Bayelsa State. Congrats my sister @nengiofficial.” Fellow ex-housemate Vee also congratulated Nengi, saying her mum would be proud of her. Wathonianyansi said: “Congratulations dear (Trikytee). You deserve it and more.” Meanwhile, some Nigerians on social media, especially Twitter also expressed divergent views about the appointments. Dr Dipo Awojide, @OgbeniDipo tweeted, “I like many of these BBNaija folks but I don’t know why many of you are celebrating state governments dishing out Senior Special Assistant appointments. SSA on what exactly? And why? Do these reality tv stars have the qualification and competence? We’ve got a long long way to go.” @maniac8989 said, “Everyone is shifting in their pants Cos two young BBNaija housemates were made special assistants or whatever. If you were offered the same position would you say: “Sir I can’t accept this position Cos I think I’m not qualified and there’s someone out there better”. @Morris_Monye said, “We must hold our govt to account. The appointment of a few BBNaija stars as SSAs must be questioned. What is their job function? What is their pedigree? What is expected of them in that role? Integrity is a currency for Leadership” @adetolaov tweeted, “Public funds should never be used to support celebrities, whether in giving political appointments or giving them gifts (money, cars or houses). Public funds should ONLY be used public services and governance. This is a principle we must all agree on even if we like the celebs.” @ulxma said, “So you people oppose bad governance and corruption but you’re in support of the government using taxpayers’ money to sponsor/reward private individuals and give vague appointments to celebrities? Are you aware that that is illegal in every society that is sane?” @Sxmto_ said, “A Governor can legit be owing Civil servants like 5 months salary but he will carry 10 million Naira & dash a former BBN housemate who originates from his state & still dash them one kind useless appointment. We need to set our priorities right in this country.”