 IN a bid to ensure Nigeria’s education system is at par with global standards, stakeholders in the  sector have urged the Federal Government  to increase investment in online learning platforms to alleviate the impact of the pandemic on education across the country. These recommendations came as part of the education survey carried out by Eduplana, a civic organisation in collaboration with Budgit and Oxfam , both tech-driven, and non- profit organisations. The outcome of this survey was launched during a webinar,recently. Due to the impact of COVID-19 globally ,the education of more than 1.9 million has been adversely affected. However, to bridge inequality  among children from different social strata, Eduplana analysed responses from over 1000 respondents across the 36 states and the FCT  in Nigeria between July and August 2020. The result of the survey revealed that about 70 per cent  of Nigerians were unable to access learning during the COVID-19 lockdown. According to the World Economic Forum, COVID-19 pandemic is revolutionising digital and online education globally but children in rural and underserved communities in Nigeria are being left behind as they are not equipped to adapt to the new methods of learning. In the report however, 66 percent of the survey respondents indicated they were not satisfied with  government’s  response to the development of online learning platforms. Furthermore, 51 percent of the survey respondents wants government  to invest in online learning platforms. Gabriel Okeowo, the Principal Lead and CEO of Budgit emphasised the need for Nigeria to close the inequality gap in the country. He said:  “In developed countries, schools were closed but learning did not stop due to their digital preparedness. However, this is  not the case with Nigerian schools as basic learning stopped due to the schools’ inability to switch to digital learning platforms. “Rather than increase education investment government  has further slashed budgetary allocation to the education sector.” An  officer of  the Human Development Initiative,Mrs Bolanle Dare, also appealed to government  to ensure schools adhere strictly to COVID-19  guidelines through proper monitoring by quality assurance officers.