Following reports of spike in cases of suspected outbreaks of yellow fever and deaths in Delta and Enugu State, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) have swiftly begun active case search, risk communications and community engagement as well as ensuring prompt management of cases in the states. With the support of National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA) and the World Health Organization (WHO), the agency has also activated an incident management system to coordinate response activities and Rapid Response Teams (RRT) in the states. Yellow fever is a vaccine-preventable disease, and a single shot provides immunity for a lifetime. Symptoms of the disease include yellowness of the eyes, sudden fever, headache and body pain. The Director-General of the NCDC, Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu, made this known in a statement on Saturday in Abuja. According to him, “The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) is currently supporting the Delta and Enugu State Governments, in response to suspected outbreak of yellow fever. This is following reports of a sudden spike in cases and deaths in some communities in both states. “On the 2nd and 3rd of November 2020, NCDC was notified by the State Ministries of Health of Delta and Enugu States respectively, of cases presenting with symptoms indicative of a viral haemorrhagic fever. Most cases presented with fever, headache, fatigue, jaundice vomiting (with or without blood) among others. “As at the 6th of November 2020, three samples from Delta and one sample from Enugu tested positive for yellow fever at Irrua Specialist Teaching Hospital Laboratory and NCDC’s National Reference Laboratory, Gaduwa. More samples are being tested from both states to confirm the causative organism of this outbreak. “The State Epidemiology Teams are leading the response with support from NCDC, National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA) and the World Health Organization (WHO). An incident management system has been activated by NCDC to coordinate response activities and Rapid Response Teams (RRT) have been deployed to both states. “The NCDC and State RRTs are carrying out active case search, risk communications and community engagement as well as ensuring prompt management of cases. Our sister agency, NPHCDA is working with the affected states to plan for a vaccination campaign.” He added, “The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) advises the public to take the following precautionary measures to reduce the risk of yellow fever infection; keep your environment clean and free of stagnant water to prevent the breeding of mosquitoes; and use insecticide treated mosquito nets and install screens on windows and doors to prevent mosquito bites. “Others are – avoid self-medication; visit a health facility immediately if you feel ill and have symptoms such as fever; and healthcare workers are reminded to maintain a high index of suspicion for yellow fever amid the COVID-19 pandemic. “Please ensure your child is vaccinated against yellow fever as part of the national childhood routine immunisation schedule. If you are unsure of your immunisation status, please visit a health facility to receive a yellow fever vaccine.”