 Lagos State Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice,  Moyosore Onigbanjo (SAN) has asked the Police to swiftly conclude investigation of alleged domestic violence filed by Mrs Diana Kafaru against her husband Temidayo. The request was contained in a letter dated October 2, 2020 written to Assistant Inspector-General of Police (AIG) Zone 2,  Ahmed Iliyasu and titled “Re: Allegation of Domestic Violence of Diana Kafaru and Sexual Assault by Penetration of Master Tyrene Kaari by Mr Remission Lucky Kafaru.” It stated: “My attention has been drawn to the allegation of domestic violence and sexual assault by penetration against Diana Kafaru and Master Tyrene Kafaru respectfully. “It was alleged that Mr. Lucky Kafaru, had on several occasions, physically assaulted his wife and also sexually assaulted their baby, Master Tyrene Kafaru. “The alleged offences took place in September, 2019, April, 2020, May, 2020 at 15 Bridge Court 4 Estate, off Orchid Road, Lekki-Epe Expressway. “I have further been informed that the case was reported at State Criminal Investigation Department, Panti and was subsequently transferred to Zone 2. “It is my understanding that Mr. Lucky Kafaru has Filed a fundamental human rights action bordering on intimidation and threat to his life. “Although Mr. Kafaru has the right to resort to the court, he can however not impede on the investigative powers of the Nigeria Police Force in performing its statutory duties. “Furthermore, as key implementers of the Child’s Rights Law of Lagos State, 2015 (as amended] we are guided by the paramount principle of the Best Interest of  the child. “It is therefore with this in mind that I urge that investigation into domestic and sexual violence allegations is swiftly concluded and the duplicate case is forwarded to my office to enable us proffer a legal advice”, the letter stated. When contacted, Mr Kafaru denied all the allegations, adding that he was the victim of a campaign of lies. He loved his son and would never harm him, Kafaru added. 