  One hour after the new transfer window that will enable workers and retirees move their pension account from one PFA to another was declared open, Stanbic IBTC Pension Managers has begun moves to acquire new customers. The pension manager during a media parley with theme, “The Pension Transfer Window – Heralding a New Era” urged the Retirement Savings Account (RSA) holders to secure their future from and maximise the unique transfer window opportunities. The Chief Executive Officer, Mr Eric Fajemisin, stated that they have further enhanced their capacity to welcome additions to their family who will come over now that the transfer window is open. He added that as a leader in the pension industry, they have long awaited the transfer window because they understand its importance in driving choice and ensuring that customers can demand optimal service delivery and long-term, efficient management of their pension contributions. ‘’We disclosed that they are excited about welcoming new customers through the transfer window, and remain committed to walking the long road with customers to a healthy retirement’’. He said: “We have, therefore, been cautious that as we continue to delight our existing customers with optimal service delivery, we must further enhance our capacity to welcome additions to our family who will come over now that the transfer window is open. You can say that this capacity enhancement process sums up our key activities in the last few years. Stanbic IBTC Pension has a strong track record of professional service delivery and we take very seriously our responsibility to ensure transparency in all our operations, offer easy, efficient and convenient solutions to our over 1.8 million customers and ensure the safety and long-term value of our contributors’ funds. “This year has brought with it many surprises and developments, one of which is the proliferation of digital channels and the need for customers to access financial solutions easily and conveniently. Fortunately, we were ready. We relaunched our mobile app and revamped our website to make it even easier for clients to access information conveniently from whatever location they find themselves. You will agree that such self-service solutions are critical today. “However, we realised that some of our clients would still need to visit us physically, for various needs and as such, we optimised our branch offices nationwide to ensure highest hygienic standards are maintained so that our customers feel safe and protected when they visit. We prioritise the ease of retirement pay-outs and therefore optimised our service delivery such that contributors can easily apply for their benefits from anywhere in the world with minimal fuss. Our website provides extensive information on the support available for our clients, and we have taken things a notch higher to revamp our pension calculator and create a budgeting tool to enable contributors better manage their personal finances and plan effectively for long-term financial success”. Fajemisin who said the success of their clients is critical to them, noted that barring the challenges in the past eight months, they created several virtual engagement sessions and financial academies for young professionals, near retirement individuals, retirees and even the children of our clients via our Financial Fitness, Pre-retirement seminars and New School Money events. “Our goal is to ensure our clients retire well. To add even more value in these difficult times, we launched a loyalty program – Umatter, which allows clients to enjoy discounts at our partner-merchant locations just because they are customers of Stanbic IBTC Pension Managers. After all, every naira saved today can positively impact the future when invested in the right way”, he added.