 THE United Bank for Africa (UBA) on Friday reiterated its commitment to grassroots banking including expanding its agency banking network. Speaking during virtual media briefing with journalists from across African countries, the  bank’s Group Head, Retail Liabilities, Ogechi Altraide, said it has established agent networks across 20 African countries, to bring banking closer to the people. According to her, the bank’s customers across the networks can enjoy UBA banking services right in their neighborhood from its dedicated agent. She said the customers can carry out cash withdrawal, cash transfer, open accounts and cash deposit. The bank has also introduced new products, including the click credit where the lender has been able to disburse credit facilities to over 50,000 customers since it was introduced in the first quarter of 2020. Altraide said business customers can receive money with ease via its collection channels straight into their accounts. The channels include UBA Moneytor to manage and control POS collections, UBA Point of Sale (Pos), Customers can make payments without cards on UBA PoS and QR Payments. Continuing, she said that Life can be full of surprises and sometimes one just needs a little extra cash for that emergency like school fees, home improvement, wedding, travels, rent, among others. With the UBA Click Credit which was introduced late March this year,   customers CAN access short-term loans from the comfort of their homes or offices. Altraide said  customers can have access to a maximum of N5 million at 19 per cent interest rate per annum to allow them to carry out short-term transactions. According to her, customers do not have to provide any collateral beyond their salary account where the facilities will be deducted instrumentally. She said the advent of the Coronavirus pandemic did not impact the operations of the bank because of the deployment of digital platforms to aide banking transactions by its customers. “UBA invested in digital platform so that our customers are not prevented from doing business due to covid 19, so our operations were not really affected by the outbreak of covid 19 because of the improved digital solution deployed by the bank”, the bank head of retail banking told journalists from across Africa. UBA is continually improving on all its products to give its customers wonderful banking experiences, Altraide said. She said the bank agency banking is targeted at the underbanked and unbanked. Those who are not able to access banking services because of their location are attended to through our banking agents in some remote areas across the continent. The bank head of retail banking said UBA has over 3,000 ATM locations across the continent where customers can withdraw and deposit across all the countries we operate. The bank has also introduced biometric withdrawal at all its ATM location to allow customers to have access to their money with ATM cards. 