TRULY, the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) should look for a reasonable strategy to tackle the imbalances in the educational system. Strike as a strategy poses a threat to  students. This strategy is among the leading factors projecting the country negatively before the world as regards  education. Sadly, the education sector is still in shambles. Always, ASUU claims that the only language the Federal Government understands is strike.  Resorting to strike is slowing the progress of the sector. It affects students  and takes their time. Strike is not a solution to the problems in our tertiary institutions. It has not brought the desired change. It is better to look for a promising alternative to strike. Recently, Hon. Tajudeen Yusuf, a representative of Kaba/Bunu/Ijumu Local Government Area  of Kogi State at  the National  Assembly,  suggested parliamentary and legislative intervention in the issue of strike. By extension, his opinion was directed to the National Assembly to solve the constant disagreement between ASUU and Federal Government. Undoubtedly, education in the country continues to suffer. Robust discussions should be held by  both parties. They should understand themselves and find a realistic and everlasting solution. Federal Government must be ready to honour our lecturers and consider them more important than before. Government should fulfil its outstanding promises. We have to remind the Federal Government to respect teachers  and elevate their status. Hardly will you find a lecturer in our public universities without any external means of income. Compared to other professions, teaching/lecturing has  always been relegated. The impact of  teachers or lecturers cannot be overemphasised. Federal Government should be reminded that, one of the first sectors that should be given priority  and special treatment is education. Education has been described  as the bedrock of national development. So, government should be fair to striking lecturers and consider students who have been at home for over eight months. 