Three students from Anambra, Enugu and Lagos states got the highest scores in the National Common Entrance Examination (NCEE) results released on Monday by the National Examinations Council (NECO). They are: Umeonyiagu Chinua Crucifixio, from Anambra State (199); Onwuamanam Udochukwu, from Enugu State (198) and Salaam Mariam Aderemilekun, from Lagos State (197). NECO’s Registrar and Chief Executive, Prof. Godswill Obioma, announced the pupils’ names while presenting the results to Education Minister Adamu Adamu in Abuja. Obioma said the council had fixed the national cut-off marks at 142. The registrar said 70,580 candidates sat for the examination nationwide, out of whom 24,416 passed with a minimum of 66 marks. He added that 16,713 candidates were absent due to the #EndSARS protests that rocked the country in October. After receiving the results, Adamu said he was delighted with the speed with which the leadership of NECO conducted the 2020 National Common Entrance Examination, despite the setbacks caused by the outbreak of COVID-19 and the #EndSARS protest. The minister said he had directed head teachers of 104 unity schools across the country to complete the merit-based (60 per cent) and (30 per cent) of equality of states’ admissions within 72 hours of receipt of the results. He also said the government had increased the capacity of the colleges to 26,625, having added 720 slots with the establishment of six more Federal Science and Technical Colleges across the six geo-political zones. Adamu said: “As has been the tradition for decades, the admission criteria include 60 per cent, strictly on merit; 30 per cent, based on states’ representation in the unity colleges; and the remaining 10 per cent to cover other sundry considerations, such as special needs candidates, gender, local community and biological children of teachers, PTA, SBMC, and old pupils’ organisations. “Consequently, in this year’s admission, the 60 per cent merit-based admission will come first, followed by the 30 per cent equality of states and 10 per cent discretion. “I have, therefore, directed that within 72 hours of the receipt of the results, principals are to complete both the merit-based (60 per cent) and (30 per cent) of equality of states’ admissions.”