A four-year-old boy was among at least five persons who died in multiple accidents near Iyana Ipaja on the Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway on Sunday. The first accident, which occurred after Pleasure Bus Stop, involved a truck conveying beer, and an LT bus. Both vehicles were about to ascend the bridge to Iyana Ipaja when the accident occurred. Eyewitnesses said the truck was at top speed on the free road, horn blaring, when a car suddenly joined the expressway from a petrol station near Aboru Junction. The driver was said to have joined the expressway without watching out for oncoming vehicles or giving way to traffic. In a bid to avoid the car, the truck driver swerved left. Just in front was an LT bus slowly ascending the hill to Iyana Ipaja. An eyewitness said the truck tried to avoid the bus by swerving right, but it could not, and crashed into the bus, squeezing it. The truck driver then lost control, and crashed into the roadside concrete, killing the boy who was returning from Iyana Ipaja with his mother. As the truck crashed into the concrete, it tumbled, emptying its content, mostly crates of beer, onto the road and on what was left of the bus. At least three persons, including pedestrians, were said to be trapped under the truck as a crowd of sympathisers gathered. A lifeless body lay on the road. Those who made it out of the wreckage of the bus alive were taken to nearby hospitals. The truck also hit the boy’s mother, who was taken to hospital by sympathisers. As emergency responders were awaited, another accident involving multiple cars occurred. The driver of a car descending the Iyana Ipaja Road enroute Abule Egba/Abeokuta was said to have slowed down to view the accident when oncoming vehicles crashed into each other. With both sides of the expressway locked down, some road users were forced to drive against traffic, further causing a gridlock around adjoining roads and streets. A crane belonging to the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) Response Unit was seen being moved towards the accident scene about an hour later.