Edo Governor Godwin Obaseki has disclosed his administration has acquired about 25 hectares of land to build a correctional facility for the justice train to be complete. He revealed the government had also concluded plans to recruit 725 professionals into the state’s civil service. Obaseki made the disclosures during the Alaghodaro/Inauguration 2020 thanksgiving service at the New Festival Hall, Government House, Benin. He assured he would focus on strengthening the civil service, which is the engine room of government in his second term. The Governor said advertisement for the new positions would soon be published for interested persons to apply. According to him: “About 725 vacancies have been declared. Within a month, the recruitment of a new generation of professionals will commence in earnest. By early next year, we would have completed the process. “We will commence intensive training early next year for 30 to 45 days, by which time most vacancies would have been filled in the public service. “After this, we will announce political appointments and get political actors to join us to begin to work on our manifesto to fulfill our promises to Edo people.” The governor, who expressed gratitude to God for a peaceful and successful election and inauguration, said he had started work immediately to fix Edo. He said: “Work starts on Monday. We have announced the appointment of Secretary to the State Government (Osarodion Ogie). “We are expanding the transition team and they have 60 days added to the initial timeline to complete all aspects of their work.” On security, Obaseki also stated that he would be summoning meetings with traditional leaders, leaders of churches and other community leaders in the state. He said: “Together, we will design a new security scheme. We cannot wait for one central policing system to take care of the policing needs of Edo people. “We have already graduated the first batch of 877 of the 2000 community constables that have been trained by the Nigeria Police Force. “They would be deployed in various communities to work with local community arrangements to ensure effective coordination and keep criminals out of the state.”