  TROOPS have been deployed in and around the Rice Farm  Centre in Koshebe area of Zabarmari, Borno State, to rescue farmers who were kidnapped by Boko Haram. The 43 farmers killed by the insurgents were buried on Sunday. The deployment of troops followed  President Muhammadu Buhari demand for briefs from the military and security agencies on the incident. He has also ordered that the insurgents, who perpetrated the killings, must be fished out. Amnesty International (AI) however, claimed that 16 of the 43 farmers were Internally Displaced Persons in the IDP camp at the centre. According to investigation, Boko Haram succeeded in overrunning the farm centre because there was no security in the area. It was learnt that the insurgents struck on Saturday after discovering that the farmers had “no shred of security protection.” A top source said: “Based on the media reports and follow up in house investigation, the incident did happen. “In all 43 were killed by suspected Boko Haram terrorists at the Rice farm Centre. This was easily carried out because the area is without security presence as security agencies cannot be everywhere, especially in static locations guarding farmlands/centres. “ It is a place that is seen as a soft target by the terrorists and for long they knew the high volume of human activities in the area. “It  was only on Saturday when they wickedly slaughtered some at the Centre. “Troops are combing the bushes to deal with the criminals and rescue those workers that were kidnapped. Patrolling the area has since been on.” Another highly-placed source said President Buhari has demanded a brief from the military and security agencies on the incident. He was said to have also ordered immediate rescue of other kidnapped farmers and hunting down of Boko Haram insurgents who perpetrated the dastardly killings. A source said: “The President has asked for comprehensive details on the killings from the military and security agencies. “He has also mandated the troops to rescue kidnapped farmers and deal with the insurgents.” The AI also claimed that 10 women working in the Koshebe Rice Farm Centre are still missing. The organisation, which made this known in a tweet yesterday, alleged that 16 of the slain 43 farmers were actually IDPs. The tweet said: ”Boko Haram and other armed groups must renounce their unlawful and vicious campaign of violence against civilians. The Nigerian authorities, for their part, must do more to protect civilians and bring the perpetrators of all such attacks to justice. “Amnesty International’s investigations show that, of the 43 farmers slaughtered by Boko Haram yesterday, 16 were Internally Displaced Persons resident at Farm Centre IDP Camp while 10 women working in Koshebe rice farm are still missing after the attack.”  