 Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State has vowed that no offender indicted in reported cases of rape and gender-based violence will go scot-free under his watch. has said that the state government under his watch would not grant pardon to rapists and gender violence offenders. The governor made the promise on Thursday when his wife, Dr. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu presented to him a 54-page compendium on Sexual and Gender-Based Violence, compiled by the Stakeholders’ Committee set up her to give recommendations on how the fight against the crime can be won. Sanwo-Olu, who is the Incident Commander for gender-based violence in Lagos reiterated his administration’s commitment to protecting the vulnerable demographics and getting justice for victims violated. Sanwo-Olu charged the Stakeholders’ Committee to focus its activism and advocacy on mental health issue as one of the main factors responsible for sexual and gender-based violence. While receiving the compendium from the First Lady, Sanwo-Olu said some of the resolutions recommended by the committee required immediate escalation, promising to work with the Committee in addressing bottleneck slowing down the efforts. The governor praised the First Lady for her leadership in bringing the team members together and for showing interest in issues bordering the rights of the vulnerable and women development. He said the state government would be prioritising budgetary allocations to the Ministry of Justice for the acceleration of offenders’ prosecution, while also supporting the Government’s agencies working in the areas of rehabilitation and integration of victims. The governor said: “I am delighted by the work done by the Stakeholders’ Committee to bring attention to the problems facing voiceless adults and children in our society. Through your efforts, vulnerable people are building the courage to speak out on offences of sexual violence and heal their wounds. “We will bring people who have been perpetrating these crimes, knowingly or unknowingly, to book. We will ensure they never walk freely without the full wrath of the law brought upon them. It is part of our responsibility to ensure that the vulnerable members of our society have a voice and have access to where they can get justice when their rights are violated.”  Earlier in her remarks, the governor’s wife urged the government to step up response geared towards reducing the criminal act of rape to the barest minimum. Dr. Sanwo-Olu stated that she is disturbed by the escalation in cases of sexual and gender-based violence, and absence of unified protocols to get justice for the victims. She said her drive was to work with the Committee and create a society where gender-based violence would be reduced to the barest minimum. She said: “The stakeholders have been having meetings for months and their discussions have focused on the key development pillars of the current administration as they relate to the rights of vulnerable citizens, especially those women and children. “The Office of the First Lady has been working with the vision to reduce sexual and gender-based violence to the barest minimum if it is impossible to eradicate the crime. We have activated our response, bringing all stakeholders and communities on board to forge a common front in addressing the issue.” Dr. Sanwo-Olu made a case of the establishment of Sexual Assault Referral Centres where all stakeholders can attend to and dispose of cases without delay. She also canvassed for the setting up of Government-owned shelters to rehabilitate survivors, stressing that the centres must be opened in the five traditional divisions of the State. As part of the 12-point resolutions recommended by the Stakeholders’ Committee to stem sexual and gender-based violence, the First Lady called for the introduction of a sex offenders’ register that will be backed by legislation. The committee also called for an increase in budgetary support to agencies of Government fight for sexual violence, among other. The stakeholders that took part in the meeting include Ministries of Justice, Women Affairs, and Poverty Alleviation, Health, Education, Youth and Social Development, and Information and Strategy. Others are the Office of the Public Defender, Police Force, and Lagos State Judiciary. 