 YOUR governor promised to do only one term. But, it seems he is seeking support for a second term. What is your opinion about that? In fact, there is a burning issue in our dear state which to my understanding, is highly distracting. The governor of our dear state, Engineer Abdullahi Sule, was inaugurated on May 29 2019. That’s only 16 months. And after 16 months, he still has more than two and a half years. So why doesn’t he concentrate on it to give us good governance? What are the challenges of our dear state? How do we move forward? Those are the distractions. The governor said it. He was on air that “to hell with second term”. He said his own vision and mission is to do his best within the four years he was being sworn in, to do his best to move the state forward. But to my surprise now, there is a clamour from every angle for him to be endorsed for a second term. For now, we are not in campaign period that we should look for any person to be endorsed or not. I want him to hit the ground, the way the governor of Borno, Prof. Zulum is hitting the ground.People are applauding this man across the country, not only in Borno State, both Christians and Muslims. Why is it that our governor cannot channel his own energy and time to make sure the state moves forward, Instead of beginning to hide under the section of a group or party endorsing him from one zone to another. This is unnecessary. In essence, you are saying he is distracted? To me, he is distracted. Our so-called elders in the state that are supposed to call the governor and caution him. If there is no challenge, there is not going to be a change. Because only a challenge can bring change; this is where there is an error, this is why attention is needed to be called upon so that we can move the state forward. It was a few day ago that the governor was in the news saying that because of our proximity with Abuja, a lot of people are coming into Karu and it is difficult to put infrastructure there because of the number of people that are coming in and going out. What does he mean? Even by transit, you can generate revenue. When you board a flight  and you are going to America, you use Lufthansa, the carrier takes you to the hub state before you connect to another, which brings revenue even within the transit of the airport. When you look at Benin Republic, because of the business of Nigeria diverting the goods to Cotonou, a lot of revenue is there. And the same thing, goods are being transported to northern Nigeria through Niger, bringing revenue to the Government of Niger Republic that rely on this transit revenue. Why is it that our state cannot make any.  So, to me, what I am saying is he is being distracted. There are two camps in our dear state if you don’t know; there is a camp of the former governors, Senator Tanko Almakura; and there is a camp of Senator Abdullahi Adamu. They had a cold war between themselves so the governor was being distracted. So he should leave this thing open. He is the governor of the entire state and not the governor of APC. So, his energy and time should be channeled towards the development of our dear state. As a peace advocate, what do you think the government should do to curtail this protest that is trying to bring an end to SARS amongst other demands? To me, our children that are going out to protest for end of SARS, in fact to me, it should be advocate of good government, advocate of good stewardship, advocate of anticorruption. The former governor, Senator Tanko Almakura, when he was leaving the state, we have a hotel that is situated here at the central area close to Ministry of Justice. It is a Nassarawa investment; the former governor before he left, he rushed to commission the hotel in less than one week to handing over. We have about eleven-storey building of our dear state …. Now, it is called Blue Spring Hotel that an Italian man is managing it. Where is the term of Agreement to give that person—as a shareholder, as a member from the state. Where is the term and condition that the governor used to commission and hand over the hotel to an Italian man? Under what arrangement? Build and transfer? Build, operate and transfer? Or concession of the hotel and how long? I want to know. And I am challenging the current governor to do an investigation and come out with the report of transition committee. And after all these people, Senator Abdullahi Adamu and Tanko Almakura are currently serving senator representing our state. Why don’t they channel their energy towards legislative assignment? Someone was saying this governor is not qualified to have a second term, the other one is saying he is qualified to have a second term. Distraction. This is unnecessary. For now, for 17 months of this governor, to me, I have let him know that he has not performed. Instead of him to step up and perform for the remaining months, these people are distracting him. They don’t want to tell him the truth. To me, they are sycophants. So, I am using this medium to call on the governor because he swore by the Quran that he is going to have a leadership that everybody will participate in. But so far, we have expectation and have not seen anything, only distraction which is uncalled for. More so, we have our own zone, north-central which comprise 6 states including Abuja. Our immediate neighbor that we share boundary are these six states. Assuming Plateau are generating a higher revenue, we want to know how much our state is generating monthly or yearly. That is one aspect, because of our proximity with Abuja, we want the governor to use this opportunity to bring a lot of tourist attractions, good access roads to enable a lot of investors move down to our state in order to use the proximity of being close to Abuja to carrying their business. I am a Muslim; the governor on 11th of this month, October delegated the SSG of Nassarawa to go to Hadejia, Abdulsalam Private University to donate a sum of 50 million naira to the property investment, why? Are we affiliated to Jigawa state? Just because SSG is affiliated to Jigawa, his forefathers are from Jigawa? What connects us with Jigawa? We are not sharing a common border; we are not in the same zone. After all, people that they are in the same zone like Kaduna and Zamfara have not sent delegation. So, this thing should be within. We have a lot of people that want to establish private university. You cannot look at the people that are criticizing you. The person that is criticizing you wants you to perform. Without criticism, there is no way a person can identify his error if everybody is saying “yes sir” “yes sir”. So, if criticism is genuine and constructive, then it is welcome. Criticism makes somebody to sit up and correct his error. Almakura gave the concession to an Italian man, not even a Nigerian not to talk of being from Nassarawa state. What are the terms? The leasing is how many years? We want to know. This is where our revenue can be boosted. If you have a four-star hotel in this Abuja, as a journalist, go and investigate how much you can generate. I am using this medium for the governor to make these things open. As a politician from the state, If I’m not satisfied, I can write comprehensive petition. More so, I have written several petitions to EFCC. The person that shielded Almakura is Magu and Magu is no more here. So, we can renew our petitions to EFCC. When the governor was going, he gave himself severance allowance. Now, he is currently a senator. That is why this governor cannot stand up and say no, you have to leave our state so that our IGR can be boosted. So, the issue there now is for the governor to expose the autocracy of the former governor so that a lot of people in the state see development. What is your take on the restructuring of the country? The restructuring of the country to my own opinion—most the developed countries- if you go to Germany, restructuring is taking place. In USA, every state manages their resources and only brings revenue to the centre. That is why some states are richer than even the capital of the nation. Like in Germany, Munich is richer than half of the states in Germany including Berlin, the capital because they have the technology that … everything. So, restructuring to me, if you say you allow states to control Police, the politician may hijack it. So, to me, we still need each other. So when we are developing, we keep on awareness. Some states only depend on natural resources to pay their salaries and move the state forward. Some states even without the national allocation like Lagos and Porthacourt, they are independent. So, if you compare it to my state that we depend 100 per cent on allocation, if there is restructuring, revenues go higher to the people that generate and that is the problem. So, to me, we are not mature yet to get a restructuring. Do you think considering the spread of the EndSARS, we can see that the youth are much, do you think they should have their own political party? To me, what brought EndSARS is injustice, corruption, lack of respect to others. If there is good governance where you have good schools, good medical facilities, why will there be a rise in crime. So, something that is supposed to be for the public, someone takes all just because he is the siting governor. Instead of physical development, he enriched himself. Definitely with what is going on in the world, people will rise up. What is your advice to the youths? I am for the youths, but they should not be agents of destruction but agents of development. They should come out; we have the number. Somebody like me, I belong to the middle class. The middle class generation and the youth should come out and ask what are the challenges? We should not allow these things to continue to circle within the privileged people and their children. That is why I said if there is a good government, the government that listens, the government that gives privilege to everybody irrespective of the class or parents, the problem will stop. So, from there, you can have a sense of belonging. That is my opinion. What is your next political plan? I am speaking apart from being a politician, I am an entrepreneur. I have gone round to the world. I have been going round the world with my legitimate business since I was 22 years. So, I am an advocate of good government. I want our state to be proud, to see that we have brought development; where it is necessary, my own state will be number one state in terms of development in the whole of north. More or less, we are close to Abuja, so we should use the advantage to develop our state through Abuja the way Maryland is close to state of Washington in America. You are a member of the North-Central Peoples ‘ Forum what is the forum all about? North-Central Peoples’ Forum is not affiliated to any party or religion; it is strictly on economic potential and development. So, North-Central peoples’ forum is not a platform where someone can venture his own opinion but it is amalgamation of a set of people. We have people from PDP, APC and many more. So, our platform is not affiliated to any party. It is strictly on development. That is the aim of creating it so see how we can make our zone to be great because we have all the potentials. For example, if you look at Niger state, it is bigger than southeastern states in terms of land mass. Niger state is housing two national grids, Kanji and Shiroro Dams. When you look at Nassarawa, the distance from our border to Villa, the seat of power is some minutes’ drive which is even closer than most of the Area Councils. And our state is a mineral state. We have a lot of potentials but because of the bad leadership, our state is going backwards. That is why I am calling this governor, use this opportunity to rise up because so far for our governor,  his performance is below average. No performance at all. Concerning the level of insecurity, is there anything the government should have done to reduce this problem in the country? Level of insecurity like you said is high. There are many communal clashes. Insecurity is happening in the Northwest, northeast; almost all the states in the north have one challenge or the other.    