A 33-year-old man, Emmanuel Ajomafuwe, on Saturday pleaded with the Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry investigating rights abuses by the disbanded police Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) to help him get justice for his girlfriend, Ada Ifeanyi, shot dead by a policeman. Ajomafuwe told the panel chaired by Justice Doris Okuwobi he was driving with his 20-year-old girlfriend, Ada, around 7 am on Saturday, April 13, 2019, in the Apapa area of Lagos when they were accosted by a team of policemen who claimed that they flagged him down but he refused to stop. Ajomafuwe said he told them he did not see them stopping him as it was raining. He said the development led to an argument between them and the police. According to him: “Due to the argument between me and the police, while I was still inside the car, I was shot on the head by Inspector Dania Ojo. “Inspector Dania Ojo also shot my girlfriend on her leg and stomach. “I was lucky to survive the life-threatening injury to my head but my girlfriend died,” Ajomafuwe said. The petitioner said while he was grateful to be alive, he had continued to suffer psychological trauma from the incident. He said he resorted to taking sleeping pills when he continued to find it difficult to sleep at night. According to him: “I have had a brain scan at Reddington Hospital, where I was admitted. I have done a check-up in Dubai due to my sleeplessness. “My sanity has not been the same after the incident. Anytime I remember Ada, I feel very bad,” Ajomafuwe said. He said while six members of the police team involved in the incident were arrested at the time, Inspector Dania Ojo, who pulled the trigger on him and his girlfriend, escaped and the police had not given him any update on him. He said neither was any of the policemen was punished. He said: “I want the judicial panel to remind the Nigeria Police to arrest and prosecute Inspector Dania Ojo and to fulfill their promise to pay medical expenses,” Ajomafuwe said. However, police counsel, Joseph Ebosereme, sought an adjournment to cross-examine the petitioner. The panel adjourned the case till December 11.