Ogun Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leaders have declared former Ekiti Governor Ayodele Fayose as leader of the party in the Southwest geo-political zone. Twenty local government party chairmen, 14 members of the State Executive Committee and national delegates from the Gateway State paid a birthday solidarity visit to 60-year old Fayose in Lagos to express their loyalty to his leadership. The party faithful were led by party chairman Sikirulahi Ogundele and Ladi Adebutu. “On issues regarding to the PDP in the Southwest zone, we will only attend meetings called by Fayose,” they said. The camp of Fayose had set up a parallel reconciliation zonal committee two weeks ago to unite aggrieved chieftains in the Southwest. The camp also set up a panel to investigate the circumstances surrounding the defeat of the PDP in Ondo State governorship election. The camp has also endorsed Dr. Eddy Olafeso, former Ondo Information Commissioner as its candidate for the position of zonal chairman at the proposed regional congress. The Ogun PDP chieftains prayed for the former governor and urged him to remain focussed and undaunted in his quest to ensure fairness, equity and justice in building a formidable party in the zone and the country. PDP Ogundele, who spoke on behalf of the delegation said: “Today, we visit our leader, the key leader that we know in the Southwest, Dr Peter Ayodele Fayose, to wish him a happy birthday and to show our solidarity with his leadership and unalloyed loyalty and commitment to his directives in the zone in the coming South west zonal congress. “Ogun State will not be a part of any meeting that is not initiated by him. We condemn all acts of violence by some leaders who are claimimg to be generals, but without followership and we call on the National Working Committee (NWC) to call them to order as no group or individuals has monopoly of violence. “We equally acknowledge and appreciate the National Working Committee, led by Prince Uche Secondus, and we pledge our loyalty to the NWC while we call for a credible southwest congress.” Apparently firing salvos at Oyo Governor Seyi Makinde, who is locked in a row with Fayose over partisan matters in the region, Ogundele emphasised that every state is independent, adding that there is no Governor-General in the constitution of the PDP. He added: “We salute our key leaders in persons of Hon. Ladi Adebutu, Senator Demola Adeleke, Dr Eddy Olafeso, Engr Deji Doherty, Rev. Bunmi Jenyo and others. “For the coming South-West Zonal Congress, we stand by Dr Eddy Olafeso as the Zonal Chairman.”