Record hospitalisations and a surging death toll failed to keep Americans from travelling a day before the Thanksgiving holiday on Thursday, raising fears that the unchecked spread under way is a prelude to further contagion at Christmas time. Daily U.S. deaths from COVID-19 surpassed 2,000 for the first time since May and hospitalisations reached a record 87,000 on Tuesday as the country recorded 2.3 million new infections in the past two weeks alone. Steep surges in cases typically result in a rising death toll weeks later. Coronavirus deaths reached 2,157 on Tuesday – one person every 40 seconds – with another 170,000 people infected, as millions of Americans disregarded official warnings and travelled for Thanksgiving. Nearly 1 million passengers a day have been screened at airport security checkpoints for the past week, with Sunday’s total of 1.047 million being the highest number since the early days of the pandemic in mid-March. Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, urged people to keep Thanksgiving gatherings as small as possible and stressed the need to “hang in there a bit longer” on wearing masks, maintaining distance and avoiding crowds, especially indoors. “If we do those things, we’re going to get through it. So, that’s my final plea before the holiday,” Fauci told the ABC News programme, “Good Morning America” on Wednesday. Families with university students have been forced to evaluate the risk of reuniting for Thanksgiving. Francesca Wimer, a student at Northwestern University in Illinois, flew home to Washington wearing an N95 mask and a face shield and checked into a hotel for 14 days, quarantining to protect her parents and grandparents. “She was returning to a vulnerable set of people. We didn’t trust that a test was enough,” said her mother, Cynthia Wimer. Others are just staying put. Luke Burke, studying at Syracuse University in upstate New York, was planning to spend Thanksgiving with his family in New Jersey until his roommate tested positive last week. “I’m sorry I can’t be there with my parents, but it’s the right thing to do,” Burke said. “This is not a normal Thanksgiving, and to act like it’s a normal Thanksgiving is to deny the reality of every health expert in the nation,” New York Governor Andrew Cuomo told reporters. West Virginia Governor Jim Justice pleaded with his constituents to wear a mask which he called the “only bullet in the gun” until there is a vaccine.