As the federal and state governments rolled out plans for the post #EndSars protest to engage Nigerian youths in different activities, the Chairman of the Owan West Local Government Area, Edo State , Hon. Frank Ilaboya, said last night that his council had concluded plans to launch a youth foundation that will positively engage the youth in the area. Speaking to the press at Sheraton Hotel, Abuja, where he was given an award as “The Most Outstanding Local Government Chairman” by the Association of Christain Journalists, Hon Ilaboya said the foundation would raise N100m in three years, and this would be used to engage the youths of the area positively. Ilaboya, a former  Chairman,  Lagos State Sports Writers’ Association of Nigeria, and  Edo State Football Association, added that the #EndSars protest had provided him the unique opportunity to roll out this package. “When I assumed office as the Executive Chairman three years ago, my first assignment was to profile the youths in the local government area and the figure I got was frightening. From the report of that study, I knew if something was not done about youth empowerment, we would be having a big problem in our hands. “That was how we started our youth empowerment scheme that has today being adjudged to be unique. “And because of the current economic situation in the country, we have been engaging the private sector in our programmes. “For this foundation which we are launching December 16, we are going to leverage on the private sector as well. In fact, our target is for Owan West sons and daughters to contribute the sum of five thousand naira per annum. This will give us N25 million in the first year and N35million and N40 million in the subsequent years. “Outside this, we are coming out with a law that will enable the council contribute one per cent of its monthly allocation to the fund. “We are also looking to partner corporate organizations and foundations which are into youth empowerment for support.  “We are very determined to see it through, especially now that the youths have spoken loud and clear. “The #EndSars protest is a wake-up call and time to act is now. For us in Owan West, this package is a divine response to the youth agitation, and I am very positive that it will sell. “We have identified three categories of beneficiaries. Those who have finished universities will be deployed to schools to teach or serve as administrative officers. Those with learned skills will be empowered to start their own businesses, while those in school will enjoy bursaries. “In all, it’s a win-win package that will answer all the questions of our youths. Like I said earlier, the Owan West Youth Trust Fund is a divine response to a better future for our youths. “I have told the youths of Owan West that as from April next year (when disbursement to beneficiaries will start), their worries will be over. Owan West will be the envy of other local governments in the federation. “I want to use this opportunity to call our sons and daughters as well as other well-meaning Nigerians to support us as we design a flourishing future for our youths. December 16 is the date of launching and I expect a full buy-in for this package. “The N100m target for the three years is quite achievable going by the template we have designed”. 