ETUK: My name is Etuk, the pensioner that you helped to receive her pension arrears that was skipped last year. I am still grateful to you. My second request was payment of my federal share of gratuity pending since May 2005 when I retired. Please help me to get this as you did last year. Etuk, Ministry of Health, Akwa Ibom State. PTAD: Pensioner to provide her contact phone number and account number to enable us track her complaint and update you on the status. MAIRIGA: I am a retired pensioner with federal share of gratuity. My complaint is non-payment of arrears of gratuity for federal share since retirement in May 2009. Kindly help me. PTAD: Pensioner’s complaint has been resolved. He has been placed on the   monthly pension payroll. His arrears was paid to him in May, 2018. AKUTSE: My name is Akutse from Plateau State. I retired in August 1, 2010 with state pension. My complaint is nonpayment of gratuity and irregular payment of monthly pension. PTAD: Pensioner’s complaint has been resolved. He has been placed on the   monthly pension payroll. His arrears was paid to him in June 2018 AMPITAN: Please kindly use your good office to ensure my benefits are paid. I was verified with the PTAD on September 18, 2017 at Rowe Park Yaba, Lagos State and up till now I have not received my gratuity, monthly pension, and pension areas while those whom we did verification together have been receiving theirs. I discovered that I am not on the list. Please kindly save my soul as I am passing through a lot of life challenges as I cannot afford the basic needs of my life. Name. PTAD: Pensioner’s complaint has been resolved. He has been placed on the   monthly pension payroll. He is advised to go to bank to confirm his payment. His arrears will be paid as soon as funds are made available. We tried reaching him on his mobile phone number on 16/11/2020 but it was not avaiable as at the time we called. IYONKYO: I write on behalf of Mrs Iyonkyo and Ms Iyonkyo, Joint next of kins & admins of estate. They have been involved in the death benefits claim of the Late Mr Iyonkyo since 2006 when the late custom officer died. In 2008, the Nigeria Customs Service referred the case to PTAD where the beneficiaries attended a series of screening in Abuja. Nothing further was heard from PTAD despite several visits and enquiries until late last year when they received a letter dated June 10, 2019 directing the next of kins to liaise with the NCS, the deceased’s PFA and PENCOM to process their claim. The next of kins are confused and humbly request your help in getting to know how to go about the death benefits. PTAD: NOKs to provide verification slip, account number and contact phone number to enable us track his complaint and take further necessary action. BERNARD: My name is Bernard, a state pensioner with federal share. I retired from service in September 2009 on grade level 15, step 9. I have done my verification and have done that which is expected of me, yet nothing has happened. I have not been paid gratuity or pension. Kindly help me get my little entitlement. Thank you. PTAD: The verification number the pensioner provided is not correct. He should provide the account number he was verified with to enable us track his complaint and take further action. AMEH: My name is Ameh, a next of kin to late Mrs Ameh who worked in Federal Poly Idah and died on February 16, 2015. I was the husband with six children, first two are in Fed University Oye-Ekiti. All necessary papers were submitted in August 2015. But no payment till now. We are in serious financial mess. Please help us. PTAD: Pensioner’s complaint does not fall under PTAD. NOK is advised to liaise with the deceased PFA (Sigma Pensions) for payment of benefits. Pensioner’s phone number was not available as at the time we called him. ASUQUO: I am Asuquo from Akwa Ibom. Please what are the rules and regulations of payment for Federal Government retirees? Secondly, I retired in April this year when will my accrued right be paid. PENCOM: The rules and regulation for payment of Fed Govt retirement benefits under the CPS starts by participating in the Commission’s Pre-retirement verification and enrolment exercise. The prospective retiree/retiree needs to contact the Pension Desk Officer (PDO) of his/her MDA to get the necessary documents for enrolment. He/she is also required to come along with the PDO to the enrolment centre for his/her attestation. After the enrolment exercise, the retirement benefits are determined and paid into the RSA of the retiree based on the information provided by the retiree during enrolment. But please NOTE that retirement benefits are paid subject to release of funds by Federal Government for payment of accrued rights.