Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege came heavy on governors of the Niger Delta states by accusing them of diverting the 13 percent oil derivation funds meant for  oil producing states. He advocated 100 percent utilisation of the funds for oil-bearing communities, instead of the  release only 50 per cent of the money to development commissions by the state governments. Omo-Agege, according to a statement on Thursday by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Yomi Odunuga, spoke when he hosted a delegation of Oil and Gas Host Communities of Nigeria (HOSCON). The Amayanabo of Twon-Brass in Brass Kingdom and Chairman, Bayelsa State Traditional Rulers Council, Chief Alfred Diete-Spiff, led the team. The Deputy President of the Senate argued that since host communities bear the burden of environmental degradation from the oil industry, it was only fair that all funds be channeled into the development of their areas. Omo-Agege who chairs the Senate Adhoc Committee on Constitution Review, expressed regrets that the utilisation of the 13 percent derivation funds have become a political tool in the hands of state governors in the Southsouth. He said the diversion of the money had contributed  to the underdevelopment of the zone as the affected communities could  hardly boast of access to the basic necessities of life. Omo-Agege said: “I have been discussing this matter with Chief (Wellington) Okrika even before I became a senator. It is fair that the 13 percent derivation is meant to ameliorate the conditions of the people who are most impacted by oil exploration and exploitation. That is the only reason this fund was set aside as a consequence of your agitation, which you led for so many years. “These funds are not meant for the state governments. The state governments are meant to be purveyors to host communities. “Even in states that have development commissions, they only earmark 50 percent of the funds to the commission to manage on behalf of the host communities. “So what happens to the other 50 percent? We have always taken the position from the outset that 100 percent of the funds is meant for the development of host communities because it is not every area that suffers from oil exploration and degradation. But for some reasons, it has become a political tool.” He reiterated his call for gas flaring penalties in the Petroleum Industry Bill to be paid to the host communities and not to the Federation Account. Omo-Agege also suggested that the annual contribution of 2.5 percent actual operating expenditure by oil companies to the Host Community Development Trust Fund should be increased to, at least, five percent. He added that the penalties from gas flaring would be used to ameliorate the living conditions in Niger Delta communities, as they suffer from the environmental impact of oil exploration. “The reason we are insisting on at least 5 percent of operational expenses of oil companies for the host communities is because of the stability as their operational expenses will always remain stable. On the proposed boards and management of Host Communities Trust Fund in the PIB, he emphasised the need for those in the host communities to be carried along. He called on the people of the zone  to show more than passing interest in the development of the area and hold their leaders accountable. Other lawmakers with the Deputy President of the Senate when he received the delegation were   Senator Biobarakuma Degi Eremienyo and Thomas Ereyitomi.. Earlier, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Niger Delta Matters, Senator Ita Enang, had called on  Omo-Agege to intervene in the N98 billion gas flare fund, the controversy surrounding the Pipeline Surveillance Contract, 13 percent derivation payment to oil-producing communities and the need to pass a bill for the establishment of a Derivation Commission. According to him, Niger Delta people should be engaged in the surveillance contract to give them a sense of belonging. He also lamented the absence of development commissions in Rivers, Bayelsa and Akwa Ibom states. The same sentiment was shared by Alfred Diete-Spiff, the Bolowei of Gbaramatu Kingdom, Chief Wellington Okrika, HOSCON National Chairman, Mike Emu and a host of others who spoke at the event.