 Those who burnt and looted in Lagos as a fallout of the EndSARS protests have been warned to stay away from Lagos State as the state remains the pride of Yoruba race and its preservation for economic posterity will be upheld. This admonition was given on Wednesday in Lagos by the Coalition of Oodua Self- Determination Groups(COSEG)  in a release issued and  signed by Comrades Dayo Ogunlana and Dele Daramola, the Chairman and Publicity Secretary of the group’s Cordinating Council respectively after a meeting to review the state of nation. The group said “Lagos is the heartbeat of the nation and the pride of the Yoruba. As a result of this, arsonists and looters and their agents are warned to stay clear of Lagos. Looting, arson and vandalism are crimes against humanity.” “We were pained as a result of the huge and avoidable destruction of property.  This state is priceless to us. We shall not condone any longer any acts of recklessness and impunity. “Buses that were provided to ease one of the major problems in Lagos State- transportation-were destroyed. Today our people walk long distances as these buses are no more there.” The group, while commending the governor of Lagos State for showing capacity and refusing to go to sleep after the destruction, called on him to pay compensation to those affected by the  protests and  the unwarranted shooting of the military. It called on the judicial panel set up to conclude their job in earnest and proffer recommendations without any iota of  bias “as the conclusion of this sitting will give the youth with good intentions hope and help the state on measures to take so that this regrettable occurrence does not occur again.” The group said: “We support all the actions taken by Mr Governor so far after the EndSARS protests, especially the Trust Fund created for this purpose. We urge  Mr Governor to put a representative of the civil society on the panel so as to ensure monitoring and transparency.” The group concluded by calling on Mr president to grant Lagos Special Status,give it special attention and always treat Lagos Specially in its distribution or allocation of resources. Conclusively” We call on Mr President to use his position as a revered father to grant Lagos Special Status and ensure all processes to do this are done and ratified during his era as Lagosians and Nigerians will not forget this gesture,it’s a legacy he must set. This has been a recurring decimal and considering the importance of Lagos as the barometer which the country’s development and economy growth is always been  measured. Lagos deserves special attention and it is fair that this is recognised and action to this respect is taken. We have  trust in Mr president’s  judgement and believe he will  always justice to issues of this form. 