Lagos Police Commissioner, Hakeem Odumosu on Monday flagged off medical evaluation and debriefing of operatives of the disbanded Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) and other tactical units of the command. The exercise, which was in line with the directive of the Inspector General of Police Mohammed Adamu, was kicked off at the Area F Command, Ikeja. Tests to be conducted include urinalysis, toxicology, fasting and random blood sugar tests and psychological test. The IG had assured Nigerians that all operatives attached to the defunct units would undergo psychiatric evaluation and retraining before redeployment to other police duties. SARS, Anti-Kidnapping and Anti-Cultism units were scrapped following allegations of extortion, brutality, harassment, extrajudicial killings and other unlawful practices against citizens. Flagging off the evaluation, Odumosu reiterated the IG’s commitment to changing the psyche of the operatives and preparing them for better police duties which are entirely different from their previous duties. He admonished them to key into the ongoing reform agenda of the IG, which he described as a sine qua non for having people-oriented policing in the country. According to spokesman, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, the course outline for the three-day debriefing include public relations principles; concept of community policing; standard operating procedure of the Nigeria Police Force; Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), ENDSARS: Experience, challenges, Aspirations and the way forward. “These topics will be handled by scholars from various fields,” he said. Adejobi said the police boss also tasked senior officers of the command to always supervise their men posted on duty at various locations to enhance service delivery especially in this yuletide season. “CP Hakeem Odumosu encouraged the members of his management team, comprising Deputy Commissioners of Police, Area Commanders and Heads of Department to put the men on their toes towards having visibility policing, adequate patrols, intelligence-driven policing and public safety across the state. “While assuring them of the supports of the IG, and the government and good people of Lagos State, on compensation and replacement of burnt and lost facilities during the unrest, he admonished them to relate well with members of the public and add more pep in solidifying the security network of the state,” he said.