Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) Tanko Muhammad had a candid advice for judges on Monday. They should shun all forms of gratification in the discharge of their duties. The CJN told them to be proactive and device ways to address persistent delay in the administration of justice, noting that delay has become a major bane in the nation’s judiciary. Justice Muhammad spoke in Abuja at the opening of the 2020 virtual induction course for newly-appointed judges and Kadis organised by the National Judicial Institute (NJI). He said: “My Lords, ladies and gentlemen, it is no longer news that much of the criticisms leveled against the justice delivery system in Nigeria are about persistent delays in the administration of justice, bias and wrong applications of laws. “These acts are often not to the delight of litigants and court users as they often frown at the way services are rendered. “As such, a better understanding of the current trends in justice administration will help you appraise and curb the waste of judicial time and resources, thereby ensuring justice delivery is efficient and proactive. “Accordingly, while discharging your duties it is important to note that all forms of gratification must not be associated with you. “You must not be found wanting; transparency, honesty and accountability must remain your watch word. I urge you therefore to eschew corruption in the discharge your duties. “You must also abreast yourself with relevant laws; maintain Judicial Authority in the courtroom; develop a simple style of Judgment Writing and optimize your time and resources.” NJI Administrator Justice Rosaline Bozimo (rtd), noted that the theme: “Inculcating judicial excellence in the newly appointed judicial officers,” is apt, because the course is aimed at adequately equipping the new judges for the challenges on the higher bench as it relates to adjudication and other ancillary issues. The administrator, who reminded the new judges that their appointment is a privilege one, said they must do everything to live above board. She said: “Let me use this medium to caution you to refrain and spurn all forms of corrupt practices bearing in mind the provisions of the Code of Conduct for Judicial Officers and the Oath of Office which you have sworn to. “It is my firm belief that you will continue to adhere to this admonition; in the same vein, this course will aid you in the proper application of the Code of Conduct for Judicial Officers in the discharge of your duties; and be assured that the Institute will be more than willing to conduct workshops that will aid you in the discharge of your duties.” Justice Bozimo urged the new judge to perform their duties faithfully and “without fear or favour, affection or I’ll will, but in accordance with the provisions of the relevant laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.”