 IN the wake of the recent #EndSARS protests nationwide, looters unleashed a run on warehouses of state governments where edibles intended to cushion the most vulnerable citizens from harsh effects of the COVID-19 pandemic were stocked. Acting on an assumption that those items funded by private sector-led Coalition Against COVID-19 (CACOVID) were being hoarded by state governments, looters broke into warehouses in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Lagos, Osun, Ogun, Plateau, Kwara and other states, spiriting away food items such as rice, cassava grain (‘gari’), noodles, spaghetti and vegetable oil. In some places, the looters, in opportunistic desperation, carted off poisonous items presumed to be edibles, such as in Ekiti State where fertilisers mistaken for gari and pre-fermented corn preserved for planting were stolen. The palliatives warehousing cast state governors in bad light, with many Nigerians accusing them of stocking up the items for nefarious intentions while indigent citizens for whom the palliatives were intended pined away in hunger. Besides, many found it queer that the palliatives were in warehouses at a time the curve of the pandemic is believed flattening out in Nigeria. Some looters indeed had the temerity to cast their criminality as a survival act by which they appropriated what belonged to them originally, but which state executives allegedly commandeered. It was an image crisis that compelled the National Economic Council (NEC), comprising state governors under the chairmanship of Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, early last week to call on CACOVID for independent explanation of why distribution of the items had been delayed. In its narrative, the private sector charity, comprising business captains and corporates, said the delivery of palliatives to some two million vulnerable households nationwide was delayed because the items were handed over late and piecemeal to state governments. Some governments, like Lagos, reportedly took delivery late in September and others up till mid-October. “At the time CACOVID embarked on the palliatives effort in April, we decided to procure the food directly from manufacturers to avoid a distortion of prices in the market…Unfortunately, the very large size of the order and the production cycle required to meet the demand caused delays in delivering the food items to the states in an expeditious manner; hence the resulting delay in (distribution) of the food palliatives by state governors,” Central Bank of Nigeria Acting Director, Corporate Communications, Osita Nwanisobi, said. He explained that the package for each targeted beneficiary was designed to comprise specific items, adding that the distribution was held down  at CACOVID’s instance because some of the items making up the composite package had not been delivered to some states. Only in 28 states and the FCT, according to him, have the palliatives been fully delivered; with some states having fully distributed while others were about proceeding with distribution before looting broke out. In another statement, the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) said as at mid-October, up to 10 states had not started distribution of palliatives because items to be given out had not been fully received from CACOVID. Forum spokesman Abdulrazaque Bello-Barkindo also said some state governments warehoused palliatives as “strategic reserve ahead of a projected second wave of COVID-19.” The large-heartedness of CACOVID donors must be appreciated, just as an age-long axiom says you do not look a gift horse in the mouth. Still, the point must be made that matters could’ve been better handled. Hunger is a life-threatening emergency that does not brook niceties of bureaucracy; hence, much frustration could have been relieved in the citizenry if available items were promptly distributed to targeted beneficiaries rather than warehoused in expectation of additional items to complete package designs. Moreover, warehousing those palliatives primed them for abusive appropriation – including the criminal raid by looters. Besides, the chronic passivity of warehousing edibles amidst aggressive hunger in the land suggest a disconnect between the leadership class and the people. This is more so on the part of the governors, who should have persuaded the donors against idly stacking up in expectation of complementary supplies. It is worse that some governors willfully warehoused so-called strategic reserve for a potential second wave, when survival in the present wave has been a daunting challenge for many. There is no excuse whatsoever for anyone to loot. But the acute desperation of some ordinary citizens (not hoodlums) that we’ve seen also indexed a fundamental challenge with mass poverty, which government policy-making needs to address more concretely and less tokenistically than it presently seems.