The Majority Leader of the Lagos State House of Assembly and representative of Ikorodu Constituency I, Hon. Sanai Oyeniran Bolanle Agunbiade, whose house was attacked by hoodlums during the EndSARS protests told ‘Dare Odufowokan, Assistant Editor, that the attack was masterminded by his political detractors and that the food items the hoodlums looted from his warehouse were not COVID-19 palliatives  THE Majority Leader of the Lagos State House of Assembly and representative of Ikorodu Constituency I, Hon. Sanai Oyeniran Bolanle Agunbiade, has described the attack on his Ikorodu home by hoodlums as the handiwork of his political detractors and not a protest against him or the government. Speaking with our correspondent after a town hall meeting he held with his constituents at the 700-seater auditorium of the Lagos State Polytechnic, Ikorodu, the politician explained that contrary to lies being peddled after the incident, he never hoarded COVID-19 palliatives, rather, food items he procured to be distributed to people in commemoration of his birthday, were discovered and carted away. Speaking on the theme, “Post-COVID 19 Pandemic: Challenges and prospects”, Agunbiade, a chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), reaffirmed the feedback approach of the State Assembly and noted that much would be achieved when the constituents are afforded avenues to air their views on issues that pertain to their development. He appreciated the people for their resilience despite the economic challenges brought about by the pandemic. He also recalled how the state government and the Assembly made efforts to ensure that Lagosians were not left without help in those trying period. Agunbiade also recalled how the Lagos Assembly made moves to ease the recent EndSARS protest in the state that later resulted to a carnage. “I can remember that our dear Speaker, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, and some other members of the House met with the protesters at 12 midnight on October 8. We promptly held an emergency session afterwards where we came up with demands to President Muhammadu Buhari. Almost all our resolutions were adopted by the President. It is sad to now recall that all these efforts, as well as the understanding of the people of Lagos State, were thwarted by criminals who hijacked the protest and unleashed mayhem on all of us,” he lamented. The legislator described those who invaded his house on the afternoon of Friday, October 23, 2020, as assailants on a heinous mission to take his life. According to him, not a single pack of palliative was found in his house contrary to claims that the invaders came looking for COVID-19 palliatives. “Before these agents of death came to my house, a store where we used to keep things had been opened for the people by my aides and food items I bought to be shared in commemoration of my birthday were carted away. I instructed that the store be opened when I was informed that a crowd had gathered there in search of palliatives. The store, which is not in my house, was not broken into, it was opened for them. “I realised that the crowd must have been instigated by some people and I do not want any violence, so I told my aides to allow the people take what is there. My intention was to share it a few days later all the same. If you have the real video, not the doctored one, you will see that most of the things taken away were not branded at all. We bought them from the open market. They weren’t COVID-19 palliatives,” he said while adding that a few days before the commencement of the EndSARS protests, he took delivery of just 120 packs of COVID- 19 palliatives from the state government and couldn’t share it because of the happenings across the state. “All lawmakers got that and nobody shared because of the protests,’ he said. “Given the fact that I am well known for catering for the needs of my people since my emergence as a lawmaker, it is obvious that those who attacked my house were not protesters, but hoodlums from outside my constituency sent to take my life by my detractors. They stole my certificates and travelling passports of my family members. They emptied the wardrobes and went with other valuables. My intention is to give support to 50 widows who have already been nominated by different groups in a programme christened ‘Widows Mite’, for widows and also distribute to some vulnerable and indigent individuals across the three local councils of my constituency, the food items we bought. “Some people masterminded and sponsored the carnage for nothing other than political vendetta. We know ourselves in Ikorodu. God will repay every hand involved in the attack in appropriate proportion. I am happy to be alive to witness the 2020 anniversary of my birthday on Sunday 25th, October. The plan of detractors to delete me before my birthday failed. It is just important that I say all these here so you can know the truth as against the lies flying around,” he said. While appreciating the decision of the Assembly to hear from the people, speakers at the event took time to appreciate Agunbiade’s welfare packages for the people since his emergence as their representatives. Former Commissioner for Information and the Agbaakin of Ikorodu, who represented the Ayangburen of Ikorodu, Oba Adewale Shotobi, condemned the attack on peaceful protesters by soldiers and described the attack on Agunbiade’s house as ‘sacrilegious’. “No true born of Ikorodu will attack his house because he has served Ikorodu well,” he said. A representative of youth bodies in the constituency, Comrade Jola Soyemi, while calling on the government to put in place welfare schemes for the young ones who are jobless and without any help, warned that without social insurance, more and more frustrated Nigerians will take to crime and violence in the years to come. He however decried the attack on Agunbiade’s house, insisting that it was not carried out by Ikorodu youths. In his own submission, Asipa Kaoli Olusanya, the Vice Chairman of the APC in Lagos State, described him as ‘a representative who is never tired of giving to his people. Representatives of the Christian and Muslim communities in the constituency, youth groups, trade associations, student bodies, traditional institutions, community development associations, teachers’ union, non-indigenes associations, drivers’ union, resident associations and other bodies, while speaking at the event, appreciated the lawmaker for the opportunity to hear from his mouth.