The remains of the Chairman of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in Nasarawa State, Mr Philip Tatari Shekwo, were on Friday committed to mother earth in his Yelwa home town, Toto Local Government Area amid tears by sympathisers. The late Shekwo was abducted from his residence in Lafia, the state capital around 11pm last Saturday, before he was killed by his abductors a few metres away from his house in Lafia. He was buried on Friday at about 2: 20pm at his private residence according to Christian rites. Prominent individuals in the state who attended the burial include the state’s deputy governor, Dr Emmanuel Akabe, who represented the state governor, Abdullahi Sule. Others include Senators Umaru Tanko Al-Makura and Godiya Akwashiki; the speaker of Nasarawa State House of Assembly, RT. Hon Ibrahim  Abdullahi;  the First Lady, Hajiya Silifat Abdullahi Sule; Rep Jonathan Gaza (PDP); Rep Abdulmumin Ari (APC); Arch Mohammed Ja’afaru Ibrahim; former deputy governor of the state, Hon Silas Agara and members of the Nasarawa State House of Assembly. Other dignitaries at the burial included Senator John Danboyi; Senator Abubakar Sodangi; Mr Yunnana Iliya; former PDP chairman, Nasarawa State, Mr Henry Omaku; the Chairman of APC in Plateau State and other well wishers. Governor Abdullahi Sule, while speaking during the funeral service at Ebenezer Baptist Church, Yelwa, vowed to fish out the perpetrators the killers of the deceased APC Chairman to serve as deterrent to others. Sule, who was represented by his deputy, Dr. Emmanuel Akabe, also assured the family of the deceased APC chairman of prayers and support. He said: “Philip is a gentle man to the core. His death is not only a loss to Yelwa community, Toto Local Government and the state alone but Nigeria as a whole, because he was a detribalised Nigerian. “By God’s grace, the perpetrators will surely be brought to book for this unfair, evil and ungodly act. “Government will do everything within its power to ensure that the perpetrators are brought to book.” The governor urged the family to take solace in God and prayed for the repose of the soul of the state APC chairman. Also speaking, Senator Umar Tanko Al-Makura (APC- Nasarawa South) described the late APC chairman as a man of peace, a man of submission, progress and development. “Shekwo is a friend, brother and someone that I cherished,” he said. The former governor urged the state government to conduct a vigorous investigation to fish out the perpetrators of the act. Also speaking, the wife of the deceased, Mrs Larai Philip Shekwo, said her husband was a peaceful man. She urged the people to pray for the family and for the repose of his soul. In his sermon, Dr. Bulus Ali, the President of Nasarawa/Benue Baptist Conference, said death is an inevitable end of all human and living beings. “There is no end to death as there is life after death and there is going to be judgment after death,” he said. The man of God urged the state government to do more in the area of security in order to protect lives and property.