 NIGERIA recorded her first case of COVID-19 on February 27, when an Italian citizen tested positive to the virus in Lagos. After several cases in major states, President Muhammadu Buhari on March 27 ordered the indefinite suspension of social and religious gatherings as well as closure of schools. The precautionary move aimed at containing  the spread of the coronavirus also hampered academic activities. However, states have been struggling with the reopening of schools safely without putting teachers and students at the risk of contracting  the virus and prevent further spread. After six months,  the Ondo State Government  gave  the directive for schools to resume last month, in compliance with COVID-19 guidelines to prevent further spread of the virus. Schools have been directed to adhere to the ‘No mask, no entry’ policy. They have also been mandated to provide infrared thermometer, handwashing facilities as well as constant running water. Tertiary institutions  in Ondo State are expected to start preparations for the resumption of academic activities in line with COVID-19 safety protocols. CAMPUSLIFE takes a look at a few institutions which have started putting safety measures in place.  In compliance with the Federal  and state government  directives on COVID-19 guidelines, the management of AAUA has taken itself  with the help of the Committee on Post COVID-19 Free University Community (CPCFUC) to put up a hand washing stand  at the school entrance. In ensuring that COVID-19 protocols are followed on campus upon resumption, the management warned that students would not be allowed access into the university without using a facemask to curb further spread of the virus. The school is poised to stop the transmission  with a strict adherence to the “No Nose Mask, No Entering” policy. Prof. Francis Gbore, the Deputy Vice Chancellor, Academics assured  students of the completion of the first semester calendar before the end of this year. He also expressed the institution’s readiness  for resumption. He said: “I’m very certain that before the end of this year, we shall finish the first semester calendar  by God’s grace”. Similarly, Mariam Adeola, a 200-Level student of the Department of History and International Studies believes the school is  fully prepared. “According to what I heard from those in school, all things are being put in place .The timetable is ready. But the obstacle remains  the ASUU members we have in AAUA. Most of them do not want to listen to school directives,” she said. Adegbeyeni Oluwafemi, the Student Union Public Relations Officer (PRO) of the institution   confirmed that the management has been   working hard towards resumption but  the only hindrance towards resumption lies on the shoulders of ASUU members in school. He said: “All measures are being put in place like handwashing basins, sanitizers and others. I hope ASUU comes into a resolution with the Federal Government to enable students go back to their classrooms.” Another student of AAUA, Tunde Ogunsina who studies English and Literature, noted that the management of the institution has put in a great deal of efforts to put safety measures in place,but the ASUU strike remains an albatross. “The authorities in the institution have tried with the safety measures put in place to prevent the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. But the major problem now is the ASUU strike.Our hope is for the government and striking lecturers to resolve the current crisis,” he said.  Students of Rufus Giwa Polytechnic were not exempted from closure of all academic activities that took effect from March 27. The management has deemed it fit to enforce COVID-19 guidelines prior to students resumption back on campus.The  institution’s premises, lecture rooms, staff offices, poly market, sports complex,management complex, practical labs, school hostels and other places have been fumigated. The management has also made provision for facemasks, sanitizers, hand washing stand at various entry points. In a statement, the Rector, Mr Gani Ogundahunsi, said  the resumption will be in phases. He said: “Students will be resuming in batches in order to comply with the COVID-19 measures being put in place by the management and to maintain social distancing.” Ayodele Tobi Samuel, a HND 2  Mass Communication student of Rufus Giwa Polytechnic   said despite the institution’s  preparation for resumption,the ENDSARS protests have caused a delay He said: “For now, no official resumption date yet from the management Rufus Giwa Polytechnic, Owo. A meeting of Board of Studies(BOS) was scheduled to hold a forthnight ago, but as a result of the #ENDSARS protest and  hoodlums attacks and curfew.But when the meeting holds,we hope there would be approval for resumption’’. Joy Eburu, a student of Mass Communication at Rufus Giwa Polytechnic, noted  that the school has demonstrated readiness to resume with safety measures put in place. She said: “We’re waiting for the outcome of the management  meeting this week.I’m sure a lot of information will emanate from the said meeting. We hope something really positive would come out of it, so the students can resume because most of them are very eager to resume.”  At the Federal University of Technology, Akure(FUTA),the level of preparedness is high. There have  been changes in the school environment,  some buildings  have been renovated, the management has  started fumigating the lecture rooms and offices in the school to contain the spread of coronavirus. However, resumption is totally dependent on ASUU as  the institution is a compliant member of ASUU. Udeh Ebenezer, a 200-Level student of Industrial Mathematics,  said:  “You know what that means already. FUTA’s resumption is based on the positive response from the government despite the preparations for resumption.” Corroborating the above, Femi Ajala, also a 200- Level student of Industral Mathematics, stated  that the school wouldn’t resume even if the state government gave the order, noting that FUTA is actually a special branch for ASUU where they do most of their in-house meetings. He said: “We  were in the middle of first semester of the 2019/2020 session when we left school because of the outbreak of coronavirus. “ Apart from getting ready for resumption,  we hope that the next meeting between ASUU and Federal Government goes down well enough to result to the strike being called off as their meeting of a few days ago hadn’t been favourable. This will bring hope to the minds of  students on when they are expected back at school.”