The Nigeria Union of Pensioners (NUP) has said the actions and inactions of Federal and State Governments was responsible for the untimely deaths of senior citizens in the country. The union lamented the delay in the release of pension meant for its members, saying some of them have passed away chasing their entitlements. National President of NUP, Dr. Abel Afolayan, lamented the non-implementation of minimum pension for its members in line with the national minimum wage passed by President Muhammadu Buhari in April last year. The national president who spoke during the National Executive Council meeting of the pensioners’ body in Abuja, lamented that some state governors were yet to reflect the minimum pension passed by President Goodluck Jonathan’s administration. He said: “May I clearly state this today that it is not the corona or any other virus that is killing pensioners, elderly people, and senior citizens generally, it is the government actions and inactions that are sending them to their untimely early graves. “After Covid -19 period, our loud unanimous call to the federal and state governments is, therefore, to ensure that pensioners’ welfare is made number one in whatever they do at all times. “We shall continue to put pressure on them and cry to high heavens that they should humanly address pensioners’ problems and stop killing them instalmentally. We, pensioners, are among our heroes past who have served this nation meritoriously. Our labours should, therefore, of necessities, not be in vain.” The national president said the union would continue to push for the benefits accrued to its members. He said the report of a committee to review the increase in pension in line with the minimum wage has been forwarded to President Buhari for approval. “This procedure may seem cumbersome to most of our members who wanted it done immediately. However, I must emphasize that this is the procedure in salary/pension review. Similarly, we have been assured that immediately after Mr. President gives his approval, the implementation of the increment shall be effective from April 2019, the same as for the workers. Mr. President himself has given us that assurance,” he said. Executive Secretary of Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD), Dr. Chioma Ejikeme, assured the union that the government was working hard to ensure that it pays all the arrears of pensions owed.