 The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), through an inter-agency committee and the FinTech Association of Nigeria (FintechNGR) is exploring blockchain adoption for the financial sector, Access Bank has said. Blockchain, according to Google, is a system of recording information in a way that makes it difficult or impossible to change, hack, or cheat the system. It is essentially a digital ledger of transactions that is duplicated and distributed across the entire network of computer systems on the blockchain. It’s Executive Director of Technology and Operations, Mr Ade Bajomo who dropped the hint in an interview with Arise TV’s ‘Arise Xchange’, said FinTech offerings will be one of the key performance drivers for the banking sector post-COVID-19. He said the possibilities are endless for a sector that has been responsible for over N700 trillion worth of transactions over the last 12 months. “This trend is expected to continue even in a post-COVID-19 world,” Bajomo said, adding that a  number of innovative solutions will be introduced in the payment sector. The key drivers of these innovative solutions, he said, will include contactless payments, biometric solutions for financial inclusion and the acceptance of blockchain technology as a viable payment option.  Bajomo who was appointed the new President of FintechNGR during FinTechNGR’s virtual Annual General Meeting (AGM) after serving the group as the Vice President for the last two years, thanked the outgoing president, Dr Segun Aina and the Governing Committee, for the remarkable accomplishments during the last two years. He said: “This appointment is a responsibility that I take very seriously and I am humbled by your vote of confidence. With your help, I believe we can position Nigeria as a leading market for global FinTech Innovation and Investment.”  “In my capacity as the president, I will ensure FintechNGR works collaboratively as a team to position Nigeria and ultimately, Africa, as a force to be reckoned with in the global community.” Nigeria has all the human resources it needs to be competitive in the global marketplace and this administration will strive to accelerate the growth of the industry and help create job opportunities and wealth.” In his capacity at Access Bank, Bajomo led the lender’s digital transformation, overseeing its  use of advanced analytics, cloud computing, artificial intelligence, machine learning and robotics process automation to sustain banking and improve customer experience. 