 IT is not uncommon on campuses  to  see students walking in twos or groups, sometimes siblings or friends. There are the couples; they parade themselves wanting to be noticed, especially the naive ones. For distracted students, being a student-couple is part of the curriculm. It is also important to state that not all students that live together are couples, some are friends or even siblings. The student-couples go as far as  living like married couples. The girl cooks and performs other domestic  chores while the boy fends for the house. They can get a job or use  their school fees for other things. At home, most of the student-couples wear innocent faces and are well behaved that their parents don’t have the faintest idea of their escapades  in school. Hence, it is imperative that parents pay attention to  their wards in school. They should know where they  live, their friends, the church they attend and others. When a male and female student cohabit, they are  bound to  encounter problems such as  poor academic performance, early pregnancy as a result of multiple sexual intercourse, abortion, which may lead to death, diseases and infections. Therefore, parents and tertiary institutions should address the issue to  forestall the ‘evils’ that come with such. University officials can help curb this by organising sensitisation campaigns  for students in their first year, to  help  them get their priorities right. In some schools, it has become the norm to give awards  to the best couple of the year during departmental award ceremonies. Doing that would make new students think it is appropriate. This should not be happening on our campuses. Since tertiary institutions are seen as places where unlimited freedom holds sway, students are urged to exercise restraint. However, the major responsibility is left to the parents or guardians to continuously check on their children or wards in school, most times unannounced. If they  cannot do this regularly, they should have representatives in the school that will help in monitoring them. Parents should  also do well to enlighten their children or wards on  sex  so as not to be easily swayed or enticed by the opposite sex. Doing this will reduce the  rate of student-couples on campus. 