President, Consumer Awareness and Financial Enlightenment Initiative (CAFEi), Mrs ‘Debola Osibogun, has said coronavirus (COVID-19) affect the financial literacy and financial inclusion. In a statement, she said the pandemic is generating an unprecedented global health crisis, which in turn, has critical implications on the the financial system in content and context. “The entire global population which has become vulnerable due the health crisis would also be mostly affected by the brewing financial crisis if not properly managed and protected through deliberate and conscientious financial education and enlightenment. ‘’As some parts of the world celebrate world financial literacy month, Consumer Awareness and Financial Enlightenment Initiative (CAFEi) uses this opportunity to assess the implication of the COVID-19 pandemic on Financial Inclusion and Financial Literacy,” she said. According to her, financial inclusion is, undoubtedly, an integral component of the Sustainable Development Goals which is a cliché to enhance the growth standards of the developing world. However, the breakout of COVID-19 pandemic has shown the importance and necessity of financial Inclusion in the world of governance and business of financial services. “At the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, the  Federal Government experienced difficulties in planning and segmenting its citizenry qualified to benefit from its social support programs. This challenge was majorly as a result of an absence of financial data on the entire population which greatly affected the impact of various government intervention schemes at both the State and Federal Levels. The Federal Government activated the conditional Cash Transfer Scheme and the Food Distribution scheme as measures to cushion the effect of the lock down on the population. In the case of the Conditional Cash transfer scheme, the lack of comprehensive financial data created a problem in identifying the poorest of the poor while in the case of food supply, it was difficult to plan for those who are in actual need of this palliatives,” she said. Osibogun said Nigeria, though has an ambitious financial inclusion strategy to include 70 per cent of the population in the formal financial system by 2020,  the country is yet to meet this target.  Financial Inclusion therefore needs to be taken more seriously by the government during and in the post-COVID-19 era to guarantee a sustainable growth and development. It was also obvious that Financial Literacy was paid less attention to, than Financial Inclusion in the pre-COVID-19 era. The COVID-19 pandemic has, however, brought key financial literacy issues, such as savings, taxation, access to credit and use of digital platforms back as topical and germane for debates and implementation. “The pandemic has exposed government resources as dwindling and unlikely to be able to support in any future crisis. This is because the government is faced with an increasing debt profile and bloated expenditure. Consumer Awareness and Financial Enlightenment Initiative (CAFEi) before the advent of the COVID-19 pandemic attempted to bring to the fore the importance of Saving by publishing articles on the subject matter and celebrating World Savings day with the international community.’’