Six members of staff of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) have tested positive for coronavirus. The commission disclosed the development via its Twitter platform explaining that the six persons were workers in the Office of the Executive Director, Projects, Dr. Cairo Ojougboh. The commission, however, said Ojougboh tested negative for the virus adding that 27 others working in Ojougboh’s department also tested negative. It advised those, who tested negative to go on self isolation. The commission recently confirmed that its late acting Director, Finance and Administration of the commission, Ibanga Bassey Etang tested positive for Coronavirus. NDDC in a statement signed by its Direcor, Coroporate Affairs, Charles Odili, said the commission was compelled to make the declaration after getting clearance from the deceased family. “The family has authorized the Commission to announce that the late executive director tested positive fir COVID-19,” Odili said. NDDC recently shut down the commission’s corporate headquarters following COVID-19 scare triggered by the death of Etang, who was a member of the Interim Management Committee (IMC). Etang, who until his death, was the Acting Executive Director of Finance and Administration reportedly died at the Rivers State University Teaching Hospital (RSUTH), Port Harcourt after a brief illness. Etang, a former Chairman of Esit Eket Local Government, resigned his appointment as Special Assistant to Governor Emmanuel Udom on Projects on April 9, 2018 and formally registered with the All Progressives Congress (APC) at his Etebi Ward 7. He was appointed by President Muhammadu Buhari on February 19 as part of a five-member IMC led by Prof. Kemebradikumo Daniel Pondei. Shortly after his death, the commission’s management in an internal memo signed by Silas Anyanwu shut down the corporate headquarters of NDDC located along Aba Road in Port Harcourt for two weeks. The memo said all activities of the commission including ongoing matters were also shut down for two weeks. Members of staff were asked to ensure that all electrical appliances in their offices were switched off before leaving the premises. The Head of Security was asked to work out modalities to secure the commission while the Director, Administration was requested to fumigate and decontaminate the entire offices and premises during the peperiod.