Slovakia based Nigeria defender, Celestine Lazarus, has declared he is a better than Real Madrid legendary defender Sergio Ramos. The 27-year-old said his versatility makes him better than Ramos. He asked Gernot Rohr to extend invitation to him as Nigeria prepares for AFCON qualifiers. “I’m ripe enough to prove myself in the Super Eagles team,” said Lazarus during an interview with The Nation newspaper. “My coach and my teammates have been encouraging me to reach out to the national team coach for a chance in the national team but I believe my ability and hard work will take me there at the appropriate time. I am not rushing, but I am ready and ripe enough to prove a chance to play for my country.” The Slavoj Trebišov player has enjoyed a smooth journey in Europe in the last five years and believes he has gathered enough experience to be in the star- studded national team. “My uncles used to tell me about Uche Okechukwu, Stephen Keshi and others, some of them said I play like Uche because of my physique but in my club, they always see me as another player like Sergio Ramos of Real Madrid. “He’s a player I like so much as well as a Coulibally of Napoli, they are both good players you can always look up to and never have a regret. But I think I am better than Sergio Ramos, I play three roles and I have thrived there, so it makes me better than him in truth.” Speaking about his versatility, he said: “Originally, I was an offensive midfielder, and sometimes, I do play more defensively. And I have thrived in those positions very well. “Today, I do play as a central defender, and if there’s an injury crisis in my team, the coach plays me in either position but I am always better in any of the positions and maybe that is what makes me better. He continued: “ As a player, your coach can ask you to change your current position due to some circumstances and your performance matters and that could be what will keep you in the team always  and I think my versatility has made me consistent on the pitch and has made me a better player.”