 THE Speaker of Enugu State House of Assembly,  Edward Ubosi, has ordered the immediate closure of the Assembly complex for decontamination, even as he suspends all activities in the complex till further notice. This is coming just as the House lost a member,  Chijioke Ugwueze, on Friday, June 19, 2020, after a brief illness. Reacting to the news of his demise, the Assembly said it received with rude shock, the news of the death of its member representing Isi-Uzo Constituency. A statement by the Chairman, House Committee on Information and Communication, Jeff Mbah, said: “in order to err on the side of caution while the remote and immediate cause of his death is being ascertained”, the Speaker of the State Assembly, . Edward Ubosi, has ordered the immediate closure of the Assembly complex for decontamination, as well as the suspension of all activities in the complex till further notice.” The statement added that “our heartfelt sympathies go to the Ugwueze family, the wife and children, the people of Isi-Uzo Constituency, all our distinguished colleagues in Enugu State House of Assembly and Enugu State Government for this irreparable loss”. While beseeching God to grant his gentle soul eternal rest, Mbah stated that the late Ugwueze “was one of the rallying points of the fresh members of the 7th Assembly, an astute politician, a team player, a kind hearted, brilliant and vibrant young man with great leadership potentials”. Reports said the death of the lawmaker came three days after that of the Chairman of Nsukka Local Government Area, Chief Patrick Omeje. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Enugu on Saturday quoted the immediate younger brother of the deceased, Mr. Ejike Ugwueze, as confirming that his brother died of heart failure. Ugwueze said the late brother, who was 49 years old, was hypertensive before now and complained symptoms of malaria on Friday morning. According to him, the late lawmaker was rushed to a private hospital in Enugu on Friday morning and was later transferred to Enugu State Teaching Hospital Parklane, where he died in the evening. “The brother’s death was so painful and great shock to the family. He has created a big vacuum that only God can fill. He is our breadwinner. “We, the family members, are confused on where to start from because my brother died when we are still planning on how to bury our father, who is still in the mortuary and now Chijioke has joined him”, Ejike lamented. The late lawmaker, Chijioke Ugwueze, was the Chairman of House Committee on Transport before his death