Sir: The novel Coronavirus continues to torment the globe. We had tried curtailing it and still trying, instead, it continues to strut like a wildfire. Tell me an institution that is working now and I will ask you to compare it to how it was working before COVID-19 crept into our world. Our businesses are not healthy, our schools are closed, not until recently that our religious houses were opened under strict conditions— social distancing must be exercised. Private schools’ teachers appear the most affected in this trying time. They depend on school owners while the latter depend on the school fees of students whom governments have compulsory ordered to stay at home for their safety. Before the general lockdown was relaxed, palliatives worth billions of naira were distributed to Nigerians – courtesy of our states and federal government. The distributed palliatives, I believe didn’t get to some of these teachers; worse, most have been paid since the lockdown. Majority of them have spent the little they had in their bank accounts and are now begging families and friends for crumbs. We mustn’t forget that some of these teachers are mothers and fathers who do not have other means of livelihood. They depended on their salaries before the schools where they teach were closed down. Meanwhile, some of these private schools’ teachers were collecting as low as N15,000 as monthly salary before the lockdown. On June 23, a news medium reported that no fewer than five private primary and secondary schools were caught holding physical lessons with the students within the premises of their schools. What could have triggered the discreet arrangement if not the quest for survival? This is a call on governments; federal and states to provide succour to these unfortunate Nigerians at this difficult time.  The private schools have records with state governments as well as the federal government, which means the statistics of the teachers can be easily accessed. The government can engage them or in the alternative introduce a non interest loan to them. A non-interest loan that they won’t be difficult for them to pay when schools reopen.  Aremu Lukman Umor, Lagos.