The Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development has said that it will commence the enrolment of the third batch of N-Power beneficiaries next week. According to the ministry, the decision to enrol the third batch of the scheme was made following consultations and a review of the submissions on the reform of the programme for greater efficiency. It also explained that the enrolment will provide opportunities for more Nigerian youths to access the programme, in furtherance of the President’s vision of lifting 100 million Nigerians out of poverty. The ministry said the current enrollees of the scheme (Batch A) will exit June 30, 2020 while (Batch B) will exit the programme on July 31, 2020. This is contained in a statement in Abuja on Friday by the Deputy Director Information of the ministry, Rhoda Iliya. According to the Minister, Sadiya Farouq, “We have commenced the transitioning of beneficiaries from Batches A and B into government entrepreneurship schemes and engaging private sector bodies to absorb some of the beneficiaries after the completion of psychometric assessment to determine competency and placement into various opportunities. “The Federal government is committed to the continuation and expansion and as such will now begin enrolment and onboarding of a new Batch of beneficiaries. Skills acquisition for entrepreneurship and job creation are critical for an economy that will require a boost post-COVID-19 and we are gearing up proactively for the challenge.” On the mode of application, the ministry said: “Applications will be conducted using a hybrid system of enrolment to ensure that all Nigerians are given an opportunity to participate. As a Ministry that caters for the vulnerable, we will also make special considerations for Persons living with disabilities. “The online portal would be open to receive applications from noon on June 26, 2020 and will provide a level playing field for all applicants. “As part of the Ministry’s reforms to make the programme more efficient, all applicants must supply their Bank Verification Number (BVN) in their application to ensure a streamlined and transparent selection process.” The ministry further explained that once applications are submitted, it will review submissions and publish a list of successful applicants. It also stated that comprehensive details for the new batch will be announced in the coming weeks. It however noted that past beneficiaries will not be eligible to participate in the application process. The N-Power Programme was inaugurated by President Muhammadu Buhari in 2016 under the National Social Investment Programme (NSIP) with the mandate of lifting citizens out of poverty through capacity building, investment, and direct support. The programme has enrolled 500,000 beneficiaries so far with 200,000 from Batch A which started in September 2016 and 300,000 from Batch B which kicked off in August 2018. The beneficiaries were supposed to spend not less than 24 months on the programme and were spread across the key industries targeted by the programme; agriculture, health, education, and tax.