Bandits on Thursday killed six people and injured two expectant mothers in Kanawa and Kanga villages in Danmusa Local Government Area of Katsina State. Police spokesman Gambo Isa said the bandits also killed a police officer. Addressing reporters in Katsina, he said: “The bandits, numbering about 100, attacked the two villages around 2 a.m, killing six people and injuring about five others. “As we were reaching out for support from our base in Maidabino, they ambushed our team, killed one security personnel. We have redeployed more men in the area.” The two expectant mothers, who sustained bullet wounds, have been admitted at a general hospital. Also on Thursday, the Katsina State Police Command said it rescued two kidnap victims, including a village head and recovered 18 rustled cattle. The freed village head, Alhaji Magaji Ibrahim, aged 72, hails from Barkiya village in Kurfi LGA. In Niger State, four people were killed in three communities in Manta District of Shiroro Local Government Area. The bandits, who rode on motorcycles and shot sporadically, reportedly stormed Sunko, Gavya and Marafa villages in the evening. Niger State Police Commissioner Adamu Usman urged the residents to give security agencies information to tackle banditry.  He stated this while addressing officers and vigilance groups deployed to fight bandits at Mariga town and environs. Also, the military on Thursday reassured Nigerians of its commitment to end all forms of criminality in the country. Defence Media Operations Coordinator, Maj.-Gen. John Enenche, who addressed defence correspondents in Abuja, said: “The Armed Forces, in concert with other security agencies, wish to assure the populace of our determination to stamp out all forms of criminality across the country in accordance with the directives of the Commander-in-Chief. “Troops deployed for various operations across the nation will remain committed and resolute in achieving the operational mandate, which is to decisively curtail the activities of criminals in any part of the nation. “The military high command empathises with all those who have been affected by the activities of terrorists, armed bandits and other criminals in one way or another.”