A Federal High Court in Abuja has been urged to among others, compel the national body of the All Progressives Congress (APC), to dissolve the State Executive Committee (SEC) of its Ekiti chapter for having been allegedly constituted in violation of Article 20(1)(a) of the party’s constitution. The request forms part of the reliefs being sought in a suit, marked: FHC/ABJ/CS/446/2020, filed by members of the Ekiti APC Stakeholders Forum, led by Senator Tony Adeniyi, with Honourable Femi Adeleye as Secretary. Plaintiffs in the suit are Senator Babafemi Ojudu, Engr. Ayo Ajibade, Hon. Oyetunde Ojo, Hon. Femi Adeleye, Akogun Bunmi Ogunleye, Chief Akin Akomolafe (AKOG), Omooba Bamigboye Adegoroye, Dr. Wole Oluyede, Olusoga Owoeye, Dele Afolabi, Barr. Toyin Oluwasola and Otunba Ben Oguntuase. Listed as defendants are the APC, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the Inspector General of Police (IGP) and Paul Ayodele Omotosho (sued for himself and on behalf of members of the Ekiti State APC SEC). It is the plaintiffs’ contention that the manner the Omotosho-led SEC was constituted, during a stakeholders meeting on September 15, 2018 at the Iyin Ekiti home of Otunba Niyi Adebayo, did not meet the provisions of the constitution of the APC, particularly Article 20(1)(a) and Section 85(1), (2)(a) and (3) of the Electoral Act 2010 as amended. The plaintiffs, who claimed to be card carrying and financial members of the party in Ekiti State, said they were not invited to the stakeholders’ meeting where Omotosho and other members of the SEC were nominated and appointed into various positions. In a supporting affidavit, the plaintiffs stated that, as against the provision of the party’s constitution, the names of members of the SEC were simply selected and positions allocated to them at the September 15, 2018 meeting held in Otunba Adebayo’s Iyin Ekiti home. “After the said names were read out at the said meeting, Senator Dayo Adeyeye moved a motion, which was seconded by Senator Ayo Arise, to the effect that the said persons be adopted as constituting the members of the SEC. “No representatives of the 1st and 2nd defendants (APC’s national body and INEC) were present at the said meeting, neither was any affirmative congress convened and held to ratify the said persons or any person to occupy any position of the State Executive Committee of APC, Ekiti State chapter,” the plaintiffs added. They stated that their efforts to make the 1st defendant intervene and address their grievances yielded no results as the party failed to respond to their protest letter dated September 18, 2018. The plaintiffs, who raised five questions for the court’s determination, are seeking eight reliefs. The plaintiffs among others, want the court to determine whether, by virtue of the APC Constitution 2014 (as amended) and particularly Article II(VII), Article 20(i)(a), which provide for proper elections or real/genuine consensus in the appointment of candidates for party’s posts of the SEC of the Ekiti State’s chapter of the party, Omotosho and other members of the committee “can be said to be properly and validly elected or appointed, having regards to the manner of their emergence as members of Ekiti APC SEC. They are also seeking the determination of whether it is right for the 1st and 2nd defendants “to recognise and continue to accord recognition to the 4th defendant (Omotosho) and all the persons he represents as the Ekiti State Executive Committee of APC, when the provisions of Section 85(1), (2)(a) and (3) of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended) were grossly violated or neither complied with nor observed.” The plaintiffs want the court to declare, among others, that Omotosho and members of Ekiti APC SEC are unlawfully occupying the offices they currently occupy, and to restrain them from further parading themselves in that capacity. They are equally praying the court to reverse all the actions taken so far by the Omotosho-led SEC since its constitution, and to make an order of perpetual injunction, restraining the 1st and 2nd defendants from further dealing with or according any recognition to the Omotosho-led SEC. The 2nd and 4th defendants (INEC and Omotoso) have filed notices of objection to the suit,in which they among others, challenged the court’s jurisdiction to hear the case and the plaintiffs’ locus standi to bring the action. They argued that the subject matter of the case relates to the internal affairs of a party on which the Federal High Court has no jurisdiction, under Section 251 of the Constitution. The defendants, who equally argued that the plaintiffs were filling the case too late, contended that since all the activities leading to the suit arose in Ekiti State, it ought to be filed in the division of the Federal High Court in the state.
In their response, the plaintiffs want the court to disregard the defendants’ objections and assume jurisdiction, on the grounds that not only are Federal Government’s agents (INRC and IGP) named as defendants in the suit, the case borders on the determination of whether or not the APC and the Omotosho-led SEC complied with the provision of the party’s constitution.
On the issue of locus standi, the plaintiffs argued that they have disclosed sufficient interest, which they seek to protect, having shown that they are “stakeholders in the APC project in both Ekiti State and the national level.”
At the mention of the case on June 17 this year, plaintiffs’ lawyer, Chief Anthony Adeniyi told the court that his clients have effected service of processes on the defendants as directed.
The APC and INEC (2nd and 3rd defendants) were not represented at the proceedings.
Lawyer to the 4th defendant, A. D. Olaniyi said his client has filed a notice of preliminary objection, challenging the court’s jurisdiction, on the grounds that the subject relates to an intra-party dispute.
The trial judge, Justice Inyang Ekwo noted that the court would soon proceed on its annual vacation and asked the plaintiffs’ lawyer if the suit would have an effect on the activities of the 1st defendant (APC), to which Chief Adeniyi said no.
Justice Ekwo then adjourned till July 6 this year for hearing. He ordered that hearing notices be issued on the other defendants.