Sen. Teslim Folarin (APC-Oyo Central) has pledged that he would ensure that those who gang raped and murdered Miss Barakat Bello, a student of Institute of Agriculture, Research and Training (IAR&T) in Ibadan, were brought to book. The News Agency of Nigeria(NAN) recalls that the late Bello was on Monday allegedly gang-raped and stabbed to death at the back of the home she lived in with her family in Akinyele area of Ibadan. NAN reports that the death of the 18-year-old came few days after the reported rape and murder of a 22-year-old student of the University of Benin (UNIBEN) on May 27 Folarin, in a statement issued on Thursday in Ibadan by his media aide, Yekeen Olaniyi, described the incident as horrific, barbaric and shocking. He urged security agencies to speedily investigate the incident with a view to bringing the culprits to book and serve as deterrent to others. “I was shocked to receive the news of Miss Bello being gang-raped and subsequently murdered by agents of darkness. The rape and murder of Barakat is nothing short of horrific. “I am deeply concerned about increasing cases of rape and brutality against the girl child in Nigeria. Barakat’s gruesome killing is one death too many. “As the Senator representing Akinyele and 10 other Local Government Areas of Oyo Central, I will seek justice for late Barakat Bello. ” By God’s Grace, I will ensure that all the culprits responsible for this barbaric act are swiftly brought to justice. ” This nonsensical act of raping must stop in Nigeria. I extend my deepest condolences to the family and friends of the victim,” he said. Folarin, who is the Chairman, Senate Committee on Local Content, said he had directed his team to pay a condolence visit to the bereaved family pending his arrival from Abuja. “I will personally visit the bereaved family. I have commenced seeking justice for Barakat right here in Abuja; I am already reaching out to the top echelons of Nigeria’s security agencies. “I assure late Barakat’s family of my full support in these trying times,” Folarin said. (NAN)