A socio-activists group, Niger-Delta Redemption Advocates (NRA) has urged Delta and Edo State government to provide safety kits and quality palliatives to the people in order to mitigate the spread of COVID-19 virus in the state and cushion the effects of a pandemic on the masses. The group leaders, Mr. Erhomarhua Afure and Eddy Aitah, the National Co-ordinator and Patron respectively, made the appeal to journalists on Monday. The group is reacting to the not so impressive preventive measures adopted against the spread of COVID-19 by the Delta and Edo State governments. According to the statement, Aitah said provision of safety kits and other preventive items will in no small measure minimise or curb the further outbreak and spread of the disease across the States. Afure also observed that Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta has not done enough in ensuring that palliatives get to the very vulnerable persons in the state. “As concerned stakeholders who are interested in the advancement of Edo and Delta State, we strongly believe that It has become pertinent to provide safety kits and palliatives to people. “Also, the suffering at the grassroots due to the Covid-19 pandemic is becoming awful. We are aware the state government has said they have commenced distribution of palliatives but it is not visible. We plead with Governor Ifeanyi Okowa and Gov. Godwin Obaseki to expand the reach and ensure palliatives gets to the very vulnerable persons in our society. “As it is, it has become an established fact that there is currently no vaccine to prevent the Coronavirus disease in Nigeria, it is apparent that giving our people succour amid this raging crisis is one way to save lives as the States battle the virus, which is now a feat that will take a longer period. “We are demanding that all the three tiers of government, well-meaning individuals and organisations should come together for the sake of Edo/Delta, and provide palliatives for hungry citizens. This effort will rectify the economic losses being currently experienced.” Meanwhile, the group led by Afure has commended the magnanimity and contributions of the Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege, for providing visible huge relief to the people, by donating food palliatives and financial support to aged parents across the States. The group also recently partnered with the leadership of APC in Okpe LGA of Delta State to give financial empowerment to women in Okpe Local Government area, the empowerment program which took place on June 5th in Okpe Kingdom, was attended by Comr. Man-United Okeh, Chief Hon. Julius Okpoko, Hon. Wester Erasere, Chief Cosmos Ighoraye, Chief Hero Umurhiren and other dignitaries from accross the Delta State, All Progressives Congress. The group also called on the people of the Edo and Delta States to continue to take all necessary precautionary and preventive measures against the spread of the disease. “We recommend the covering of the nose and mouth with disposable tissues or flexed elbow when coughing or sneezing. “We should avoid close contact with people who are not well and heed the expert advice to stay at home and self-isolate from others,” said the NRA