As the COVID-19 pandemic rages, artists, irrespective of gender, are not finding it easy. With art galleries, museums, art studios, schools, arts and crafts outlets shut, artists and art organisations are battling low and zero patronage in the face of the pandemic. But, how have artists been able to keep afloat? EVELYN OSAGIE, in this piece, writes on how some Nigerian female artists are navigating the rough tide, while battling to stay afloat.  As the fight against COVID-19  lingers and the world continues to count  its losses, it is indeed a most trying time for the creative sector globally and Nigeria is not left out. The country’s creative sector and its key players, particularly artists are finding it hard to keep afloat. With paid rents for studios, offices and other expenses still running on account of the downturn, local and international exhibitions cancelled, fairs and business proposals remain stalled. The losses by every account seem endless. Some female artists  are reflecting on ways they are navigating this period to stay afloat.  ‘I slashed prices for my online training’ “Before COVID-19, artists were already suffering low and no sales. The pandemic only heightened it,” began Mayen Owodiong , a textile artist, who specialises in diverse crafts, as  she recounted her experiences. “But as a creative, I took some  innovative steps to stay afloat. I held online fascinator training but had to slash prices due to low turnout. I also hosted free canvas app training for over 300 participants on different days as mental exercise to keep my sanity. “I sent arts and love messages to healthcare officers/frontliners as I made nose and mouth mask using ankara, batik and adire for sales. But I made low sales. Also, I reached out to few artists to buy adire in a way of encouragement, but I reached my breaking point and couldn’t keep up. Since everything moved online, I also upgraded myself academically and took advantage of some free online courses.” To the government, Owodiong says: “Grants would be of great assistance to artists to cushion the lingering effects of the pandemic. Also, the government should make conscious effort to patronise art and craft sector, to infuse our indigenous craft and arts into government spaces, like secretariats, houses, parastatals, schools, all offices and constructions. They should enact favourable policies to address duties on art and craft materials to help the artists; and hold regular art and craft festivals to attract foreign participation to help the sector and growth of the economy.”  ‘I learnt new skills’ Like Owodiong, Aisha Idirisu, a graduate of Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), also found ways to reinvent herself. As a widely travelled mix media artist, who loves teaching children about arts, her passion has seen her volunteering to teach children with special needs in the last few years. However, she stated that her 16 years voyage into the world of art has not been an easy one, adding that  the COVID-19 pandemic made things worse. Her words: “It has been a tough journey. Unfortunately, art, which is a very important part of life, has been luxury for many over the years.  But it’s nothing compared to what we are experiencing with the COVID-19 global outbreak. It has really slowed things down for lots of us. “In this time of pandemic, many are only thinking of survival, not buying arts. I thank God l still have a job, even though my salary is now less than half. On how I used my time during the lockdown: unlike others, l did not start painting immediately it started. I had to take a step back and rethink the future. I realised that to survive this period, as artists, we have to create a need using our arts. I have always believed that artists should have more than one stream of income.  So, I’m using this period to acquire new skills and venturing into a business.”  ‘I didn’t know the lockdown would last that long’ For the President, Female Artists Association of Nigeria (FEAAN), Chinze Ojobo, a mixed media painter, who specialised in acrylic on canvas and jute, this is a very crucial time. Although the COVID-19 saga came unexpectedly, Ojobo, a graduate of Fine and Applied Arts at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN) and a former student of renowned Ghanaian artist, El Anatsui, said she’s rising to the occasion to make ends meet. “I didn’t know the lockdown would last that long, so I didn’t think of buying materials. When I exhausted what I had, I had to think out of the box. So, I experimented with different media. Initially, it looked like it slowed down business for me but I believe, in the real sense it opened us, artists, up to more global opportunities. Change is the only constant thing; so, in my opinion, flow with the changes and adjust to the ‘new normal’,” She said. She urged the government to go beyond lip service to investing in the visual art sector and artists, especially women artists. “There should be world-standard museums and galleries, run by creative minds and made affordable for artists’use. Women play a vital role in the development of the society. Government should also commission women artists with public artworks and give them medical insurance, among other grants for art education, exhibitions and productions,”she said.  ‘The pandemic prevented my schduled overseas trips’ On her part, Ayoola Oluwaseun Omovo, a graduate of the University of Benin, who specialises in painting, said the pandemic prevented her scheduled trips to the United States. Like Aisha, Omovo, an active member of Society of Nigerian Artists (SNA) and FEAAN, also teaches children art and crafts as a part-time school’s  art instructor. “Three international art events in USA  I was scheduled to attend were cancelled due to the pandemic. There has been no sales of works since the lockedown began. During the first two weeks of the lockdown, I was involved in diverse online art activities. In the process, I finished my paints, got improvised and started working on pencils and charcoal. “It was really hard to adjust and get myself around but determination puts me on my feet to produce works. I have created lots of new works on COVID-19. I have also learnt to produce works for everyday use, like painting on handbags for shopping. And I’m looking at producing works on mug and throw pillows. It would be great if the government can assist artist financially with cash.”