The race for successor of Anambra Governor Willie Obiano is gathering momentum with oil magnate, Sir Emeka Offor’s kinsman, Group Captain Nnamdi Nnoruka, joining the race. Nnoruka, who is referred to as the “war lord” in Anambra State because of the way he fought the then dreaded ‘bakassi boys’ will contest on the platform of the Labour Party (LP). Already, the popular pressure group, Anambra People’s Forum APF, has come alive again for him with their inauguration in all the 21 local government areas in the state. The pressure group believes the All Progressives Grand Alliance APGA-led administration had tried its best for the last 16 years and it was time to try another. Other popular aspirants for Obiano’s position include Dr Obiora Okonkwo of the PDP, Prof Charles Soludo of APGA, Mr Valentine Ozigbo of PDP, Dr Tony Nwoye of APC and Sir Damian Okolo of APGA among others. One of the stakeholders of APF in the State, Ubaka Nwankwo, told The Nation in Awka, the time to get it right for Anambra was now He said the zoning arrangement would make it easier for Nnoruka to win the governorship race come 2021, adding what happened during the senatorial election in the South may likely play out again in the state. He said during that South senatorial election, nobody gave Young Progressives Party (YPP) any chance to defeat the so- called big parties but it happened. Nwankwo, noted that Nnoruka had no axe to grind with the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC and other graft agencies in the country, which, according to him, had given him the edge over some other contestants He said APF, which was one of the most grassroots oriented political pressure groups in the state had completely taken over the structure of the Labour Party, LP in Anambra for Nnoruka The retired Group Captain Nnoruka, a lawyer and graduate of the London Business School is fondly called Ochiagha (war lord) ndi Igbo by his admirers. He said: “The 2021 gubernatorial race might provide the Anambra electorate the opportunity for a payback to the APF through the Labour Party. “The potential candidate of the party is from Ekwusigo local government area in the Anambra South Senatorial district where preponderance of Ndi Anambra want Governor Obiano’s successor to emerge. ” Political pundits believe that if Group Captain Nnoruka, gets the right funding, his party stands a good chance to win the 2021 Anambra gubernatorial race.”