Anambra State Governor Willie Obiano, has warned traders and churches to keep the COVID -19 rules as stipulated or watch him close them again. Henceforth, any person that fails to wear face masks attracts a fine of N10,000 and community service. These were announced  by the Governor on Tuesday night, while addressing the people , during his state broadcast to update them on the current COVID -19 situation. He maintained that the state had done its best since the outbreak of the global pandemic, adding that his government would do everything to protect the lives of the people. According to him, “As it stands now, we have 8 patients in our Protective Care Centers. We also have 69 individuals on home quarantine and 2 individuals in the facility based quarantine. “We shall continue to push back at this pandemic until we have reduced its presence in Anambra State. “We are ramping up our testing capacity to ensure that we slow down the spread of this pandemic in our dear state. “The Covid-19 Committees that we have set up in Wards and Local Governments across Anambra State are helping us in driving the campaign to every nook and cranny of the state. He said he had signed the Covid-19 Bill into law, adding that it was now an offence to be seen in the public without a face mask. “The offence attracts a fine of ten thousand naira or some hours of community service. I would like to re-emphasize that my administration is determined to enforce this law. Furthermore, “the information we received from different quarters indicate that our people have started lowering their guard on the Covid-19 protocols. “I have it on good authority that traders in various markets no longer comply with the enforcement of the wearing of face masks and the washing of hands. “I want to warn that we may consider shutting down the markets if this trend is not halted with immediate effect. “I have also received similar reports from churches and other religious groups in the state most of whom have discarded the wearing of face masks. “I urge the leadership of all religious bodies in Anambra State to ensure compliance with the standard protocols of Covid-19 without further delay” Obiano warned.