The moves by the National Assembly Service Commission (NASC) to sack the Clerk to the National Assembly, Mohammed Ataba Sani-Omolori and about 150 seniors directors over alleged illegal extension of their service, has suffered a setback. This development followed the decision of the Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila to uphold the resolution of the 8th Assembly, which extended the retirement age of National Assembly Staff. Gbajabiamila, in a letter to the Chairman of the NASC, Ahmed Amshi, said the leadership of the Green Chambers has resolved not to rescind the resolution of the 8th Assembly on the condition of service of the National Assembly Staff. The letter with reference No. NASS/SPK/ADM/VOL 1/520, datedJune 3, 2020, titled: “Re: Forwarding of memorandum on the review of conditions of service for the National Assembly Service” was signed by the Chief of Staff Speaker Sanusi Garba Rikiji. It reads: “I am directed by the entire Leadership of the House of Representatives to acknowledge the receipt of your letter on the above dated 01 June 2020 vide NASC/CHO/PS/11/11/94 and ha d deliberated on it. “I am to inform you that the entire Leadership of the House of Representatives cannot rescind the 8th Assembly’s resolution on the retirement age of National Assembly Staff. “Therefore, the House of Representatives maintains the position of the 8th Assembly as contained in the conditions of service jointly passed by that Assembly.” It could be recalled that the 8th National Assembly Staff had extended the retirement age of the National Assembly. As a result of the amendment of the National Assembly’s Condition of Service, the retirement years for public servants in the National Assembly was moved from 35 to 40 years while retirement age was upgraded from 60 to 65 years. There have been moves by the NASC to reverse the amendment to the condition of service by asking those affected including Sani-Omolori and about 150 senior directors of the National Assembly to proceed on retirement. The NASC had set up a committee to review the amendments after which it forwarded its recommendation to the presiding officers of both chambers for approval. A source told The Nation last night that the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, also upheld the resolution of the 8th Assembly on the extension of retirement age of National Assembly Staff.