A Federal High Court in Abuja has granted an interim injunction restraining the Edo State Government and Governor Godwin Obaseki, from arresting and prosecuting the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, over indictment in a white paper submitted to the state government. Justice Ahmed Mohammed, in a ruling on Monday, said the restraining order should subsist pending the determination of whether or not his court has jurisdiction to hear the suit filed by Oshiomhole. A panel of inquiry set up by Edo State Government, headed by Justice J. Oyomire had, in a white paper, indicted Oshiomhole for act of corruption. In the white paper, the panel recommended the arrest and prosecution of Oshiomhole, a decision the APC Chairman is now contesting with his suit. On Monday, Oshiomhole’s lawyer, West Idahosa, prayed the court,via an ex-parte for an order restraining the respondents. Also listed as respondents in the case are Attorney- General and Commissioner of Justice of Edo state, Justice J. Oyomire, the Inspector General of Police (IGP) and the Department of State Service (DSS). Lawyer to the Edo Government, Alex Ejeiseme (SAN) brought a motion of  preliminary objection, challenging the court’s jurisdiction and sought to stop the ex-parte order from being granted. After listening to arguments by lawyers to  parties in the case, Justice Mohammed  ordered the  respondents to stay action, as it relates to the subject of  the case, pending the determination of whether or not the court has jurisdiction. The judge said: ”An interim order is hereby made restraining the prosecution of the applicant pursuant to the report submitted to the 1st to 3rd respondents or any white paper, pending the determination of the issue of jurisdiction raised in the 1st to 4th respondents notice preliminary objection”. The judge directed Oshiomhole’s lawyer to serve court documents on the case on all the respondents within 48 hours. Justice Mohammed adjourned further hearing till June 17, 2020.