The death toll on Gubio village in Borno state has risen to 81 Villagers confirmed the casualties to Gov. Babagana Zulum, who visited Gubio to sympathise with the people and asses the damage of the attack. A statement by the Governor’s spokesman, Malam Isa Gusau, said the villagers also informed the Governor the insurgents abducted a village head along six other villagers. Gusau said: “A survivor told Zulum that 81 residents were killed during the attack on Tuesday with 13 persons injured and seven others, including village head was abducted.” Zulum, who sympathised with villagers over the attack, urged the Nigerian military to undertake a final onslaught that should put an end the insurgents in the shore of the lake Chad. He described the attack as babaric and unfortunate. The statement disclosed that the Governor evacuated five injured persons in his convoy, for treatment at an undisclosed hospital. “Last year, about same number of people were killed in Gajiram like it happened again. This is barbaric. It is very unfortunate. The only solution to end this masacare is by dislodging the insurgents in the shores of Lake Chad. Doing so will require collaborative regional efforts” , Zulum said. One of the survivors, a male adult, (name withheld) recounted what happened during Zulum’s visit. “The insurgents in gun trucks and armored tanks, came around 10am yesterday (Tuesday). They operated for about six hours and left around 4pm. They gathered us and said they wanted to deliver religious sermon to us. “They asked us to submit whatever arm we had. Some villagers gave up their dane guns, bow and arrows. The insurgents pretended as if they were there for any violence. “Suddenly, they started shooting at will. Even children and women were not spared. Many were shot at close range. Many started running. At the end end, many persons were killed. “I have been burying people since from 10:00pm to about 6am this morning. We have buried 49 corpses here while another 32 corpses were taken away by families from the villages around us. The insurgents abducted seven persons including our village head. They went away with 400 cattle,” he said.