Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has banned the use of privately registered aircraft for charter flight services. Effective Monday, June 29, 2020 the authority said it will ground privately owned by aircraft which engage in ‘hire and reward services’, which in aviation par lance means charter operations. The move to regularize the operations of such aircraft it was learnt came on the heels of abuse Permit for Non- Commercial Flight (PNCF) granted privately registered aircraft under operations specification, but has been abused during the pandemic. Investigations revealed that since the pandemic outbreak there has been misuse of PNCF and improperly registered aircraft listed on Part G operations specification for illegal charters. To arrest the trend, the NCAA it was learnt has introduced new measures for immediate implementation; which mandates that aircraft duly registered as privately owned should not be used for commercial charter. In a circular issued on June 24, 2020 and addressed to the Directorate of Operations and Training (DOT), Directorate of Airworthiness Standards (DAWS) and the Directorate of Air Transport Regulations (DATR) of the NCAA, its Director General, Captain Musa Nuhu directed them to ensure application of the new regulatory regime. According to the circular privately-registered aircraft, known as Operations Specification Part G, which have Permit for Non-Commercial Flight (PNCF) would henceforth be stopped from operating for hire and reward. It reads: “All aircraft listed under OPS SPECS PART G (commercial wet lease) that is either in non-compliance or in violation of any part thereof of NCAR (Nigerian Civil Aviation Regulation) Part 9.2.3.4(b) shall be grounded with effect from Monday 29, June, 2020. The NCAA, it was learnt has commenced disciplinary actions on its personnel who were privy to allowing privately owned aircraft used for charter services. NCAA threatened to ground any private aircraft used for charter in addition to revoking the operating licence of anyone that disobeyed the directive. Investigations reveal that about half of the 100 privately owned airplanes engage in charter services exploiting lax regulations. Nuhu also directed that: “DATR shall provide a comprehensive list, details of all PNCF holders and all aircraft listed under their permit. All PNCF holders shall be reminded of the terms and conditions of the permit, especially the non-commercial nature. Any violation will attract penalty under Nig.CARs, including revocation.” He also directed the aforementioned directorates in the agency to develop procedures and guidance to ensure all NCAA staff complied with NCARs in processing all applications. Nuhu also directed the concerned directorates to submit a single comprehensive report to him on the implementation of items mentioned above, measures taken and the reasons why these violations were allowed and not resolved in the first instance.