Leaders of major securities exchanges and capital market groups will this Wednesday brainstorm on the impact of COVID-19 on the global capital market. The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) is hosting the special webinar on the impact of COVID-19 on the global capital market. The webinar themed, “Capital markets in a pandemic”, will feature a panel session to be headlined by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of NSE, Oscar Onyema, CEO, Luxembourg Stock Exchange (LuxSE), Robert Scharfe; CEO, London Stock Exchange (LSE), Nikhil Rathi; and CEO, World Federation of Exchanges (WFE), Nandini Sukumar. The webinar will be moderated by Eleni Giokos of Cable Network News (CNN). During the panel session, speakers will dimension the expectations and future of securities exchanges as they transition to the new normal necessitated by the pandemic. In particular, they will highlight key initiatives around business innovation and digital transformation of exchanges; investors’ protection strategies; capital raising opportunities; social bonds and ESG considerations in product development; as well as global partnerships in a pandemic. Announcing the webinar, Onyema said the pandemic has created unprecedented disruption in the global economy with varying degrees of volatility. According to him, regardless, financial markets, particularly, capital markets around the world have shown resilience in supporting their economies. “The NSE on its part has been resolute in its commitment to ensure that there are no disruptions to its operations. With countries gradually opening up and most economies resuming activity, it is important to sustain important dialogues around business innovation and partnership in order to capitalise on the opportunities presented in this challenging time.” We are, therefore, pleased to create a platform to highlight the activities of exchanges in maintaining an enabling environment for stakeholders to continue to save and access capital during any crisis,” Onyema said. He added that the webinar is part of the Exchange’s thought leadership series designed to synthesize effective strategies that will enhance stakeholders’ experience in Nigeria and the world over. He pointed out that since the activation of its business continuity plan March 23, 2020 which saw the transition to remote trading and working, the NSE has remained fully functional, delivering on its mandates to deepen market activity with new listings; engage its various stakeholders through ongoing virtual sessions; and perform its regulatory functions by providing a plethora of relevant guidance documents.