Ondo State Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu on Monday broke silence on the alleged withdrawal of security details of Deputy Governor Agboola Ajayi. Ajayi last week raised the alarm that Police Commissioner Salami Bolaji ordered withdrawal of his police escort and therefore endangered him, his family and workers. But Governor Akeredolu, who spoke through his Chief Press Secretary, Segun Ajiboye, said his deputy raised the alarm after getting approval for six security personnel from the Inspector General of Police (IGP). Akeredolu said Ajayi sent police escort he doesn’t “trust” back to the Government House security structure. He said the deputy governor disengaged his ADC, Dele, and another Sgt. Kasali by himself and later cried foul. Akeredolu said: “He applied for six policemen, instead of the statutory eight for a deputy governor on June 10 and the IGP approved via Letter No: CB0900/DOPS/ FHQ/ABJ/VOL/60/263 dated same 10th June, 2020. “It shows that none of his security details was withdrawn as he made the innocent public to believe. The security guards attached to his official residence have remained intact. None was removed or withdrawn. “The questions are: When did he apply? When was the alarm raised? Was it approval of his letter that was sent or an order to reinstate his allegedly withdrawn security?” But spokesman for Ajayi, Babatope Okeowo, in a statement, said the IGP, Mohammed Adamu, ordered CP Salami to restore security detail of his boss. He said the IGP’s directive was contained in a memo addressed to the Police Commissioner through the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Operations, Force Headquarters, Abuja. Ajayi has hailed the lawmakers for what he termed integrity and courage displayed for shunning entreaties, inducement and intimidation from Governor Akeredolu. He urged them to shun another latest plan to move the next meeting of the impeachment plot to a private hotel at Ijapo, Akure. The deputy governor said the plot by his boss to use 19 of the 23 APC lawmakers suffered a setback owing to the resolve by the majority of the members to uphold the sanctity of the hallow chamber. He urged security agents and residents to be vigilant and watchful of the latest moves by Governor Akeredolu to illegally remove him at all cost for no other reason than the exercise of his constitutional right of freedom of association – by moving from the All Progressives Congress (APC) to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).