The All Progressives Congress(APC) in Ekiti State has chided immediate past governor Ayodele Fayose for his criticism of performance of President Muhamnadu Buhari’s led- federal government. The ruling party described the outburst as laughable coming from a drowning sailor, who would ordinarily want to hold on to every flimsy straw with the hope of survival. The APC, in a statement on Saturday in Ado-Ekiti by its Director of Media and Publicity, Sam Oluwalana, noted that Fayose’s tactics to revive his dead image and relevance made him resort to destructive criticism of Buhari’s government for imaginary reasons. Oluwalana alleged the ex-governor actions and anti-democratic tendencies led to the collapse of the People’s Democratic Party(PDP) in the state, describing Fayose’s government as wasteful and season of locust. “The people of the state will not quickly forget how Fayose administration equally crippled the functions of the judiciary, while his attorney general was always privy to any judgement to be delivered by judges, he even led some of his thugs to storm a court in session and physically beat up a presiding Judge. “The people of the state are praying that they will never experience the type of Fayose’s democracy in which workers were owed salaries, pensioners were dying of hunger, and citizens turned to beggars.The spate of killings in the state became aggravated with people unable to sleep with two eyes closed,” he said. The party spokesman wondered why Fayose, who allegedly strangulated the basic tents and ethos of democratic governance to achieve his altruistic interest could attack the APC-led administration. “Can democracy be said to be thriving under this one-man show? Fayose has no moral right to criticize democratic practice in this country as he who demands equity must come with a clean hand,” he asked rhetorically. He further added that “It is on record that the mace of the assembly, which is the authority of the legislature was kept at the Government House while the lawmakers would have to seek permission from Fayose before convening any sitting. “And he is now shouting that there is no democracy in APC. “It was during his regime that the minority members of the assembly impeached a Speaker while vocal members were railroaded into indefinite suspension until they succumbed to his whims,” he said. Oluwalana expressed surprise that the ex-governor who allegedly has been hobnobbing with some influential APC leaders across the country, could come out openly to discredit the party. “Fayose is a type of politician that will do or say anything just to attract attention. He has succeeded in disintegrating his party, PDP, leading to the national excos imposing foreigners to administer the party as caretakers. “Fayose is wandering across the country like someone that has been cursed. He thinks he can cause confusion in the APC as he has done to his party, unknown to him that he is dealing with more matured politicians. “He should seek divine intervention to wash the curse placed on him by senior citizens of the state he made to suffer when he was governor”, he said.