A magistrate’s court in Kano on Wednesday heard how a man allegedly broke into the home of an octogenarian and raped her. In Rivers State, two men are also facing rape charges. One of them, Sunny Onuegbu, 37, was remanded by a magistrate’s court for allegedly raping a 16-year-old at knifepoint on May 31 in Aluu, Ikwerre council of the state. The other suspect identified as Justice reportedly defiled a nine-year-old girl in the same Aluu community, and was transferred to the state Criminal Investigation Department. Police spokesman Nnamdi Omoni said Justice would soon be charged to court after investigations. The Kano court remanded 32-year-old Mohammed Zulfaralu in a correctional. Also on Wednesday, a man, Terver Awuha, was arraigned at a magistrates’ court in Makurdi, Benue State, charged with raping a six-year-old girl. In Adamawa, a woman raised the alarm upon finding her husband raping a teenage hawker on their bed in Numan council. Imo women and girls on Wednesday marched through the streets of the state capital, Owerri, in black attire to protest against violence, rape, molestation and sexual assaults on women and girls. They were received at the Government House, Owerri, by a representative of the wife of the governor, Chioma Uzodimma, who commended the women and girls for being bold to register their anger and rejection of the heinous acts perpetrated against women in the state. Represented at the occasion by the Imo State Commissioner for Gender and Vulnerable Group, Hon. Mrs. Nkechi Ugwu, Mrs. Uzodimma said that “in affirmation, Imo women have said no to rape.” She informed that the Violence against Persons Prohibition (VAPP) bill before the Imo State House of Assembly will soon be passed into law to protect women and girls against all forms of violence and other vices antithetical to women existence in a democratic government. Her Excellency reassured the women and girls that she is with them in the protest march, promising them of government maximum protection in the prosperity government of Governor Hope Uzodimma. Presenting their protest to the wife of the Governor, the Coordinator, Imo State Committee on Ending Violence against Women and Girls (ISCEVAWG), Mrs. Marjorie Ezihe requested, on behalf of the women, that the 9th Assembly urgently pass the VAPP Bill into law, as a legal framework to ensure protection, prevention, and redress for all forms of violence against women and girls in Imo State. Rivers State Government has released hotlines to tackle rape, defilement, sexual and gender-based violence in the state. The government in a statement signed by the Commissioner for Social Welfare and Rehabilitation, Mrs. Inime Aguma, said the hotlines would ensure immediate response to victims of sexual abuse and other forms of violence. She said the ministry was working in collaboration with other organisations to provide counseling, medical, psychological and legal help to victims.