 The  Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) has invested N7.77 million contributed by micro pension subscribers in the Federal Government’s Treasury Bills and bank placements. According to the National Pension Commission’s (PenCom) monthly report,  N3.10 million was invested in Treasury Bills while N3.75 million went into bank placements. The Commission, which summarised pension fund assets, also categorised micro pension contributions into Retirement Savings Account (RSA) Fund IV. PenCom’s Acting Director-General, Mrs. Aisha Dahir-Umar, said the Micro Pension Plan (MPP) had recorded 28,000 subscribers as at last October. She said: “The Micro Pension Plan was designed to fit the peculiarities of the informal sector groups. “The product is flexible with respect to contribution amount and the channel of remittance of contributions to the pension accounts. Access to accumulated contributions is also flexible, seamless and facilitated by technology through varied payment system platforms. “A prospective Micro Pension contributor is required to open a Retirement Savings Account (RSA) by completing a physical or electronic registration form with a Pension Funds Administrator (PFA) of his/her choice, and the contributors may make contributions daily, weekly, monthly or as may be convenient to them.” She stated that every contribution would be divided into two, comprising 40 per cent for contingent withdrawal and the balance for retirement benefits. The contributor, she said, might also choose to convert the portion of the contributions to retirement benefits and the balance in the RSA  would be available to him on retirement or attaining 50 years. “Pursuant to its regulatory and supervisory mandate, the Commission had established a separate Department dedicated to the supervision of matters relating to Micro Pension Plan, including enforcement of compliance with the guidelines and customer complaint handling and resolution. Our objective is to ensure efficiency and effectiveness in service delivery as well as transparency and accountability in the administration of the product by licensed pension operators,” she said. She added that a minimum pension would be given, provided the contributor made contributions of not less than 120 months and the RSA balance at retirement shall not be less than N500,000.