 With rising community infections and mortality, the coronavirus pandemic seems to have opened the eyes of many countries to the need to strengthen and maintain their healthcare system through innovative means. As the battle against non-communicable diseases (NCDs) is yet to be won, COVID-19 sneaks into the global consciousness, throwing the entire world into “epidemiological transition.” In low-income nations like Nigeria, COVID-19 has shown the dearth in the supply of essential yet affordable and quality healthcare. It is towards changing this narrative that the EKOCORP Plc, owners of EKO Hospitals, has rolled out the EKODOC telemedicine initiative in line with social distancing guidelines set out by the state and federal governments. The publicly-quoted private hospital has taken the bold step as a way to augment the effort of the government in lessening the impact of COVID-19 on healthcare access. Through EKODOC, health management organisation patients, corporate enrollees, and private patients can access over 50 medical experts and super specialists from the comfort of their homes. This means only patients that cannot be handled virtually are invited to the hospital. According to the hospital, this initiative makes it possible for Nigerians to be able to speak with a healthcare worker or specialist as the need may be when needed. Other benefits include reduction of waiting time in the hospital as patients who do not necessarily have to visit the hospital can consult a medical expect either on scheduled appointment or by emergency from the comfort of their homes. This also reduces the risk to all healthcare workers and patients as the initiative further helps to maintain the federal government’s guidelines on social distancing during this pandemic, as patients can also receive their drugs in the comfort of their homes without visiting the hospital or via hospital drivethru system. With this, the future of doctor consulting is here now, as the trouble of commuting for several hours in traffic and associated cost has been removed by this initiative. With a huge demand for healthcare services from a population of over 200 million people and a reducing number of healthcare workers due to brain drain, management of Eko Hospitals said there is an urgent need to create innovative solutions to mitigate the shortage in health service supply. The new initiative will help to address the next phase of the COVID-19 pandemic through innovative health intervention that can address the deficiency in the access and availability of essential and quality yet affordable healthcare in Nigeria. The EKODOC seeks to bridge the gap between the demand (people in need) for healthcare and the supply (skilled personnel, consumables, and equipment) of health services. Another highpoint of EKODOC is that emergency response and consultation are offered to the general public at no cost; while patients who are on HMO plans, NHIS and corporate enrollees do not have to pay anything extra to access this initiative. According to the Chief Strategy and Business Development Officer, Dr. Kunle Megbuwawon, the initiative was carefully designed with Nigeria and Nigerians in mind. “No one can predict the time of emergency and at most times it happens in the night when help is difficult to find. At that time it is difficult to talk about money. Access to affordable healthcare is a fundamental human right and as such the goal of the universal health coverage. You can call our emergency line at 080 841 25712 OR 090 24564079 if you find yourself in need of medical care at night,” he said. He further opined that telemedicine will deliver medication at the comfort of user’s home or through the drive-thru pharmacy in the user’s car. Furthermore, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of EKO Hospitals, Dr. Ademolu Owoyele, within 2 weeks of commencing the telemedicine initiative, the hospital has attended to hundreds of clients remotely while some have been mandated to visit the hospital for further management. “Patients have called us from Dubai and we have clients from the United States of America who needed care for their elderly ones in Nigeria,” he said. According to the CEO, EKODOC telemedicine and telepharmacy involves the use of electronic communications and software to provide medical services to patients without an in-person visit to the hospital for such patients that do not necessarily have to come to the hospital. “The Pharmacy Drive-Thru system also allows pick-up of drugs through a drive through system without entering the hospital pharmacy within minutes in the comfort of patient’s cars. This has been used effectively with good result in other developed countries of the world. Our goal as a trusted health provider is to create access to healthcare for all Nigerians. The range of services covered by the tele-consultation and tele-pharmacy includes but not limited to new consultation, follow-up visits, management of chronic conditions, medication and drug management, specialist consultation, physiotherapy session, and our novel EKODOC Tele Cancer Care as well as a host of other clinical services that can be provided remotely via secure video and audio connections. It’s accessible, affordable, and convenient,” Owoyele said.