There could be no way man can survive without the arbitrary rituals performed on daily basis. According to Abraham Maslow’s hierarchy of needs, one of the physiological needs of man to survive is food, which is what he eats. What then could be the problem if I need to put my life on risk of unsafe ingredients in my meal? Man needs to eat to live. Food fuels a man! Consequently, food should be man’s medicine and not poison. There was a time food manufacturers were using animal fats but realised trans fats lasted longer without going rancid which led to a switch, and today on the average, almost all foods have trans fat. In 2010, 1300 deaths were recorded in Nigeria as a result of trans fat consumption in food. The World Health Organisation (WHO) said diets high in trans fat increase heart disease risk by 21 per cent and deaths by 28 per cent. It estimates that every year, trans fat intake leads to more than 500,000 deaths of people from cardiovascular disease. It is pertinent to know that the Word Health Organization (WHO) reports that more than 7 in every 10 deaths that occurs annually are often caused by non communicable diseases (NCDs), out of which deaths by cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) from trans fat intake account for 500, 000 deaths, globally. In Nigeria, specifically, a significant number of deaths linked to cardiovascular diseases are as a result of poor dietary choices including the intake of foods containing trans fat in the amount higher than the recommended 2.2 grams per day in a 2, 000 calorie diet. Trans fat is a type of dietary fat which are formed when liquid oils are turn into solid fats. This is through a process called hydrogenation(addition of hydrogen atom). This process increases the shelf life of the fat and also retain its flavour. There are two main sources for trans fats: natural sources (in the dairy products and meat of ruminants such as cows and sheep) and industrially produced sources (partially hydrogenated oils. that is, fried and battered meals, shortening and stick margarine, cake mixes, pies, pie crust). How are trans fats hazardous to your health? Sometime in 2008, according to the university of Alberta- researchers found that a diet with enriched levels of trans vaccenic acid (VA) — a natural animal fat found in dairy and beef products can reduce risk factors associated with heart disease, diabetes and obesity. Contrary to this opinion, many scientists and Medical practitioners advice to desist from the intake of Trans fats as our bodies do not need or benefit from trans fats. Eating these fats increase the risk for health problems. Trans fats raise your LDL (bad) cholesterol. They also lower your HDL (good) cholesterol.
High LDL along with low HDL levels can cause cholesterol to build up in your arteries (blood vessels). This increases your risk for heart disease and stroke. Weight gain and diabetes risk: Many high-fat foods such as baked goods and fried foods have a lot of trans fat. Eating too much trans fat can cause you to gain weight. It may also increase your risk for type 2 diabetes. In order to contain the increase in the number of deaths by cardiovascular diseases, the WHO, on the 14 May 2018, released a guide tagged “REPLACE” to help governments achieve the goal of eliminating trans fat globally by the year 2023. REPLACE stands for six steps to the achievement of this goal: Review dietary sources of industrially-produced trans fat and the landscape for required policy change;
Promote the replacement of industrially-produced trans fat with healthier fat and oils; Legislate or enact regulatory actions to eliminate industrially-produced trans fat; Assess and monitor trans fat content in the food supply and changes in trans fat consumption in the population; Create awareness of the negative health impact of trans fat among policy makers, producers, suppliers, and the public.; and Enforce compliance of policies and regulations. The review of the 2005 Fats and Oils Regulation by the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) is a step by the Nigerian government towards eliminating trans fat in Nigeria. The recently reviewed and published Regulation – the Fats and Oils Regulation, 2019 covers all foods containing fats and oils which are manufactured, exported, imported, advertised, sold, distributed and used in Nigeria. It clearly prohibits anyone from performing these actions where a product or food containing fats and oils is concerned unless such has been duly registered as prescribed in the Regulation. A major challenge to the elimination of trans fat in Nigeria which ought to be clearly addressed in the Regulation is the sale of unbranded cooking oils. The Regulation lays emphasis on packaged products or food containing fat and oils but it does not clearly address unpackaged/unbranded cooking oils, which is easily accessible to so many Nigerians. Specific provisions addressing this, strict implementation procedure and appropriate penalties for erring vendors must be in place to achieve the goal of eliminating trans fat in Nigeria. I will like to implore the governments of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, at all levels, to rather than pay lip service to such issues as life threatening as this, they should own up to their responsibilities of protecting the lives of the citizens; by not only legislating, but also ensure through enforcements that hydrogenated oils that have saturated the Nigerian market in different forms (both packaged and unpackaged) are seized and destroyed, after which proper and wholistic sensitization is carried out, because I do not see them doing anything.