The All Progressives Congress in Ekiti State has chided the People’s Democratic Party for its criticism on the resolution mandating the executive to rename the Ekiti Civic Centre after Governor Kayode Fayemi. In a release signed by its Director of Media and Publicity, Elder Sam Oluwalana on Wednesday in Ado-Ekiti, the ruling party described the PDP as a bunch of paranoid people who are still licking their wounds from utter rejection by the people of the state. The Ekiti State House of Assembly had on Monday passed a motion renaming the civic centre as Kayode Fayemi Cultural Centre which was nearing completion after Governor Fayemi who they believed had done a lot to develop the state. But the PDP, in a reaction through its Caretaker Committee Secretary, Diran Odeyemi, described the action as “petty and empty.” Oluwalana wondered what was petty or empty in the action, describing Diran Odeyemi as a figurin in the PDP from a foreign land who knows next to nothing about the political development in Ekiti, except the lies he is being fed by the renegades of the the dying party (PDP) in the State. “It is unfortunate that the PDP in Ekiti has become so fragmented to the extent that no qualified PDP person in Ekiti is considered fit enough in the state to direct its affairs except a complete stranger from Osun state who was selected by the national executives in far away Abuja to superintend over its affair in Ekiti. We believe that this is their cause of constantly crying wolf where there isn’t any,” Oluwalana said. He added that unlike in the case of the former PDP governor, Ayodele Fayose, who named a market after himself, saying it was the people through their representatives who requested that the Civic Centre as a monument be named after Governor Fayemi. Oluwalana said there is nothing strange in honouring Fayemi who had served the State meritorious through the execution of many legacy projects, noting he has etched his name on the international grid of excellence. “It is the people from the various constituencies in Ekiti state whose lives have been transformed by Governor Fayemi who requested through their representatives that a project be named in his honour and the lawmakers responded to the clarion call accordingly. “The present crop of lawmakers in EKHA are men and women of integrity who had conducted the business of lawmaking with grace and candour and in accordance with the constitution and the standing rules of the house of Assembly. ” It is not a house of commotion where a Governor would dress shabbily into its hallow chambers holding a miniature gavel and proclaiming himself the Speaker to pass the budget, which he had presented within minutes while the so called lawmakers would look on helplessly and haplessly. “We now have a House of Assembly so properly called and not an Assembly whose mace was residing with the Governor and whose members would sit under the bridge to conduct a make-belief legislative business! He, however, urged the opposition PDP to face its business and concentrate it’s nerves on how to salvage the soul of the party from sinking rather than throwing stones from outside into a peaceful home.