The Federal Government on Monday said it would strictly enforce the use of face masks in public, especially in government and commercial premises. Anyone not wearing a facemask will be denied entry and service; state governments are to drive enforcement, National Coordinator of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, Dr. Sani Aliyu, said. Speaking during a briefing in Abuja, he said the second phase of the lockdown easing would be extended for four weeks from Wednesday. He said: “The use of face mask remains mandatory and we will be enforcing this at all levels, including linking up with the state government. “Access to government and commercial premises will not be allowed if you are not wearing a face mask. “In other words, no mask, no entry and no services will be provided in government and commercial premises. “The curfew remains from 10pm to 4am nationwide…but we strongly recommend avoiding unnecessary contact with people.” Aliyu said there was still no change in protocols for markets, hotels, restaurants and gyms, as well as for wedding and burial ceremonies. Local government authorities will ensure compliance and adherence to subsisting measures, he said, adding that banks will still operate within normal working hours. Aliyu said: “For industry and labour, they will maintain normal working hours based on the curfew arrangement apart from government offices that will have a separate working hours’ schedule. Offices must maintain work force at 75 per cent capacity. “For banks and financial institutions, they will operate normal working hours with no change. For government offices, there is no specific change. Working hours remain 9am to 2pm from Grade Level 14 and above. “For personalised services – mechanics, artisans, hair salons etc., who own their workshop or workstations and can adhere to non-pharmaceutical intervention, they will be permitted to operate as normal. “For markets, there is no specific change to what we already have in Phase II, and this will be driven by local authority arrangement. “For hotels, restaurants and eateries, there is no specific change. Hotels must observe all mandatory non-pharmaceutical interventions. “Restaurants are to remain closed for eat-in, with strict cleanliness guidelines, except for restaurants that are serving hotel residents. “Gyms, cinemas, event centres, and nightclubs must remain closed and these will be enforced. “For churches and mosques, no specific change. Phase Two remains. For recreational parks/ communal sports, restrictions remain, as well as the restriction on recreational parks until further evaluation. “For funerals and weddings, no particular change. Funerals and weddings are to be limited to 20 people, including close family members.”