Sir: You may recall that in 2017, the National Assembly amended Section 121 (3) of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria to grant full financial autonomy to state judiciaries and legislatures. Unfortunately, three years after this historic amendment, no state in the country deems it fit to comply with the amended provision. The grand excuse advanced by state governors for violating the constitution was “lack of modalities for implementation”. As a former lawmaker and in fact, former speaker of the House of Representatives, you are aware that non implementation of laws, government policies and programmes have become the bane of Nigeria’s development. Therefore, to break this jinx of non-implementation syndrome, President Muhammadu Buhari has acted patriotically under section 5 of the constitution by signing Executive Order 10 to pave way for proper implementation of financial autonomy for the remaining two arms of government (legislature and judiciary) at sub national level. As concerned citizen, who is committed to good governance through fighting corruption, I fully endorse and support the implementation of Executive Order 10 in Katsina State and I urge you too to do so. This is because, the order will not only guarantee the principle of separation of power at sub national levels, but also resuscitate and strengthen the remaining two arms of government- legislature and judiciary – to be able to optimally perform their statutory functions. It is also envisaged that financial autonomy for state judiciary and legislature would enhance the mechanism of checks and balances among the three arms of government, thereby checkmating arbitrariness and dictatorship by any arm of government. This will translate to improvements in accountability, transparency and democracy. Thus on behalf of true advocates of change and good governance in Katsina State, I urge you to be the first state governor in Nigeria who will implement financial autonomy for the legislature and judiciary so as to bequeath a sound legacy in good governance.