 In July this year, members of the All Progressives Congress, APC, will come out either direct or indirectly to pick who will be the candidate of the party for the October 10 governorship election. Notable politicians and businessmen alike including incumbent Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu have indicated interest to vie for the party’s ticket. Among the many aspirants is a woman of class and the mother of APC in Ondo state, Mrs. Jumoke Ajasin-Anifowoshe. Mrs. Ajasin-Anifowoshe is a scion of late Chief Micheal Adekunle Ajasin, the first Executive, democratically elected Governor of Ondo State of which many years after his demise, his good works both as a lawmaker and first elected governor of Ondo State is still a reference point when talking about development of Ondo State especially in the educational sector and industrialization. He was a highly principled and humble politician. Today, late Ajasin has resurrected in the politics of Ondo through his last daughter who has followed in her father’s political footstep, Mrs. Jumoke Ajasin-Anifowoshe She joined active politics in 1998 and has brought to bare in her political career the inherent qualities she inherited from her father. She has again declared her intention to contest for the governor of the state on the platform of the All Progressives Congress. She also contested for the APC ticket in 2016 which was won by Akeredolu. Mrs. Jumoke Ajasin-Anifowoshe, a lawyer and a former Attoney General of Ondo State, a lover of the poor, is not a greenhorn in the politics of Ondo State as she has held several leadership positions from the days of Alliance for Democracy (AD) to present day APC. She was AD Chairman, Ondo North senatorial district, Deputy State chairman, Action Congress, State Chairman, Reconciliation and Mobilisation Committee of AC, State Chairman of Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) in addition to her selfless service as a former Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice in Ondo State. There are questions about why various clarion calls are geared towards Ajasin-Anifowoshe taking over the seat of power at Alagbaka, when her Owo kinsman is the governor. The people of Ondo State need a rallying point at this time, a leader that can bridge the various gaps created by leadership. Our people are fed up with the level of acrimony and other misgivings within and outside Ondo state and even within the administration of the APC led government of Ondo State. Party leaders are not carried along in the scheme of things and the progressives are more than ever divided in Ondo State. For APC as a ruling party and with the house almost divided upon itself from a supposed winner takes all and segmental beneficiaries of dividend of democracy, it is pertinent for the APC in Ondo State to borrow a leaf from advanced Nations of the World that have given opportunities to female folk and whom have lived up to expectations. A cursory look at women in Ondo State politics gives a clear indication that one woman stands tall and can withstand the test of time when it come to experience, discipline and high level of maturity. That woman is Mrs. Jumoke Ajasin-Anifowoshe. The only goal remains the Jumoke Ajasin-Anifowoshe factor, which is to bring the party together again as she did during her reign as ACN Chairman in Ondo state. She actually facilitated the invitation of many of the Aspirants to politics and the party APC. Jumoke Ajasin-Anifowoshe is the only aspirant that can accommodate all divergent interests within the party and would ensure no ill-feelings arises if she’s picked as the candidate. She holds dearly her family name and would not want to tarnish it for mere porridge. She will honour her words and in fact Ondo State needs her at this point of its history. With her campaign slogan “Our strength lies in our togetherness” – agbajo owo la fi nso’ya, a reflection of her passion for cohension within the party and readiness for selfless service to the people, which are reminiscent of her father’s legacy of honesty, integrity, justice,  fairness, tenacity, humility, bravery, unity, courage and hard work. Under Jumoke Ajasin-Anifowoshe, the people of Ondo State will surely see happy days. Ondo State is one of the richest states in the country. From Akoko area in the north to the coastal areas in Ayetoro, it does not need to rely on federal allocation for its growth and development. The state at this time of its history needs a woman to turn things around. The ruling party, the APC, must look the way of Jumoke Ajasin-Anifowoshe if it hopes to unite the party and avoid post-primaries crisis. 