Moses Emorinken, Abuja The Chairman of the newly inaugurated governing council of the Pharmacists Council of Nigeria (PCN), Prof. Ahmed Tijjani Mora, has said repositioning the PCN to effectively address the challenges in pharmacy education, training and practice, is the council’s priority. He said it is worrisome that many young pharmacists after induction and administration of oath of pharmacy do not find a place for internship and continue to struggle and go round for months on end. While speaking with newsmen in Abuja, Mora stressed the new governing council would address challenges associated with internship placement of young pharmacists, foreign graduate orientation programme, functions of the governing council itself, examination of pharmacists after internship and the chaotic drug distribution chain among others.
He said: “We have set up committees to look into the sundry challenges and will address the problem so that by the time students are administered the oath, they already know where they will be doing their internship.” He enjoined dissenting voices to sheath their swords and embrace his inauguration as the will of God and the right choice by the government. The Federal Government last Monday inaugurated the governing council of the Pharmacists Council of Nigeria (PCN). Speaking during the inauguration in Abuja, Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanirem, said the governing council of PCN was to provide guidance and direction for the efficient discharge of the functions of the council as stipulated in its enabling Act. “The Governing Council is also to ensure that it aligns its functions with the vision of President Muhammad Buhari, GCFR, for the country on health as spelt out in the 2nd edition of the National Strategic Health Development Plan (2018 – 2020),” Ehanire said. He said key issues that should engage the attention of the new council include: standard of training, code and ethics of practice, proliferation of illegal premises, unsatisfactory distribution of medicines, and drug abuse. Registrar of the PCN, Pharmacist Elijah Mohammed, said the inauguration of the council was a welcome development and that the council hopes to work with the new governing council to move the profession forward.