 Ondo Deputy Governor, Hon Agboola Ajayi, on Tuesday, came under pressure to resign from office. Ajayi resigned from the ruling All Progressives Congress and defected to the opposition Peoples Democratic Party(PDP) where he intends to contest the October governorship elections. Zonal Publicity Secretary(Southwest)of the PDP, Mr. Ayo Fadaka, urged Hon Ajayi to toe the path of honor and resign from office honorably. Fadaka, who spoke on a Channels TV Sunrise daily, said there must be level of standard people must keep even in politics. He however wondered if the defection of Ajayi could it be construed to be high crime against the state that would necessitate impeachment. The PDP zonal spokesman noted the manner some politicians played politics suggested to the world that politicians in Nigeria lacked conscience. According to him: “Impeachment is expected to be initiated if it is considered that person to be impeached has committed high crimes against the system. But again, with the decamping of Agboola can it be construed to be high crime against the state? “The constitution says that for every Governor that will contest, he should have a running mate and that’s why there is always a deputy governor to assist the Governor. The Governor picked Agboola Ajayi, the PDP was not part of whatever they were doing when they decided to run with each other.  ” And if they still feel comfortable running with each other, we do not want to have an input into it. Ordinary, it is up to Agboola Ajayi to do what I think is honorable by resigning himself if he feel he could no longer cooperate with the man who placed a level of trust in him to assist him in doing his job. ” Also, the Grassroots Movement Youth Wing of the Ondo PDP and loyal to a governorship aspirant, Eyitayo Jegede, ssid it would be disastrous for the party’s leadership to give its ticket to a man, who it said brought calamity to the party. Ondo Coordinator of the group, Comrade Taiwo Akinfehinwa, hailed Fadaka for joining voices calling for the Deputy Governor’s resignation. According to him: “While, it’s Ajayi’s inalienable right to defect to the PDP, he must be fair to his conscience by resigning his position as the Deputy Governor of the state. “Ajayi cannot wash himself clean from the maladministration of Akeredolu. He engineered the dissolution of the 18 elected local government chairmen and 203 councillors immediately Akeredolu’s governmemt was sworn-in February 2017. “PDP is a party of morals and our advice for Agboola Ajayi is that he should stop using government machinery to intimidate other PDP contestants.” But spokesman for the Ondo PDP, Zadok Akintoye, dissociated the party from the statements of Fadaka. Akintoye stated Agboola remained the Deputy Governor and was not under any moral or legal obligations to resign his position. He said the statement does not reflect the position of the party on the matter.