NESCAFÉ, a coffee brand in Nigeria, is collaborating with the Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA) and Redwood Consulting Limited to offer entrepreneurship courses to youth for free under the NECApreneur platform. In line with Nestlé’s commitment to build thriving communities by equipping youth to be future ready, the NESCAFÉ brand has a long history of supporting credible initiatives targeted at developing young Nigerians. Speaking on the collaboration, Mr. Olugbenga Alabi, Category Manager – Coffee, at Nestle Nigeria said, “We are glad to be part of this laudable NECAPreneur initiative which ties in with NESCAFÉ’s “Start Strong, Finish Strong” campaign. “I urge every young entrepreneur or aspiring entrepreneur to take advantage of this free opportunity to prepare themselves for the times ahead.” NESCAFÉ decided to support and contribute to the economic and capacity development of Nigerians, especially the youths, by supporting the FREE access to NECA’s entrepreneurship online education. Speaking on the initiative, Director General, NECA Mr. Timothy Olawale, said: “In view of the need to re-energise the economy post-COVID-19 shutdowns, we want to provide an opportunity for everyone who wants to venture into enterprise to get the right information and training required to succeed. We have also made the NECAPreneur courses free in order to reach as many Nigerians as possible at this critical time.” Launched as part of the organisation’s mission to influence economic and socio-labour policies in order to create a favourable business environment, NECAPreneur is an e-solution targeted at providing an easy-to-access opportunity for the teeming public to upscale their entrepreneurial skills and ultimately add to national development. The online courses are suitable for different stages of the entrepreneurial journey. Topics include – How Anyone Can Start a Business; Market Knowledge; Logistics & Operations and many more, making the training a highly relevant for all entrepreneurs. The courses are easy to access for free, at https://necapreneur.ng/ until the end of June 2020. With a current membership of over 3,500 members, NECA is a Business Membership Organisation (BMO) that provides a platform for private sector employers to interact with other stakeholders to promote a harmonious business environment resulting in productivity and prosperity for everyone’s benefit. NESCAFÉ is Nigeria’s leading instant coffee brand and has been at the forefront of developing the Nigerian coffee consumption culture, through innovation and sustainable business practices. It known and loved for its appealing aroma, mild stimulating attributes and satisfying taste, which enriches life’s simple moments. Its operations partner on this project, Redwood Consulting Limited is a foremost Marketing Solutions Company providing Marketing Research, Marketing Advisory and Public Relations services to businesses.