  Peace is the principal thing in life.  It is said that if a man is at peace with himself, he is at peace with the world. Contemporary world is filled with struggles and strife such that everyone is at war with himself or others. But peace remains the biggest desire of every man, no matter his position or status. Inner peace is not all about dedicating oneself to prayers or spirituality; it is a state of emotional and mental peace without disturbing thoughts and having control over our moods and reactions. These are five ways to be at peace with yourself: One fast way to be at peace with yourself is to help someone in his/her time of need. The world is filled with so much evil that it is becoming increasingly difficult to be compassionate, but even in this state, good people still exist. Help out someone, be merciful and forgiving. You will find peace with yourself. It is okay to make mistakes but research has shown that a man of integrity ends up a success. No matter how simple or insignificant, every right thing you brings peace and self-respect to you There might be people who engage in doing wrong, or who push you to the extreme but patience makes you superior over them. All you can do to these people is to leave them to their conscience. Always choose to respond in a way that brings peace to you. There must be something right you have once done before. There must be something excellent you have achieved before. Occasionally remind yourself and celebrate it. You can even talk about it to someone else, but be careful not to brag about it, be careful of pride. This brings inner peace and joy to you. If for some reason you have treated someone unfairly or unkindly, or you have done something dishonest, make amends for it as soon as you can.  Correct your mistakes as soon as possible and you can find peace of mind in the fact that you have improved upon your actions and done your part to relieve any ill feeling or guilt.  It is still possible, in this day and age, to be at peace with yourself and with the world.          