 COVID-19 records deaths approaching 450,000, infections 8,000,000, with around 16,500 recognised cases in Nigeria. Stay safe!! We mourn with Pastor Ituah Ighodalo on the transition of his wife Ibidunni to Heavenly glory. May God grant her eternal rest and comfort to pastor and the family, Amen, Amen. Unfortunately, Nigeria also mourns this week over 150 murdered in Nigeria in the war waged by Boko Haram, herders and ISWA. June 12 is still not a celebration, but a sad memorial for the lives sacrificed as every single president, governor and assembly member has failed woefully to serve enough to pay for the democracy blood spilt especially when compared to the available natural resources and financial incomes since June 12, 1993. Any apparent progress or success is insignificant when compared to the excessive lifestyle of beneficiaries of governance structures at state and federal level. Expecting better, we got worse -what a useless marriage! June 12, 27 years after MKO Abiola’s victory and subsequent Babangida-led election robbery at cost of many deaths and billions in economic loses from protests and under the coup-plotting military, the economic migration of hundreds of thousands under Babangida and the political migration under Abacha’s reign of terror, what do we have? No true federalism, northern-biased lopsided administrative and political appointments, no elections without killings and unending lucrative court tribunals. We have eternal contracts being ‘ongoing’ forever and never ending -e.g Lagos-Ibadan, East-West Road, 2nd and [haha] 3rd Niger Bridge, and even unpaid soldier and civilian pensioners. There are too few new intrastate and trans-state Nigerian projects. Instead we have ‘repeat, repeat’ overlaying old colonial roads and railway routes at snail’s pace. Nothing new – like the Lekki Bridge. Nigeria is where a project can poetically take 100 years for 100 kilometres of road. Bridges do take several lifetimes. All this when the greedy politician should, as a June 12 present to Nigeria, cut by 75% NASS Salaries and Perks SAPping the budgets of Nigeria dry, a political unsustainable burden. Nigeria needs 2020 style faster shorter contracts with meaningful faster start-finish times. Nigerians did nothing to politicians. Why do politicians give Nigerians a 15-year still uncompleted repair-work on the former Lagos-Ibadan Expressway that took four years to build from scratch? Why is contract work a petty joke to them? Contracts kill. Period!! The Lagos Ibadan road, 2nd Niger Bridge, East-West Road routinely appear in every presidential speech since 1999 always ‘to be finished next year’! People, there is no year called ‘Next Year’. It is code for ‘never’. Try asking the Supreme Court. We mourn the unknown dead of June 12 but nothing has changed enough for Nigerians in a world of 24/7 solar energy, 400km/hour highspeed trains and 1000-bed hospitals build in four days. How can Nigeria’s government even sleep when we fail all SDG indices including the right to life in four Northeast states? Government should do more and better. Contracts are for servicing citizens’ needs, not for politicians’ greed and for them to play ludo or monopoly with our money. Nigeria has lost over 100,000 precious souls to terrorism with five million as IDPs and other refugees across Nigeria. Not one of those victims needed to have died. They were largely unprotected. Has anyone asked what June 12 means to them, the dead and the alive- living as beggars in derelict schools with loss of ancestral lands and livelihoods, now daily begging to feed children and visited by Instagram, WhatsApp, Facebook and Twitter politicians? Now we rape IDPs, rob them and raid their camps. For Covid, corporate Nigeria built a 300-bed hospital in a few weeks. Not for IDPs. Racism??? On June 12, we have another deadline for roads and railways and even new Siemens electricity. But we have to do more police-wise and militarily to keep the murder of disarmed rural Nigerians down or who will benefit from the president’s promises come June 12, 2021. We see Daily Cumulative Covid Dead figures.  The media should give us Daily Cumulative Nigerian War Dead figures from 2000 or from June 12 -this week’s 150=150 George Floyds -no outrage in Nigeria. The people’s slogan for June 12, 2020-2021 could be ‘Do Nigerian Lives Matter to Politicians?’. PHCN has just taken light at 3.59pm on June 14 in a consistently poorly-led country. We await Buhari Vs Boko Haram/herders/ISWA war results during his remaining term! After George Floyd, we have another killing, a 27yr old African American in Atlanta confirming a systemic problem. Mr Rayshard Brooks, from bodycams and car-cam video, was unarmed, drunk yes, until he armed himself with a probably used uncharged taser taken in a fight with the police. ‘ Shoot in the lower leg to disable’ must replace ‘Shoot in the heart to kill’ in the Police Training Manuals worldwide. By being executed on camera, George Floyd has exposed racist police brutality and the unjust justice system. Covid has concentrated the minds – no sports or other distractions. Who was the phone camera recorder? A 17-yr old, Darnella Frazier who took a decision ‘Press Record’. She joins many who recorded atrocities. Dennis Flores, also DF, has a project ‘Film The Police’. In Nigeria, appreciate the person who recorded the lady traumatised by the Nigerian Naval and many others. Honour DF and ‘Press Record’ in honour of Darnella Frazier. Every potential GF needs a Darnella Frazier! No video, no evidence!!!!