Three Crowns, Nigeria’s leading low cholesterol and heart-friendly milk, joined the rest of the globe to mark the 2020 edition of the World Milk Day today. The World Milk Day, an annual celebration, was initiated in 2001 by the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and held on June 1 to show the importance of milk as a global food. It encourages milk and dairy consumption as part of a daily diet. Speaking about the brand’s participation in the celebration, Three Crowns Marketing Manager, Omolara Banjoko said, “Three Crowns would play to mums and the value chain through a holistic campaign message tagged: “Voices of the heart.” The campaign which kicked off last week, climaxed on Monday. The campaign is in line with the brand’s pay off, “Healthy Mums, Happy Families.” In her words, “Through this campaign, we will elevate the brand’s “Care for your heart” story and dial up the functional benefits of Three Crowns milk by showcasing the different things a healthy heart can do. Every time the heart beats, it speaks. Its language is so unique that only very few can hear and interpret it. Luckily, Three Crowns milk is one of the few that understand and can interpret well the language of the heart.” According to the Marketing Manager, through this unique campaign, Three Crowns milk will be caring for the hearts of mums and use the World Milk Day 2020 celebration to translate this message and bring it to the forefront for everyone to hear. The campaign kicked off on May 24 with a teaser by the brand to demonstrate what a healthy heart can do when nourished and properly cared for. This would be followed by series of consumer engagements. Mums will be asked to record and upload 30-second voice notes to their loved ones with a pledge to stay healthy for them with Three Crowns milk on the brand website https://www.femininelounge.com/world-milk-day. Across select stores, starting from May 29 till World Milk Day June 1, any shopper that buys at least N5, 000 worth of Three Crowns milk gets free milk up to N2, 500 and N5, 000 in Lagos and Ibadan stores respectively. On June 1, 2020 the brand will give out free milk worth N400 to the first 2,000 consumers that buy at least N2, 000 worth of Three Crowns milk products on Jumia, Konga or Habari websites. “This is yet another exciting campaign from Three Crowns milk to make this year’s World Milk Day celebration memorable for all its consumers,” she said.