That seemed to be the question being asked by aficionados of the game of the kings across the world after the Kaduna-based side’s sterling high goal polo dominance amid their silver jubilee anniversary. In the period under consideration, El-Amin is undoubtedly the best accomplished teams in Africa with multiple of titles under their belt  and this include  the Georgian Cup,  Majekodunmi Cup, Nigerian Cup, Emir of Katsina Cup,IBB Cup, General Hassan Cup , Argentine Ambassador Cup, Sardauna Cup, among others. At 25, El-Amin remains the only team to have won the team-of-the-decade Awards back-to back and remain the most decorated till date. EL-Amin was formed  exactly twenty five years ago  in 1995. That, in truth, doesn’t confer the club with a long history. But their trail blazing achievements, as the kings of noble game, has been nothing short of phenomenal. Since making its debut in Nigeria’s polo scene, the club has won every conceivable tournament and trophy on sight, making it not only one of Nigeria’s best and dominant team, but one of the finest outfits at global level. They were the first  Nigerian team to win the Georgian Cup (rated Nigeria’s most prestigious polo cup), a record fourteen times, and the only team in the country that gives out six to seven handicap goals in the Georgian Cup finals, and still went ahead to win with margin. El—Amin’s vision statement is: ‘to be the best team in Nigeria’ this and their  quest for excellence  over the years has been quite remarkable. “When we started, the first four years were tough,” explained Mohammad Babangida, son of former Nigeria’s head of state and El-Amin’s patron. “We were trying to get a strong team, good horses and good support base, so we sat back and reassess the whole situation; this was the period between 1995 and 1998.” El –Amin’s rise to stardom began in 1999 in Lagos when, to the shock of many polo buffs, the team dusted former champions and experienced oppositions, to win their first the Majekodunmi Cup. That same year , hey dethroned their arch rival Kaduna MIA Hotels for their first Georgian Cup victory; and powers on to win the biggest and the most contested polo title a record 14 times-a feat no other team has managed to achieve in the 100 years history of the Georgian Cup competition. In February 2009, the EL –Amin team, with Bello Buba, Aminu Abubakar Alhaji, Ibrahim Mohammed and Babangida, participated in the Al—Habtoor Cup Challenge  in Dubai. The team also, remains the first and the only African team, to play in the prestigious Dubai Gold Cup series.