 The Premier League is back with a bang: black lives matter. Sorry, I am not referring to last week’s drubbing of Arsenal, by Manchester City, and the lowly performance by Arsenal defender, David Lewis. Many Arsenal fans, will angrily refer to David, as a football-low-life, in the manner of the inscrutable President of United States of America, Donald Trump, who relishes that usage, in reference to those looting and burning properties, as Americans continue to protest the murder of George Floyd, and systemic racism and prejudices, ruining the world. The bold inscription on the back of the jerseys of the players, and the kneeling on one knee before the kick-off, is a bold initiative to put racism in the front burner, despite the effort of Trump and white supremacists around the world, to tone down the world’s outrage. Without realising it, the violent white supremacist, whether in the police or government are ultra-low-lives. Theirs is of a worse kind, because not only that they are doing evil, they glory in their perfidious acts. In Nigeria, the murderous herdsmen are lowlifes. Their patrons, including those in the corridors of power are equally, lowlifes. They are lowlifes because they glory in getting people killed, for little or no reason at all, while they think nobody is watching. Regrettably, President Muhammadu Buhari’s government has been indicted for condoning these lowlifes, in a report issued by All-Party Parliamentary Group on International Religious Freedom or Belief (APPG). While the presidency has vigorously denied the findings, it should go forward, to manifestly repudiate these lowlifes and their patrons. Last week, APPG released its report in Westminster, entitled, Nigeria: Unfolding Genocide? The report noted thus: “APPG members have been alarmed by the dramatic and escalating violence in Nigeria characterised as the farmer-herder conflict. This violence has manifested along ideological lines, as the herders are predominantly ethnic Fulani Muslims and the farmers are predominantly Christians.” It went further: “Attacks by armed groups of Islamist herdsmen have resulted in the killing, maiming, dispossession and eviction of thousands of Christians.” It continued: “These factors are compounded by the Nigerian government’s failure to respond adequately to the violence, to protect communities or to bring perpetrators of violence to justice.” Of note, a reporter at the APPG, presentation, noted that both Christian and Muslim populations need protection, from the murderous attacks of the Boko Haram, who are the major drivers of the genocidal pulses across the country. But, while the government of President Buhari, is assiduously fighting the Boko Haram, it is seen to be lenient to the murderous instinct of the Islamist herdsmen, who hide under the guise of being ordinary pastoralists. Because they are treated with kid gloves, they are bold enough to have spokespersons who make incendiary statements against the existence of the country. While there are incendiary Islamist herdsmen, invading the country, from neighbouring countries, in the name of seeking greener pastures, there are those who claim to be Nigerians, but are no less a threat to the country. Recently, an amorphous group, claiming to represent Fulani people in Nigeria, laid claim to the Nigerian territory from Sokoto to the Niger Delta. Of course, these lowlifes grant interviews, and parade themselves around the country, without the federal government bringing them to account. According to the APPG report, the result of the activities of these murderous entities have been devastating, to our country. It noted: “The exact death toll is unknown. However, Humanitarian Aid Relief Trust quote reliable reports that over 1,000 Christians were killed between January-November 2019, in addition to the estimated 6,000+ deaths since 2015.” It continued: “International Crisis Group estimate that over 300,000 people have been displaced and that the violence has claimed the lives of six times more people than the conflict with Boko Haram. Violence by herders, and periodic retaliatory violence, is costing the Nigerian economy £10.5 billion per year.” That is a huge price to pay for the activities of a group of misguided people. And while the government is giving Boko Haram a bloody nose, its body language, gives the impression that it is soft on the Islamist herdsmen. In an effort to distinguish between the local herders, and foreign invaders, the governor of Kano State, recently called on the federal government to stop foreign pastoralists from entering into Nigeria, because of the mayhem they cause. If this dichotomy exists, who are those that have taken over the lands of the indigenes, displaced in Plateau and Benue? So, while there are definitely the foreign components of these lowlifes, they are rogue organs operating in the country, and the government should at least bring them to account. At the inter-faith dialogue and reconciliation parley in Plateau State earlier in the year, the revered Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Mohammadu Sa’ad Abubakar III acknowledged the challenge faced by the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association, commonly associated with the Fulani ascendency in Nigeria. Talking about the trouble makers, the Sultan said: “They don’t belong to Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association; they are criminals. I don’t know why security agencies allow them to be who they are. It is the responsibility of the security agencies, not mine.” He went on: “There are Fulani criminals just as there are criminal elements among the Berom, Yoruba, Igbo and other tribes in the country. Let us stop name-calling.” Agreeably, there are criminals everywhere, but the challenge is that the awesome powers of the federal government has not been trained against the lowlifes, giving the Fulani a bad name, in Nigeria. No doubt, it is the responsibility of the federal government, which controls the security apparatchik of the country, to bring peace to Nigerians, if need be, by force of arms. While it is the responsibility of the presidential spokesmen to marshal arguments to deny the finding of the APPG, the undeniable facts are that Nigerians are disproportionately being killed because of their faith, and perhaps for their proprietary interests. While defending itself, the major task is to summon the will, to send a strong message that: lives matter. Maybe, it is a clash of interests as Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, espoused on the elusive peace in the Middle East, in his book: My Vision. He said: “We now hear some people who have regressed to the mentality of the nineteenth century, referring to a struggle between civilizations and religions, while I believe they ought to talk about a struggle over interests.” If the struggle in Nigeria is over interests, it is important that the federal government, manifestly show itself as standing on fairness, regardless of faith or ethnic nationality. That is the challenge facing Buhari’s government. 