 In a country where arbitrary acts reign at will in some of our hospitals, it is difficult to blame the angry mob that accosted an auxiliary nurse who was carrying a newborn baby in the Upper Uweka area of Onitsha, the Anambra State capital, demanding explanation on how she came about the baby. That the incident took place in the area notorious for all shades of crimes must have heightened their suspicion. But, as angry as the youths were, they still managed to do the rightful, that is, call the attention of some police officers nearby to the incident. But not before some of them had pasted snippets of the scene online, suggesting that the nurse was a suspected baby thief. Unfortunately, it was the police officers who eventually mismanaged the situation. Rather than exercise good discretion by allowing the baby to be taken to the hospital straight in view of the emergency nature of its case, they ordered the nurse and the baby’s father to follow them to the police station. What happened was that the owner of a hospital where the baby had just been delivered directed one of her “most diligent” workers, an auxiliary nurse, to take the baby to another hospital when it was discovered that it was not breathing well and there were also complications with its placenta. The auxiliary nurse, Miss Chinwendu Okafor, tells her pathetic story: “The midwife and owner of the Mother of Mercy Hospital, Immaculata Egbuodike, had detailed me to take the baby with the father to another hospital, where it would be placed on oxygen, since it was not breathing well in our hospital”. When they got there, only the baby was taken inside and later returned to them on the pretext that they had challenges getting across to their doctor. Okafor continued: “However, as we drove to another hospital within the area, he (the father) requested that I alighted from the car with the baby, so he could look for a convenient place to park and later join us. “It was while I was waiting for him that some passersby and some people selling fruits in the area accosted me, demanding to know how I came by the baby.” One thing then led to the other until they got to the police station where the police officers and two of her colleagues had insisted they should first go to. It was there that another officer had compassion on the baby and asked them to take it to the hospital immediately. Unfortunately, it was too late. They had lost too much time and the baby died at the hospital. For the second time the nurse said she wept bitterly. The first time was when she was accosted by the crowd; and now that the baby has died. Miss Okafor had to cry, first for herself, because she knew the possible consequences of angry youths descending ferociously on a suspected baby thief. They do not waste time in getting tyres to set such suspects ablaze. In her own case, she was only lucky to have been handed over to law enforcement agents, who, sadly, handled the matter in the most unprofessional manner. Her diligence at work, which commended her for the assignment, would thus have been her albatross. She wept when the baby eventually died because that was what her boss wanted to avoid by asking that the baby be taken to another hospital with better facilities, in view of the complex nature of her birth. Now all that effort and even the indignities she suffered while the odyssey lasted have ended in vain. We do not have proof that the baby would have lived if the police officers did not waste time in getting medical attention for it. But what is undeniable is that the police officers either acted callously or lacked the necessary training to know that life takes precedence over all other considerations in such circumstances. We sympathise with the bereaved couple but the police authorities must look into the issue with a view to determining whether the police officers’ mistake was that of the head or the heart. The officers deserve punishment if found culpable. But then, the police authorities should continue to train and retrain their rank and file on the primacy of lives in a situation like this. The incident is a good example of why lynching is bad and should therefore be discouraged.