  FORMER Manchester United and Aston Villa striker Dwight Yorke has condemned in strong terms the unfair treatment black people suffer in becoming a football coach in Europe. Speaking in an interview with TALKSPORTS, Yorke lamented that despite his success as a football player in Europe, it has been very difficult for him to secure a job of a manager, just because he is black. He pointed out that there is currently no black coach in any top European club, showing that racism in Europe is still very high. “I applied for two jobs and I did not even get a response back after putting my CV. Having someone like Alex Ferguson on the fold ready to give in recommendation was not enough, I did not even get a response back, let alone an interview, let alone a job,” Yorke said. Yorke said there are incidents where white people are “fast-forwarded” to get a job, leaving the blacks behind, despite their qualifications. “The fact that there are black players playing the game, you are saying to us that none of us is qualified to get it. And truth be told, there are people fast-forward into management. I am not saying that is wrong, I am saying that the system is not being fair to black people who want to become managers. “I can even go further to say, look at the backroom staff. I have played football professionally, at the highest level for twenty years, I remember coming across only one black person in the backroom staff, and he was just a rookie. It is simple,  when a black person applies for a job, they do not see him as adequate or qualified, they are just stereotyped, seeing black people as lazy and they don’t want to work, all these come into play,” Yorke lamented. Yorke revealed that he was accused of being a playboy, and that is why he was not handed the managerial job, but he had not missed trainings or curfew. “I have never missed training or broken curfew. These are things I just don’t do. Yes, I enjoy myself, but does that make me a person that does not understand what my professionalism is about and you are judged on that, despite all your achievements as a player. It is just injustice and not fair.” Yorke said it is time to stand up for what is right, urging that everyone is given a chance, irrespective of  colour of skin. “Let us all stand and give people a chance. Let us give white and black people an equal opportunity. It is simple enough. Let us call it for what it is. Around the world, let’s know black managers. You telling us that we got qualifications, and we cannot even get a telephone call, or telling us where we can improve,” he added.