The Senior Pastor of PRAISE ARENA, Kingdom Light Christian Centre, Lekki Lagos, Pastor Jummy Adetoyese-Olagunju, has thrown his weight behind the suspension of reopening of worship centres by the Lagos State Government. He said reopening of worship centre would pose serious threat to worshippers. Adetoyese-Olagunju said this while reacting to the indefinite suspension of the reopening worship centres byGovernor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu. He admitted the initial order for reopening of worship centres was of great concern to him and some church leaders based on the increasing rate of COVID-19 infections. He noted studies across the world have shown in some countries, the rise in the infections and death rate were traced to religious actvities. He said: “Opening the religious centers at a time we have such increase in Lagos State is like walking into COVID-19 death trap and no church leader will be happy to see their members dead when the pandemics is eventually over. “In Africa, we are socially connected based on our culture hence you can’t sustain too much social distance in the churches for too long because of the sense of divine security that may result in non-compliance with the much needed safety precautions.” He argued it would be difficult to observe social distancing if worship centres reopen. The cleric charged church leaders to go digital by exploring the possibility of using social media for their services, which he said is also an opportunity for the church talking over the air waves. “In our church, our online services on Facebook moved from 250 view to more than 30,000 views and 8,000 ThruPlays when we explored ways to reach wider audience across the Country. Necessity is the mother of inventions. “Although not having the traditional congregational services affected church finances but we are happy that more people are able to hear the transforming messages through wider outreach via online services on the social media, which is the essence of the great commission. God who knows our sincerity will reward our efforts in due season,” he stated.