E-commerce powerhouse, konga, has set aside millions of naira to celebrate its customers. The firm, which turns eight this month, said it management has put together a memorable collection of offerings targeted at exciting its customers. Co-Chief Executive Officer at Konga, Prince Nnamdi Ekeh, said the firm will use the occasion to express gratitude to its customers. ”We are extremely grateful to Nigerians for their support, loyalty and dedication to Konga. It has been eight years of excellent innovations and leadership in the Nigerian e-commerce sector. However, we realise all we have achieved would have been impossible without the support of our esteemed customers and by extension, all Nigerians for trusting us.” He said top on the bill is that the firm will give away N100,000 daily to customers in celebration of its anniversary. He said customers who shop a minimum of N5000 and above will qualify for a draw from which winners will emerge for giveaway. For each order of N5000 and above, a customer gets entries for the draws. Konga has also set aside millions of naira in vouchers and other freebies to celebrate its customers this period. The freebies, which will be won by shoppers for purchases made on the platform, has been identified as one of the ways in which the e-commerce giant is looking to appreciate Nigerians for their loyalty and dedication to the Konga brand over the years. He said the firm plans a discount sales tagged K8onga Beyond the Hype. The  extravaganza, which kicks June 29 off, will end July 7. “Equally important, the  discount sale will offer shoppers a chance to enjoy deals and rock-bottom prices across multiple product categories including mobile phones, computing and devices, electronics, fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) products, kitchen appliances, fashion, wine and spirits, and much more,” he said. The firm also plans to give to customers to win amazing prizes via quizzes to be organised on radio and across Konga’s social media platforms. Also set to excite customers is a digital party, in line with the current regime of social distancing, with which Konga intends to fete its loyal patrons. The digital party will witness a top DJ who will play live on Instagram along with a live performance from a major artiste. Participants in the live session are also expected to win loads of freebies, courtesy of Konga. Throughout the anniversary period, beginning from Monday, June 29 to the end of the promo period on July 7, Konga will equally host a daily flash sale at 10am, 2pm, 4pm and 6pm from which lucky customers will win exciting products at highly discounted prices. This is in addition to the offer of free deliveries for orders which will coincide with the days for the flash sales. ”We do not take this trust lightly. This is why we have decided to set aside millions of naira and roll out multiple incentives to celebrate our customers this period. We urge everyone to take part in the anniversary celebrations and take advantage of all the benefits on offer. ”Also, on behalf of the entire management and staff of Konga, I wish to state that our best is yet to come. We remain determined, as always, to continually raise the bar in terms of customer satisfaction and service delivery in the e-commerce sector. This is our mandate and promise to all our customers and we will not fail,’ he declared. Founded in July 2012, Konga has remained at the forefront of the Nigerian e-commerce industry, with a long list of innovative strides and achievements that have made it the e-commerce brand of first choice for millions of Nigerians. 