At least two members of the Ebonyi State Executive Council have tested positive for Covid-19, sources said on Friday in Abakaliki. The cabinet members are among the 80 confirmed cases in the state so far. A two-month-old baby has also tested positive in Delta State while in neighbouring Anambra, the state government decided to restrict traffic flow on the Niger Bridge between 7pm and 6 am daily. Following the health status of the commissioners, Governor David Umahi on Thursday directed all other members of the executive council to go for test as they may have had contact with those who tested positive. The names of the affected officials were not disclosed. Information Commissioner Uchenna Orji merely said: “All EXCO members and government officials, especially of  the Ministries of Finance and Budget, are advised to undergo COVID-19 test”  within one week. Sources said Finance and Budget Commissioner Ogbonnaya Chukwu and  the Principal Secretary to the Governor, Clement Nweke were ill but the nature of their illness could not be immediately confirmed. Orji himself said he had done his own test and had proceeded on self isolation while awaiting the result of the test. Two-month-old baby tests positive in Delta Delta Health Commissioner Mordi Ononye, yesterday confirmed that a two-month-old baby girl was among the 116 confirmed cases of Covid-19 in the state. Ononye told reporters in Asaba that pediatricians were taking care of the baby. He was optimistic that the girl would overcome the infection. She is being quarantined along with her mother at the Asaba Specialist Hospital. Giving a breakdown of the infection in the state, Ononye  said: “We have recorded eight deaths, which is about seven per cent fatality rate, and have conducted 850 tests and have received 7,708 calls on our hotlines. “We have investigated 850 suspects and at present, 13 health workers have been infected. “No one should doubt that Covid-19 is real. There are confirmed cases in 13 local government areas of the state and 66 per cent of those affected are males while 34 per cent are females, with bed occupancy rate of 48 per cent.” He affirmed the commitment of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa’s administration to curbing the spread of the virus. Secretary to the State Government, Mr Chiedu Ebie, announced that the curfew of 7 pm to 6 am imposed in the state by the government remained in force and urged Deltans to obey safety measures set by the government to check the spread of the virus. Anambra closes Niger Bridge The Niger bridge linking Delat State and Anambra State is to be closed at the Onitsha end in Anambra State between 7pm and 6am daily as part of the effort to check the spread of coronavirus, Secretary to the State government Solo Chukwulobelu,announced yesterday. He said enforcement and security teams were being deployed to handle the situation. But the curfew in other parts of Anambra State remains 10pm to 4am. The government, therefore, called on all those who move about to take note, especially in Anambra State.