 A serving member of the House of Representatives, Omoregie Ogbeide-Ihama, has vowed to “once again, demystify” the Edo state Governor, Godwin Obaseki and the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole in the upcoming Edo governorship election. Ogbeide-Ihama, who is an aspirant in the September 19, 2020 governorship election, said he had defeated two candidates backed by both Obaseki and Oshiomhole in two previous elections to win the Oredo federal constituency seat. The aspirant, who is seeking the ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), said he defeated Oshiomhole’s candidate in 2015 and that of Obaseki in 2019 for the Oredo federal constituency seat. Ogbeide-Ihama said, “I won the seat in 2015 with Adams Oshiomhole as the governor of the state and I was in opposition. My opponent was the sitting Edo House of Assembly Speaker from the APC. “The second time, the same thing happened. The governor (Godwin Obaseki) was from my own constituency and from the APC. I defeated his candidate with double digits lead and no court cases. “So convincingly, the people of Edo state, especially my constituency, which is the heart of Edo, have shown clearly that they have confidence in me and I have also been able to show them that I can stand up and represent them”. The aspirant, who was at the Abuja secretariat of the PDP to submit his nomination documents, said he would do things differently if elected governor. “If you see what is happening in Edo today, you will know that the people are yearning for that change, that transformation, that restoration to the days of great men like Samuel Ogbemudia and Ambrose Alli. It’s time to deliver to the people their rights and dividends”, he added. Ogbeide-Ihama and two other aspirants are billed to be screened by the leadership of the PDP on Friday (today) at the party’s Abuja secretariat. The two other aspirants for screening are Kenneth Imansuangbon and Gideon Ikhine. A statement signed by the National Organising Secretary of the PDP, Col Austin Akobundu, said that the screening exercise will commence at 10am. The five-member screening committee is chaired by a House of Representatives member, Mr. Kingsley Chinda. Other members are Chief Oladimeji Fabiyi, Senator Joy Emordi, Mrs Aishat Hasindu, and Boyele Debekeme (Secretary).