Environmentalist Dr. Fisayo Jerome of Fisheries Resources Department, Marine Biology Section, Nigerian Institute for Oceanography and Marine Research (NIOMR) has identified loss of biodiversity, climate change, deforestation and habitat loss, over exploitation, invasive species and pollution as factors affecting the integrity of the ecosystems. She said that for the ecosystem to be fully restored there should be repairing and replanting wetlands, creek beds, forestland, and other habitats; eradicating invasive species; replacing invasive species with native species; enforcing environmental laws. She added that this will also include monitoring lagoons and wetlands habitats and preparing reports on findings to government authorities and protection of vulnerable and endangered species in the marine environment. She spoke on the Role of nature in ecosystem sustainability at a virtual interaction organised by Lagos State Ministry of the Environment and Water Resources to commemorate the International Day of Biodiversity (IDB) with the theme Our Solutions are in Nature recently. The International Day for Biological Diversity is celebrated each year to raise global awareness about the importance of protecting biological resources and the global biodiversity that shapes our environment, not only the various species of plants, animals and microorganisms around us, but also the genetic diversity of each of them, as well as the great variety of ecosystems that make up our planet. She stressed importance of nature and ecosystem as provision of habitat to wild plants and animals; supporting different food chains and food webs; regulating essential ecological processes and support lives; and involving in the recycling of nutrients between biotic and abiotic components. She added that ‘nature sustain the integrity of the ecosystem by maintaining ecological processes and a diverse community of organisms.’ Speaking on Conserving Wetlands For Sustainable Urban Livelihood, Project Manager, Lekki Conservation Centre, Mr. Adedamola Ogunsesan said that wetlands provide a diversity of ecosystem services; provisioning, regulatory, supporting and cultural services which are essential for the human society. This is particularly necessary in cases where large urban agglomerations exist. He stated that wetlands are areas of marsh, fen, peat land or water, whether natural or artificial, permanent or temporary, with water that is static or flowing, fresh, brackish or salt-water, including are as of marine within the depth no more than six meters at low tide. He described wetlands as a source with the capability of providing humans with freshwater, ensure food supply, sustain biodiversity, protect against flooding, and store carbon dioxide. “Wetlands remain major source of employment globally and they are also ideally placed to show case truly sustainable livelihoods. “Wetlands provide many ecosystem services. However, many of the services are not traded in regular economic markets, and thus have no observable prices. This fact contributes to continued degradation of many wetlands and natural sites around the state. Moreover, competition for land uses and the societal demands for urbanization and development have exacerbated the pressures on wetlands.” Mr. Ogunsesan urged stakeholders to collaborate with the Lagos State Government to provide the following solutions: inventory and documentation of wetlands resources; wetlands valuation; participatory management of wetlands; urban plans inclined towards sustainable wetlands; wetlands restoration; develop RAMSAR designation roadmap and develop wetlands conservation master plan.