President/Chief Executive Officer, Coscharis Group Dr. Cosmas Maduka, has joined the EY World Entrepreneur of the Year Class of 2020 along with 46 other exceptional entrepreneurs from 41 countries across the globe. Maduka is also the winner of Ernst & Young (EY) Entrepreneur of the Year  award for the West Africa region. The global event, originally scheduled to hold as a live audience participatory event in Carlo, Monaco, France, was, however, held as a first-ever live virtual EY award in partnership with CNBC. This was due to the travel restrictions occasioned by the Covid-19 pandemic. According to Leader at EY (West Africa), Ashish Bakhshi, the award was not only designed to celebrate and honour the contributions and achievements of successful entrepreneurs but also serves to inspire successful entrepreneurs, so they can share their incredible entrepreneurial stories.  While Dr. Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw from India emerged the global stage award winner, Maduka  made the top list of the highest ranked award winners in EY’s People’s Choice with viewers reaching 1.7million across 124 countries. Entrepreneurship Leader at EY (Global Growth Markets) Stasia Mitchell said: “This was the first time we asked the people to vote on the award winner who most inspired them. The voting was meant to be a fun, engaging way to get to know the class of 2020 better.” Mitchell said it was no surprise that Maduka and the Coscharis brand stood out so clearly, adding: “This continues to show how inspiring you and your story are to so many around the world and it says a lot about how valuable your mission is.’’ Maduka thanked the judges for going through tortuous journey before arriving at the winners. He said: “I have the utmost respect for all the finalists from different countries because each of us has a unique story to tell that resonates with the audience. It must have been a very difficult journey for the judges to arrive at their decision and we have to respect it because they have their criteria set. At the end of the day, if I had a choice, I would have given the global award to Dr. Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw still like the judges did. It is really not easy to contend among men and she must have done something much better than the rest of us that stood her out in the mind of the judges. I, therefore, congratulate her and all the finalists this year.”