Today, I bring to you some notable Nigerians who were born on this day, June 25. Happy Birthday to these great men. Baba Gana Kingibe GCON was born on 25 June 1945. He is a Nigerian politician and diplomat who served as Minister of Foreign Affairs from 1993 to 1995, Minister of Internal Affairs from 1995 to 1997, Minister of Power and Steel from 1997 to 1998; and Secretary to the Government of the Federation from 2007 to 2008. In 1993 Nigerian presidential election, he was the Vice-presidential candidate of the Social Democratic Party. Kingibe was born to the family of Mustafa Shuwa and Ya Kingi Mallam. A Kanuri from Borno, he grew up in Maiduguri and attended primary schools there. In 1958, he was admitted into the Borno Provincial Secondary School. In 1960, he left for the United Kingdom on a government scholarship to complete his O’Level and A-level at Bishop’s Stortford College. In 1968, he received his bachelor’s degree in international relations from the University of Sussex (alongside Thabo Mbeki), before proceeding to the BBC Television Training School in London. Kingibe later attended the Graduate Institute of International Studies in Geneva. Femi Gbajabiamila was born on June 25, 1962. He is a Nigerian lawyer, All Progressives Congress Leader, and Speaker of Nigeria’s 9th House of Representatives. Olufemi “Femi” Hakeem Gbajabiamila was born on 25 June 1962 to Mr. Lateef Gbajabiamila and Mrs. Olufunke Gbajabiamila in Lagos, Nigeria. He attended Mainland Preparatory School for elementary education and Igbobi College in 1973 for secondary education. Subsequently he enrolled at King William’s College on the Isle of Man, United Kingdom for his A-Level. He was accepted into the University of Lagos, Nigeria. He graduated from Bachelor of Law (LL.B.) with honors in 1983 and was called to the Nigerian bar in 1984. Gbaja Biamila was elected to the House in 2003, and re-elected in 2007. He represents the Surulere I constituency of Lagos State (see Nigerian National Assembly delegation from Lagos) in the House of Representatives. He is the Speaker of the House of Representation. Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu was born on June 25, 1965. He is a Nigerian Politician and the current Governor of Lagos State. He was announced the governor under the platform of the All Progressives Congress after contesting and unexpectedly winning the gubernatorial primaries under the All Progressives Congress against incumbent governor, Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State in October 2018. He is a graduate of the University of Lagos, as well as the London Business School, Lagos Business School and the John F. Kennedy School of Government. Before his gubernatorial ambition, He was the Managing Director/CEO of Lagos State Property Development Corporation (LSPDC). Sanwo-Olu has a B.Sc in Surveying and an MBA from the University of Lagos. He is an alumnus of the John F. Kennedy School of Government, the London Business School and the Lagos Business School. He is an associate member of the Chartered Institute of Personnel Management (CIPM) and fellow of the Nigeria Institute of Training and Development (NITAD). Apostle Joshua Selman is a Nigerian televangelist and a teacher of the Word of God. He is the founder of Eternity Network International (ENI); he started the ministry in 2011. Apostle Selman was born on June 25, 1980. He graduated from Ahmadu Bello University in Zaria. he is the senior pastor of the Christ Gospel Church, Samaturu Zaria, Kaduna state in Nigeria. Joshua Selman has felt a special love to God from childhood. While other children played outside, the boy stayed at home studying the Bible. When he was a little boy, he already knew what Ahmadu Bello University was and he dreamt about ministering the Word of God in the university someday. All these dreams came true.