There is a possibility of a new strain of COVID-19 in the country, Minister of Health Dr. Osagie Ehanire said on Thursday. He said: “As for the strain of COVID-19, yes, when Nigerians were coming back in batches from different countries – US, Saudi Arabia, Europe, China, the question did arise and some of them tested positive for COVID-19. “The question did arise about whether the strain of COVID-19 they have is the same one that was known. The National Institute of Pharmaceutical Research and Development (NIPRD) did a genome sequencing of the virus of the index case that came long ago; this is the first in Africa. “It was confirmed to be the same strain as what was circulating in Italy and China. So, we raised the question whether there has been mutation since then in people coming from other areas. “I don’t have any information on that yet, but it is suspected that it is possible. It is not yet updated but I’m sure that research centres in Yaba, Lagos and the one in Ede, are trying to do a sequencing that will show us whether all these viruses are the same or whether they have a different sequencing. “With regards to Madagascar’s herb, we do not have any information yet. We have given them to our research centres and they are working on them. None of them has reported back yet. The time it will take for all these researches is not what we know, but I think after a period, I will reach out to them to find out if they can give me an interim report.” The Director-General of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu, added: “Between last weekend and today we have carried out the biggest distribution of Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) ever since the response started. “The last batch is going out today (yesterday) because I wanted to get it out before the public holiday tomorrow. Everything we are doing is to support the States. “Many States are taking responsibility. Many of the labs in some states like Jigawa and Ekiti, are done by the state government to accelerate the efforts themselves. We will continue working hand-in-hand with all our State Governors to improve the response across the country.”