 Anambra Governor, Chief Willie Obiano and his predecessor Peter Obi, have renewed their war of words over road projects by their administrations. While Obiano is claiming his predecessor left a huge burden of 96 road projects, Obi said the projects were only 52 Obiano however declared his administration has already completed 51 of the abandoned projects without winking an eye. Obiano spoke through his Chief Press Secretary, Mr James Eze while the former Commissioner for Information during Obi’s tenure, Chief Joe Martins -Uzodike, spoke for his boss. Uzodike was the Director -General for Obiano Campaign Organisation in 2014 when Obi presented him as his successor. Ukadike said only 52 roads and not 96 uncompleted road projects were handed over to Obiano.  He maintained all the 52 uncompleted road projects were all paid for, adding that Obi was not owing any contractor as at the time he handed over power. But Eze,in his video online, claimed Obiano inherited 96 uncompleted road projects, adding he had completed about 51 out of the 96. However, Joe-Martins, stated that only about five percent of the 52 roads had been completed by Obiano. He listed some of the projects Obiano inherited from Obi as Amansea – Ndiukwuenu – Okpeze- Amaeteiti- Awgbu Road Phase 1; Amansea – Ndiukwuenu – Okpeze- Amaeteiti- Awgbu Road and bridge ; Amansea – Ndiukwuenu (Phase 1 & 2); reconstruction of Amawbia to Amansea Federal Road ,Reconstruction of Onitsha – Atani-Osammala-Ogwuikpele road; Amansea-Ebenebe-Ugbenu-Ugbene-Awba Ofemili road; Nkolifia(Awka-Etiti)-St. Peter Clever-Abada Junction road (remaining less than 100 meters); Construction of Achina-Oneh- Agbudu- Ogboji, Atani – Ozubulu Roads Part 1 Km 0+000 -5+560. Others, according to him, were: Reconstruction of Anambra State Integrated Livestock Farm Nkwelle Ezunaka; reconstruction of Ichida-Azibgo-Amichi-Osumenyi-Akwaihedi Road among others Eze said majority of the listed roads had been completed by the current administration while other virgin roads had equally been completed