Soft spoken, mild mannered and exceedingly courteous in conversation, he is nevertheless bold and fiercely courageous, even audacious, in articulating views and principles he believes in. A neo-classical economist of the deepest hue, Professor Michael Akpan, of the Department of Economics at Bingham (ECWA) University, Karu, Nassarawa State, does not shrink from, indeed apparently cherishes, controversy. I first meet him on the campus of Bingham University sometime in 2014 when he launched two books, one of which was titled ‘The IMF, World Bank & Nigeria’s Economic Reforms’. We met again late last year at the JVM Hotel along the Keffi-Abuja Express Road when one of his research works placed third in a keenly contested academic competition organized by ‘StandTall Africa Initiative’, a Leadership Development, Educational and Entrepreneurship NGO. On that occasion, Professor Akpan gave me a copy of his latest book titled ‘On the Need to Devalue the Naira: Let me take up the Gauntlet’ published in 2017. The title speaks for itself. It is an open letter to President Muhammadu Buhari in which the author makes a vigorous case for the devaluation of the Naira in accordance with the advice of the International Financial Institutions and obviously in reaction to the President’s undisguised opposition to that policy option so beloved by the IMF and World Bank. Running into nearly 80 pages divided into twenty two chapters with five accompanying statistical tables, the book strives with some success to come down to the level of the layman in economics by trying to address the issue in non-technical scholarly jargon. But then, Professor Akpan must be himself. With first and second degrees in economics from the University of Benin and a PhD in the same discipline from the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, he believes in the near sanctity of mainstream economic doctrines and theories, which he sees, in my view, as the preserve of select economic intellectual elite of which he is naturally a part. The author certainly does not share the late Professor Samuel Aluko’s irreverent view that economics is a simple subject deliberately made difficult and mystifying. When in our conversation, I expressed the view that I considered the 1986 devaluation of the Naira by the Military President, General Ibrahim Babangida’s regime as a colossal disaster from which the country was yet to recover, Professor Akpan disagreed softly but firmly. Indeed, he was of the startling view that only those with at least an M.Sc degree in economics and who had taken courses in international economics were qualified to meaningfully discuss such issues as the devaluation of national currencies. It is this kind of mystifying approach to economics as a subject and economic development as a discipline that is responsible for the ever increasing dissociation of the discipline from real life as its practitioners relentless pursue intricate and complex theoretical modeling. In the introduction to the book, the author writes, “As in 1981/82-86, the general arguments against devaluation have remained the same and President Buhari who was Nigeria’s military Head of State from December 1983 to August 1985, has remained opposed to devaluation except that in a now democratic dispensation, he threw the gauntlet: that except he was convinced, he would not devalue the Naira. His disposition was anchored on the argument that Nigeria exports nothing other than oil, drawn certainly from the commonly harped expected benefit of devaluation: cheap imports for increased foreign exchange earnings. Plausible s this may be, it is only but a weak objection to devaluation even in a monoculture economy”. Various chapters of the book examine the dimensions and trajectory of the country’s protracted economic crisis from the 1981/82 crisis through to the present time; the Shehu Shagari administration’s adoption of austerity (stabilization) measures and details of its negotiations with the IMF and World Bank in 1983; the necessity for the Shagari-negotiated IMF and World Bank loans as well as the historical origin of these IFI’s; the economic recovery programmes of the IBB and Buhari military regimes; the 2014 devaluation policy, the call for further devaluation in 2016 and the various devaluation and oil subsidy controversies and debates within the context of IMF/World Bank policy prescriptions among others. The author is no under no illusion that it is an easy task to convince a sitting President to adopt, support and/or agree to a sensitive policy like devaluation opposed by a majority of the citizenry. Recalling the arguments proffered against devaluation in 2016 compared to those advanced against the policy in 1986, he believes that they remain essentially the same. For him, the missing link on the part of those opposed to devaluation is that they discount the economic realities of the nation’s persistent balance of payments deficits, particularly on current account, the scarcity of foreign exchange, and the foreign reserves level. Professor Akpan appears to perceive Nigeria’s problem of underdevelopment as essentially a technical accounting and statistical issue. Contrary to this view, other scholars of a more radical ideological orientation contend that it is more a structural and production problem, a view with which I am inclined to agree. The undue preoccupation with foreign exchange availability or scarcity is itself a manifestation of a disarticulated economy where there is a wide divergence between the consumptions and real needs of the majority of the people and unutilized and untapped but ample indigenous resources as well as local production techniques and technologies. The author believes that the economic crisis of 2014-2016 “had its roots in inability of the nation’s economic managers to build up foreign reserves against the rainy day”. He believes that the crisis validates his thesis that “the current account of a balance of payments is not too narrow to be examined and reserves build up is an indispensable component of an economic reforms package, designed to stabilize the balance of payments”. This is a rather superficial reading of Nigeria’s persistent post-independence economic crisis. It is my view that Professor Akpan does not sufficiently interrogate the more fundamental issue of the excessive import dependency of the Nigerian economy including massive and unsustainable importation of even the most basic items that that have local alternatives and can be produced domestically. It is this structural dysfunction and deformity of the Nigerian economy that is responsible for the technical balance of payments accounting problems that the author attaches so much importance to.