The World Elder Abuse Awareness Day (WEAAD) was celebrated on Monday. Since 2006, the International Network for Prevention of Elder Abuse (INPEA) earmarked June 15 as a special day for advocacy for the welfare of the elders across the globe, raise awareness of elder abuse and highlight ways to stop such abuse. The United Nations declared and recognised WEAAD as a global issue in 2011. According to the World Health Organisation, around 1 in 6 people, 60 years and above experienced some forms  of abuse in community settings during the past year. Although Nigeria has a youthful population, there are cases of abuse mostly in the Southeast against the elders, which are underreported or even unknown by the victims, due to lack of adequate knowledge. Put simply, all forms of abuse against   old people are called  Elder abuse. This abuse comes in various ways but can be broadly categorised into physical, psychological or emotional, neglect and abandonment, financial, societal/cultural, and institutional. Apart from the sexual and physical forms which are less pronounced, old people in Nigeria suffer financial, societal, and institutional forms of abuse at one point or the other every other day.  Neglect by caregivers and the lackadaisical attitude of health workers as forms of abuse are disheartening. Like rape, the effects of abuse on elders can be damaging. It includes physical injuries, extreme psychological consequences, abuse of rights, and loss of dignity. These are factors that could reduce a nation’s life expectancy. For elder abuse advocacy to take off fully in the country, there should be adequate media reportage, strong awareness, among others just as it is done in other advanced countries. However, to  make  the nation safer and life better for old people, there must be collaborative efforts. The government should put in place a national policy on the welfare of old people suiting the nation’s peculiarities. Also, the country’s  pension system should be more efficient at paying old and retired citizens. And for those not in the scheme, a relief   programme should be drafted to cater to their needs monthly. The importance of quality awareness cannot be overemphasised. Many victims of abuse tend to be silent about it, while some are not even well educated about it. The media and civic groups can do better with advocacy. This also needs to be taken to secondary schools and higher institutions.  Alongside that, they can also help with caregiving intervention to offer support to the victims. Corporate and private companies may also include care for the old people in their social responsibility projects. Religious and traditional leaders shouldn’t be left behind, they should be  partners  in policy implementation and grassroots advocacy for the prevention of elder abuse in Nigeria.