 BAR leaders in Anambra State have inaugurated a committee to boost the Presidential ambition of a former General Secretary  wof the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Mr Dele Adesina (SAN) in next month’s election. The committee is known as the Dele Adesina (SAN) (DASAN) Campaign Team. Adesina has already been adopted by the Southwest Lawyers Forum (Egbe Amofin) as its candidate for the election as provided for by the NBA constitution. The Adesina Campaign Committee is headed by Chief Emmanuel  E. Egbunonu. Members of the committee include former Vice-Chancellor, Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, Prof.  Ilochi Okafor (SAN); Prof. Ogugua Ikpeze; former chairman NBA Awka branch,  Chief J. I. Iguh  and other chairmen  and  secretaries of branches of the NBA in Anambra State. The committee was inaugurated by A. C. Anaenugwu(SAN).  Anaenugwu  urged members to  vote for Adesina, and that “voting  Adesina is putting NBA on the right pedestal.” He urged them to “take it as a task that must be accomplished”. Prof.  Ilochi Okafor (SAN)  took out time to explain to the committee the need to revive the Bar, restore its glory to the era of G. C. M. Onyiuke (SAN), Clem Akpamgbo (SAN), and FRA  Williams (SAN). He  said: “With Deacon Adesina (SAN), NBA will take its rightful place again where lawyers  are revered, respected and adored and the  rule of law given its right place in the country. Responding, Adesina said: “I have been thinking of what to write at  the inauguration of DASAN Campaign Committee headed by my highly referred Chief  E. E. Egbunonu seeing the names and the pictures of the highly respected senior members of the Bar and the caliber of men and women physically in attendance. ‘’A gospel song writer says ‘What will you say when you don’t know what to say?’ I answer that I will just say God is the great and mighty God. The great and mighty God will bless each and every one of you abundantly. ‘’He shall make his face to shine upon you all continually. And of course, He shall prosper this work He has committed into our hands. “Let me seize this opportunity to reiterate that l’m the destination of hope for the repositioning of our profession. Your labour of love for our profession and for me shall not be in vain. My profound appreciation.” 