The Akwa Ibom Police Command has arrested three persons for alleged rape. Police spokesperson CSP N-Nudam Frederick, in a statement on Tuesday, said the suspected rapists were apprehended at different operations following distress calls. “Following a distress call on Monday, 8th June, 2020 at about 4:30pm, Police Operatives at Abak swung into action and arrested a 38-yr-old confessed cultist, one Ekemini Asuquo Aya in Afaha Obong/Etim Ekpo, Abak,” he said in the statement. CSP Frederick said police investigation revealed that the suspect, Ekemini Asuqacuo, who claimed to be a tailor, lured Stella Ntia, 14, with N1500 to Celebrity Hotel, Abak where he raped her. He added that the suspect thereafter snatched the money from the victim and also threatened to kill the victim if she reported the incident to the police. The state police spokesperson also mentioned that another rape suspect, Udo Ekong Esau, 55, was arrested in Nsit Atai local government area following a tip-off. CSP Frederick alleged that the 55-year-old suspect forcefully had sex with and impregnated his 15-year-old step daughter, Miss Glory Etim Effiong in March this year. “The suspect, Udo Ekong Esau, having realised that his step daughter was pregnant chased her out of his home,” he said. “Similarly, following a complaint on 24th May, 2020, by a Youth Corps member, one Emmanuella Okpala Kosi, aged 21 years, who is on primary assignment in Uyo that she was gang raped by one Ofonime Emmanuel Essien, aged 25yrs of No. 15 Iba Oku Street, Uyo and Frank Okon, detectives of SCIID, Uyo swung into action and arrested one of the serial gang rapists, one Ofonime Emmanuel Essien, while effort is on to arrest Frank Okon who is now at large. “Investigation revealed that the victim visited her colleagues at No. 15 Iba Oku Street and later took her phone to the room where the suspects are living at the same address for charging and met Ofonime Emmanuel who pretended to be asleep, while Frank Okon and two girls were in the room. “However, shortly after the victim left for her colleagues’ room in the same compound she was called by Frank Okon that Ofonime Emmanuel was awake. The suspects swooped down on the victim and serially gang raped her as she entered the room”, CSP Frederick said. He said all the suspects have confessed to the crime and would be arraigned in court immediately. Commissioner of Police Imohimi Edgal warned unscrupulous sex maniacs and others engaging in sexual abuse of minors and other females to desist as the Command would not hesitate to arrest and prosecute them.