The Chartered Institute of Public Resources Management and Politics, Ghana has inducted Chief Executive Officer of Novarick Homes and Properties, Noah Ibrahim, into its Hall of Fame. The institute said the honour was for Ibrahim’s “renowned urban planning/housing development personality of international repute, exceptional entrepreneurial colossus and trailblazing technocrat.” Established in May 1995, the international institute is professionally structured to strategically advance entrepreneurial proficiency, cultivate management excellence and enhance the drive towards zero tolerance for corrupt practices in the various sectors of a nation’s economy, both in the public and private sector. The award was presented by the Executive Directors from the institute led by the Head West African Operations Dr Richards Ikpada Kpoku. Kpoku said the award is given to only individuals who have consistently demonstrated uncommon resilience and innovation in their various economic engagements. According to him: “Noah Ibrahim’s pioneering attitude towards urban planning/housing development, advocating for the use of renewable energy in real estate development and his exceptional entrepreneurial colossus has not gone unnoticed. “As a matter of fact, the institution is very proud of his national service delivery and the niche he has carved for himself leaving an unerasable mark in the Nigerian real estate sector. “We can say with all certainty that this individual is an illustrious and uncommon professional.” On motive behind this award, the Head West African Operations said: “The institution pays particular attention to identifying and recognizing highly resourceful and well-meaning individuals in any part of the world who have established and greatly distinguished themselves in their respective areas of stewardship towards nation-building and development.” Ibrahim appreciated the institute for recognising his works and promised not to relent in his efforts to tackle the housing deficit in Nigeria while creating a path that the next generation of real estate professionals can follow and use as a template in forging their own path.