 For the third consecutive weekend, the National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC) rallied critical stakeholders in the creative industry to chart a  post-COVID-19 recovery path for the sector. Last  Saturday, NCAC, in partnership with the National Association of Nigerian Travel Agencies (NANTA) held an online conference calling for intensified collaborations between operators in the tourism value-chain. Tagged COVID-19: Creating new business opportunities for travel agents, the collaboration according to the two bodies become necessary at a time like now for the speedy recovery of the tourism following the negative impact of COVID-19 on the sector. NCAC Director-General Otunba Olusegun Runsewe urged tourism and travel practitioners to work harmoniously in revamping the industry, adding that deliberate efforts should be made to promote the nation’s culture, which according to him, is the content tourism feeds on. He noted that NCAC had not relented in ensuring that the nation’s culture takes its pride of place even as pandemic ravages the world. Runsewe, who commended the efforts of security outfits, on the minimised crime rate, said: “At this critical period, networking is key among culture, tourism, travel and entertainment practitioners to revitalise the creative industry. NCAC is open to welcome whatever form of collaboration. “I appreciate everyone for this programme and hope to see you again next week because it will continue to hold on a weekly basis until we are able to finally combat COVID-19.” Keynote speaker and National President NANTA,  Mrs Susan Akporiaye said it was time for practitioners in the tourism industry to coordinate tourism to revive the economy. She said the initiative would involve practitioners, such as musicians, restaurateurs, artistes, tour operators, travel agents, tour guides as well as visual and performing artists. She noted that tourism cuts across all facets of life, ranging from agro, cultural, medical and educational tourism. “The tourism industry is the most affected sector, due to the ravaging COVID-19 pandemic but we as practitioners must come together to work for the progress of the industry and the nation at large. “The pandemic has happened but we must forge, ahead by taking the bull by the horn and not start crying over spilled milk. ‘’We can have tours arranged locally with some other packages like film show, night life exploration and other activities capable of attracting tourists and this can only be possible when tourism practitioners collaborate and work unanimously. “For the industry to pick up speedily, collaboration is the way forward. Travel agents, tour operators and cultural outfits can’t do it alone,” she added. Akporaiye urged travel agents to diversify from mere travel ticket sales to work as cargo agents, charter agents and to engage in farm tours and youth exchange programmes, stressing the need to promote the nation’s culture. She also advised Nigerians to explore local content in terms of tourism offerings. “As a professional body, we have started organising some collaboration with cargo and charter companies so that we can assist our members to get back to business as travels have been totally cancelled. “Operators can also organise farm tours for local tourists to see how small farms or fish ponds are operated. This will also serve as a means of education. ‘’Diversification is necessary at this critical period that is one of the lessons learnt from the occurrence of COVID-19. An institution with one line of income should be a thing of the past. ‘’Our culture should also be explored. Culture as a tourism product increases people’s curiosity and that is what Nigeria and Africa are rich with. “I advise tour operators to identify some tourist attractions within their state. Do short videos of these sites and display them on their social media handles for people to see that the nation is well endowed with beautiful sites,” she added.