There was pandemonium at UTC Junction, Port Harcourt, Rivers State on Thursday following an accident involving a mini bus and a trailer loaded with cartons of spaghetti. Scores of hungry residents, who rushed to the scene of the accident, were seen scrambling for the spaghetti, which scattered on the road because of the impact of the crash. The residents rushed to the scene with different sizes of bags and began to pack the pieces of noodles that littered the ground as they complained of hunger. It was gathered that the truck was on its way to deliver the spaghetti when it was involved in the accident that wrecked the blue van. But despite the checkpoint of the police located in the area, the residents jostled and pushed one another insisting that it was manner from heaven. All the persons involved in the struggle for the pasta ignored all the COVID-19 preventive measures of social distancing and wearing of face masks. Some of them removed their shirts and used them to pack the spaghetti while others collected handfuls before leaving the scene. A middle age man, who refused to mention his name, said the incident was divine describing the spaghetti as food palliatives. But officials of the company, that manufactures the IRS pasta, later arrived the scene escorted by security operatives to salvage some of the products. He said: “God has remembered us to give us this food palliative. We have been hungry since this Coronavirus started. The lockdowns worsened our situation. But this morning following the accident involving a truck and a van, we saw spaghetti all over the road. “Half of the content of the truck was emptied on the road. The packs of the noodles burst and we see prices of the noodles on the ground. In fact, we had heaps of spaghetti and all we did was to pack them. It will go a long way to help us deal with the Coronavirus hunger”. A child, who was also involved in the scrambling, said he discovered the scene while running errands for his parents. The child, who identified himself simply as Emeka, said his parents would be happy with some of the spaghetti he gathered at the scene. Security operatives, later dispersed the crowd and cordoned the area.