The Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the governing All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr. Yekini Nabena on Saturday commended the dissolved National Working Committee (NWC) for heeding the call of President Muhammadu Buhari not to institute legal action against it’s dissolution by the National Executive Committee (NEC) on Thursday. He also urged all other aggrieved party members and reported state factions among other stakeholders to drop cases against the party in courts, in line with the admonition of the President during the 8th resumed meeting of the APC National Executive Committee (NEC) held on Thursday. “The leader of our party, President Muhammadu Buhari has called on party members to withdraw cases against the party in court. Its welcome development that many members have began adhering to the President’s call. I urge other members and groups to do same for the growth and unity of our party.” Nabena in a statement in Abuja on Saturday said it was high time for all to rally round the caretaker committee for the emergence of a stronger and united national party. The Bayelsa born politician who drummed support for Governor Mai Mala Buni led newly-constituted APC Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee, allayed fears of witch-hunting and persecution of party members by the committee. “Percieved fears of a witchhunt is misplaced. The APC Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee headed by the Governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni has been given a mandate by the APC NEC to reform our party and ensure unity across party ranks. “There can be contestations which is not unusal in a political organisation, but the task before us now is to support APC Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee to settle our differences and bring the much needed reconciliation and peace to our dear needs at this point. “Governorship elections in Edo and Ondo states are forthcoming. We must now come together as united political for to consolidate and win the elections,” Nabena stated.