 Dashing winger Ahmed Musa said he still misses his dear mother and her memory will be fondly remembered for a long time. Mrs Moses transcended to the great beyond on January 24, 2019 and Musa took to his twitter account to confirm the news same day. Describing the immediate moment he heard the news and the days ahead Musa said, “I felt quite sad and I posted on my account that it was the saddest moment of my life” He said the days ahead proved quite difficult for him as he could not concentrate well in matches. “It affected and knocked him me off balance and affected my games at Al Nassr.” Having lost his father when he was just seven years old, Musa said he had looked forward to his mother who single-handedly nurtured his dream of playing professional football to reality, living much longer to enjoy the fruits of her labour. He recalled his mother took ill and was getting better when the sad occurrence happened. “I remember I had just got off my social handle account wishing her a great comeback to her feet when the news of her death came in some hours later.” Mrs. Moses succumbed to death at a private hospital in Abuja few hours after Musa had wished her quick recovery on twitter. “I am sure being tucked in bed is not the best thing you know to do. All your children are waiting for you to get out of bed and say ‘I am back in action.’ Get well soon Sweet Mum” Musa said his children are also missing the caring memories of their grandmother. It also affected him on the pitch as he could not concentrate for w while. “I was devastated and unable to keep focus and that affected my game but it was for a while.” He said he’s just coming to grips with the heart wrenching loss but said he’s resigned to the fact of her demise because “there is nothing I can do”. “I think that is one of my saddest moments that I have ever faced because I lost my dad when I was nothing, but I know anywhere he is, he is proud of me now. . “But for my mum, she played a very big role in my career. That’s why; I think if you notice, in my club it affected me a lot for more than three months. “I couldn’t even understand what I was playing; my club knew that I had lost something that is more important to me. But that is life, I have to go on. I know I really miss her but there is nothing I can do.” Casting back to how he started the game on the sandy streets of Jos-Plateau State, and how his mother became his backbone, Musa said his mother was his biggest supporter growing up. “She believed in me and kept praying for my success. I am a product of my mother because of her kindness to everyone. She has many children because she had a good heart. She was there for me and made me to think positively.” Thanks to his upbringing, Musa’s act of giving has transcended boundaries at home and abroad. He has touched the lives of many Nigerians’ young and old as a way of giving back to the society that made him. It would be recalled that Musa late 2019 donated a sum of N5million to Abuja based ASDC Sports Development Centre. “I was invited to the graduation ceremonies of the centre and was quite pleased with the level of progress made by the centre within a space of one year. “I wanted to help the centre achieve their dreams and that is why I pledged the sum of N5 million to support the activities of the centre. He also offered 10 scholarship slots to the centre to a private University in Kano.  The centre was to select students they feel would be eligible and submit their names for a fully-funded scholarship. Musa is one of the few Nigerians that believe you don’t have to be a billionaire to be able to help whoever is in need. He showed he is a cheerful giver right from his days with JUTH FC when he would give out his salary and allowances to fans that comes to the team’s training, camp and hotels. He would put aside a portion of his salary and bonus then in JUTH for the needy, and he was so discreet that only his close friends and colleagues, who helped in disbursement of the monies, knew about it. As a Super star, the Al Nassr striker has stepped up his philanthropic work by paying some students school fees and helping to keep their family together. In 2019 during Super Eagles friendly match in Asaba- Delta State, Musa helped a woman and her little kid in search of a cleaner job with a gift of 250,000. In the same Asaba, Musa lifted the Nigeria U-23 team with cash donation of N4milion to encourage them qualify for the CAF U-23 Cup of Nations. In November last year, Musa announced a 1billion Naira ($2.759 million) scholarship for 100 students of Skyline University in Kano. He also donated over 3,000 bags of rice and monies to a Deaf and Dumb school in Kano. “It’s just a way of contributing my quota to help the society, to help many youths become what they wish to become in life as long as they can dream it,” he said. The scholarship covers N2.5 million school fees per student. He believes education is a way of empowering people and has donated desks and chairs to public schools in Jos while sending funds to feed prisoners and orphanages. On Ramadan period, it is his custom to dole out cash and food items for people in need. He has a sports complex in GRA Kano which provides jobs for people in the city and allows aspiring athletes and footballer to train with modern facilities. Musa said giving back to his constituency was borne out of the happy times and encouragement he has received from them. “The people back home has been so nice to me, so I want to give something back to them. When I return home in the future I can train with the children and feel very happy.” Musa’s sojourn on the street led him to GBS Football Academy where he got his first break in Nigeria. “I started my professional career with JUTH FC in Jos, Nigeria before a loan move to Kano Pillars in the Nigerian Professional Football League ahead of the 2009/2010 season. I finished the season as the league’s highest goal scorer with 19 goals in 25 games.” He scored 25 goals while playing for Kano Pillars. “I was lucky to get into the national team very early.  I made my debut for the Super Eagles in an AFCON qualification match against Madagascar in 2010. In-fact in 2010, I was a member of the home-based Super Eagles that won the WAFU Nations Cup in 2010. “I would be forever grateful to the local league and Kano Pillars. My skill was recognised in Kano Pillars and I remember lots of fans were happy with my game and will come to me after each matches to congratulate me and wish me well. Musa virtually moved mountain in Kano Pillars where he was spotted and moved out to Europe. Musa’s first stop was Holland, VVV-Venlo before moving on to CSKA Moscow in Russia. Though his short stint with English Premier League did not go down well, in 2018, he moved on to Al Nassr FC in Saudi Arabia, where he has gotten his groove back. In January of this year, the Super Eagles star won the Super Cup title with Al Nassr following a 5-4 penalty shootout victory over Al Taawon. Ahmed Musa played a pivotal role in the victory before he was replaced by Abdulfattah Mohamed Adam five minutes to go. Cameroonian striker Leandre Tawamba Kana gave Al Taawon the lead in the 18th minute before Abderrazak Hamdallah restored parity for Al Nassr just before the half hour mark to end the regulation time 1-1. Al Nassr converted all their five spot kicks, Al Taawon scored only four in the shootout. Musa, 27, has won two trophies with Al Nassr and scored seven goals in 41 appearances. However, Musa has joined the list of footballers taking to the golf course as he posted a picture of himself and Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau state. Clad in red shirt and white pants, the Jos-born, joined the governor to knock some balls in the 18-hole golf course. The two-time World Cup player recently returned home in Jos, Plateau state, after spending 14 days in self-isolation following his return from Saudi Arabia. Speaking on the Saudi league, he said he is enjoying every bit of his stay there. “Many people think the league is easy, but when you play here you know it’s not that easy. It was exciting for Musa to see the captivating football scene in Saudi Arabia upon his arrival in the kingdom, but he insisted the football-mad fans are like no other and are happy with nothing less than a win. “The fans here are crazy about football; they’re not the same as Europeans.” “When I first came here, it was difficult for me because of how much fans love football – they don’t want to lose! Over here, fans are always crazy when you lose a game.” However, no matter what happens on the pitch, Musa says fans are always happy to see him. “One of the best moments here is whenever I go out [and] everyone wants to take a picture with you. I give the Saudi fans credit for this.” The forward was in fine form last season, scoring seven times and registering the same number of assists as Al Nassr cruised to the title. On a personal note Musa said his target is to win another Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON). “I have always dreamt of winning the AFCON and thank God I won it in 2013 but I want to win it again. Also I want to win the World Cup, Insha Allah, when I go to the next World Cup in Qatar, if I’m still strong, and to win it.” A tall dream one would readily agree with Musa who is an incurable optimist. He wrote in on his twitter handle recently to lift the spirit of Nigerians and the whole world in this trying pandemic time. “Never have the regret of yesterday, because it is gone. Always get inspired on a new day because it will help you get on your way. So stay positive and keep smiling. Wish you a lovely Monday morning and happy new month,” added Musa.