The National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP) has shut its headquarters in Abuja for two weeks over COVID-19 scare. It was gathered the action followed reports of two officers of the agency having close contacts with a woman who died of suspected COVID -19 related causes. Director General of the agency, Dame Julie Okah – Donli, gave the directive and asked officers working in the non – critical Departments and Units to proceed on one week off – duty to enable full decontamination of the Headquarters of the Agency. According to her, all officers at the headquarters will be tested for COVID-19 before returning to work. These were made known in a statement by the Head, Press and Public Relations Unit, Mrs. Stella Nezan. She explained: “Director General of the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP), Dame Julie Okah – Donli, has directed Officers of the Agency working in the non – critical Departments and Units to proceed on One week off – duty to enable full decontamination of the Headquarters of the Agency. “The directive which is in compliance with the protocol of the COVID – 19  followed a Report that two (2) officers of the Agency on Monday 15th June, 2020 had close contacts with a woman who died of suspected COVID -19 related causes. “It would be recalled that NAPTIP is one of the essential service providing Agencies that worked assiduously during total lockdown as directed by the Federal Government through the Presidential Task Force in the area of prompt response to distressed calls from victims of sexual and gender based violence. “The Agency had rescued over 30 victims, arrested about 45 suspects and charged about 24 cases to Courts during the period. The statement issues and signed by the Head, Press and Public Relations Unit, Mrs. Stella Nezan, reads “ the Director-General NAPTIP Dame Julie Okah-Donli, has ordered the closure of the Agency’s Headquarters for one week as a precautionary measure. “All Officers are to go on a one week leave in accordance with NCDC guidelines to enable the Agency decontaminate its premises. “In the meantime, all officers at the Agency’s Headquarters will be tested for Covid-19 before returning to work. “The Director-General assures all Stakeholders and Partners that the operations of the Agency will continue, including real-time responses to cases of Violence Against Persons and Human Trafficking. “Key Officers of the Agency will continue working online during this period”, the statement said.