 IT’S well and good that the Federal Government has shelved the evacuation of Nigerians abroad over the Covid-19 pandemic until a new policy on mandatory supervised isolation of persons arriving the country is put in place. While at it, the authorities should as well address the issue of engaging foreign airlines for evacuation of Nigerians to the detriment of qualified indigenous operators. National Coordinator of the Presidential Task Force on Covid-19, Dr. Sani Aliyu, on Monday said there would be no further evacuation of Nigerians from outside the country until the new policy currently being worked out with the private sector is unveiled. He added that any prior arrangement for the evacuation was being suspended. Aliyu spoke against the backdrop of clamour by federal legislators that government stop permitting airlines from countries that deny Nigerian carriers landing rights to operate into this country. Late last week, House of Representatives Committee on Aviation specifically warned that no United Kingdom-based airline should be allowed into this country for evacuation flights if Nigerian carriers were refused landing rights for similar flights into the UK. The legislators have a compelling argument. The aviation sector is among the most hit by the lockdown precipitated globally by Covid-19, making any opportunity for airlines to operate at this time most coveted. Authorities of other countries angle to corner such opportunity for airlines from their domains; but we have had some countries withholding landing rights from Nigerian operators, yet Nigerian authorities settle for airlines from such countries to come evacuate their own citizens from here and also bring Nigerians home. The Reps committee held a hearing on the recent use of Emirate Airlines to evacuate Nigerians from Dubai, British Airways for those from the UK and Ethiopian Airlines for those from the United States. Meanwhile, the UK and Canada pointedly refused Nigeria’s Air Peace landing right for evacuation of Nigerian citizens in their domains. The lawmakers demanded that government give Nigerian airlines the right of first refusal in future evacuation flights. Hardball totally agrees with the legislators, as in diplomacy there is something called the rule of reciprocity. This is especially so because the denial of landing right to Nigerian carriers is not for non-qualification. Air Peace, for instance, has evacuated Chinese, Israelis and Indians to their respective country from Nigeria at the instance of those countries’ governments. To do this, this Nigerian operator obviously must have requisite industry safety certifications. So, under the new policy being worked out, express provision should be made for eligible Nigerian airlines to conduct evacuation of Nigerians abroad.  