Justice Monica Bolna’an Dongban-Mensem took her oath of office as the second female President of the Court of Appeal (PCA) last Friday. Legal Editor JOHN AUSTIN UNACHUKWU and ROBERT EGBE examine her life, career and how she rose to achieve this career milestone. It was a simple, straightforward tradition: one President of the Court of Appeal (PCA) bows out, the next most senior justice of the appellate court steps in. So, when Nigeria’s first female PCA Justice Zainab Bulkachuwa retired from the Bench last March 5, it was expected that Justice Monica Bolna’an Dongban-Mensem would be the second. But Dongban-Mensem was not the only contender for the job. The Federal Judicial Service Commission (FJSC) had recommended Dongban-Mensem and Justice Mohammed Lawal Garba, who chaired the 2019 presidential election petitions tribunal— in that order — to the National Judicial Commission (NJC). The NJC forwarded Dongban-Mensem’s name to President Muhammadu Buhari for onward transmission to the Senate for confirmation. But, on May 29, 85 days after President Muhammadu Buhari appointed her as Acting PCA for a three-month stint, a statement from the Presidency created uncertainty about the practice. In two paragraphs, Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu announced that the President had approved a three-month extension of Dongban-Mensem’s tenure as Acting PCA with effect from June 3, 2020. The statement, which gave no reason for the development, explained that the re-appointment was in accordance with “Section 238(4) and (5) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended).” The development fuelled theories of a grand plot to stop the daughter of a retired Appeal Court Justice, M.B. Douglas-Mensem, from becoming a substantive PCA. But those who thought the President’s June 9 letter to the Senate, requesting it to screen and confirm  Justice Dongban-Mensem as substantive PCA would lay all concerns to rest, found another source of worry the next day. On June 10, the Senate announced that it would on June 11 adjourn for two weeks to celebrate the first anniversary of the ninth National Assembly. There was the new fear that if the lawmakers failed to confirm her appointment, the expiration of Justice Dongban-Mensem’s acting capacity tenure could create a vacuum in the Appellate Court and precipitate a constitutional crisis. Realising the problem, the Senate abridged its legislative processes and procedures to expeditiously approve her nomination.  ‘Court of Appeal: home of work’ All of the intrigues faded away last Friday when Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Tanko Muhammad, swore in Justice Dongban-Mensem as the substantive President of the Court of Appeal. The ceremony for Justice Dongban-Mensem held at the conference room of the CJN’s office in Abuja. The high profile event was subdued due to social distancing regulations following the COVID-19 pandemic. He urged the PCA to discharge her duties to the court without fear or favour. Justice Muhammad also advised her to work closely with presiding justices of the Court of Appeal to achieve great strides in the nation’s judicial system. “Certainly, you will see that there is no court in this country that has the number of justices that the Court of Appeal has. “Therefore, that shows you that the Court of Appeal is home of work, the Court of Appeal is home of cooperation; you have to cooperate together, all of you from top to bottom so that the work will continue to progress.” After taking the oath of office, Justice Dongban-Mensem promised the CJN that she would contribute her quota to the growth of the nation’s judiciary.  Missing VIP Justice Dongban-Mensem’s swearing-in-ceremony had in attendance her families, friends, colleagues, as well as governors of Sokoto, Plateau, Niger and Kebbi states among other top government officials. But one very important person who could not attend was Kwapda’as Rangna’an Samson Dongban, the PCA’s son. He was knocked down and left for dead by a hit and run driver on Tudun Wada Road in Jos, Plateau State on September 23, 2011. Forty-eight hours later, he lay groaning in a pool of blood with two broken legs on the accident scene. Passers-by looked on. When Good Samaritans finally arrived and attempted to take Kwapda’as to the hospital, it was too late; he succumbed to his wounds in transit. Wary of Police trouble, they returned him to the scene of the incident and left his body on the ground. As they walked away, so did his mobile phone, in the pocket of a turncoat Samaritan. He had just graduated with a law degree from the University of Jos and only returned to the city to get his certificate.  Challenges of running Appeal Court Although she didn’t say it there, Justice Dongban-Mensem realises the amount of work and challenges before her and is already implementing plans towards solving them. She hinted as much in a message on the appellate court website. “The Nigerian Court of Appeal is beset with the challenge of establishing a judicial system suited for a democratic society. Primitive systems of judicial administration have been over taken by numerous innovations in administration and science and technology. The COA is not unmindful of these challenges. Information technology and Internet are fast taking space in business, industry and administration. “Maintenance of independence of the judiciary has been provided in the constitution of Nigeria. A democratic society needs an independent judiciary which can ensure the citizens to judicially avail their fundamental rights. “An effective and reliable judicial system demands a suitable system for the welfare of judges of the court. No institution can afford to overlook the aspect of welfare and training with regard to its staff. There has been a continuous emphasis on these points in the Nigerian Court of Appeal,” Justice Dongban-Mensem said.  A tech-friendly PCA As acting PCA, Justice Dongban-Mensem on March 24 introduced alternative e-payment for filing of court process in view of COVID-19 pandemic. She said this would aid social distancing by reducing contact between the Court Staff and the litigants. But that was not her first deployment of technology to render a service. PCA Justice Monica Bolna’an Dongban-Mensem was born on 13th June, 1957, to the family of M.B. Douglas-Mensem; a retired Appeal Court Justice. She is from Shendam Local Government Area of Plateau State. She got both her LL.B and LL.M degrees from the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria. She was a Visiting Lecturer on Press Law at the Catholic Media Centre, Kaduna from 1988-1992 and Part-time Lecturer at the University of Jos between 1989 and 1997. From 1990-1993, Dongban-Mensem served as Deputy Chief Registrar, Superior Courts and Protocol Affairs, and was appointed Judge, High Court of Justice, Plateau Judiciary from 1993-1996. She transferred her service to the Federal Capital Territory Judiciary in 1997, where she served until she was elevated to the Court of Appeal in 2003. She was sworn-in as the Acting President, Court of Appeal, on March 6, 2020, by the Chief Justice of Nigeria. Until her recent elevation, Justice Dongban-Mensem was the Presiding Justice of the Court of Appeal, Enugu Division, and Life Member of Body of Benchers. Justice Monica Dongban-Mensem, in 2015, headed a five-member appeal panel that upheld the ruling of the governorship election tribunal in Rivers, which ordered the removal of Governor Nyesom Wike of the Peoples Democratic Party and ordered a rerun within 90 days Her hobbies are writing, reading, golfing working with children, women and the elderly. The judge is a mother of four children and two grandchildren.  A superior court jurist with a personal website Remarkably, Justice Dongban-Mensem has found the strength to tell the story of her son’s death and much more on her website. Yes, a senior Nigerian judicial officer with a fully functional personal website! On it, she describes her family’s pain at Kwapda’as’ death, and how that tragedy became a catalyst for her incredible determination to prevent similar tragedies. A post on www.justicemensem.com said: “The excruciating pain we feel is wondering what our loved ones last moment were. “Obviously, there was someone there who did not care; he/she stole the deceased’s cellular phone. “If only his phone had been used to dial the last number he called or the last number which called him, he would have died in the loving embrace of his younger brother who was only a few meters away. “Kwapda’as Rangna’an Samson Dongban (KRSD) was a Law graduate. He was very humble and polite but was never intimidated by anyone’s status. He loved deeply and totally; he admired and encouraged all around him but envied none. He was fond of saying ‘There is time for everything.’… “Yes, the flesh is gone but his spirit lives on; that care and selfless dedication to better the lot of others shall live on.”  Making roads safer Despite, or perhaps because of her distress, Justice Dongban-Mensem, 62, founded a road safety organisation called Kwapda’as Road Safety Demand (KRSD), just seven days after Kwapda’as’ death. KRSD is an affiliate of Global Alliance of NGOs for Road Safety, a collection of non-governmental organisations (NGOs) that implement programmes and lobby for road safety initiatives around the world. It represents more than 200 member NGOs from 90-plus countries. Explaining why she set it up, she said: “As a local authority: Police, nurse and doctor on duty, your first and essential duty is to save a life. Certify the dead person and preserve it for the grieving family to at least see the corpse in a presentable state. “His departure left each and every one of us with these fundamental but conscious questions: How will I respond to a road mishap? What can I do to make roads safe for all road users? What will I do to the victim of an accident? Will I stop for a moment or rush off looking the other way? Will I be gracious enough to dignify a dying person by extending to them a caring hand to clasp onto before giving up the ghost in a fatal accident? Or would I bother to listen to the last words uttered by this dying person so I can pass same to the relatives? “We are all involved. We can each take action. Anyone can be the next victim. What will you do? What positive action will you take to make a difference?” Every year, KRSD holds road safety seminars, trainings and visits hospitals where relief materials are distributed and payment of medical bills of indigent crash victims are made. KRSD also educates motorists about safety and also has plans to establish a driving school for potential commercial drivers, where they can receive training free-of-charge.  From judge to traffic officer But the jurist was not satisfied. She told the BBC in a February 12 interview that she wanted to play a role in controlling the traffic herself. After weeks of training with the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC), she qualified as a traffic warden. She can often be seen controlling traffic on busy Abuja roads, an incredible sight in an ultra-conservative profession and in a country where judges are rarely seen outside courtrooms.  The future Justice Dongban-Mensem is helping to keep the roads safe for all users, irrespective of status. Will her tenure as PCA help the appellate court attain the same level of fairness to all litigants? Only time will tell.