The Federal Government has committed $52bn as intervention initiative to combat the coronavirus pandemic, Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva has disclosed. He said  23 per cent of the amount is earmarked for the construction of medical infrastructure across the geo-political zones. Speaking at the groundbreaking ceremony for construction of a permanent 150-200 bed emergency and infectious disease medical centre by NNPC / SEPLAT joint venture  at Imo State University Teaching Hospital, Orlu,  Imo, the Minister said the action was taken to support the healthcare delivery facility and as well strengthens the national resolve to combating coronavirus pandemic and its dreadful impact. He said to ensure transparency and accountability, participating companies would execute the project  and items procurement using their internal companies established processes. “All commitments under this initiative are collected in kind and clear transparent governance framework has been established for collecting and distributing the commitment across the country in alignment,  processes and procedure  of the Presidential Task force on Covid-19,” Sylva pointed out. He disclosed that so far the initiative has been established in 21 states of the federation, adding that each of these states had received a consignment of medical consumables  and ambulances,  medical equipment such as test kits, ventilators. While commending the state government for donating the land for the project, he said that the project would be completed in the next 18 months. Chairman, SEPLAT Petroleum Development Company Plc, Dr.  Ambrose Orjiako, said the petroleum industry coordinated by the NNPC led by the Group Managing Director Mallam Mele Kayari rallied the sector with significant donations to strengthen local healthcare infrastructure to enable Nigeria’s medical institutions to push against the raging coronavirus pandemic. Governor Hope Uzodinma commended the President Muhammadu Buhari for the gesture, adding that in his effort in fighting the virus, the state government had procured 40 ambulances which was distributed to the 27 local government areas.  