 Following the sustained onslaught against Boko Haram and Islamic State of West African Province ( ISWAP) by troops, scores of the terrorists have been killed while fleeing their camps in Borno State, The Nation has learnt. A statement by the Coordinator Defence Media Operations, Major General John Enenche, disclosed that troops of Army Super Camp 6 Konduga, Borno State in conjunction with Borno State Civilian Joint Task Force, “conducted a deliberate ambush operation against BH/ISWAP Terrorists at Lawanti River line and neutralized 6 of them, while others escaped with gunshot wounds”. According to the statement, some of the dislodged insurgents surrendered to troops and confessed that their camps were in disarray following continued bombardment by troops. A cache of arms and ammunition belonging to the terror groups including Gun Truck, Anti-Aircraft Gun, 2 AK 47 Rifles, and Anti-Aircraft ammunition were captured and destroyed by troops. However, one Officer was killed, while another was wounded and is currently receiving treatment in a military medical facility, the statement added. The statement read, “furthermore, resulting from sustained artillery bombardments and ground assaults against BH/ISWAP Terrorists hideouts, more are surrendering to troops of Operation LAFIYA DOLE. On 2 June 2020, 3 of them namely: Mohammed Babagana, Modu Jugudun and Alhaji Usman surrendered to troops of Delta Company at Strong Response Area Pulka in Gwoza LGA of Borno State. “The trio confessed to having escaped from their Boko Haram Camp in Dabulari Village, Bama LGA of Borno State after a heavy artillery bombardment of the Camp by troops that led to the death of many of their erstwhile colleagues. During interrogation, they confessed regretting their actions and called on their former colleagues to give up the struggle and save themselves from unprofitable death. “Relatedly, on 2 June 2020, the combined troops of 19 Brigade and 401 Special Forces Brigade conducted a robust clearance operation at Doron Naira and Magaji. In Doran Naira, troops recovered one 120mm Mortar base plate, one religious book, metal links for-Aircraft ammunition and a roll of copper wire abandoned by the Boko Haram criminals before the arrival of the own troops. Also, at Daban Magaji, troops had an encounter with some Boko Haram Terrorists hibernating in the area. “The valiant troops, through superior fire neutralized 9 of them. Additionally, the troops destroyed one Boko Haram Gun Truck as well as captured one Anti-Aircraft Gun, 2 AK 47 Rifles, and a large cache of Anti-Aircraft ammunition. However, one officer paid the supreme price while one soldier was wounded in action. The soldier wounded in action is currently receiving treatment in our military medical facility”. It continued that, “similarly, on 1 June 2020, troops of 144 Battalion deployed in Madagali, Adamawa State briskly cleared BHT Staging Area and Crossing Points at Lemu, Gajinji and Tsakiraku. During the encounter at Gajinji, troops neutralized one terrorist and arrested 2 adult females namely: Aishatu Manye and Kelune Mate identified to be the local BHT commander’s wives. “In the North West Region, on 3 June 2020, troops of Operation WHIRL PUNCH acting on credible information raided a bandits’ Camp at Kurmin Dande in Chikun LGA of Kaduna State. During the operation, troops made contact and neutralized 2 of the bandits while others escaped with gunshot wounds. The troops recovered 2 Dane guns, two motorcycles, one locally fabricated short gun, 4 cutlasses, 3 cell phones, 2 small solar panels and some clothing items before destroying their camp. “Consequently, the Chief of Army Staff, congratulates the gallant troops for their resilience, courage and dedication to the noble cause of defending our fatherland. The High Command of the Armed Forces of Nigeria also encourages the troops to continue to be steadfast and focused as they sustain the onslaught against the enemies of our nation”.