Editorial •Thorough screening of aspirants’ credentials before the polls is an antidote to technical electoral loss The decision by the All Progressives Congress (APC) to raise a panel of eminent persons to screen its aspirants in the Edo State governorship party primary, is wise. The common saying that ‘once beaten twice shy’, is apt in the circumstance, considering the recent tragedy that befell the party in Bayelsa State. The Bayelsa heartbreak was not just for the APC members, but for all Bayelsans who voted for the party in the 2019 governorship election. After Chief David Lyon and Mr Degi-Eremienyo were duly elected as governor and deputy governor at the polls, the Supreme Court nullified the election, on the ground of inconsistency in the names on the certificates submitted by the deputy gubernatorial winner. And by that judgment, APC’s victory at the polls turned from a sweet morsel to ash cake. Even though Mr Degi-Eremienyo vehemently denied forging the certificates ascribed to him, incalculable political harm was done to the party and the electorate that preferred the APC to the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) as the party to rule Bayelsa State. So, the APC National Working Committee (NWC) was wise to raise an external panel, headed by Prof Jonathan Ayuba, to screen its candidates, to avert a repeat of the Bayelsa experience. Other members of the committee are Prof Agbo Madaki, Ibrahim Zailani, Senator Aishatu Dahiru Ahmed, Dr Jane-Frances Agbu, Fort Dike, and Dr Rabe Nasir as the secretary. The NWC also raised an appeal panel, headed by Prof Abubakar Fari, with Prof Sadeeque Abba, Gbenga Olubajo, Mohammed Idris and Esther Bepeh as members. Daniel Bwala will serve as secretary of the appeal committee. Clearly, the Bayelsa experience should be a lesson to all political parties, that small things matter in the electoral process. Considering the fact that candidates are more concerned about gaining an advantageous position over their competitors, they sometimes shoot themselves in the leg, in an attempt to win at all cost. In some cases, conflicting facts are deposed in separate affidavits, forgetting that what has been put on oath previously, remains sacrosanct. Again, what appears harmless to a lay man, may turn out a waterloo in the court. So the APC and her potential candidates, in Edo State, by this screening, may be taking inoculation against technical ambush, as we saw in Bayelsa State. They may be taking an insurance to ensure that when the people give their mandate at the polls, the beneficiaries will be allowed to serve the people who elected them. It is however important that the process is made completely transparent, so that the party would not jump from frying pan to fire. Of note, the state governor, Godwin Obaseki, had raised doubt about getting a fair chance at the screening, considering his tango with the chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole. Mr Oshiomhole is at the head of NWC, which has the final say on who flies the party’s flag. Governor Obaseki, despite his concerns, however submitted to the screening process, and we commend that. And now that he has been screened out, we would have expected him to appeal the screening committee’s decision. He has however ruled out this, even though he saw the process as unjust. We hope the committee’s decision was informed by what is best for the party and democracy. No doubt, when political parties practice transparent, free and fair internal democracy, the society is the ultimate beneficiary. We believe that APC has learnt its lessons with the debacles in Bauchi, Bayelsa and Zamfara states. The PDP, the main opposition party, has also had a number of regrets, arising from its rough-neck approach to internal democracy. We hope the pre-primary screening by the APC will further enhance Nigeria’s democratic culture.