 Sir: While the government continues to combat the global pandemic which has claimed the lives of over 400, 000 people worldwide and more than 300 in Nigeria, the news of heinous and horrendous killings continue to spread particularly, in the northern part of the country where bandits, terrorists and other criminal gangs have sent so many people to their early graves and destroyed property worth millions of dollars. On May 28, the news of the killing of over 74 people in an attack launched by the bandits on Garki, Dan Aduwa, Kuzari and Katuma, all in Sabon Birni Local Government of Area of Sokoto State flooded the media space. While commiserating with the people, Governor Aminu Tambuwal stated that the development was most disturbing considering the fact that he and the entire security architecture of the state had on Tuesday visited the area and had fruitful discussions with the traditional leaders and other stakeholders on how nip such unfortunate incidents in the bud. Days before the visitation, the bandits had killed two people in a foiled attack by the security agents and injured scores before they finally fled to the nearby forest after hours of gun battle with the security agencies. It was this incident and the need to give hope to the people that made the governor to lead the whole state security architecture to the scene. Unfortunately, the visitation did not deter the bandits from launching their nefarious attacks. This seems to be the experience of the inhabitants of the Southern Kaduna after the state governor, Nasir El-Rufai paid them a condolence visit over the death of over 50 people killed by the bandits in the area on March 1. During the visit, the governor apologised to the people and promised to eliminate the bandits. Yet, the bandits have continued to rain terror on the people despite the assurances by the governor. In fact, on June 4, the umbrella body of Southern Kaduna natives, the Southern Kaduna Peoples Union, SOKAPU, said 30 decomposed bodies of their natives, were in the bushes and no one could go near for fear of reprisals since the gunmen struck in Tudu village of Agwala Dutse General Area in Kajuru Local Government Area, of the state on June 3. The same story is told of six villages namely, Tungar Malan, Manyan Karaje, Tungar Arne, Dangodon Maiyakane, Dangodon Mai Masallaci and Boleke in Maru and Talata-Mafara Local Government Areas of Zamfara State where 21 people were killed by armed bandits with the intent to rustle cows between June 2 to June 3. Considering the speed at which the violence is gradually turning the states that are considered to be the food basket of the nation into baskets of violence, the nation risks an imminent famine. Just like the Boko Haram which has claimed the lives of over 30,000 people, destroyed property worth billions of naira, displaced millions of people most of who now live like refugees in their father land since its commencement in 2009, the speed at which this banditry crisis is moving can breed similar dreaded terrorist groups if not confronted with concerted response. Concerted response, should include meetings with traditional leaders, local government chairmen, and other stakeholders at the grassroots to form anti-crime squads that will include the police and her sister agencies with bases at the village level across the affected areas. While at the broader level, the government should roll out programmes that will reduce illiteracy, poverty, unemployment and increase sensitization at all levels so that the labour of our heroes pass will not be in vain. Because in a state of insecurity, to achieve economic development, progress and unity will be difficult. 