Samsung air conditioners are recognised as world-leading products, having won various global awards* for design, advanced performance, and a focus on protecting the environment. More importantly, they continue to provide many homes in Africa a higher level of comfort that puts your family’s health first and even includes intelligent features such as the Triple Protector Plus, which protects you from power surges. This focus on human-centred technologies and cutting-edge innovations in design and technology, ensures that the Samsung range continues provide advanced cooling for a better life. “At Samsung, our goal is to develop aircons designed for the way we live now – a range that blends modern design with innovative new technologies,” said Dudu Mohholo, Chief Marketing Officer at Samsung Central Africa. “With these products, we’re giving our consumers the ability to choose from several ways to make their homes more comfortable and healthier.” The Samsung range includes the AR3000, AR4500, AR5500 and AR7500. It includes pioneering features such as: Fast Cooling HD Filter Good Sleep 2-Way Auto Swing DuraFin™ Plus Wind-Free™ One of the most innovative features in the range is Wind-Free™. Samsung’s original Wind-Free™ airconditioner was an instant hit upon its launch. The new generation Wind-Free™ airconditioner takes innovation to a new level. This includes energy saving of up to 77% than Fast Cooling and an intelligent assistant that notes your absence from a room and automatically adjusts to energy saving mode. It’s purification system also ensures cleaner air and a healthier environment. Ultimately, Samsung’s exclusive Wind-Free™ Cooling technology provides you with a cool indoor climate without the discomfort of direct cold airflow There is no doubt you can now discover a new way of life that is cool, fresh and convenient. Depending on your specific budget and air-conditiong needs, whether you choose the AR3000, AR4500, AR5500 or the AR7500, you have a breath of fresh air that makes life effortlessly better. *Efficiency & Innovation 2018, International Design Excellence Awards 2017, CES Innovation Awards 2017, iF Product Design Awards 2017 About Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. inspires the world and shapes the future with transformative ideas and technologies. The company is redefining the worlds of TVs, smartphones, wearable devices, tablets, cameras, digital appliances, printers, medical equipment, network systems and semiconductor and LED solutions. For the latest news, please visit the Samsung Newsroom at https://news.samsung.com/africa_en/