Recently, the 2020 international widows’ day was celebrated in low-key due to the global health crisis. Amidst the ravaging COVID-19 pandemic, widows in Nigeria shared their tales of neglect and survival, reports ALAO ABIODUN. “When my husband died, I spent so much money and sold so many items just to take care of him during his sickness. Even the house my husband rented then, it was when the caretaker wanted to collect money (house-rent) that I left the house with my six children, then I stayed at Mowe and still left there for another place.” – These were the heart-rending words of Mrs. Adekale Abiodun, a woman with six children. She has been a widow for over five years trying to survive through the rough terrains with little resources and help from an NGO. Undisputedly, losing one’s husband at any point is not a thing of envy. The plights of widows and the challenge of widowhood in Nigeria can be heart-rending especially amid the ravaging pandemic which has significantly altered everyone’s daily course of activities and survival. Another woman, Mrs Goodluck, who has been a widow for 10 years said: “Sadly, 10 years ago, my husband died. I have four children. When my husband died, he was not sick. it was not easy. Thank God anyway, I’m standing with the promise of God. My kids were small when he died. My husband died during the period my first born gained admission into college.” Generally, the loss of a loved one is usually traumatic and heartbreaking. For many widows, the psychological challenges, financial constraints and burden of raising children alone with the cultural demands can be draining. Blessing Kaja, who hails from Imo state, has been a widow for seven years with two children. She revealed how she has been shouldering the burden. She said: “I sell rice, beans and other food items at Bariga, I have been trying to cope since my husband died, and now COVID-19 has made things bad. My kids are still young, and paying their fees has been challenging”. Tales of neglect Many of these widows lamented how families of their deceased husbands neglected them and the children, causing them to survive through hard means. But nothing has tasked them as much as the COVID-19 pandemic. It has worsened their situations in the past few months with a devastating effects. It has left many women “newly widowed” at just the time when they are cut off from their usual socio-economic and family supports. Mrs. Elizabeth John, who has been a widow for nine years with four children, said: “I’ve been alone with my four children with no help from my husband’s family. I have been struggling to pay for their fees even with the support I was getting, it is not easy I want the government to come to our aid” The untimely demise of a woman’s husband is always the beginning of a painful era. Often, she is not only despised, she gets abandoned by her once-loving in-laws. Even older widows provide no succour for her. This sad tale is also the same for Mrs. Bola Adeosun, who has been a widow for 11 years, with three children. She said: “It is just me and my children. I have been surviving with the grace of God. My husband died in 2009 and my husband’s family didn’t help. Paying my children’s fees has also been difficult, I’ve been borrowing all around to make sure I get a better future for my children”. Surviving widowhood Widows face a lot of challenges in Nigeria, ranging from food insecurity, lack of good shelter, failure to find basic and school necessities for their children, difficulty in accessing working capital for small-scale businesses and victimisation by harmful cultural practices. For them, surviving widowhood is more than just “coming through alive”. It’s a journey where one has to grow stronger and more independent. Widowhood often causes financial stress because a major income source is lost with the death of a husband. John lamented how she has been struggling to make ends meet. She said: “I have been managing. Where I’m selling, the market has been closed down. Although My first born is married, I still need help, I’ve been trying to survive. I sell Yam and some food items. Since the lockdown began, they have locked the place down.” Mrs. Adekale Abiodun, who is nurturing six children, said: “I have been managing. I’ve been doing work like washing clothes, cleaners. Then I switched to selling clothes (Okirika), I got a container. When the market was not moving, I started selling food.” Similarly, Mrs. Bola Adeosun, who is into polythene nylon processing, said: “The COVID-19 crisis has affected my business especially during the lockdown. We are trying to manage the little we have.” Mrs. Balogun Funke, who hails from Ogun state, said: “My husband died 12 years ago, and since then, I have been trying to survive in every way. I’m working, I’m into supplies. I started selling gift items but it didn’t move well, then I returned back to doing supplies.” Ray of hope  While many widows have lamented about the unfair treatment meted against them and their struggle for survival in a disadvantaged society where they are excluded, they called on the government to come to their aid through legislation and an adequate empowerment programme that will cater for their welfare and their psychological well-being. Executive Trustee of Joyful Smiles Foundation (JSF), Mr Tayo Kayode, who has been offering succour to widows, said: “There are many widows and widowers among us who are suffering rejection from the society at large.
“Our foundation advocates for legislative reform and enforcement of laws to promote and protect women’s rights. National policies and programs must integrate widowhood into current development plans and strategies.” The foundation has continuously provided succour to the widows in the society since 2000. They’ve constantly given hope to the hopeless and to put smiles on their faces. “Firstly, one of the major challenges the widows have is devastation. Mostly, about 99% of them have no accommodation and many have quite a number of children, so what we do (JSF) is to stabilise them. “Many of the widows spend so much especially if their husband went through illness. We also counsel and console them, and then cater for their accommodation. We also provide their immediate needs,” he stated.
Over 1,000 widows have benefitted from the foundation with many thanking the NGO for its tremendous support. They however called on the government at all levels to take a cue from the foundation, collaborate and support the widows in the society.