Transnational Corporation of Nigeria (Transcorp) Plc has expressed optimism that the appointment of Mrs Foluke Abdulrazaq as its Vice Chairman would help to further facilitate the achievement of its long-term corporate goals. Abdulrazaq’s appointment took effect on Friday, June 05, 2020. Chairman, Transnational Corporation of Nigeria (Transcorp) Plc, Mr. Tony Elumelu said the appointment of Abdulrazaq demonstrated the group’s commitment to the highest level of governance, human capital investment and diversity and inclusion across all layers of its businesses. According to him, Abdulrazaq’s reputation as one of Nigeria’s senior business leaders and public servants, coupled with her track record of championing the role of women in business will be an inspiration. “I am also pleased to announce her appointment as the vice chairman, the first occupant of this role in the history of Transcorp,” Elumelu said. He added that Abdulrazaq’s extensive leadership experience would support the new management team, led by Mrs. Owen Omogiafo, who recently unveiled her five-year strategic business goals. Omogiafo’s plan included expansion of the investment portfolio of the Transcorp Group through strategic acquisitions; deepening the market share of the existing businesses, and diversifying into the manufacturing sector, to help realise the group’s vision of improving lives and transforming the economy. private sectors.  Her public service career includes serving as a Commissioner in the Ministries of Finance and Women Affairs in Lagos State, when during her tenure, the broad policies that led to the state’s Accelerated Revenue Generation Programme (ARGP) were formulated. She was also the chairman of the state’s Tenders’ Board, a member of the Federal Accounts Allocation Committee (FAAC), and the State’s Executive Council.  Abdurazaq has held, over a period of 20 years, a series of senior positions in the Nigerian financial services sector, including her appointment by the Central Bank of Nigeria and NDIC in September 1995, as the Executive Chairman of the Interim Management Board of Credite Bank Nigeria Limited. She also served on the group board of United Bank of Africa (UBA) Plc from 2008 to 2020, when she retired as the chairperson of the Board Credit Committee.  Abdulrazaq holds an M.Sc degree in Banking and Finance from the University of Ibadan. Transcorp has one of the largest shareholder bases, with about 300,000 shareholders, on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), and is a leading power producer in the country and owner of the iconic Transcorp Hilton Hotel in Abuja, among other significant assets including oil and gas.