Leader of the Movement for the Actualisation of the Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB), Chief Ralph Uwazuruike, has denied receiving any oil block from the Federal Government to drop agitations for Biafra. He told his accuser, leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Mr. Nnamdi Kanu, the allegation was baseless and malicious. Rather than accusing him falsely, Uwazurike said Kanu should he grateful to him for getting Biafra into the membership of the Unrepresented Nations and Peoples Organization (UNPO) in the Hague. In a statement on Thursday by Chief Ralph Uwazuruike’s Personal Assistant on Media Matters, Elder Chris Mocha, the MASSOB leader dismissed the allegation as outright falsehood. He wondered where the IPOB leader got the information after leader of Niger Delta People’s Volunteer Force (NDPVF), Alhaji Asari Dokubo, already confirmed the South East does not benefit from the about 77 oil wells and blocks in the country. On allegation of abandoning the agitation for Biafra, Uwazuruike, who is also the leader of the Biafra Independent Movement (BIM), described Kanu as “a drowning man in the struggle for BIafra which he knew nothing about except globe- trotting and causing panic and confusion”. The statement described Uwazuruike as firm, credible and genuinely fighting for the emancipation of his persecuted and marginalised Igbo Christians in Nigeria. He accused Kanu of only targeting to bring him to disrepute before the international community. “Instead of him (Nnamdi Kanu ) to remain ever greatful to Uwazuruike’s group that worked under the scorching sun and rain to ensure the facilitation of the admission of BIafra into UNPO membership, he busied himself blackmailing his master. “Nnamdi Kanu and his gullible IPOB members have not been comfortable with the recent admission of Biafra as the 46th Member- Nations of the Unrepresented Nations & Peoples Organization (UNPO), which was secured through Uwazuruike -led BIM-MASSOB,” the statement reads. The statement expressed happiness that notwithstanding the allegation, pro-Biafran members were still solidly behind Uwazuruike’s indefatigable committment for the achievement of the self- determination for BIafra through non violent process.