The Delta State University (DELSU), Abraka, has risen to 38th in the Webometric ranking of Nigerian universities – 40 places up from its former 78th position. The institution was also ranked the best seventh state university – up from its former 19th position. Nigeria has a total of 170 universities made up of 43 Federal-owned; 48 state-owned and 79 private universities. The latest rankings involved 30,000 universities across 200 countries. The improved ranking is a plus for DELSU Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Andy Egwunyenga, who resumed office six months ago. At his first Senate on December 11, 2019, he assured his colleagues that he would work assiduously with them towards making DELSU the best state university in practically all aspects, including aesthetics and environmental upliftment. It was obvious he had carefully thought through his mandate. Many members of the university community have congratulated the VC on the feat. Former Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Administration), Prof. C.P. Aloamaka, said: “This achievement is not surprising. It is not enough to know what to do, but it is more rewarding to carry people along in working towards your goal. This has earned DELSU great success”. In another congratulatory message, Prof. John Igwe, who contended for the vice-chancellorship position with Egwunyenga, said: “Our V.C you are doing great .The next leap will revolve around visibility, strong broadbrand internet connectivity.” Responding to the messages, Prof Egwunyenga called for more work to further improve the institution’s ranking. “There is still a lot of work to do to further this modest leap. After robust web presence, we need to increase research output and learning infrastructure, equip libraries, laboratories and workshops and develop linkages with other Universities around the world,” he said. According to Cybermetrics lab website, which is behind the Webometrics ranking of world universities, universities are ranked based on certain criteria: “The ranking web is not a ranking of websites of Universities. It is a ranking of Universities. It uses both webometrics (all missions) and bibliometric (research missions) indicators”.