 Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) involves the partial or total removal of the external female genitalia or other injury to the female genital organs for non-medical reasons, classified by experts into four major types. Type 1:  This is the partial or total removal of the clitoral glans (the external and visible part of the clitoris, which is a sensitive part of the female genitals), and/or the prepuce/clitoral hood (the fold of skin surrounding the clitoral glans). Type 2:  This is the partial or total removal of the clitoral glans and the labia minora (the inner folds of the vulva), with or without removal of the labia majora (the outer folds of skin of the vulva ). Type 3, also known as infibulation, is the narrowing of the vaginal opening through the creation of a covering seal, where the seal is formed by cutting and repositioning the labia minora, or labia majora, sometimes through stitching, with or without removal of the clitoral prepuce/clitoral hood and glans. Type 4 includes all other harmful procedures to the female genitalia for non-medical purposes, e.g. pricking, piercing, incising, scrapping and cauterising the genital. Societies and communities around the globe practice the different types of FGM, claiming it is a panacea for promiscuity and means of protecting women’s chastity. It is prevalent in about 28 countries in Africa and few scattered communities globally. But its burden is seen in Nigeria, Egypt, Mali,  Eritrea, Sudan, Central African Republic and Northern part of Ghana, where it has been an old traditional and cultural practice. Dr Juliet Ofor, a medical practitioner with the Federal Medical Centre, Jabi, Abuja, says “the act is a reflection of deep-rooted inequality between the sexes, and constitutes extreme form of discrimination against women.” According to Ofor, the procedure is  carried out on minors, thus making it a violation of the rights of children. Also, Dr Yeti Kunle of University of Port Harcourt Teaching Hospital, listed the numerouscomplications of FGM as severe pain, excessive bleeding (haemorrhage), genital tissue swelling, fever, infection, urinary problems, wound healing problems, injury to surrounding genital tissue, shock and even death. According to her, long-term complications can include urinary problems (painful urination, urinary tract infections, vaginal problems (discharge, itching, bacterial vaginosis and other infections); menstrual problems (painful menstruation, difficulty in passing menstrual blood, etc. “Others include scar tissue and keloid; sexual problems (pain during intercourse, decreased satisfaction, etc.), increased risk of childbirth complications, the need for later surgeries to seal or narrow the vaginal opening.” “Sometimes genital tissue is stitched again several times, including after childbirth, hence the woman goes through repeated opening and closing procedures, further increasing both immediate and long-term risks.” Mrs. Hannah Shehu, an activist on women issues, says moving forward, women empowerment and financial independence are imperative in achieving eradication. She called for males support and promotion of the rights of the girl-child as necessary tools toward eradicating the harmful practice. Osuoha is of the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)