 Youths of Egbema Ozubulu in Ekwusigo Local Government Area of Anambra state have raised alarm over alleged incessant arrests, harrasement and gangsterism in the area. They accused certain members of the community connected to the government of being responsible for the ugly development, expressing fears that it might lead to another Ozubulu mascacar if not checked. No fewer than thirteen persons had lost their lives and scores injured in August, 2017, following shooting at St. Philip’s Catholic Church in the same community. Speaking to newsmen on Tuesday, the Youth Chairman, Uruezi Youth Forum, Engr Chibueze Chukwunofu regretted that the trend had rendered the area uncondusiv for the youths, compelling some of them to flee the community. He said, “We are here to tell the whole world that our community is no longer conducive and safe for my members. They are being tagged as cultists because they don’t have anybody to defend them. “When I came on board, I decided to stand up for my people. I started from Ozubulu Police station to Area Command because the youth are all running away from the village and I’m pleading with them to return. “Recently, they arrested six of us. They even accused me of being a cultist. I’m ready to provide them with my details, including the university I attended and year of graduation for their investigations. “None of these people have done anything for the community, including sponsoring any single youth academically or otherwise. All they do is brag because they have someone in government and feel they can get what they want. “We want to make sure that another episode of Ozubulu doesn’t repeat itself because there’s an extent you push someone to the wall and he’ll have no option than to react.” Another youth, Onyebuchi Osuigwe who said he was also tagged a cultist, said he was among those arrested and detained for days before he was bailed. Addressing the youths, the Anti cult Commander, Enugwu-Ukwu, SP Uche Onyinnaya thanked them for conducting themselves in a peaceful manner, urging them to approach their traditional ruler for amicable resolution to the matter.