 BARELY few weeks after a group of United Kingdom (UK)-based indigenes of Sobe in Owan West Local Government Area of Edo State donated foodstuffs to the elderly in the community, some hundreds of facemasks have also been distributed to residents of the community. This time, it was courtesy of France-based renowned art curator Bose Fagbemi. The distribution of the personal protection equipment, which was produced locally, was coordinated by Rev. Fr Clement Oddiah and a school teacher Miss Mary Itiku. According to Rev Oddiah, the items were shared among the less privileged and elderly in the community through churches, mosques and commercial motor-cycle’s operators and transport unions who are the likely vulnerable people in the community. He said the donation was to complement what other groups and government have been doing to mitigate the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on members of the community, especially the elderly. “In line with the directive of Nigerian Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and the Federal Government that as part of ways of checking the spread of the coronavirus, nose masks were made compulsory for every citizen. So, as a way of giving back to the society, we decided to complement the efforts of the state government in flattening the curve,” he said. This is not the first time Fagbemi will be giving back to Sobe community. Last year October, she organised a skill acquisition programme at the St. Thomas Catholic Parish ground in Sobe to train no fewer than 40 women and jobless young girls in different skills that will put food on their tables. The empowerment programme included soap and disinfectants making, business development training as well as motivational talks. The exercise tagged Multi-disciplinary Creative, which lasted for a day had Genevieve Egbunno as trainer, while Mary Itiku was motivational speaker. The event was co-organised by Rev. Fr Polycarp, Rev. Fr Clement Oddiah and coordinated by Osas Oburekin. Recalling her experiences at the training session, Egbunno said: “The participants were taught how to make soap and disinfectant while Itiku took them on the dangers of drug, crime and human trafficking among other vices. They were very responsive and happy to be part of the exercise. In fact, they wanted the event to run for more days.” Egbunno is a 2008 graduate of Economics from the University of Nigeria, Nsukka. She is the creative director of Sovieve, a ready to wear women’s fashion brand with the vision to empower young disadvantaged girls and women through free fashion classes to promote economic growth and gender equality. Itiku is a 2013 holder of HND in Animal Production Technology from College of Agriculture, Lafia, Nasarawa State. But for COVID-19 pandemic, the skill acquisition programme would have become an annual event to empower lots of the teeming youths in Sobe community, according to Fagbemi who regretted the cancellation of this year’s edition.