Imposed to contain the spread of the Coronavirus, the lockdown in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Lagos and  Ogun for almost five weeks affected the research works of some varsity lecturers. ABDULSALAM MAHMUD reports. Following the rising cases of COVID-19 in the  country, President Muhammadu Buhari, on March 30, approved the lockdown of Abuja, Lagos and Ogun states, places with alarming cases of the  virus. Buhari noted that the stay-at-home directive was imperative as part of measures to combat the spread of the disease ravaging the world. Some governors also ordered the lockdown of their states, in a bid to stem the community spread of the pandemic. Howevervarsity lecturers across tertiary institutions have unanimously lamented how the lockdown disrupted the researches they had embarked upon. UNIUYO Dr. Moses Ekong, a Senior Lecturer in the Faculty of Basic Medical Sciences, University of Uyo (UNIUYO), Akwa Ibom State, decried the negative impact of the COVID-19 lockdown on the research work of one of his Master’s (MS.c) students. He was on the verge of completing his research, and just about to test the anti-epileptic action of some natural plants he was monitoring. And after that, we would only be left with looking at the results and analysing them. But he was forced to suspend his research activities immediately the coronavirus pandemic broke out in the country, and forced all schools to be shut,” he noted. Dr. Ekong said though he and his student experienced hiccups in their research work when the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) of UNIUYO branch embarked on an industrial action,  the subsequent closure of their university as a result of the lockdown compounded their ‘misery’. “The stoppage of various research and teaching activities in UNIUYO started since the ASUU members downed their tools.It happened even before Federal Government and the state governments ordered everybody to stay at home. And ever since, all academic and research activities have been grounded. Only God knows when they will be activated again,” he concluded. UNN But the UNIUYO don was not the only researcher affected. Dr. Emmanuel Esom, another Senior Lecturer, but at the University of Nigeria (UNN), Enugu Campus, narrated how his doctoral student also suspended his research work, following the ‘unceremonious’ emergence of the lockdown, which halted important activities at tertiary institutions across the country. Speaking to CAMPUSLIFE, Esom, a former Head of Department (HoD) of Anatomy Department in the premier Ivory Tower, disclosed: “My Ph.D. student would have completed his research work by now. Unfortunately, he has been stucked. The young man was carrying out a research on a plant extract which he characterised in Benue State. But due to the restriction of movement as a result of the lockdown, he could not travel to Benue to collect the sample of the extract to be used for laboratory experiment and test. We are hoping that by the time the lockdown is relaxed a bit, he will find a way to transport the needed sample down here, and continue his work.” Esom, who maintained that research efforts without adequate funds will suffer, expressed dismay as to why food items, medical supplies and other essential products are imported into the country amid lockdown, but chemicals and other reagents are not. He said the lockdown also frustrated the efforts of some of his colleagues who ordered for scientific supplies and other locally-sourced materials to complete their research works. ABU, Zaria As for Dr. Kaisan Muhammad Usman, who lectures at the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) Zaria, Kaduna State, the lockdown brought along some challenges that prevented him and a team of mechanical engineers from ABU Zaria and other sister tertiary institutions in the North, from quickly completing the fabrication of their 4-in-1 Automatic Sanitising Machine. “The lockdown, like it affected countless scientists and researchers in Nigerian universities, also affected us. I and my team encountered minor challenges in the process of procuring, and swiftly transporting some of the materials we used to produce our sanitising machine,” he said. Usman, who is the Head of Bio-fuels Engines and Emission Research Group in Mechanical Engineering Department, while strongly asserting that the COVID-19 lockdown negatively impacted on scientific research in the country, noted that some researchers find it difficult working conveniently in their homes because of distractions and non-access to some basic facilities. He said: “But again, the stay-at-home order will not allow the researchers and some of us to go to our respective offices, laboratories or workshops. We all know that most designs, lab analyses and data computations require deep concentration and little or no distraction. So, how do we now expect to get the luxury of working in a conducive atmosphere and calm environment in times like these?” According to Dr. Usman, those involved in the innovation of machines and other gadgets, especially engineers who have to first produce prototypes of machines, equipment and gadgets they intend to fabricate, will become handicapped without the working tools and raw materials, which can only be found in engineering workshops. He described the situation as a “great setback” to research and innovation in the country, saying: “Equally, we also have a serious challenge in the area of procurement. Some materials and spare parts that used to be readily available, and essentially needed in the fabrication of a prototype are now difficult to procure. And it is because either the vendors are indoor due to lockdown, or the online trading merchant cannot ship them to the researcher’s country, as a result of the COVID-19 epidemic. Then, as our banks have also been closed, commercial transportation crippled, and other basic service scarce to get, how do one access funds, procure materials and deliver them to the supposed destination?” UNICAL On her part, Dr. Agnes Akudo Nwakanma, a trained anatomist from the University of Calabar (UNICAL), Cross Rivers State, said the COVID-19 crisis and subsequent closure of universities caught many scientists and researchers in the country off-guard. She said: “Personally, I had started a research on “stress” with my students. We were to induce stress in experimental animals, and then study the effect on various parts of the brain and its functions. While the second part of the study was to investigate the ameliorative (or therapeutic) potentials of some herbs. This study was a very important study for me, because I have suffered stress and have experienced the neurological and other effects of stress. So, as a scientist, I needed to find simple solutions for stress.” The female lecturer, who specialises in Neurobiology, Immunohistochemistry and Histology, however said the coronavirus lockdown, as well as ASUU’s nationwide strike, disrupted everything. “The animals to be used for the study were already on ground and cannot be left to die. So, the students had to stay back and continue the work without supervision. So you can see that the aim of that study cannot be achieved. The lockdown made it worse, I cannot even go to school to do anything because I reside in Imo State, which is far from my university. I must also tell you that we have tissues that were to be sent to National hospital Abuja for analysis over a month ago, but because of the lockdown they are still in preservatives,” said Dr. Nwakanma, who is also the Examination Officer of Anatomy Department at the Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu University in Anambra State. OOU The story was also not different with Prof. Ahmed Adedeji of the Faculty of Basic Medical Sciences, Olabisi Onabanjo University (OOU), in Ogun State. Adedeji, a Professor of Pharmacology, said no thanks to the lockdown, some students’ research relating to animals and model flies have been suspended in their research unit. “Other research teams working with us had to defer some of their activities too. An example is the studies on how to use herbs in the treatment of jaundice in childhood using animal model,” he said. The pharmacology professor, who is also the Head of Future of Medicine, Science, Technology and Innovation Group (FoMSTIG) at OOU, said his students at the Neurophytotherapy Research Unit could not proceed on their phototherapeutic investigations on neurodevelopmental rodent models of human psychotic disorders. This, he said, was because they could not move around freely to continue their daily administrations of interventions, as well as periodic neurobehavioural assessments of previous administrations made. GSU An academic exchange programme between Gombe State University (GSU), and a group of Chinese of scientists would have become a ‘done deal’, save for the lockdown in the country. Prof. Adepoju Oluwasanumi, who disclosed this to CAMPUSLIFE in a phone interview, said talks about an agreement between their university and the Chinese scholars were concluded, since last October. He stated that the outbreak of coronavirus in both China and Nigeria, forced plans for the programme to be suspended. The Professor of Educational Research and Evaluation, added that though the online collaborations their university have with other tertiary institutions were not affected, the ones that have to do with travelling and physically being in other universities, were seriously affected, both locally and internationally. His words: “The thing is, research activities, including collaborations with others, both locally and internationally will definitely key into the new way of doing things. That is less of physical interactions and more of e- interactions. Again, researchers, and research organisations must embrace the challenges posed by the lockdown, and explore adequately, some hidden opportunities. They must re-strategise to ensure that their research activities are still topical and relevant to the new realities, while not neglecting the possible impact of the new norms in the conduct of researches.” UNILORIN Weighing in on the issue, a Professor of Biochemistry at the University of Ilorin (UNILORIN), Musa Toyin Yakubu, also agreed that research, innovation and academic advancement were all slowed down as a result of the lockdown. “Some research had to be terminated while a host of others were suspended. These have led to wastage of investment. Because some of these experiments have to be repeated again from the beginning. Meaning additional costs will have to be incurred,” he said. Prof. Yakubu, who is a Fellow of the Nigerian Society of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology (FNSBMB), urged government to take advice offered by scientists. “Britain, Sweden, Japan etc., are following advice from their scientific think tanks in formulating their responses to the pandemic. Our government must be proactive by emulating them,” he stressed.