 In partnership with UNESCO, The UN World Oceans Day and the U.S Consulate General; Lagos, STEMi Makers Africa commemorated World Oceans Day on Monday. The virtual summit which had as theme: “The Science We Need for the Ocean we want” was attended by over 985 participants from 16 African countries and six international communities who signed up to engage global scientists and thought leaders to discuss this extremely important issue at such a critical time in history. The summit was organised to celebrate the role of the oceans in everyday life, inspire actions to protect the ocean and sustainable use of marine resources. The Summit also addressed issues on oil spillage, environmental pollution, marine habitat conservation, hazard exploitation of our natural resources and designing Innovative strategies for a sustainable ocean. The event had South African oceanographer from the University of Cape Town, Dr. Kolisa Sinyanya; scientist and L’Oreal – UNESCO Women in Science recipient, Dr. Demilade Fayemiwo; and Public Affairs Officer, U.S Consulate Russell Brooks as members of the panel moderated by Strategy Lead for STEMi Makers Africa, Amanda Obidike. Brooks spoke on plastic pollution and how to reverse threats to the continent’s coasts, oceans and marine life. He also shared how the U.S Government can assist countries on oil spillage threatening the marine ecosystem. Oceanographer, Sinyanya introduced the audience to numerous opportunities, grants and Fellowship programmes that young people can explore in ocean sciences alongside with the impactful role of phytoplankton to human lives. Dr. Demilade talked about science not being enough to save the oceans, underscoring the collective responsibility of all to contribute to reducing waste and increasing the sustainable production of biodegradable products like plastic and plastic bags. On her part, Ms. Obidike said STEMi Makers Africa was committed to raising global awareness of the benefits humans derive from the ocean and their duty to use its resources sustainably.