 Inspirations are derived from various sources. And when it comes to making music, the sources can be as diverse as unusual. For US-based Nigerian singer and student, Olusegun Femi Adeyemo, popularly known as Notfemii, his inspiration comes from sources as unusual as his uncommon talent. “I get my inspirations when I’m flying or when I’m in a quiet place. I also get my inspirations by listening to other old songs for versatility. Also, Adekunle Gold has a great influence in my sound. I mastered all the songs on his albums because I can relate to them. I sound more like Kizz Daniel, Joeboy and Adekunle. Let’s just say I’m versatile,” he said. Notfemii says the uniqueness of his sound would stand in out in the music industry, saying he doesn’t make meaningless music like many out there.
“Unlike many songs out there that really don’t have meaning, the unique thing about my music is my voice, my cadence and also my range in music; I am very versatile with my sound. Good music to me is any song you can relate or at least vibe to, the listeners have to have a connection with your songs most of the time. Notfemii is presently an undergraduate of Morgan State University, Maryland, USA. He is uncannily blessed with the ability to play any song on almost any musical instruments as long as he hears it. According to him, he started music when he was just 8 in the primary school. Even as at that time he could play various musical instruments. But professionally, music started for him in 2017. His first single titled “Uncomfortable” was produced by him. The beat for the song, as he said, was produced in his room and sent to friends for mixing and mastering. And when the song dropped family and friends knew a star was born. The first single was originally released in 2018 but refixed and eventually released on March 20, 2019. He followed up the good work with another single “Wanting More” in December 25, 2019 and his third single, “Angie” featuring Dremo dropped April 17, 2020. It was mixed and mastered by Reverb. His best Nigerian artistes include Style Plus, Oritse femi, 2baba, Fela, and Adekunle Gold. “At different points in my life, these were the artistes I vibed to,” he said. Notfemii is presently unsigned to any record label but confident the future holds a lot of promises. He hails from Osun State in Nigeria.