The lawmaker representing Ebonyi Northwest constituency in the state House of Assembly, Victor Aleke, on Tuesday said the suspected killers of his younger brother Sam Aleke had been arrested. Sam Aleke was found dead in the boot of his car along Nkwuagu Road near a millitary cantonment in Abakaliki about two weeks ago after he was declared missing by the wife. The lawmaker who spoke in Abakaliki, the state capital, said he employed the services of intelligence agencies to trace the killers. He said the suspects Mr. Nwibo and his wife conspired to kill his brother. Victor Aleke said that Nwibo alleged that he met the late brother naked with Mrs Nwibo in their house, though she denied being caught with the deceased naked. The suspects have been handed over to police, he said. He said, “Yes I caught the people that killed my brother. They are husband and wife and they have confessed to the crime. The man who helped them is still on the run but the main culprits are in the police custody. “The main culprit who hails from Mkpalugkwu in Izzi Local Government Area was my late brother’s classmate in ESUTH and even the wife came to my brother’s house the morning after they killed him to sympathise with his wife who is also her friend. Can you imagine that height of wickedness”. “According to the wife, in the morning when she was apprehended, she said her husband had earlier told her that he wanted to kill my late brother and she asked her husband what was my late brother’s offence. He got angry and beat her mercilessly and threatened to kill her if she disclosed his plan to anyone. “So he went and bought poison and gave her to add to a bottle of Coke they gave to my late brother. After drinking it he started complaining that his stomach was disturbing him. He collapsed and they took him to his car with some other unidentified persons and made sure he was dead. “She also confessed that she and my brother never had carnal knowledge of each other.” Police spokesman, Loveth Odah confirmed the arrest of some suspects but refused to mention their names.