 BETWEEN Ikeja Electric (IE) and an estimated bill customer, with Account Number 0100218678, it’s been a tale of customer terrorism.  But don’t pitch your tent either way, until you get the facts. On June 12, IE sent Customer 0100218678 a telephone text message, concerning the May electricity bill it earlier sent.  The text read: “Dear 0100218678. Your payment of N17, 000 for your IE bill was successful.  Your outstanding bill is N21, 198.81.  Please pay to avoid service disruption.  For enquiries, call 017000250.” Yet, by June 24, the same IE that affirmed payment for its May bill, sent its gang to disconnect the account, on the excuse that co-tenants, on the four-flat property, were owing it!  That much information was extracted from the disconnecting gang, who felt unmoved disconnecting one customer for the sins of others, and bragged they’d do it over and over again.  What terrorism! For the records: the IE “outstanding bill” is no more than disputed past bills, for darkness supplied, nevertheless billed for, that IE has been pushing forward in its books, as instrument of accounting blackmail.  Billing for darkness aka ”crazy bills” is where DisCos nationwide have attained notoriety. Indeed, the so-called bill was an object of peaceful protest march by the Okota Residents Association (ORA) Zone A community (where Bill 0100218678 is resident), to the IE Okota Undertaking office on Okota Road; and for which an IE delegation had visited the residents to try thrash things out.  The resolve was to migrate from estimated billing to pre-paid meters, which process is ongoing. So, the so-called “outstanding bill” is no legal or rational basis to disconnect anyone.  Neither was it the basis for the June 24 disconnection.  As already reported, the basis was that another customers in the building was owing, so whoever that had paid should mount pressure on those that had not, to prevent being cut off, for service paid for! How a legally registered corporate citizen like IE could run on such thumping illogic is just bemusing.  Then, how its operatives could go unleashing such brigandage, on lawful customers, and hope to be taken seriously, is the height of corporate brigandage and terrorism. Indeed, IE and its tragically deluded operatives think they still live in the old glory days of NEPA, when they were the unfazed public and government problem child!  Hardball thinks the industry regulators should snap them out of their grand delusion. In its protest mail to IE customer care, Bill 017000250 bared it all — a classic case of common sense not being common, even to Ikeja Electric Plc:.”In carrying out this brazen act, your gang claimed a fellow tenant is owing IE — but how is that my business?  Do I now work for IE that I should join its disconnection gang to mount pressure on a co-tenant to pay his bill on the pains of disconnection, even if I have fulfilled my own contract with you?”  Is it not common sense that IE should separate the wires to secure its revenue? IE customer care cared so much they didn’t deign the mail required any response!  Still, in the spirit of full disclosure, the line has since been reconnected, since the erring party settled with IE.  But that didn’t blot out the injustice of the 24-hour blatant disruption and the combative ignorance with which the IE disconnection gang acted. It’s time the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) called IE and other DisCos to order, if their acts of brazen customer terrorism were not to lead to avoidable social tension and disorder.  A stitch in time saves nine.  Brazen outlawry is no corporate virtue.  Rather, it courts corporate catastrophe.