  The Rivers State branch of the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) has disclosed that 22 doctors in the state tested positive for coronavirus. The association, which decried lack of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) for their members fighting the virus, said 60 other health workers also tested positive for COVID-19. NMA, therefore, called on the state to urgently take an upward review of the hazard allowances paid to doctors under the state government employment. The state’s chairperson of NMA, Dr. Obelebra Adebiyi, who spoke Port Harcourt reeled out challenges faced by health workers in the state. Adebiyi said that despite efforts of the government in containing the spread of the virus, the state was till recording high number of cases. She said health workers in the state were compelled to provide PPEs for themselves and commended doctors practicing in the state for maintaining good professional conduct, despite the challenges. Adebiyi said: “The number of cases in Rivers state moved from zero, in less than 8 weeks, to about 450 confirmed cases with 21 deaths. This is really a worrisome situation. “More worrisome to us is the rising cases of infection among health workers. Currently 22 doctors and over 60 health workers have been confirmed positive and are receiving treatment across different isolation centers in the state. “The state has also recorded death of a health worker through coronavirus. This clearly calls for more action from the government, the heads of government and private health facilities in the state, and indeed the general public. “Health workers in public hospitals are left to provide personal protective equipment for themselves. Government must provide PPEs for all health workers in public and private hospital. “When health workers are unprotected, the risk for infection rises significantly and our collective effort to fight the pandemic is greatly hampered. This is another issue that must be ungently addressed if we will make progress in our fight against COVID-19.” 