The face-off between Dr. Akinwumi Adesina, President of the African Development Bank (AfDB), and the United States is indicative of the dangers that beset individuals whose combination of brilliance, achievement and path-breaking reform threatens the status quo. The US, through its treasury secretary, Mr. Steven Mnuchin, in May demanded an independent enquiry into allegations of ethics and other violations against Adesina, even after the bank’s ethics committee had completely cleared him of the allegations. In his letter to the bank’s board of governors, Mnuchin claimed that only an independent investigation of the accusations would fully resolve the issue. “We fear that the wholesale dismissal of all allegations without appropriate investigation will tarnish the reputation of this institution” he stated. The American position is supported by Denmark, Sweden, Norway and Finland. Bypassing established frameworks for dispute-resolution and discipline within an institution like AfDB is a strange way of ensuring the maintenance of integrity. Mnuchin apparently did not find fault with the ethics committee’s report. There were no claims of manipulation or interference, other than the fact that its findings cleared Adesina, a development the US clearly is dissatisfied with. The timing of this controversy is clearly aimed at preventing Adesina from getting a second term as AfDB President. Running unopposed on a record of demonstrable achievements, he was a virtual certainty for a second term until the accusations emerged. Adesina’s sterling performance as President of AfDB makes American hostility even more baffling. Since he assumed office in September 2015, he has substantially enhanced the bank’s lending capacity, shored up its finances, maintained its AAA-rating and expanded its innovativeness. In October 2019, the bank raised U.S $115 billion in fresh capital, an obvious reflection of strong confidence in the competence of the bank’s management. Adesina has tirelessly promoted AfDB as symbolic of a new vision of Africa: a continent that is determined to shed the old image of helpless dependency as it vigorously tackles the chronic challenges of development. He has lent his global reputation as one of the world’s top agricultural economists to the cause of the bank, winning the 2017 World Food Prize, the 2019 Sunhak Prize and the All Africa Business Leaders African of the Year award while in office. He was invited to the 2019 Group of Seven summit in Biarritz, France, in clear acknowledgement of the bank’s enhanced image under his leadership. His second-term bid has received the support of President Muhammadu Buhari, the African Union, the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), and prominent members of the continent’s private sector. Given this record of achievement and the ethic committee’s clearance of the allegations against him, it is surprising that the AfDB board is being pressured to undermine its own governance structures through dubious interventions of its non-regional members. This is the context in which the June 4 meeting of the board, reiterating its agreement with the Bank’s Ethics Committee report in accordance with the applicable rule of the Board of Governors comes as heart-warming. As the bank works its way through a clearly-unnecessary crisis of confidence, Africa would do well to look again at a shareholding structure which allows non-African members to have such an outsized say in the way it is run. Why are French nationals so prominent in the bank’s staff membership, compared to citizens of Nigeria, the largest shareholder? How is it that five of the bank’s 10 largest shareholders are not African? As for the United States, it must realise that undermining the governance structures of AfDB will not advance African development, a goal it has always claimed to strongly support. The independence of the bank must be respected by all its shareholders, regardless of the size of their shareholding. Akinwumi Adesina has proven beyond doubt that he is a fit and proper person to lead the African Development Bank for the next five years. So, let him be. Seeking to plant a stooge to replace him in a strong-arm election is certainly not the way to go.