 It is thought-provoking that two law courts, in three years, rubbished the construction. “State of Osun” does not mean Osun State, according to the courts, and the constructions should not be used interchangeably. The latest rejection of the construction happened on June 3 when Justice Mathias Agboola of the Osun State High Court, Osogbo, declared that, legally and constitutionally, “State of Osun” did not exist. He also declared that, under the Nigerian constitution, only Osun State could be said to exist. According to a report, Justice Agboola, “while delivering a judgement in a case brought before the court by a lawyer, Mr Kanmi Ajibola, against the state government over a personal tax of N5.3m that the state Internal Revenue Service asked him to pay, said it amounted to ‘artistic colouration’ when ‘Osun State’ is referred to as ‘State of Osun’.” The report said: “Ajibola had approached the court to seek redress over tax demanded from him which he said was punitive because he usually held opposing views to those of the immediate past governor, Rauf Aregbesola. “The lawyer also urged the court to declare the law upon which the tax was based as illegal since it was a law made by ‘The House of Assembly of State of Osun,’ a body unknown to the constitution.” According to the judge, “The issue of Osun State and the ‘State of Osun’ is a loud one,” adding that lawyers working for the state should enlighten the authorities about the legal implications of referring to Osun State as the “State of Osun.” He, however, advised Ajibola to seek redress on the tax matters through other procedures laid down by the tax law, then if all failed, he could return to court. On the issue of the continued use of the invalid construction, the problem may well be unenlightened power. It may well be that the unenlightened are in power, and prefer the fog of unenlightenment. More importantly, in December 2017, Justice Yinka Afolabi of the Osun State High Court, Ilesha, “declared that the change of name to ‘State of Osun’ by Gov. Rauf Aregbesola is illegal, null and void.” Justice Afolabi “ruled that the law and its makers were unknown to the 1999 Constitution.” According to a report, “Delivering judgment which lasted more than one hour, the judge chided Aregbesola for deliberately and singlehandedly renaming the state, contrary to the known norms and the nation’s constitution. “He also declared that the makers of the law, who are currently serving as members of the State House of Assembly, were not sworn in as members of the ‘State of Osun House of Assembly’ but as members of Osun State House of Assembly going by the seventh schedule of the constitution. “The judge said that since the creation of the state in 1991, previous governments used the constitutionally envisaged name of Osun State. All the other 35 states of the federation, he added, had not deviated from the constitutional names given to them.” Justice Afolabi’s words: “The executive governor of the state changed the name in 2011. The renaming of a state goes further and deeper for anyone to singlehandedly do. ”To re-order the name of Osun State as ‘State of Osun’ is hereby declared as illegal, null and void. ”On the oath of allegiance, I want to state that the Seventh Schedule is part of the law. “It is not a mere draft or mere oath. It does not give room for any alteration. After deposing to an oath of office, you cannot turn around to do otherwise.” It is noteworthy that this case was also instituted by Ajibola, who had challenged the legality of the “State of Osun Land Use Charge Law.’’ “Ajibola had gone to court in 2016, asking for certain reliefs after being served a notice by a private company known as ‘Interspatial Limited,’ “ said a report. “The notice was christened ‘State of Osun Land Use Charge Annual Demand Notice’ and signed by one Mrs A. Ogunlumade, Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Finance. ”According to him, the notice was addressed to him as the property owner of No. 42, Onigbogi Street off Ibala, Ilesa West, and served on Aug. 15, 2016. “Some of the reliefs he sought for included a declaration that the ‘State of Osun Land Use Charge Law 2016,’ having been enacted by a legislative body that is not known to the constitution and the state not known to the 1999 constitution, be declared illegal and unconstitutional. “Ajibola also asked the court to set aside the ‘State of Osun Land Use Charge Law 2016’ having been enacted by a legislative body that is not known to the constitution and the state not known to the 1999 constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended).” The judge granted all the seven prayers of the plaintiff. After the verdict, Ajibola had said:  ”The judgement has pronounced ‘State of Osun’ dead and so be it. For now, the judgement subsists except there is any other contrary opinion by the higher court. The effectiveness of the judgement is still standing. As it is, all laws promulgated and businesses done by the ‘State of Osun’ have been nullified and it will be an act of illegality to use the name ‘State of Osun’ for any transaction.” But in an 11-page notice of appeal filed on January 4, 2018, at the Court of Appeal in Akure, the then State Attorney General, Dr Ajibola Basiru, raised eight grounds of appeal against the judgement, asking the appellate court to set it aside. The matter is still at the Appeal Court, which means that Justice Afolabi’s judgement invalidating the construction has not been overturned by a higher court. But “officials of the state are still using ‘State of Osun’ in their official engagements and communications,” according to a report. This amounts to disregarding the law. When then Governor Rauf Aregbesola introduced the construction, it generated controversy; and the court cases reflect the controversy. Only the former governor can say why he introduced the construction in the first place. It was a pointless introduction of a pointless construction.