 Ekiti State House of Assembly has constituted an ad-hoc committee to summon former governor Ayodele Fayose to make clarifications on the N10billion supplementary budget passed by some members of the assembly in the twilight of his tenure. The house at its plenary yesterday said that the invitation would be extended to Fayose at the right time to explain some financial dealings he undertook while in office, especially the hurried passage of the 2018 supplementary budget. Invitation to Fayose on the passage of N10billion supplementary budget 30 days to his exit on October 15, 2018 was discussed on floor of the house last year, which prompted the ex-governor to storm the assembly complex uninvited in December 2019 to clarify issues, but he was resisted. At a news conference after the plenary presided over by Speaker Funminiyi Afuye, the Chairman, House Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Yemisi Ayokunle, said Fayose had not been formally invited by the assembly.  As part of the activities to celebrate one year of its inauguration, the assembly passed a motion mandating the executive arm to rename Ekiti State Civic Centre under construction as John Kayode Fayemi Cultural Centre, to honour Governor Fayemi for his sterling leadership and dedication to serve Ekiti people. The motion was moved by the lawmaker representing Moba 1, Adeyemi Ajibade, seconded by his colleague from Ikole II, Adeoye Aribasoye and adopted by the whole house. The legislators praised Governor Fayemi for putting up structures that facilitated robust executive-legislature smooth operation, describing him as worthy of being immortalised. The lawmaker added that the assembly had been thorough in the discharge of its oversight functions across Ministries, Departments and Agencies of the government as well as local governments to ensure financial probity. He said six other bills are at stages of legislative procedure and will soon be passed for executive assent. “Seventeen motions were passed into resolutions. They involved those executed by the executive to address emergency situations that will be for the benefit of citizens.” 