There is palpable tension and fear in Inen community in Oruk Anam local area of Akwa Ibom as two persons were at the weekend reportedly killed in a renewed clash between cult groups. Our correspondent gathered that the groups, Debam and Iceland confraternities engaged in a bloody supremacy face-off at the weekend leading to the deaths of one Johnson Uwah, a security personnel with Al Madal Construction Company. Another victim simply identified as ‘Papa Lucky’ said to be from Etok Inen was also allegedly killed by the hoodlums. An eyewitness who refused to be named for security reasons disclosed that the bodies of the deceased were found on Saturday morning along a lonely footpath leading to the neighbouring village “We woke up this morning to see two corpses lying down on the footpath leading to another village. “On inspection, we discovered that it was our brother Ufot Johnson Uwah known in the community as”. A Raggae” and the other one “Papa Lucky” from Etok Inen village. We are shock” “A Raggae was lying down with his boots in the leg and bare body but blood oozed out from the nose facing the sky showing that there was a scuffle with his assailants while “Papa Lucky was lying down with his clothes intact” She said the elder brother of the deceased Iboro Johnson Uwah with the village head called the police in OrukAnam who rushed to evacuate to corpses to the mortuary. Nko explained that Ufot Johnson Uwah  “A Raggae” was a youth activist and socialite before he was engaged by Al Madal construction company handling road construction work in the community while  ” Papa Lucky ” was a speedboat driver that ferry foodstuff and passengers from the community waterfront to Bonny Island in Rivers State. Another eyewitness who pleaded anonymity said “A Raggae” was the chairman of Inen Vigilante Task Force and have worked to secure the area against burglary before the construction firm employed him as chief security officer. Continuing, he said two months ago when the cult groups clashed killing six persons in the community, the deceased was invited by the police but he turned down the invitation “After the killing of two soldiers on this road last year the company handed over security at the site to ” A Raggae ” but last month’s one the persons killed during cult clash was a company staff who was cut to pieces . Today, the chief security officer of the company and another person are killed. As soon I’m through with you here, I would carry my bags and leave this village” Our correspondent gathered that after last month cult clash in the community the police raided the home of the chief security officer carting away over 12 motorcycles, fridges and other items invited him (the deceased) to the state police headquarters in Ikot Akpan Abia, Uyo but he refused. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer, CSP N-Nudam Frederick said he was not aware of the incident.