 THE Akwa Ibom State government has given palliative to its airline, Ibom Air, to cushion the N4 billion losses it incurred due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Commissioner for information  Charles Udoh, in a statement on Wednesday, said the palliative became necessary because Ibom Air has been grounded for three months leading to revenue loss put at N4 billion. Udoh maintained that the government’s gesture was inline with the global trend of governments providing an enabling environment for the recommencement of air travels. The information commissioner explained that the COVID-19 pandemic has affected the global aviation industry, resulting in many airlines globally requiring a financial life-line to get back to business. The palliative is to enable the airline to make necessary preparations for the resumption of flight operations as soon as the Nigerian airspace is open for flight operations. Justifying the state government’s action, he explained that American Airline secured $5.8 billion support, Delta Airline $5.4 billion and Air France-KLM $12 billion from their respective governments. The state said it has discharged 27 more Covid-19 patients, who earlier tested positive. Commissioner for Health Dr. Dominic Ukpong said the number discharged was highest since the first index case was recorded. Ukpong said only five patients are currently in the isolation centre, adding that they are old cases, which will be re-tested to verify if they were still positive. Also, Kwara State has announced the death of another COVID-19 patient, bringing the state’s casualty to two since the pandemic broke out in the state. The patient was a 50-year-old female with serious underlying medical conditions, according to a statement by the spokesperson of Kwara State Technical Committee on COVID-19, Rafiu Ajakaye. “We regret to announce that the patient did not make it despite the efforts of the medical personnel to save her. Our heartfelt condolences go to her family. We stand by them at this trying time, and restate the need for everyone to keep safe by adhering to all COVID-19 safety protocols,” the statement added.  