Tension has heightened in Nsugbe, Anambra East local government area of Anambra State following the mock burial conducted by the community against its traditional ruler, Igwe Victor Ntorka, at the weekend. Nsugbe is the ancestral home of Governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Dr Tony Nwoye; Senator Alphonsus Igbeke and Naval Officer, in charge of Southeast region, including Delta and Rivers States, Rear Admiral Perry Onuzulike. The protest, comprising widows, the elders in council and angry youths, was led by the oldest man in the community Pa Arinze Obiagwu. The 107-year-old blind Obiagwu, with tears rolling down his cheeks, said their former monarch desecrated the culture and traditions of Nsugbe and was no longer fit to be a traditional ruler He said he was greatly angered the monarch refused to recognise him as the oldest person in the area, a situation, he said had never happened in the history of Nsugbe Besides, he alleged Ntorka tried to divide the community by using traditional titles of those still alive on those not suitable for them. One of the community leaders and a member of the Igwe in Council, Obi Ifeanacho Akwudo, said the former monarch had turned everything in Nsugbe upside down. Spokesman for the community, Chief Nzeadigwe Nweke listed some of the alleged crimes committed by the monarch as sponsoring armed robbery and kidnappings in Nsugbe Others, according to him included, his refusal to answer the call of elders in council, alleging his actions led to the killing of a young man few days ago in the Community and burning of two buildings. However, all the efforts by The Nation to speak with the deposed monarch proved abortive as his phone number remained unavailable But, one of his allies in his palace, who pleaded anonymity, described all the allegations against him as false and unfounded. According to him:  “Igwe is a good person. Everybody in this community knows about his goodness. “The allegations are false and politically motivated. Igwe is a strong supporter of Willie Obiano’s government which certain politicians here don’t support. “Nobody can remove him from the throne, he is still the traditional ruler of Nsugbe.”    