 THERE is the need to focus on the mental health  impact of the ongoing coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and the lockdown, a consultant psychiatrist, Dr. Olufemi Oluwatayo, has said. He said the mental health impact of the pandemic was attributable to the virus itself and the effect of the stay-at-home orders while the long-term impact was linked to the impending recession and the outcome of the immediate mental health effects. “The fear of contacting the virus and becoming ill and potentially dying from it naturally leads to worrying thoughts and anxiety. So also the uncertainty of whether one has it or not and the general anxiety about the future. There is in addition, the anxiety associated with hospitalisation of loved ones and the grief for those that, unfortunately, dies. “These fears and anxieties are associated with feelings of stress, inability to relax, poor sleep and frequent checks for body symptoms that may suggest that one has the virus, such as fever. When anxiety becomes overwhelming it presents as generalised anxiety disorders or it can lead to depression,” he said. Oluwatayo, who is the Chief Executive Officer of the Retreat Healthcare, Ikorodu, Lagos, said lockdown and enforced stay-at-home directive mean a change in daily routines and reduced social contacts, especially with work colleagues and lack of social activities like parties. This leads to boredom, feelings of loneliness and social isolation. The lockdown is also associated with financial difficulties, fear of burglary and domestic violence. Alcohol and drug abuse, gambling and self-harm behaviours are common as people resort to these adverse coping behaviours.  Oluwatayo, also the President, Good Mood Charity Foundation, Nigeria, all these are among the spectrum of mental health difficulties associated with COVId-19. They can easily trigger a relapse of pre-existing mental disorders such as obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) or a psychosis. “In the long term, the impact on mental health is likely to remain significant. This is because mental health challenges usually build up slowly over time and get worse if untreated. Help seeking behaviours and contact with services can only start after the lockdown is lifted. The services that can help are of very limited availability in Nigeria and are often not affordable to the common man. “The impending global economic recession can only worsen the outlook as further inequalities in the society and financial difficulties lead to an increase in mental disorders and suicide. For the relatively few people that contact and survive the severe form of COVID-19 illness, their near death experience and the treatments (e.g intubation in ICU) may lead to long-term psychological damages, including post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Furthermore, based on the effect of similar viruses on the brain, early indications are that COVID-19 may lead to long term brain damages with symptoms such as confusion, memory loss and shakes amongst other effects”, he added. The Principal of Emotions City, OyinkansolaAlabi, an emotions doctor, said the effect of COVID-19 on the physical health of individuals across the globe is mostly the same. The difference, however, is the impact of the pandemic on mental and emotional stability, she added.