BETWEEN 600 million and 800 million mobile subscribers will benefit from Africa Communication and Information Platform for Health and Economic Action (ACIP). Executive Secretary of the Economic Commission for Africa (ECA) Vera Songwe said this during the virtual launch of ACIP. Ms. Songwe deplored the state and high cost of Internet access in Africa, stating: “In an era of pandemic and economic crisis, it’s even more difficult for people to spend the little resources they have to pay for access.” ACIP is a mobile-based tool for two-way information and communication between citizens and governments. It furnishes national and regional COVID task forces with user-generated survey data and actionable health and economic insights that will enable authorities to better analyse pandemic-related problems and implement appropriate responses. The launch was presided over by Republic of Congo President Denis Sassou Nguesso, who lauded the initiative. He noted that it “responds to member states’ requests for assistance in collecting and processing essential data to respond effectively to COVID-19”. Guinea President Alpha Condé pledged to “make sure that all 55 AU member-states are part of this initiative (ACIP)”. Condé said the uncertainties around COVID-19 make a strong case for Africa to speedily embrace the fourth industrial revolution, ensuring better internet access and affordability. Director of Africa Centre for Disease Control (CDC) Dr. John Nkengasong said the platform offers a “unique opportunity to change the way we conduct disease surveillance, enhance our ability to acquire good and timely data, and make all Africans count.” The good news, however, is that while the ECA is working with key stakeholders to solve the problem of internet access, reliability, and cost, the ACIP can reach over 80% of Africa’s mobile users without adding the burden of cost on them. “We, as operators, can waive the charges for USSD because chances are that many people battling the pandemic in some rural areas may not have airtime,” said Robert Shuter, CEO of MTN. He said the uniqueness of the ACIP initiative got MTN and its “competitors to agree that this was an area for collaboration and cooperation.” The launch was also attended by African ministers in charge of ICT, who urged stakeholders to ensure that there were synergies between the ACIP and efforts being made in the area of digital technology to combat COVID-19 at national levels. ITU’s Secretary-General, Houlin Zhao, called on African regulators and ICT ministers to “back this new platform.” He said artificial intelligence and big data are at the heart of the ACIP and that the support of telecommunication regulators from each country is “absolutely needed.” Thirty-six African member states are already part of the initiative. The platform will also allow COVID-taskforces to deploy health and economic resources to mitigate the pandemic’s impact.