Eric Ikhilae, Abuja A publisher and promoter of an Abuja-based communication, outfit – PRNigeria – Yushau Shuaib has alleged defamation in a publication by a freelance journalist, Terrence Kuanum and sued for N500 million. In a libel suit filed before the High Court of Federal Capital Territory (FCT) High Court, Shuaib claimed that Kuanum, who freelances an Abuja based television station made the libellous publications in several online media on February 1, 2020. The plaintiff, in the suit marked: CV/1705/2020, filed by his lawyer, Yunus AbdulSalam, is seeking an order of perpetual injunction restraining the defendant, by himself or his agents, from further writing, printing or causing to be printed or circulated any similar libellous materials against him. Shuaib is also seeking an order compelling the defendant to tender public apology in, at least, two national dailies with wide circulation in Nigeria and to retract the alleged libellous and offending publications against him. The plaintiff stated that in the libellous publication, the defendant called him an empathizer and spy proxy for the dreaded Boko Haram and Islamic State West African Province (ISWAP) terrorist groups The plaintiff claimed, in the suit filed on June 3, this year, that the libellous were contained in the article entitled: “A rejoinder to an impenitent Boko Haram empathizer, Yushau Shuaib spleen in memo to President Buhari on Service Chiefs,” published online by the Authority newspapers. He claimed to have been further defamed by the defendant in another publication with caption: “A rejoinder to Shuaib’s memo to President Buhari on Service Chiefs” published online by the Cable newspapers. The plaintiff, in his statement of claim, said he is a graduate of Mass Communication from Bayero University, Kano and Master’s Degree holder in Public Relations from the University of Westminster, London. Shuaib said he is a National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) presidential award winner and also got automatic employments in both state and federal agencies in view of his competence and good conduct. The plaintiff claimed that on January 28, 2020, he wrote a widely published article entitled: “Memo to President Buhari on Service Chiefs” published by the Punch, Premium Times, SaharaReporters and Daily Post newspapers. In the said article Shuaib claimed that he had argued for the present Service Chiefs to be relieved of their posts when the ovation was still audible and after giving the best of their skills to the nation and to allow a smooth progression in service through promotion of other competent military officers. He added that his position was anchored on the need to allow a new cadre of officers to come through in the national security architecture if the war on terror must be won. The plaintiff stated that to his surprise, few days after, he came across several online publications where he found the offending articles targeted at him by Kuanum. He said that the publications damaged his professional reputation and caused him considerable distress, embarrassment and also exposed him to hatred, odium, contempt, scorn and isolation by colleagues and associates. Plaintiff said that his name was directly mentioned and described as terrorist empathizer and terrorist spy proxy, adding that the information in the defendants’ publications was false, malicious and defamation with the sole aim of maligning and destroying his hard-earned reputation, goodwill and good standing in the Nigerian media community. Besides, the plaintiff averred that he has suffered irreparable personal and economic injury in his business because the defendant maliciously referred to him as “Shuaib is only a quack reporter.” While pleading several documents including the printout of the offending publications, the plaintiff urged the court to grant all his reliefs. The case is yet to be scheduled for hearing.