Neimeth International Pharmaceuticals Plc has hosted its key and outstanding customers to a grand event in Lagos during which the company gave various incentives to distributors, wholesalers and other customers who showed outstanding loyalty through their patronage of its products in 2019. Managing Director, Neimeth International Pharmaceuticals, Matthew Azoji  said the yearly national customers forum was not only to reward outstanding customers but also to discuss company plans, policies and direction together so as to get feedbacks. “This annual gathering has remained our way of involving key stakeholders in our distribution chain in determining how we deliver superior products and services. This way, we shall receive and discuss your feedbacks and therefore make better informed plans for the new business year, “Azoji said. He thanked the customers for doing business with Neimeth in 2019 and for their contributions to the milestones accomplished. He assured them that the company would introduce new products before the year runs out, hoping on their support to make the products market success. Azoji said Neimeth has a new strategic direction for 2020-2024, which include bold and gradual expansion initiatives that would see the company playing more in the broader healthcare space. “Our five-year strategic plan would guide the company’s vigorous expansion programme, which include the upgrade of the company’s factory at Oregun, Lagos state; development of new manufacturing facilities and expansion of the company’s marketing drive to Sub-Saharan Africa,” Azoji said. The company also used the occasion to interact closely, with her customers, share thoughts and experiences with them and find ways of improving on the services rendered to the customers as well as discuss sales plans for 2020. Executive Director, Pharma Sales & Marketing, Neimeth International Pharmaceuticals Plc, Pharm. Roseline Oputa, who spoke on efforts to improve the partnership with the distributors said Neimeth has recently commenced aggressive marketing campaigns of its key brands to improve the offtake of such products from the sales outlets. She added that the company will soon launch a hand sanitizer into the Nigerian market in response to the Coronavirus pandemic.