The member representing the Ajaokuta Federal Constituency, Hon. Idirissu Lawal, has declared as ‘cheap blackmail,’ stories on the social media, that his one year in the House of Representatives has been a waste and a misrepresentation. The member asserted that on the contrary he has justified the mandate given to him by the people of the constituency. He queried incessant attacks against him and his personality by the opposition. Lawal in a statement by his media handler, Yahaya Yunusa, said that blackmail and intimidation by the opposition PDP, will not stop him from carrying out the mandate of his constituents, in Kogi State. “The attention of the media office of the member representing Ajaokuta Federal Constituency (APC), Hon. Idirissu Lawal has been drawn to the desperation of the opposition to frame him up with some blatant fabrications, ostensibly to distract him from carrying out his responsibility of providing concrete representation at the green chamber. “Lawal will ordinarily not join issues with the opposition on any matter, but regrettably the opposition has instead chosen to use blackmail and media persecution to defame and discredit the honourable member. “Foremost, Ajaokuta For Good Governance Initiative, used for the latest attack is not only faceless, but a ghost name used for the purpose of maligning Honourable Lawal’s reputation. However, for the purpose of setting the record straight and for the general public not to be misled by their falsehood, we make the following clarification. “That Hon. Lawal just last year September embarked on youths and women empowerment involving distribution of motorcycles, hair dryer machines and other equipments. He also made available millions of naira used to pay WAEC and JAMB fees for over 300 of his constituents. He provided computer training for youths selected across the constituency with each beneficiaries receiving set of computers as well as start up capital to become self reliant. With the Covid-19 outbreak, Honourable Lawal gave food supports to cushion lockdown effects to his constituents in two phases. “He has also attracted Federal Government attention to the reconstruction of Itobe-Okene highway, which is already incorporated into the 2020 national budget. His lobbying with the has also yielded positive result in the rescucitation of the Ajaokuta Steel Company, for which an implementation committee has been set up. He also lobbied for the rehabilitation and renovation of primary schools within the constituency. As soon as Covid19 lockdown eases off, those projects will enjoye FG response. Not to forget the donation and supply of desk and books amongst others. “On being forced on Governor Yahaya Bello for second term, every Kogite by now knows Governor Bello’s pragmatic dispositions. This, he displayed when he ensured fair and equal representative of all districts, by providing a level playing field for candidates to run on the merit of their performance and popularity. Honourable Lawal, who has performed to people’s expectation in his first tenure, enjoyed his people’s supports and was duly and subsequently reelected for a second term,” the statement read.