The African intervention platform BeatingCoronaAfrica has released a survey which shows that an average of N300 per day was spent on every beneficiary of COVID-19 interventions in Nigeria. In a statement, the group said report on spending features vital facts that provide a comprehensive deconstruction of how non-governmental interventions fared in the early stages of the Coronavirus in Nigeria and how they are coping with its steady rise. The report has revealed that asides from the general interventions provided by the Federal Government, Taraba, Yobe, Zamfara, and Gombe states all saw less than three non-governmental intervention initiatives in their communities. Also, Oyo, Abuja, Rivers, Abia, Ogun and Lagos states recorded the highest number of intervention initiatives, with Ogun ranking at 45 and Lagos, 150 being the highest. The survey comes at a time when Nigeria marked 100 days of dealing with COVID-19, of which the BeatingCorona platform has been able to connect more than 15,050 people to help centres across Nigeria, as the world continues to search for a lasting solution to the pandemic. It was also highlighted in the BeatingCorona Africa report that N300 is the average amount spent on helping a person a day. Beating Corona conducted a survey with a sample population of 30 COVID-19 interventions from across Nigeria who are actively providing help. The survey recorded that 30 of them had reached out to 90,270 people and had spent 27,351,810 Naira. This brings the average cost spent on meeting people’s needs to 300 Naira per person. This report is integral to BeatingCorona Africa’s initiative mission to comprehensively document the intervention in Nigeria and Africa. This report comes on the heels of the successful ‘How I am Beating Corona’ campaign that urged Nigerians of all demographics to share how they are playing their part in beating the Coronavirus. This campaign featured personalities like Ruth Kadiri, Juliet Ibrahim, Ubi Franklin, Ruggedman, Nse Ikpe-Etim, BB Naija’s Frodd, Olive Emodi, Simi Drey, Sega Link, among others.