 Manchester United will resume their Emirates FA Cup campaign tonight when they face Norwich City in the quarter-finals at Carrow Road and will hope Odion Ighalo continues his scoring form in club football’s oldest competition. Manchester United have reached the FA Cup quarter-finals for a sixth successive year – but bowed out at the same stage to Wolves last season. Their passage to the last eight has been more straightforward, with them first gaining revenge on Wolves with a 1-0 win at Old Trafford in round three. A 6-0 thumping of League One strugglers Tranmere followed before Ighalo’s heroics ended Wayne Rooney’s United reunion in disappointment  in the fifth round. The former Nigeria international struck twice as United booked their place in the Emirates FA Cup quarter-finals with a 3-0 win over Derby County at Pride Park Stadium in March before the 2019/20 season was suspended amid the coronavirus outbreak. Ole Gunnar Solskjaer ‘s excellent record against the ‘Big Six’ should make him an excellent cup manager. Man United are unbeaten against Man City, Leicester City, and Chelsea this season, suggesting their conservative counter-attacking football could be enough to see them lift the FA Cup for the first time in four years. This tactical strategy is expected to be even more effective during post-lockdown football, in which powerful dribbling and speed on the break have already proven to be invaluable assets against semi-fit players. Add to that the potential in the Bruno Fernandes and Paul Pogba partnership, which got off to a good start against Tottenham Hotspur last weekend, and United are clearly a major force in this competition. The Red Devils certainly ought to beat Daniel Farke’s side, having won both their encounters against the Canaries so far this season, though the Norfolk club have picked up big scalps in the league against Man City and Leicester although they looked well off the pace against Southampton last weekend. That tactical strategy should be even more effective during post-lockdown football, in which powerful dribbling and speed on the break have already proven to be invaluable assets against semi-fit players. Elsewhere, Wilfred Ndidi’s Leicester City host Chelsea tomorrow afternoon looking to book a place to the FA Cup semi-finals. The Foxes have only played lower-league opposition on their way to the last eight, beating Wigan Athletic, Brentford and Birmingham City.