The Nigerian Guild of Editors (NGE) has urged the Federal Government to save the media from total collapse. A communiqué issued by its President Mustapha Isah and General Secretary Mrs. Mary Atolagbe, on behalf of the Guild’s Standing Committee, during a virtual meeting at Editors’ House in Ikeja, the Lagos State capital, recommended the injection of funds by the Federal Government to keep media jobs. It argued that such injection of funds would ensure continued existence and operations of the various media houses – print, electronic or New Media. The communiqué reads: “The Standing Committee acknowledges the dire state of the media, now made worse by the COVID-19 pandemic and reaches the following conclusions: “There is an urgent and very compelling need for Nigerian government’s intervention to save the media from total collapse. The Guild specifically recommends the injection of funds by the Federal Government, not only to help keep media jobs but also to ensure continued existence and operations of the various media houses, be they Print, Electronic or New Media.” “Notes that using public funds to finance private sector operations to save them from bankruptcy and a total eclipse is not new and has been adopted in other jurisdictions. It cites the instance of the United States government, which used public funds to save the U.S. automobile industry, banking and other ailing sectors from insolvency during the financial crisis of 2008 and currently with the $2 trillion bailout for companies, amid the COVID-19 scourge. “The Guild emphasises Federal Government’s financial intervention on the ground that media services are regarded as ‘essential services’ and hence, deserve to be treated like other essential services that played key roles on the frontline of the fight against COVID-19. “The body of editors avers that government intervention at this point is imperative, to ensure that the media continues to discharge its constitutional duty; stressing that survival of the media is a sine qua non for the survival of democracy.”