Since Lagos state was first hit by coronavirus with the index case announced in February 2020, the vision of the state government has been to curb spread and deaths to the barest minimum. And in the last four months, the state government led by Babajide Sanwo-Olu has continued to leverage an efficient approach aided by an experienced cabinet to battle the spread of the virus. After several weeks of lockdown, it was time to open up the bubbling Lagos economy and the need for regular use of face masks became top priority. Prior to the need to embrace the use of face masks in Lagos, celebrities like Omashola, Folu Storms and Ifu Ennada had turned up at the 2020 AMVCA award ceremony wearing stylish face masks amid the coronavirus pandemic. It was in furtherance of this cause that the State government recently launched the ‘Take Responsibility’ campaign and urged residents to support the state in curbing the spread of coronavirus by wearing face masks in public. To this end, celebrities – from actors to comedians and musicians – have taken it in their stride to promote the campaign with the regular use of face masks, which are shared on their various social media pages to sensitise and create awareness for the Lagos public. From celebs adorning face masks with matching attires to others sensitising fans and the general public on the need to wear face masks, the awareness on the need to use face masks is fast gaining traction online. Nigerian celebs like Helen Paul, Uti Nwanchukwu, Adunni Ade, Melvin Odua, Mawuli Gavor, Kunle Remi, Anthony Majaro, Charles Inojie, Oluwatobi Essien, Monica Friday, Adejumoke Aderounmu, Ayo Bankole, Woli Arole and Asiri Comedy have identifying with the campaign using an online photobooth to further sensitise the public. The celebs have been showing commitment to the responsibility call made by Sanwo-Olu to use face masks while living and acting responsibly. The celebs have been sharing pictures of them wearing a Lagos State branded face masks on their social media pages for fans to key into the need to take responsibility. Governor Sanwo-Olu’s Executive Assistant on New Media and Public Relations, Olusegun Fafore also disclosed that the campaign is a plea to Lagosians to comply with the Governor’s directive. Fafore says there’s a need for every resident to show care in the wellbeing of others and protect them from getting infected by wearing facemasks in the public. “If everyone in the community wears a facemask, we will be fulfilling our duty of responsibility, which insulates others from secretion that can infect them, or put other citizens at risk through environmental contamination arising from the secretion”, said Fafore, explaining how residents are expected to take responsibility in the State’s impressive fight against COVID-19. In May 2020, EbonyLife media boss, Mo Abudu embarked on a face mask sharing spree for the next two weeks. The showbiz impresario noted that she was excited giving away face masks for free through the EbonyLife face mask bank. Over the past two months, the state government has produced and distributed more than three million facemasks to the citizenry. The effort heralded Governor Sanwo-Olu’s announcement that wearing a face mask at public gatherings has become mandatory in the State.