As the pandemic ravages on, insurance operators are moving to adapt to the new paradigm shift, bracing for the new normal through quality and effective value delivery using Information Technology. Omobola Tolu-Kusimo writes. Insurance operators have met to rethink how to sell their products effectively. Concerns have been raised by stakeholders, especially policyholders, on the quality of their service. The pandemic has also revealed the many gaps that needed to be filled with new insurance products like cybercrimes, an area that is witnessing huge demand. It is in the light of this that the operators in the insurance value chain came together during a virtual training (Webinar) organised by the College of Insurance and Financial Management (CIFM), owned by the Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria (CIIN). Presenting a paper on the theme, Insurance value delivery in the pandemic and beyond: A new reality,  Senior Manager, Agricultural Value Chain Finance, Nigeria Incentive-Based Risk Sharing Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL) Mr. Opeoluwa Ogundipe, charged the operators to take advantage of the new realities. He said the pandemic is not the first. He stated that despite shutdown of businesses, some businesses are experiencing boom either based on foresight or luck. On opportunities in the industry, he said operators do a lot of out-of- the box thinking and focus on hard work. He said: “Nigeria is in need of a quick recovery after the pandemic. The insurance industry is in a prime position to aid the country in this recovery by taking up its two most critical roles in nation building. “The two critical roles are building the resilience and productivity of businesses which will in turn allow other sectors in the economy to grow. The second opportunity is the pooled premiums invested in long-term productive opportunities such as infrastructure development that will create jobs, fuel growth and encourage innovation.’’ Former President CIIN, Mrs. Funmi Babington Ashaye further stated that the question was how they could ensure customers’ satisfaction through quality and effective value delivery even during this pandemic using Information Technology (IT). “It is common knowledge that the prosperity of the economy is the prosperity of the insurance business. The channel of marketing and communication with existing and potential clientele has changed and as operators, we must be ready as insurance professionals, for this new paradigm shift. To do this successfully, we need to reset our various areas of insurance operations, especially, the insurance value delivery. We need to consider the new opportunities by coming up new innovations especially in the area of cyberattack and cyberattack and cybercrimes. “There is huge demand in this area. Indeed, customers, expect insurance companies and brokers to come up with policies that will address many gaps revealed during the pandemic. Technology and cloud based software are also needed now in other to enhance remote work. Whether we like it or not, remote work is here to stay. With covid-19, communications are very key to both our clients and employees.” The Rector of the college, Dr. Yeside Oyetayo, on her part, noted that  the pandemic has disrupted life. She stressed that the need for  professionals to continue to offer humane and compassionate assistant to policyholders and customers necessitated the training.