Even after the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and the National Republican Convention (NRC) had chosen Bashorun MKO Abiola and Alhaji Bashir Tofa, respectively, as their presidential candidates, few among Nigerians who had followed the labyrinthine path of General Ibrahim Babangida’s transition programme could state with any confidence that the election scheduled for June 12, 1993, would indeed take place. The Association For a Better Nigeria (ABN), a rootles organisation led by the maverick politician and former arms dealer, Arthur Nzeribe, and an assortment of shadowy characters that went by such names as “Dr Keith Atkins” and “Dr Ahmed Farouk” were campaigning enthusiastically for Babangida to remain in power for at least four more years, in clear breach of a decree prohibiting such advocacy. The regime’s Information Secretary, Comrade Uche Chukwumerije, told me in a private conversation that when he sought to turn the artillery of the federal propaganda machine against Nzeribe and company, he was told to hold his fire.  Those organisations, he said he was told from on high, were merely exercising the fundamental human rights that the regime itself had vowed to uphold. On the eve of the election, S.G. Ikoku, the First Republic left-wing politician and socialist theoretician who had swung to the opposite end of the ideological spectrum, submitted to Babangida, on behalf of the no  less spectral “Council of Elder Statesmen” a “Report” — not to be confused with a mere proposal — on a presidential government modelled on France’s  Fifth Republic, long after the constitution that was supposed to govern Nigeria’s projected Third Republic which, had been signed into law. Babangida received the “Report,” which dripped with contempt for the two official political parties with the solemnity befitting a commissioned job. Babangida himself was setting up and equipping a special strike force, the Republican Guards, on the model of Iraq President Saddam Hussein’s outfit of the same name.  If he was truly set to go, many were asking, why would he be embarking on such a project?  Why not leave it to the in-coming president to decide whether such a unit was warranted, and then to fashion it in his own image? The newspapers were awash with unsigned advertisements excoriating the two presidential candidates for all manner of misconduct, ranging from alleged purloining of the opponent’s private documents to religious fanaticism.  Dire warnings and rumours of dark plots perfused the country. From his home in the UK, Second Republic fugitive minister Umaru Dikko, apparently no longer fearful of being shipped home in a crate, was said to have written a letter to the Kaduna Mafia, an inchoate assemblage of Northerners credited with enormous influence and power, warning that under no circumstances should a Southerner be allowed to win power. As if to add poignancy to Dikko’s rumoured epistle, allegations were swirling that Abiola and a conclave of Yoruba elders had completed plans to move the federal capital back to Lagos from Abuja if Abiola won.  And if Abiola lost, Igbo property in the Yoruba country was marked for destruction. Panicked motorists formed long and disorderly queues everywhere in the wake of a petroleum and gas workers’ strike.  A breakdown in electricity and water supplies added to the general confusion and reinforced doubts about whether the election would hold Given these and other signals, to say nothing of Babangida’s own record of inconstancy, it required a  huge leap of faith to believe that the presidential election would hold.  Not only those the regime had denounced time and again as “sceptics and cynics” entertained strong doubts about the election; senior diplomats in the embassies of the United States, Canada and major European nations with whom I compared intelligence from time to time had all but concluded that the election would not take place. To resolve my own doubts, I asked my friend and veteran journalist, Dr Dokun Bojuwade, to tell his principal,  Uche Chukwumerije, that I would like to meet with him at his earliest convenience.  Based on previous interactions, I felt I could claim a kindred spirit, with the Secretary, if not a thriving friendship.   We met at his residence in Ikoyi, Lagos, on Friday, June 4. Dispensing with the usual preliminaries, I asked him pointedly whether the presidential election would hold. He said he could not answer categorically, but the indications were that it would not hold.  He said he would be flying to Abuja the next day, to return to Lagos the following Tuesday and would be in a position to tell me categorically whether the election would hold if I looked him up Chukwumerije did not return to Lagos that Tuesday.  Major developments were unfolding. That very day, the Abuja High Court, Justice Bassey Ikpeme presiding, ordered National Electoral Commission (NEC) chairman Humphrey Nwosu, Federal Attorney-General Clement Akpamgbo and military president Ibrahim Babangida to appear before her on Wed, June 8, to show cause why the presidential election scheduled for June 12, should not stopped. Ikpeme, it would turn out, and had only recently been appointed a judge, and was in fact handling her first case on the Bench.  Previously, she had practised in Akpamgbo’s law offices, and was widely reported to be romantically linked with him. Ikpeme’s order stemmed from a petition by Nzeribe’s ABN.  The suit had been filed on May 18, but as Nwosu would reveal some 16 years later, it was not served on NEC until four days to the election. Two days later, on June 9, in the dead of night, Justice Ikpeme issued an injunction restraining NEC from conducting the election. But, this was no blanket injunction, for Justice Ikpeme noted that as the law stood, the court lacked jurisdiction in the matter. The law was indeed clear.  It had been invoked in 1992 by the Court of Appeal, a superior tribunal, to deny a petition, Komolafe v Omole (1 NWLR 213 1993), through which a candidate sought to restrain NEC from conducting an election into the Senate. For the next 16 hours or so, there was no clear indication that the election would hold.  It was well past lunchtime on Friday, June 11, that NEC finally announced, with the eleventh-hour approval of the Armed Forces Ruling Council, that the election would hold, Justice Ikpeme and the ABN withstanding. Earlier that day, the United States Government had issued, a statement, per Michael O’Brien, director of the United States Information Service at the Embassy of the United States, that it would consider any postponement of the election unacceptable.  The tone was watered down later, but the import was clear:  Postponement of the election would not bode well for relations with Nigeria. Two days to the election, no polling booths had been erected in Lagos or the nation’s major cities; no voters’ lists were on display.  It required a degree of credulity bordering on extreme gullibility to wager that the election would hold as schedule. The regime’s plan was to seize on Justice Ikpeme’s ruling and the contrived, lavishly-rewarded “solidarity” visits that were sure to follow, as pretexts for holding on to power.  With that option now foreclosed, a new plan had to be devised. Stage the election, confident that in the prevailing climate of uncertainty, it would end in massive confusion or fail to win general acceptance. Or the election and cancel the results.  The professional agitators and rabble-rousers would stir things up, to be sure.  But,  it would all fizzle out within two weeks.  Two weeks at most, Babangida reckoned.  He knew  his Nigerians, he had boasted. This choice would sweep him out of power, consign him to one of the most ignoble places in the nation’s history, plunge the country into an abyss from which it has not wholly emerged, and secure Abiola’s place as a martyr for the democratic struggle in Nigeria.  