 THE contributions of agribusiness to the economy are enormous. The sector contributes   21 per cent or $85billion (N30 trillion) to Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of $405 billion or N145 trillion. According to the Nigeria Bureau of Statistics (NBS), as at 2017, agric insurance market size was $7.5 million or N2.3 billion. At the moment, the agric insurance market valuation, however, stands at $850 million or N304 billion, while agric insurance penetration is 0.88 per cent. Records show that there are only 20 million registered farmers in the country. But how can more farmers and other stakeholders in the value chain embrace agriculture insurance and leverage it to de-risk their business during COVID 19-pandemic period? During a webinar organised by Royal Exchange Plc with theme, “How farmers can leverage agriculture insurance to de-risk their business during COVID-19 pandemic times”, the Senior Manager and Head of Agricbusiness/Business development, Royal Exchange, Chukwuma Kalu said there were several ways which farmers and others in the agric value chain could benefit from insurance. He stated that high level of uncertainty in determining farm production and output at harvest was making agriculture a difficult business segment to venture into. He added that climate change and adverse weather events is also distorting farming and practices, citing drought, excessive rainfall, flooding, hail, high temperature, loss of vegetation impact severely on farmers, among others, as part of the distortions. He noted that agric insurance was being used for risk profiling of farmers and agribusinesses and pricing of their business risks, adding that same data could be shared with lending institutions to assist in creating of credit rating scores of agribusinesses. He said: “Business intelligence tool for business planning, budgeting and revenue forecasting in determining economies of production, assessing working capital requirements for agric-loan origination and yield estimation for future earnings. “It empowers remodelling of agribusinesses via keeping of adequate farm records and accounts as risk improvement measures and also pre-condition for attracting insurance coverage. Pre- and post-insurance inspection visits and perusal of farm records are part of the conditions to be adhered to by agribusinesses. ‘’It further works in advancements in weather satellite technologies combined with agric insurance is driving predictive analytics on weather events aiding product design and risk-based premium pricing for small-holder crop and livestock farmers.’’ Kalu said Royal Exchange has invested significantly in climate-change risk management digital solutions which affords the company the comparative advantage of offering customers with unique services like digital farmer data collection; underwriting/insurance; policy management; and claims management. Chief Actuary, Risk Shield Consultants Limited, Agrotosh Mookerjee, in his paper on “Relevance of agriculture insurance during Covid-19 pandemic and beyond” believes agriculture aggregators like banks, microfinance institutions, agri-businesses should care about agriculture insurance while lending to the sector. He said considerations for  the pandemic should involve distribution channels, group insurance, products, digitisation, capacity building, more focus on remote training e.g. via webinars, Excel-based technical trainings, etc; bundling of agriculture insurance with other microinsurance products e.g. specialist COVID-19 health insurance products. 