The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) has declared six Nigerian men wanted for alleged involvement in love and business scam of American citizens resulting in losses of over six million dollars. Richard Uzuh, Michael Olorunyomi, Alex Ogunshakin; Felix Okpoh, Nnamdi Benson and Abiola Kayode were indicted pursuant to E.O 13694 for allegedly manipulating American citizens to collect sensitive information and financial resources. A statement released on the US Department of Justice’s official Twitter handle and further confirmed by the Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said the alleged fraudsters targeted American businesses and individuals using “business email compromise and romance fraud.” It said the suspects targeted women, especially those who just lost a spouse and deceived them with affection through calls and constant chats until they gained their trust and swindled their unsuspecting victims. Some of the suspects were alleged to have committed the crime as far back as 2015 when they posed as American business executives and requested, received wire transfers from their victims. The Nigeria Police on Wednesday said they have launched a manhunt for the six Nigerian men declared wanted by the FBI. Spokesman, Frank Mba told The Nation that the International Police (INTERPOL) Nigeria was collaborating with its counterpart across the world and the FBI to ensure the suspects were apprehended to answer charges against them. Mba said an International Warrant of arrest as well as the INTERPOL’s International Red Notice have both been issued against the suspects. “With these two valid international warrants and documents issued against them, we are joining the manhunt for them.” They are fugitives and operatives will do everything legally possible to ensure these fugitives are brought before the law. “The implication of this development  is that no man can commit a crime in one part of the world and find safe heaven in another part of the world. Any criminal who thinks such is possible should know that he or she will be picked up no matter where they run to,” said Mba. Richard Uzuh, Michael Olorunyomi, Alex Ogunshakin; Felix Okpoh, Nnamdi Benson and Abiola Kayode were indicted pursuant to E.O 13694, as amended, for allegedly manipulating American citizens to collect sensitive information and financial resources. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), on Wednesday dragged Awojobi Timileyin before a Federal High Court, Osogbo, Osun State for allegedly defrauding an American woman of $4380 and N512,00. Timileyin was arraigned on fifteen counts of false pretence among others. The EFCC prosecutor, AbduRasheed Sulaeman, informed the court that Timileyin presented himself as a white American woman from New York on a medical mission to Nigeria. He stressed that the defendant collected millions of naira including 2980USD, 1400USD, N337,000, N175,000, among others, as part payment of his flight. He noted that the crime was contrary to section 1(1)(a) and punishable under section 1(3) of the Advance Fee Fraud. The defendant pleaded not guilty to the charge preferred against him and informed the court of his decision to opt for a plea bargain. Justice Peter Lifu thereby granted him bail in the sum of N20million with two sureties who must be blood relation or civil servants not below grade level 14 in the state or federal government service and adjourned to June 30, 2020, for the adoption of plea bargain agreement or hearing.