The state governors, trying to torpedo the implementation of the autonomy granted the state legislature and judiciary by section 121(3), of the 1999 constitution (as amended), has a poor understanding of history. With due respect, they are swimming against the national tide, and this column urges them to wake-up to the reality that Nigerians are disgusted with the state of affairs and want a change. But, let the governors who prefer to unlawfully control the legislature and judiciary own up, instead of attacking the legitimacy of Executive Order 10, issued by President Muhammadu Buhari, to implement section 121(3). Bauchi State governor, Bala Mohammed, with an eye on history, has expressed support to the order issued by the president. In his words, “this is a welcome development with serious implication in terms of transparency and good governance. We are not afraid of doing things properly. The legislature is the most important organ of government, but during military era, it was suspended.” This is a clear reading of the historical development that gave undue advantage to the executive, which the governors are presently exploiting. So, those who oppose the executive are merely afraid of transparency and good governance, as canvased by Governor Mohammed. They prefer the opaque accounting process, where the entire resources of the state are locked up in their private vaults, from whence they dispense state resources at their whims and caprices. The governors siting on the provision of Section 121(3) of the constitution, are those who want a pliable legislative assembly, so that state budgets are passed without any interrogation. The governors who don’t want the implementation of section 121(3), are those who want a financially weakened judiciary, so that the Chief Judge, would knock on their doors, to buy the diesel, to keep the courts open. They are those who corruptly misappropriate the physical and fiscal resources of the state, and because the state judiciary is tied to their apron strings, no person would dare approach the courts for redress. The misguided governors are those who would treat other members of the executive, including the deputy governor, as office assistants, knowing that no kobo would be paid to anybody, they consider an enemy. While this column has severally canvassed for the entrenchment of the principles of federalism in our famished country, it agrees with the president on his effort to enforce the implementation of section 121(3) of the constitution; since the governors had decided to play the ostrich over the provision. After all, the president swore to uphold the 1999 constitution, and if he puts any measure in place to ensure its implementation, I don’t see anything wrong with that. Without doubt, since the amendment was signed into law, most of the governors have continued to pretend the constitutional amendment is of no consequence. Yet, section 1(1) of the constitution provides: “This constitution is supreme and its provisions shall have binding force on all authorities and persons throughout the federal republic of Nigeria.” The sub-section 2, further provides that: “The federal republic of Nigeria shall not be governed, nor shall any person or group of persons take control of the government of Nigeria or any part thereof, except in accordance with the provision of this constitution.” So, on what basis, if not self-serving interests, are the governors dillydallying on the implementation of section 121(3) forming part of the constitution, which they swore to implement? It is unfortunate that the chairman of the Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF), Dr Kayode Fayemi, and his colleagues, who have been sitting on that provision of the constitution, have quickly consulted the lawyers amongst themselves, to tout the illegality of Executive Order 10; when these same ‘egg heads’ were dormant since the amendment was signed into law, and ignored by their members. According, to Dr Fayemi, the president has agreed to delay the gazetting of the provision. He said: “After listening to the concerns of the governors about the constitutionality of the Executive Order, President Buhari agreed to delay the gazetting.” He sounded excited about the delay, as he further said: “We have a delegation of the governors’ forum here to discuss some matter of fundamental importance to the nation and the president has asked that we meet with the AGF, the Chief of Staff and the Minister of Finance, National Planning and Budget on the issue.” So, in Fayemi’s priority list, Executive Order 10 deserves immediate attention, unlike the clear provision of section 121(3), which has been lying dormant, because the governors were lethargic to agree the terms of implementation with the federal executive.  The governors who want to behave like the lords of the manor, prefer to continue to treat the other arms of government, created by the same constitution that empowered them, as departments under their care. For Fayemi, who is reputed to have a doctorate degree in strategic studies, his stance on the implementation of the provision of section 121(3), is an abnegation of strategic thinking. If he has an eye on history, he would encourage his colleagues to obey the constitution of our country, on this sticky issue. After all, in a few years, all of them would serve their terms, and become ordinary citizens, who need transparency and accountability in governance for the society to function. They should therefore listen to the wise counsel of Governor Bala Mohammed, that: “We are exercising separation of powers among the three arms of government, knowing fully well that whatever comes into the coffers of government comes to the executive. But we need to deepen democracy by giving autonomy to other arms.” Of course, deepening democracy, is in the best interest of the country, after all, those who are governors now, would soon leave the posts and join the rest of us as ordinary citizens. The governors who are presently in power now, should know that we are all losers when democracy is not deepened. When Sani Abacha, truncated the mandate of the President-Elect, M.K.O. Abiola, in 1993, did he know that he would end up ignominiously? Today, June 12, the day, Chief Abiola, was elected a president, has become the national democracy day, while Abacha, has become synonymous with infamy and disrepute. That is the march of history, and in a short while, Fayemi, and his co-travellers, would become history, willy-nilly. Now, it is their choice, either to be remembered positively or derisively. What they do, while in office, would determine how they will be remembered. But of course, while they can tarry the match of history, inevitably the pendulum will swing off their hands.  As COVID19, has shown, nature has a malicious way of intervening, without recompense.