 I woke up penultimate Tuesday with a bile. A domestic issue cropped up and blighted my morning. I was still brooding over the matter for a way out when a sharp rap on my door rudely intruded into my thought. The visitor was a friendly neighbour I chat with occasionally. We discuss the ‘state of the nation’ at length whenever time permits. But this time, his visit was obtrusive. ‘Good morning, my brother’, he greeted in the usual neighbour’s filial fondness. ‘Morning’, I responded, betraying my unwelcome mien from the curtness that crept into my voice. But if he noticed it, he didn’t show it. He rather sank into one of the chairs in the sitting room and made himself comfortable. “What’re you doing with those?’ he asked, pointing to a pack of neatly arranged facemasks in a corner of the room. ‘What kind of question is that?’ I shot back, genuinely riled by his rather queer inquiry. I added. ‘What do you do with facemasks?’ But he remained calm. ‘Do you sell them?’ he asked quite mischievously. But I declined to respond. He noticed my anger. ‘I’m sorry, I’m just pulling your legs. But you still wear all these?’ he asked. I returned: ‘You mean you no longer wear your own?’ ‘No, I don’t. Why should I? By the way, I noticed that you quickly wore a mask the moment I stepped in, why?’ ‘COVID-19 rule!’ ‘How? I don’t understand?’ he quipped. ‘This man, are you not a Nigerian?’ ‘Answer my question, bro?’ ‘I mean no harm, but you should know. Whenever you’re having a contact with another person, it’s imperative you wear a mask. It doesn’t mean you suspect the other person; it’s just a precaution. Don’t work yourself up,’ I explained light-heartedly. ‘Oh, I see.’ ‘You said you were no longer wearing masks?’ ‘No, I don’t wear them. I don’t think it’s necessary.’ Genuinely taken aback by the note of whimsy in his statement, I asked: ‘You mean as you go out to all the places you go to – offices, markets and others – you don’t wear masks?’ ‘No I don’t,’ he affirmed emphatically. To say that I was shocked was an understatement. This person saying this is highly educated, enlightened and relatively comfortable. Of course, from my past conversations with him, he is what you could call a malcontent when it comes to government matters. He is highly critical of virtually everything government does. But the matter at hand is not strictly about government; it’s about personal safety. So, I decided to probe further to know what he had in his sleeves. ‘I really don’t understand you. Why do you think it is no longer necessary to use facemasks?’ ‘That’s the trouble with you journalists. You probe too much. Don’t put me into trouble o!’ ‘Oh, no, no, I mean no harm. I’m just curious’. ‘Well, I just believe that the whole idea of COVID-19 pandemic is being overblown. It’s all propaganda!’ ‘You mean you’re calling a pandemic that has held the whole world by the jugular and devastated lives in all strata of the world economy a propaganda?’ ‘Don’t misunderstand me. I’m not saying the virus does not exist. In fact, I believe it’s actually ravaging the world, most especially overseas, but in Nigeria, I believe it’s not as serious as they’re painting it.’ ‘I’m shocked at your ignorance or is it plain mischief I’ll call it? Don’t you read the newspapers or listen to news?’ ‘Honestly, that is the way I feel’. ‘So, you think those figures of COVID-19 cases being churned out daily are concocted, perhaps?’ ‘Don’t tell me you believe those figures!’ ‘Why will I not believe them?’ ‘Tell me why I should believe them.’ ‘If you must know, those figures emanate from tests carried out daily on the suspected people put in various isolation centres across the country. Right now, those tests are decentralised and more laboratories have been acquired and equipped in many parts of the country. This has tended to fast-track the tests. I believe our medical team and those managing the pandemic are doing a fantastic ‘job’. ‘So, the figures are real?’ ‘As real as daylight. Why will a serious government be playing games with a pandemic that has disrupted lives in all facets and given our economy a short shrift? It’s not a joking matter, my brother.’ ‘Honestly, I thought it’s all propaganda.’ ‘No, it’s not.’ ‘Come to think of it, have you ever seen or heard anybody close to you contract the virus? All we hear are just unfamiliar names?’ ‘Haba, what’s unfamiliar in the names of governors like Seyi Makinde of Oyo State; Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna State; Bala Mohammed (Bauchi State) and others who announced publicly that they had contracted the virus but came out of it after a spell in isolation and after they had been treated? What about a highly placed personality like Abba Kyari (President Muhammadu Buhari’s former Chief of Staff) who died from complications arising from COVID-19, among many national and international deaths that are COVID-19 related? I can continue. You may not be able to see those patients in isolation centres even if you go there because access to those places is strictured for obvious reasons’. ‘Okay. One other thing I found unusual is why places of worship were shut (they have been reopened in some states), while markets were allowed to operate during the one month’s total lockdown. Everybody knows that the concentration of people in markets is thicker than that of most churches. So, which is riskier?’ ‘I believe government’s intention was quite clear. Come to think of it, if all the markets are totally shut, how will people eat? In that case, those who will die of hunger will be more than those killed by coronavirus. And if you check, government didn’t actually open all the markets like that. Only the food sections were allowed to operate during the lockdown. And there were guidelines for doing that. Traders and their patrons were enjoined to wear facemasks and observe social distancing as reasonably as possible. ‘The authorities believe that the worship centres are not as imperative as the food markets; that people can after all worship at home, which was what happened; even many of the religious leaders quite understand.’ ‘But have you visited any of the markets even now?’ ‘No, I haven’t’. ‘Jesus Christ! The measures put in place are being observed in the breach in those markets. Those places are thickly populated and people bump into one another anyhow. In some markets, you can count those who are wearing facemasks on your fingertips. Many of those who pretend to wear them merely decorate their chins with them’. ‘Well, who do you blame? The authorities have done what they should do. It’s all about responsibility. We all are expected to take responsibility to end this pandemic. I only pray against spiralling community infections because there are many people out there who are still living in denial of COVID-19 pandemic in spite of the massive awareness campaign being mounted over this huge medical challenge. And you won’t blame them.’ ‘How?’ ‘Malfeasance has so much permeated the business of government that ordinary Nigerians hardly believe their leaders anymore. People will always suspect that government must be hiding something, even when it has the best of intentions. That’s why some people quite incredulously still tend to take the whole COVID-19 saga with a pinch of salt despite the commendable efforts of government to nip the pandemic in the bud.’ ‘Too bad!’ ‘Yes, too bad!’ 