The Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) in Abuja has advocated collaboration among relevant agencies to address rising cases rape, sexual and gender-based violence (SGBV). The NBA, Abuja branch expressed its readiness to collaborate with the National Human rights Commission (NHRC), National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP) and the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) in this regard. The branch’s Vice-Chairman, Chioma Onyenucheya-Uko, said during a solidarity visit to the Inspector General of Police with the Executive Secretary of the NHRC, Tony Ojukwu and the Director General of NAPTIP, Julie Okah-Donli in line with the Federal Government directive that all hands should be on deck to make sure that the issue of rape and SGBV is stamped out. Onyenucheya-Uko told journalists, after the visit, that “we all need to do our bit to fight against rape and SGBV, because when it affects one it affects us all.” According to her: “To groom a wholesome society, in which each of us can thrive in our elements, we need to stamp out every form of violence, every form of crime and everything that reduces the dignity of a person.” She reiterated that the collaboration between the NBA, NHRC, NAPTIP and the police “is a strong statement to say that all hands are on deck and nothing will go un-turned towards pursuing this cause.” Onyenucheya-Uko assured that the NBA would continue to do all within its powers to help stamp out rape and SGBV in Nigeria. “We are watching and taking up actions and whoever sees or hears or suffers any of these violations should not hesitate to speak to the NBA. We are ready and we are willing to do whatever we can to help the citizens get their due rights respected and protected,” Onyenucheya-Uko said. Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) Frank Mba, who represented the IGP, assured that the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) “is ready to partner with every positive minded Nigerian to do whatever is legally permissible, to do whatever is administratively and operationally possible to ensure that we reduce rape and other forms of sexual violence to their barest minimum. Mba challenged other citizens to take a cue from what the NBA and other some other organisations are doing to break the conspiracy of silence. Publicity Secretary of NBA, Abuja branch, Ikemefuna Onyeka, said his association was ready to partner with media houses in disseminating necessary informations on rape and SGBV.