As coronavirus continues to ravage the global air transport industry, it is forciing countries and airlines to evolve a string of measures to stay afloat. At a recent webinar organised by AELEX Partners, experts canvassed steps Nigeria should take to grow its aviation business, KELVIN OSA OKUNBOR reports  The health and survival of the aviation sector is increasingly gaining the attention of experts who want to rescue it from imminent collapse. If the industry must grow, the experts say, then the government needs to think out of the box by embracing bold, yet courageous, steps. To achieve this, Chairman of African Business Aviation Association (AfBAA), Mr Nick Fadugba has called for a review of Nigeria’s Bilateral Air Services Agreement (BASA) to create an enabling business environment for the airlines. According to him, multiple entry points and the frequencies of foreign airlines have been more disadvantageous to the Nigerian airlines as opposed to the advantages the agreement was supposed to present. Fadugba made this known at the third webinar organised by AELEX Partners. According to him, when the bilateral agreement was made, the airlines were relatively new. To ensure the growth of the sector, there’s a need to review the agreement to incorporate the airlines, adding that the agreements do not favour the average Nigerian carrier. Fadugba said the multiple entry points have diluted the domestic market for the carriers. He noted that there’s a need to overhaul airlines’business plans with emphasis on unit cost, load factor and yield. He noted that for the airlines to rise above the current situation, there airlines should cooperate through training, MRO, spares pooling, operation, interlining and code-sharing. Showing optimism, former Secretary-General, African Civil Aviation Commission (AFCAC), Ms. Iyabo Sosina, stated that the future of air transport in Nigeria is bright despite the challenges. She advocated the need for the repositioning the industry. According to her, there’s a need to focus on the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) without political interference with the authority. She advised that airlines should be reduced to not more than four, adding they should have between 10 and 20 aircraft each. She noted that airlines should  embrace collaboration in the ways of doing business as mergers couldn’t be forced. This, she said, would make the industry stronger to compete on not just the domestic level but also on the regional and international scenes. Group Executive Finance, Ghana Airport Company, Dr. John Okwesie Arthur ,  noted that airports need to start afresh by collaborating with each other and other stakeholders. He advised that African countries should come together to share expertise to make the industry viable. He noted that countries should look at investing in non-aeronautical inclusions, such as building malls at the airports. The Principal Managing Partner, Avaero Capital Partners, Sindy Foster, stated that the country’s aviation industry had been in crisis before Covid-19 pandemic. According to her, the lack of capitalisation and the low propensity of Nigerians to fly are major issues which, more than ever, had become pertinent to address. For her, also, there’s a need to look into the factors frustrating the airline business. One of which is the ticket prices. Multiple taxation should be scrapped, she added. Also, she expressed disappointment that the government jumped on the train of social distancing during flights by reducing load to between 50 per cent and 70 per cent. According to her, the airlines were in a dire situation when they were operating at full capacity and asking them to reduce the load capacity is another way of putting them down, although they were striving to get back on their feet post-covid-19. IATA Regional Director, Advocacy and Strategic Operations, Adefunke Adeyemi, noted that the industry in Africa has experienced a revenue loss of about $6billion and that flights went down by 94 per cent  at the end of April. She stated that despite the implementation of significant relief measures by the government across the globe, there’s a need to do more. In her words, IATA has advocated financial support for Africa from various organisations like UNWTO, world travel and tourism council, Adefunke advised that to restart the sector, there’s a need to restore public confidence in air travel, putting adequate health and safety measures in place to prevent the spread of COVID-19. In his contribution, Richard Gimblett, a Partner at Holamn Fenwick Willian, a United Kingdom (UK)-based law firm, stated that governments across the world were devising measures to restart the sector and that the Federal Government should not be left behind. He advised that the government could provide direct financial support to passenger and cargo carriers, ensure relief on fees, charges and taxes, make forex available for technological innovations. Also, it should engage in leasing and financial community, he added. The moderator of the webinar, Theophilus Emuwa, who is also the Managing Partner, Head of Tax at AELEX, said there was a need for transparency in the management of funds for the industry to grow.