Phillip Anjorin We are usually overjoyed when we finally gain admission into a higher institution in Nigeria. When I finally gained admission after three years of struggling, I remember how I sat down with my mum calculating the years of my life. I told her I would quickly gain employment in Nigeria after spending four years in university and take good care of her for toiling for my sake. Tall dream! My brother told me it was impossible to spend four years uninterrupted as a result of the shambolic educational system in Nigeria. I found it hard to believe. What we often don’t remember is that there would be one person to subtly give us hint on what to expect in school. However, I got to the university, made friends, joined groups, attended classes and meetings, too. Then the practicals kept coming, draining my energy and money. The pressure kept building up threatening to make me drop out. I couldn’t call my family, I had to bear my cross all alone! After the grinding stress of the semester, then comes academic assessment. With the examination, tests and practicals piling up, with the fees and levies, among other things, to worry about, I still read and sit for the examination, with no assurance of getting the grades deserved. This is what virtually every Nigerian student go through while pursuing an academic qualification. The financial demands, inadequacy in learning facilities and opportunities along with other things make students lose the zeal to perform well. Thus, an average Nigerian higher institution produces more mediocre students than geniuses. This is a clarion call to all and sundry over the mental state of students in higher institutions. Not all students can be strong enough till the end, which is evident with the high rate of suicide cases and depression levels among undergraduates. It is imperative for guardians and parents to reach out to their wards/child emotionally. It is of equal importance for lecturers and academics to reach out to students. This can serve as an energiser in their academic performance.  Above all, it is essential for higher institutions in Nigeria to be revitalised. The outdated syllabus should be restructured to enable students perform up to the required standard on the global stage, while making them understand that the pressure they went through was worth it. Finally, this is a call for solidarity among all students. The pain you go through as a student is not on equal grounds with the fulfillment you will enjoy at the end of the journey. Keep striving. Keep hustling. All is well that ends well.