 NECESSITY they say is the mother of invention. The current coronavirus disease, with no known cure yet, has compelled many countries to look inwards on how to tackle the pandemic. Though the mandate of the World Health Organisation (WHO) includes advocating for universal healthcare, monitoring public health risks, coordinating responses to health emergencies, promoting human health and well-being, among other, the current situation required indigenous and home grown approaches. Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, the Minister of Science and Technology, reiterated the need for indigenous approach, when he said the current COVID-19 pandemic, will alter the balance of ‘World Economic Order.’ He spoke during a facility visit to the Sheda Science and Technology Complex (SHETSCO). Onu said the COVID-19 pandemic has taught Nigeria and other developing countries the need to develop their indigenous technology in order to solve their problems. The minister was at SHETSCO to inspect its products and inputs into COVID-19 management in Nigeria. According to Onu, it is only by developing indigenous technology that Nigeria could defeat poverty and unemployment. He urged the scientific community to intensify research efforts in order to boost Nigeria’s development. In his words: “You must continue to research on products, to ensure sustainability and ensure competitiveness of the research products”. The National Biotechnology Development Agency (NABDA), Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC),  and other research institutes have taken up the challenge to join in the fight to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. Recently, NCDC successfully validated the first phase of the viral Ribonucleic Acid (RNA) extraction which should enable local production of cheap testing kits for coronavirus. The validation took place in the laboratory of NABDA in Abuja. The Director-General of NABDA, Prof. Alex Akpa, said the success of the validation was important not only to Nigeria but Africa as a whole. “The success of this validation shall enable us to massively produce test kits so that more people would be tested for COVID-19, not only in Nigeria but in Africa. “The immediate aim is to produce reagents for real time Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR), and remember, recently the lack of reagents stalled work in Kano and molecular diagnosis could no longer take place,’’ Akpa said. He also recalled that the absence of the same reagent equally stalled COVID-19 diagnosis in Lagos for many days. Dr Ndodo Nnaemeka, Chief Molecular Bio-engineer, National Reference Laboratory of NCDC, said he was mandated by the NCDC Director-General, Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu, to “launch this wonderful project.’’ According to Nnaemeka, the project is designed to solve the problem of RNA extraction kits which had become a global issue. He said there were serious concerns for the need to have more extraction kits in-country, and that there was growing demand worldwide for extraction kits. The NCDC chief molecular bioengineer said the first phase of the evaluation results he carried out with the NABDA scientific team was “awesome and successful.’’ He said that to be able to conduct tests, the viral information which comes as the RNA has to first be extracted and without this extraction, no test can be conducted. He added that as scientists, they would soon carry out the second phase of the evaluation which would involve real sample of COVID-19. Similarly, Dr Rose Gidado, the Country Coordinator, Open Forum on Agricultural Biotechnology (OFAB), said the exercise was historic. She said the validated RNAswift Test Kit for COVID-19 was developed by Dr Alison Nwokeoji, a Nigerian scientist at the University of Sheffield, U.K. Gidado also disclosed that the new test kit could test more than 20,000 people per day. 