Hon Agboola Ajayi, Ondo Deputy Governor who resigned his membership of the All Progressives Congress, has said that he would not resign from office. Ajayi spoke on Sunday after he resigned his membership of the ruling All Progressives Congress at his Apoi Ward 2, Ese Odo Local Government Area of the State. He stated that he remained Deputy Governor of the State even though he has resigned from the APC. The Ondo Deputy Governor said he was duly elected and the electorates that voted for him did not tell him to resign his position. Ajayi said everybody knew why he left the APC His words, “I am here to officially announce to you that as from today I ceased to be a member of the APC. I came to tender my resignation letter to the ward chairman. “The reason I am taking this action is known to all of you. I listened to the advise from all supporters across the state. The Ese Odo Local Government will continue to witness peace and progress. “It is a painful thing that I am leaving the APC, but there is time for everything. As a Nigerian, I have the fundamental freedom to belong to any party or group. “What will happen in this state is going to be like a tsunami as many bigwigs in the APC will be joining the PDP in a matter of days.” At the secretariat of the PDP in the same ward where he announced his return to the party and collected his party card, he said, “Like I said earlier, everybody all over the world knows why I left the APC. Some hours ago, you all know what happened to me at the Government House but I am a man of peace.” Describing the action of the State Commissioner of Police, Bolaji Salami at the Ondo government house as a show of shame, he said the Police Commissioner turned himself to a useful tool in the hands of desperate politicians. Ajayi said the attitude of the Ondo Police boss showed that Nigeria is not ripe for state police. Ward 2 chairman of the PDP in Apoi, Mr Festus Oboro, said the PDP would be further strengthened. Oboro said Ajayi would add value to the party in the state.