Burundi’s President Pierre Nkurunziza, aged 55, has died after suffering a cardiac arrest, the government said a tweeted statement. He was admitted to hospital on Saturday after feeling unwell, his condition improved but on Monday he had a cardiac arrest and efforts to revive him were unsuccessful, officials said. “The government of the Republic of Burundi announced with great sadness … the unexpected death of his Excellency Pierre Nkurunziza, President of Burundi,” it said in the tweeted statement, adding that he had died of a heart attack. President Muhammadu Buhari has expressed sadness over the death of the Burundi President. Buhari, in a statement issued yesterday evening by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, described the late President Nkurunziza as a patriot, who piloted the affairs of his country through times of turbulence. He, however, sent his condolences to the immediate family of the late  President as well as the government and people of Burundi. It was unclear exactly when Nkurunziza died at a hospital in Karuzi in central Burundi. The statement said he had watched a game of volleyball on Saturday but fell ill that night and was taken to hospital. Burundi’s economy is in tatters and it is largely cut off by international donors after the United Nations (UN) documented the widespread rape, torture and murder of political opponents by ruling party activists and the state security forces. After 15 years in power, Nkurunziza was due to step down in August. In 2015, the announcement that he would run for a third term plunged the country into chaos. It sparked anger as some questioned the legality of a third-term bid. There was a failed coup attempt, hundreds of people died in clashes and tens of thousands fled the country. After a change in the constitution, he was able to run for a further term in last month’s election but he decided to retire and was to be known as the “supreme guide to patriotism”. He was also due to receive a $540,000 (£440,000) retirement pay-out and a luxury villa. Nkurunziza came to power in 2005 after a civil war, which left 300,000 people dead. The former rebel leader took pride in the fact that his administration brought peace to Burundi. Retired General Evariste Ndayishimiye, who successfully stood for the ruling party in last month’s elections, was due to take over. The opposition said the elections were marred by rigging and violence, charges the government denied. Nkurunziza would have preferred his ally, Pascal Nyabenda, the president of the National Assembly, to succeed him, according to a briefing by the International Crisis Group think tank, but the generals successfully lobbied for Ndayishimiye. According to Burundi’s constitution, Nyabenda is now supposed to take over until Ndayishimiye starts his seven-year term. Journalists and human rights workers are routinely targeted in Burundi. Last week, four journalists from the domestic news website Iwacu were sentenced to two and a half years in prison after they travelled to investigate reports of unrest in the northwest of the country. Burundi withdrew from the International Criminal Court in 2017, shut down the UN office on human rights last year, and expelled the representative of the World Health Organisation (WHO) last month amid criticism of the government’s handling of the new coronavirus pandemic. It has carried out very few tests and held large rallies during the election period. “As I learn of the passing of Pierre Nkurunziza, I think of the thousands of lives that his regime cut short. The families that won’t see justice,” tweeted Thierry Uwamahoro, a democracy activist and prominent government critic, who lives in exile. Nkurunziza’s wife was rumoured to have tested positive for coronavirus – a disease Nkurunziza had appeared to downplay, holding an election in the midst of the outbreak, and even expelling World Health Organisation (WHO) representatives from the country. The government has announced seven days of national mourning.