 WELCOME to June! I have no doubt that many of us must have had an encounter with the healing ministry of the Great Physician all through the month of May, 2020. My prayer is that your encounter will be for a life time and your healing shall be permanent, in Jesus name! This week, we shall focus on: Unlocking the Supernatural Through Favour! From Scriptures, we discovered that we are in the latter days; the era of supernatural favour in the body of Christ. As a result, there shall be an unusual release of supernatural favour in the Church of Christ before Jesus returns (Psalm 102:13-15). Also, the Church will begin to possess the land and wherever the soles of our feet shall thread upon shall be given to us. It is written, We have heard with our ears, O God, our fathers have told us, what work thou didst in their days, in the times of old. How thou didst drive out the heathen with thy hand, and plantedst them; how thou didst afflict the people, and cast them out. For they got not the land in possession by their own sword, neither did their own arm save them: but thy right hand, and thine arm, and the light of thy countenance, because thou hadst a favour unto them (Psalm 44:1-3; see also Haggai 2:3-9). Also, we understand that redemption is a product of favour. The Bible says, For by grace are ye saved through faith; and that not of yourselves: it is the gift of God (Ephesians 2:8). Grace, which also means favour, is the heritage of the redeemed and everyone that is born again is listed among God’s beloved (Ephesians 1:6; 2 Corinthians 5:21). ‘Beloved’ here connotes ‘to be favoured or to be a favourite’. That means every child of God is God’s favourite on the earth. Thus, we have our roots in divine favour by redemption (Psalm 5:12). As a result, everything about our lives attracts favour. Furthermore, the ‘Church in the wilderness’ (the Israelites) was a highly favoured and struggle-free Church. The Bible records, This is he, that was in the church in the wilderness with the angel which spake to him in the mount Sina, and with our fathers: who received the lively oracles to give unto us (Acts 7:38). During the 40-year sojourn of the Israelites in the wilderness, they experienced the tangibility of favour. They enjoyed Manna twice daily and the Bible says, Thy raiment waxed not old upon thee, neither did thy foot swell, these forty years (Deuteronomy 8:4). Even with this, there is nothing in the Old Testament that can be compared to what is available to us in the New Testament. If the Church in the wilderness was that favoured, how much more shall the Church of the Living God, bought by the Blood of Jesus, be favoured. Concerning the Israelites, God said, And I will give this people favour in the sight of the Egyptians: and it shall come to pass, that, when ye go, ye shall not go empty (Exodus 3:21; see also Exodus 12:36). God is committed to giving His people favour and we are privileged to be His people by redemption. Hence, we are entitled to divine favour. Also, the Church in the upper room enjoyed favour (Acts 2:47). Favour was the identity of the first Church and that means the Church of Christ is ordained to swim in favour. Furthermore, Jesus Christ, the Head of the Church, was robed with favour. The Bible says, And Jesus increased in wisdom and stature, and in favour with God and man (Luke 2:52). Jesus said, As thou hast sent me into the world, even so have I also sent them into the world (John 17:18). Thus, we are heirs of God and joint heirs with Jesus. That means whatever pertains to Christ pertains to us in redemption (Romans 8:17). What is in Favour That Unlocks the Supernatural? In conclusion, apart from the favour of salvation, every other favour we desire is at a cost. It is important to understand that God’s favour is real, but it is not free. This is because even the favour of salvation still demands that we repent so we can be saved and then receive the gift of the Holy Ghost. That means, there is what we must do to trigger favour. It is important to understand that favour is not a religious theory; it is a virtue with proofs. New birth is the first covenant step into a world of favour. Thereafter, we are listed among God’s beloved after the order of Joseph (Psalm 5:12). Are you born again? If you are not, this is an opportunity to do so. Simply say the following prayer: Lord Jesus, I come to You today. I am a sinner. Forgive me of my sins. Cleanse me with Your precious Blood. Today, I accept You as my Lord and personal Saviour. Thank You Jesus for saving me! Now, I know I am born again! For further reading, get my books: Walking in the Miraculous, Operating in the Supernatural, Releasing the Supernatural, Commanding the Supernatural and All you Need to have all your Needs Met. I invite you to fellowship with us at the Faith Tabernacle, Canaanland, Ota, the covenant home of Winners. We have four services on Sundays, holding at 6:00 a.m., 7:50 a.m., 9:40 a.m. and 11:30 a.m. respectively. However, due to the restrictions, you can join our live services via Facebook: David Oyedepo Ministries International, Twitter: @DavidOyedepoMin, Instagram: davidoyedepomin, YouTube: Domi Stream, Hebron 95.9 FM, Winners World App, Impact Africa TV (on Startimes and NigComSat), Domi Radio and via the Church Satellite. I know this teaching has blessed you. Write and share your testimony with me through: Faith Tabernacle, Canaanland, Ota, P.M.B. 21688, Ikeja, Lagos, Nigeria, call 01-4548070, 01-4548280, or E-mail: testimonies@lfcww.org or testimonies@davidoyedepo.com. 