The Federal Government has set an ambitious target of achieving digital economy by 2023. Stakeholders have urged the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) to remove the hurdles to make this happen, reports LUCAS AJANAKU.  STAKEHOLDERS in the telecoms industry have advice for the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC): Address the challenges besetting the telecoms sector if the National Digital Economy Policy of the Federal Government will not remain a paper tiger. The stakeholders, who spoke against the backdrop of the reappointment of Prof Garba Dambatta as the CEO of the Commission, said he should see the appointment as a call to do more for the industry. The President, Association of Telecoms Companies of Nigeria (ATCON), Olusola Teniola, commended the President Muhammadu Buhari and the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Ibrahim Pantami, for allowing continuity  in the sector. Teniola said Dambatta, having spent the last five years, now knows the challenges of the industry very well. He said the area of digitalising the economy should be taken seriously by the EVC. According to him, over-the-top (OTT) platforms have shown interest in making democratising internet access to youths  as an empowerment tool. He said this meant that policy will shift from the traditional (voice) to data, adding that collaboration was central to achieving this. With about $5billion needed to finance the new National Broadban Plan (NBP) that set 70 per cent coverage as target and 90 per cent 4G coverage, he said COVID-19 has shown the importance of infrastructure to digital economy. The Chairman, Association of Licensed Telecoms Companise of Nigeria (ALTON), Gbenga Adebayo, said there’s virtue in consistency in leadership. Like Teniola, he said the NCC should relentlessly pursue the implementation of the NBP, which he said contained very loft objectives. He said the issue of access to foreign exchange should be eased by  telcos. According to him, the telecoms sector should be accorded priority in the area of forex  allocation as it is a critical because of its enbaling capacities to other sectors. Adebayo said the EVC should collaborate with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to ensure that telecoms sector gets access to forex. According to sector analysts,  Dambatta has tried to grow the industry. Despite recession that ravaged the economy about two years ago,  the telecoms segment’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP’s) contribution increased from 8.50 per cent in August 2015 to 10.88 per cent as of Q1 2020. According to the National Bureau of Statitics (NBS), the entire ICT sector rose to 14.07per cent in first quarter of thuis year. Active mobile voice subscribers increased from 151,018,624 in August 2015, when  Dambatta came on board,to 189,282,796 as at the end of March 2020. Between August 2015 and February, last year, when teledensity was measured against the 140 population in Nigeria, teledensity increased from 107.87 to 124.05 per cent. However, after rebasing the country’s teledensity to 91 per cent in February, last year, teledensity has  increased from 91 per cent to 99.16 per cent as of March, 2020. Internet subscribers increased from 90 million in 2015 to 136.2 million as of March 2020. Broadband penetration increased from eight per cent in 2015 to 39.90 per cent in March 2020. This indicates that 76.2 million Nigerians are on broadband networks of 3G and 4G in the country. In the area of broadband penetration, in line with the Eight-Point Agenda, the country was able to achieve and suppress its broadband target of 30 per cent by  December 2018. Various efforts of the Commission in licensing new spectrum bands, re-farming certain frequency bands and driving initiatives for increased broadband infrastructure have also been responsible for these feats. The NCC must be supported by the government through relevant policies to drive the actualisation of the country’s digital economy policy strategy, going forward, a stakeholder said. “Nigerians need a robust and pervasive broadband connectivity more than ever before in today’s world, where people can easily interact with an Automated Teller Machine (ATM), carry out activities around e-commerce, e-government, tele-medicine, among others on a daily basis,” he said. Further to the  Eighth-Point Agenda, the Commission has worked the ministry and National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) to develop a Regulatory Guidelines for the utilisation of television white space (TVWS) for telecom services deployment.  The framework will help the country to leverage TVWS – unused broadcast spectrum – toe extend affordable broadband services to the unserved and under-served communities in the country. The Commission’s Open Access Model (OAM) project aimed extending access to digital services across the 774 local governments in the country is in place along with licences to Infrastructure Companies (InfraCos). Six InfraCos have been  licensed to drive the deployment of broadband infrastructure across the nation’s six geo-political zones and Lagos. As a stimulus to encourage investors of InfraCos to roll out, NCC made provisions in the 2017 and 2018 budgets for subsidies to the InfraCo licensees and it is working with the Federal Government, through the ministry, to ensure disbursement of the counterpart funding to the licensed InfraCos upon attainment deployment milestones. As a demonstration of commitment to innovation,   Dambatta created a Research and Development (R&D) Department for the Commission in 2016 for synchronising the various ongoing research  and other development projects being carried out by the Commission. This decision, in line with the provisions of the National Telecommunications Policy 2000 and the Nigerian National ICT Policy 2012, is helping the Commission to stimulate and sustain innovations in the ICT industry. In the area of spectrum administration, the Commission auctioned  six slots of 2×5 megahertz (MHz) in the 2.6 gigahertz (GHz) Band, re-planning of the 800 MHz band for Long-Term Evolution (LTE), licensing of two slots of 10 MHz each in the 700 MHz band, as well as the opening up of the E-band spectrum 70/80 GHz band for both last-mile and backhaul services. “We will develop and implement flexible, market-oriented spectrum regulatory policies that promote highly efficient use of spectrum in ways that stimulate innovation, investment, and job creation and increased consumer benefits,” he said. In the area of foreign direct investment, four years ago, it was around $38 billion. It has risen to over $70 billion. NCC said despite this, the investment in the sector is inadequate and will continue to pursue policies that would encourage more investment. “The volume of telecom investment in Nigeria is very impressive and indicative of a very fast-growing and resilient sector of the economy. But, we will continue to advocate for more investment, giving that the industry was very capital intensive, with the competition for FDIs becoming fiercer among different nations,” Dambatta said. It is estimated that about 40 million Nigerians, especially those in the rural and semi-urban areas are yet to be reached with basic infrastructure and services, making the over $68 billion investment in the telecom industry inadequate and therefore committed to attracting more investment in the industry. Stressing this during the NTLS, Danbatta said: “The argument for more investments becomes more compelling, given that this industry is very capital intensive, with the competition for Foreign Direct Investments, FDls, becoming fiercer among different nations. In our consultative regulatory process, we consider shared experiences, and shared vision as the best approach to equip us with the tools to continuously reposition towards the course of effective regulation. a