Rapists seem to be getting bolder. Last week, 22-year-old Vera Omosuwa, a first-year student of the University of Benin (UNIBEN) was gang-raped and killed in Benin, the Edo State capital. In Kaduna, before the Omosuwa case, a lady simply identified as Jennifer was reportedly raped by five men. While the world has been aghast at the sexual attacks, especially the one on Omosuwa, the rapists appear unperturbed. On Monday, 18-year-old Barakat Bello, a year-one student of Federal College of Animal Health and Production Technology, Ibadan, Oyo State, was gang-raped and murdered. The incident was said to have happened at her parents’ house in the Akinyele area of Ibadan. It was gathered that her body was found around their home. Father of the deceased, Kasimu Bello, said he was not at home when the incident occurred. His wife Mrs Kafayat Bello said she was also not at home when their daughter was attacked and killed but she begged the security agencies to find the perpetrators within seven days. She said, “Only God knows how it happened. I was not at home. Some neighbours called me around 6pm. By the time I got home, I found my daughter in a pool of blood. I was shocked. She took her phone to Kara for repairs on Sunday and went to retrieve it on Monday around 2pm. Some people saw her around 5pm while returning home. She later went to fetch water to take a bathe. Those killers had stolen some things in our room. They met her on their way out through the backyard and attacked her. Her younger one, who had gone to the Arabic class, was the one that alerted the neighbours when he found her in the pool of blood.” Also on Monday, a 17-year-old hawker was ambushed and raped by three street urchins armed  with broken bottles in Ado-Ekiti, the Ekiti State capital. The Nation learnt that the teenager was hawking sachet waters and soft drinks when she was attacked at the popular Oja’ba market in Ado-Ekiti metropolis. It was gathered that the wife of the state governor Mrs Bisi Fayemi paid the teen’s hospital bill. Police spokesman Sunday Abutu confirmed the incident, saying two suspects had been arrested. Abutu lamented the increasing cases of rape. In Osun State, a magistrate’s court sitting in Osogbo, the capital, on Wednesday ordered 57-year-old Moses Oloko to be remanded in prison for allegedly raping a minor. Oloko was alleged to have raped a minor after luring her with N100. Chairman, Nigeria in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM), Abike Dabiri-Erewa has called for the castration of rape offenders in the country. Ijeoma Onyejison said, “The truth is that some of the people in authority who are supposed to enact strict laws against rape are perpetrators of it.” Fidelis Soriwei said something drastic has to be done to check the menace. The Centre for Communication and Social Impact (CCSI) yesterday urged governments and the judiciary to enforce legislative provisions and penalties against rape and other acts of violence against women and the girl-child. An organisation, Proactive Gender Initiative (PGI) on Wednesday urged President Muhammadu Buhari to set up a judicial commission of enquiry to probe cases of sexual harassment, especially rape and incest.