  TODAY, I have decided that we are not taking things seriously, just as Nigerians are no longer taking coronavirus seriously. I mean, we are still in COVID times, but my fellow citizens are going about ‘unmasked’, if you will pardon the pun. In other words, they go around without wearing any mask. I walk, drive or stroll through the streets and I see people huddled or walking in groups, mouths nearly greeting mouths in deep talk, and not wearing any masks. And I wonder: were we not the same people who practically huddled in the innermost recesses of our homes in dread of this fearsome, invisible enemy? What has changed? You know though that there is unmasking, and there is unmasking. Ladies’ masks come from bottles in a semi-liquid state. When women rub these things on their faces, the liquid hardens and forms a mask. I think the purpose of the mask is really to rejuvenate the skin and strip off the age from a lady’s face so that she does not look anything like her sixty years, but when she is unmasked, well, the story changes. A man once woke up in the middle of the night and found someone rummaging in their refrigerator. He smacked the life out of the intruder before discovering that the person beneath the mask was his wife. Other ladies’ masks come in the form of make-up, which, I hear, is mighty big business these days. This is why most bridegrooms don’t quite know who (or what) they are marrying now because when the unmasking is done, great surprises await. True, most world governments are reporting a downward turn in the rate of COVID infections in their countries; meaning that infections are still occurring but not as much as before. Yet, judging by the situation on the streets, it’s as if the people have decided to let the government do its business on one side of the street while they do theirs on the other side without any cross communication. In other words, nothing doing where the disease is concerned. Wonderful, I think, something is wrong here as I observe people go about their normal business without a care in the world. Either they know something I don’t know, or they have found the secret formula that keeps corona at bay. To find out which, I approached a few to find out what they knew that I didn’t. One laughed in my face. Another guffawed as if I were a little child asking him what the moon was made of. Still another looked at me blankly. Clearly, the silent message was loud. Coronavirus was and is a figment of the imagination of our world leaders. And all the coffins I saw lined up in one Italian Church, I asked? I was told clearly that that was sad, but that could not happen in Africa. Why ever not, I asked? Many shrugged in indifference. Well, you remember that joke about the man who goes to consult a psychiatrist because he says he cannot feel anything? Well, the psychiatrist is said to have asked, you must feel something for your family. Nothing, the man says. What about love? No, he replies. Hatred? No, says the man. What about indifference? Not even that, says the man. Then I can’t help you, says the psychiatrist. The man goes away, indifferent to the psychiatrist’s intervention. So, we should be grateful for little mercies, such as the fact that the people still feel indifferent to the visiting corona. The more eloquent of my responders ventured an explanation. Look, they said, if coronavirus struck in Africa, it would be triple jeopardy. First, they said, there is the constant African sun beating down on our African pates without any mercy day in, day out, all our miserable lives. Those lives, they go on, are made even more miserable by the effects of colonialism which we continue to feel today. If not for colonialism, they insist, why would many tribes not related in language, culture or religion be living together in the same country? Africans are suffering today because of this European misadventure in Africa. Then there are those who say that the bad governance we have all variously suffered in Africa is punishment enough. So, coronavirus has no business adding to the African’s burden. I honestly do not know whether they are correct to reason like this or not but I see where they are coming from. I understand them completely. No one under the law should suffer double, let alone triple, jeopardy. Truth is, by the selfish and self-centred acts of our leaders, we Africans have suffered and still continue to suffer. On account of their kleptomaniac tendencies, most African nations are now experiencing want, deprivation, poverty, ignorance, disease, unnecessary deaths and every other imaginable and avoidable horrors. Unfortunately, the story has not changed, even following the coronavirus experience. One of the most visible effects of the attack of this virus is the fact that it unmasked many. It unmasked the countries that had not been using their resources for the upkeep of the people, such as in Africa, in their lack of readiness to tackle such a disease. It thus distinguished such unready states from those that had systematically, over the centuries, been using their resources for the development of their countries, such as western countries, by some readiness to tackle the disease. In other words, the virus unmasked the pretense of African states to be called countries. Nigeria, like many other African countries, has been led by its leaders to dissipate her resources on worthless living. This space is too small to mention some of the unspeakable examples of dissipated living: chasing of mansions, armoured cars or private jets by government functionaries using state funds, and so on, while hospitals lack basic equipment and women continue to die in childbirth. Unfortunately, the worst example of dissipated living is still going on under our very noses and we are all quiet. Why should the country ask the education, health and other departments to slash their budgets each on account of the deficits occasioned by COVID-19 but the national assembly gets to keep its own? Why, eh, why? Is it because I’m not in the assembly? COVID-19 has unmasked us as a people. It has shown that we are not ready to even pretend to be able to run our own affairs, let alone be called a country. For goodness’ sakes, no public hospital was worth its name when corona struck. This is shameful. On the other side of the world, in a country where the resources are used to develop the state, their prime minister was able to go into a public hospital when the disease came calling on him. Nigeria, right now, has been called the poverty capital of the world. This showed during the crisis. Whereas other countries could pay their people to stay at home, Nigeria could not, because most of the money had gone into buying armoured cars and private jets for their leaders. I think that the time has come for some serious thoughts on the subject of growing up as a nation. Our leaders cannot be jetting around the world in private things and expect the world to believe that Nigeria is poor. It does not make much sense. Rather, this nation needs to get serious with its affairs so that when next the wind strikes, it will reveal a less unsavoury African rump. Let us work so that it will rather unmask the golden rump that lies beneath.