Following the Ekiti State government’s example, Plateau, Imo, Katsina and Kaduna states have signed Executive Orders to tackle the right of way (RoI) nightmare to deepen broadband penetration, reports LUCAS AJANAKU. The importance of affordable and ubiquitous broadband infrastructure cannot be over-emphasised. The COVID-19 pandemic has made this clear as people work and learn from home. Software developers are creating tools to improve digital contact tracing, combat the virus and save lives. Google and Apple announced a joint effort to enable the use of Bluetooth technology to help governments and health agencies reduce the spread of the virus. Singapore has unveiled TraceTogether while South Korea is not left out. These are but few. For Nigeria to key into this initiative, broadband infrastructure is critical for connectivity. But a myriad of challenges, such as right of way (RoW), multiple taxation/regulation, and wilful vandalism of infrastructure have stood as stmbling blocks. It was either operators were denied RoW or charged ridiculously exorbitant rate, with some as high as N10,000 per linear metre of fibre cable instead of N145 approved by the National Executive Council (NEC). In the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), for example, for about a decade, no infrstrastructure has been deployed because of the refusal of FCDA to grant approval. Such practices have been inimical to the deployment of telecoms infrastructure for inclusive development. According to the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), there are about 32 million access gaps across the country. The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Ali Pantami; CEO, NCC, Prof Garba Dambatta; President, Association of Telecoms Companies of Nigeria (ATCON), Olusola Teniola and Chairman, Association of Licensed Telecoms Companies of Nigeria (ALTON), Gbenga Adebayo, have acknowlegded these challenges.  Regulatory interventions Dambatta had met with Nigeria Governors’Forum (NGF) led by the Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, on many occasions to stress  the need for the states and FCT to comply with NEC’s decison because of the huge socio-economic benefits compliance would briing to the states. He also led his team to the National Assembly on many occasions  to discuss the issue of RoW and other challenges. He evolved a Regional Stakehold- ers Forum to discuss the RoW issue and others, such as multiple taxation, vandalism, theft of telecom equipment, and indiscriminate shutting down of base transceiver stations (BTS)  and how to address the issues and their negative implications on quality of service (QoS) for businesses and individuals and even government web-based operations. It also has implication on national security, especially during emergency when people in an area in a state could not make calls to alert security agencies to come to their rescue due to the fact that unauthorised people have shut BTS over its refusal to pay taxes/levies unknown to law. When Pantami came on board,  Danbatta briefed the minister on the RoW issue, which he described as “one of the biggest issue slowing down broadband infrastructure deployment across the state”. This, he added, is contributing to poor QoS in some locations and lack of digital access in others. The minister and the NCC chief met with Fayemi earlier this year to on the need to comply with N145 RoW charges. They  explained that allowing their states to have robust broadband network would create more jobs, bring about efficiency in the ways, the government and private businesses are conducted, make their states investment destinations for local and foreign investors who look for areas where they could have unhindered access to telecoms services before citing business ventures there. Ultimately, all these will help the government to achieve the main reason for charging operators exorbitantly. Avaialbility of infrastructure will help the states in raising internally generated revenue (IGR). Ekiti,  Kaduna, others take steps The efforts of the regulatory agency has paid off as  Fayemi took an important step to put his state on the right path. To make state the knowledge and innovation capital of country, he signed an Executive Order reducing RoI charges which relate to laying broadband or any other telecoms infrastructure from N4.50 to N145 per linear metre. Titled: Executive Order No 007 of 2020 Right of Way Charges on Telecommunications Infrastructure, part of the Order read: “Broadband connectivity across Ekiti State will enhance the ability of the government of Ekiti State to increase economic prosperity; attract new businesses; enhance job growth; extend the reach of affordable, high quality healthcare; enrich student learning with digital tools; and facilitate access to the digital marketplace.” Ekiti is the first state to comply with NEC’s approved RoI charges for broadband, thus becoming the cheapest state for infrastructure development as 1km of cable will cost just N145, 000 as against N4.5million previously. The Executive Order is part of ongoing reforms in the Ease of Doing Business project inaugurated by the governor last year to improve the indices that will make the state an attractive destination for national and international investment in the next five years. While Plateau, Imo and Katsina states have complied with the N145 charges per linear metre of fibre set by the NEC in 2013 for RoW, Kaduna has moved extra step. Governor Mallam Nasir el-Rufai has totally waived the RoW payment for broadband/telecom infrastructure deployment. Stakeholders in the industry have commended these steps as they say it will help brisge the widening digital divide in the country and ensure the nation benefit from digital economy agenda of the Federal Government, reducing governance cost and promoting digital transactions. The Special Adviser to the governor on Investment, Trade and Innovation, Mr Akin Oyebode, said the decision would ensure Ekiti achieved full broadband penetration by next year to attract new businesses, create jobs, improve access to quality healthcare and digital education while improving internally generated revenue. He added that it also aligned with ongoing development of the Ekiti Knowledge Zone designed to be the country’s first service based innovation park.