 Kano Governor Umar Ganduje; his Ekiti State counterpart Kayode Fayemi; Oyo Deputy Governor Rauf Olaniyan; his Lagos State counterpart Obafemi Hamzat and Lagos Speaker Mudashiru Obasa were among dignitaries that paid last respects to former Oyo Governor Senator Abiola Ajimobi in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital on Sunday. Ajimobi died of COVID-19 complications at a private hospital in Lagos on Thursday. He was buried privately in his Oluyole, Ibadan residence amid sobs by children and relations. His remains were interred at about 10:00 am after the Chief Imam of Ibadanland Sheik Ajigbotomokekere led prayers for repose of his soul. A public prayer session later held at the Abiola Ajimobi Mosque, Oke-Ado where renowned Islamic preacher Alh. Muyideen Bello, led other priests to give a brief sermon. Bello extolled the virtues of the late former governor, stressing in spite of the demands of his office, he gave adequate time for l God and supported Islam in every way he could. He said: “Ajimobi lived well. He also promoted Islam. In fact, I can pray God to help all of the living to also live well like him. “At the inception of his governorship position, we had an argument over the mosque located behind his office. We agreed that government does not usually fulfill its promises on mosques. “Then he said he wished to build a mosque. Thank God we are in that mosque which he built today.” Bello said Ajimobi’s exploits and death already presented a lengthy sermon for the living. The cleric recalled one of his last interactions with Ajimobi when he invited him to chair an Islamic lecture in his capacity as Abiola Ajimobi, not a politician or former governor. “When I asked him to address the audience that day, what he said was instructive. He said he desired long life because his father died shortly before age 70.  “He added that though long life is desirable, once one is blessed with the ability to achieve one’s dreams in life, it is a thing of joy. He expressed his desire to live till age 90. “This death that every human runs away from, a day is coming when we shall all encounter it where we can not escape. What are we going to be remembered for?” At the prayer session were Ganduje, Olaniyan, Hamzat, Obasa, Ajimobi’s deputy Chief Moses Adeyemo, Chief Bayo Adelabu and Sen. Teslim Folarin. They were joined by Ajimobi’s son and some relations. In an interview with reporters, Obasa said Ajimobi’s ties with Lagos political community were strong having proved to be a loyal party man. He said: “He was a loyalist who never forgot his benefactor. That is why Lagos political family will continue to identify with his family and legacies. “The kind of development he introduced in Oyo State fetched him the sobriquet ‘Koseleri.’ He served the party wholeheartedly. “That was also the reason he was nominated and supported as the Deputy National Chairman (South) and Acting National Chairman of our party.”