 The Lagos State Government plans to deliver its Regional Road Project in Lekki within the next two years. The road runs parallel to the Lekki-Epe Expessway and it is expected to ease the perennial traffic gridlock along the Lekki corridor and serve as a precursor to the Fourth Mainland Bridge. Speaking at the stakeholders’ engagement meeting with residents of  Eti-Osa Local Government, Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Dr. Idris Salako said the regional road was conceived by the Lagos State Government in the Lagos Metropolitan Master Plan (1980-2000) and also identified in the 1991 Layout Approval issued by the state government as strategy to engender the socio- economic development of Lekki corridor. He added that other roads that were identified are the Coastal Road, Lekki- Epe Expressway, Southern part of Elegushi Land and Lagoon Highway. Salako said the nine kilometre road was long overdue as a panacea and strategic link to circumvent the transportation gridlock from Mainland to Lagos Island. He expressed displeasure that the objective for which the road was conceived was being threatened and negated by series of encroachments as some estates, buildings and other structures were on its Right of Way. “This has made the governor to graciously approve a reduction in the width of the Right of Way in the bid to reduce as much as possible, the level of actual encroachments,” Salako said. According to him, in view of the importance of the proposed road project to the socio-economic development of the state, the government is determined more than ever to bring everyone on board and ensure seamless execution of the project. He said this inclusive governance approach will enable the government to fulfill its promise of democratic dividends through the THEMES Agenda of Lagos State. He added that government recognises the link between infrastructure development and socio- economic growth and is passionate about developing infrastructure across the state. He however lamented that there could be no sustainable physical development of the state when people engage in indiscriminate and unapproved developments. “It is our fervent belief that people in this area are willing to embrace the implementation of the project for the benefit of the generality of Lagosians. This is because it would make life easier and more meaningful for the teeming population of Lagosians through effective inters connectivity within our dear State,” Salako said.  The Special Adviser to the Governor on Works and Infrastructure, Engr. Aramide Adeyoye said that the essence of the stakeholders’ meeting was to aggregate views and secure the necessary buy-in for the speedy completion of the project. She urged residents of the area to embrace the project and support government in the bid to make life easier for the people. She emphasised that the road being a flagship project of the government would be completed swiftly. Special Adviser to the Governor on Urban Development, Ganiyu Adele Ayuba,  appealed to stakeholders to assume ownership of the project, cooperate for its execution and ensure the protection of the road infrastructure upon completion. Commissioner for Home Affairs, Anofiu Elegushi,said that the government had been responsive to the yearnings of the people of Eti-Osa  Local Government and would continue to do so. He urged residents of the area to come together as a community and embrace the project which is expected to enhance the value for property on that corridor. Chairman, Lagos State House of Assembly  Committee on Physical Planning and Urban Development,  Nureni Akinsanya added that in view of the prospects of the project, especially the expected impact on business and well being of the people, the House of Assembly had resolved to cooperate as usual with the Government in order to ensure that the project was delivered within two years as promised. Speaking on behalf of the people of Eti-Osa, Sanni Adewale stated that the people are excited about the focus of the government on the area and welcome the project and are willing to support successful execution of government projects.