 Lagos State Education Commissioner, Mrs. Folasade Adefisayo said the state hired 3,000 Primary and Secondary school teachers to boost teaching and learning in its 1,500 schools in the past one year. Speaking during the annual Ministerial Press Briefing of the Ministry held at the JJT Park, Alausa Ikeja on Tuesday, the Commissioner said that the Education Sector which represents the third pillar of the THEMES agenda of the present administration has witnessed tremendous improvements, placing high premium on quality of teaching and learning in all schools in the State. She said many of the 16,000 teachers in the state’s employ had also benefited from training organised at education district and state levels. The Commissioner while presenting the activities and achievements of the Ministry also pointed out that the Ministry remains a critical success factor for the socio- economic development of an emerging economy that encourages responsible citizenship, development of human capacity and the crucial support for a transition into a knowledge based economy. Adefisayo revealed that the Lagos State Government’s plans for Education are being executed along key strategic areas under the Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu (BOS) Education Transformation Plan 2020 with initiatives and intervention projects. She intimated that the Ministry had embarked on the construction and upgrading of Public Schools’ infrastructure across the State with the completion of 6 blocks of 92 classrooms in primary schools and 3 blocks of 54 classrooms in secondary schools at different parts of the State which is aimed at easing classroom congestion while ensuring capacity develop and welfare of students. “In addition, the State government under the Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC) and State Universal Basic Education (SUBEB) intervention projects also commenced the delivery of 10,164 furniture and 60,000 chair table units to public schools state wide.  She added that Governor Sanwo-Olu had approved the establishment of well-equipped standard science laboratories in 11 senior secondary schools and the five Government Technical Colleges, as well as the rehabilitation of 60 schools. She further hinted that in the last one year of the present administration, the Ministry of Education has instituted better school governance, administration and also improved the quality of primary education with the Pilot launch of the EKO-EXCEL (Excellence in Child Education) programme which is an initiative of the Lagos State Government aimed at transforming teaching and learning in all State Primary schools with the training of 4,400 teachers and social officers in January 2020.  “The Eko Excel initiative is already operational in 300 public primary schools in the State. “The State government also provided two new buses, laptops, photocopying machines to Basic Education Quality Assurance Officers for monitoring of Primary schools. “We have improved capacity and welfare of students, our students have continued to emerge tops at several competitions nationally and internationally clinching medals and trophies for the State. Competition like the JETS Competition, World Robot Olympiad held at EDUTUS University Gyor, Hungary and the Chinese Bridge Proficiency Competition to mention a few,” she stressed.