THE Maritime Workers’ Union of Nigeria (MWUN) has reiterated its commitment to protecting workers against employers’ maltreatment. The union described the working conditions of its members as deplorable and assured that it would tackle them as soon as the Covid-19 pandemic issues were  managed. Speaking with The Nation, President-General of MWUN, Comrade Adewale Adeyanju, raised the alarm that some employers were planning to hide under the pandemic to downsize. He said some employers  cut the workers’allowances. “As at this morning, a letter came in from one of the terminal operators, saying that they will like us to meet with them because of this covid-19. “They claim they can no longer pay and the rest of it. So, COVID-19 is a global sickness that is ravaging all stakeholders all over the world. It is not only maritime, but all over the world,” Adeyanju said. He, however, stated that only an unconcerned union that would give in to threats by employers. “Our door is  a open for dialogue. We will negotiate and get something reasonable for our members,” he said Adeyanju pointed out that the primary duty of any union, particularly MWUN, is to protect the interest of workers and promote their welfare. “We are not going to allow any management to take us for a ride as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic that is ravaging the whole world, and no union will allow them to say, ‘okay, we are downsizing and go on easily. ‘’So, there must be an understanding between the union and management. Workers must be treated decently and with utmost respect,” Adeyanju charged. MWUN has written to the employers and they have replied, he said, stating that because of the pandemic, the union was positive response on the issue. The MWUN chief said the union has temporarily stayed action on the matter pending a better time to meet with them again to look into the issues. Adeyanju noted that over the years, the world has come to believe that the shipping firms are the best employers. He, however, regretted that what he met on ground was different. “They are the worst employers. They have no regard for the workers. They believe so much in outsourcing the job that a responsible worker can do. They will give it out to somebody among themselves in the management,” he alleged. The MWUN was trying to address these issues and make sure that what belonged to the  workers would be given to them. On how Nigeria’s ratification of the Maritime Labour Convention has helped the  workers, Adeyanju said it boils down to effectiveness, performance and other factors. He said: “If you have a management that is very caring, much can be achieved. If the head is not doing well, how do you benefit? It boils down to effectiveness.” He expressed optimism that the benefits of the convention will manifest, especially now that a new management is in place at the Nigerian Maritime and Safety Agency (NIMASA). According to him, the new person in charge at the agency is a competent hand who rose through the ranks. “We believe he’s going to do better because he is an insider. So, there is no need to  complain. I know the man is going to perform because he understands the industry. “Whatever the management is supposed to enjoy, it comes from him as a leader who knows the problem of the sector. With his wealth of experience, he will use the maritime labour convention to improve on the working conditions of our members,” Adeyanju said. To further underscore his confidence in the new management of NIMASA, Adeyanju said the union has  sent an agenda to DG. He listed some of them to include training for seafarers, dockworkers, and biometric identity cards. “We have brought to his attention that he has something doing for us as a whole and for the average dockworker too,” he added.