Niger and Kaduna State Governments have eased the lockdown and lifted restriction of religious and social activities in the states. While Niger announced almost total movement and lifting of religious activities across the state, Kaduna’s is partial. Governor Alhaji Abubakar Bello of Niger State also said curfew in the state will now be from 10pm to 4am daily. He added that the ban on inter-state travels was still in place except for the movement of agricultural produce, manufactured goods, petroleum products and essential services. Bello, who received the technical committee report for the establishment of Niger State COVID-19 molecular testing laboratory in Minna, said markets, banks and worship centres were free to open for daily activities. He however stressed that there would be compulsory use of face masks and strict adherence to social distancing at public places. The governor, who ordered the dismantling of all security checkpoints, said the ban on commercial motorcycle operation was still in place. In Kaduna, Governor Nasir El-Rufai, said he would amend the state’s Quarantine Order today to permit a significant reopening of the state, especially businesses and places of worships. He said mosques and churches would be allowed to run only Friday and Sunday services respectively. The governor made this known in a statewide broadcast yesterday. He thanked residents of the state, for their immense sacrifices in the last two and half months. El-Rufai however said that schools and markets remained closed, “because at this stage of  the virus,   it was  still considered unsafe to open them”. He said: ‘’Businesses can reopen between 9am to 3pm daily. Church services are allowed only on Sundays and Mosques are allowed to conduct only Friday Jumat services  for the time being, subject to compliance with the safety stipulations above.’’ However, in Ogun State traders and customers at the Obafemi Awolowo Market, Sagamu and Oba Adetona Market, Oke-Aje, have continued to defy all health protocols and directives put in place by the government to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The Nation observed the trend on Tuesday during the routine monitoring of some of the major markets in the state by the   Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Nigeria Medical Association (NMA) and the National Association of Nigeria Nurses and Midwives(NANNM).