Book: Not An Afterthought: Private Sector Pragmatism to Government Idealism & the N-Power Success Story — A Memoir Author: Afolabi Sokpehi Imoukhuede Pages: 370 Reviewer: 
Olakunle Abimbola Afolabi Sokpehi Imoukhuede, the author of this work, dubs it a memoir: a detailed report card on his four-year stint, as President Muhammadu Buhari’s senior special assistant on job creation, and chief driver of N-Power, from 2015 to 2019. That programme, between 2015 and 2019, created more than 500, 000 jobs, in graduate and non-graduate volunteers.  That is five times the size of the federal bureaucracy — all in less than four years! N-Power is the job-creation arm of the National Social Investment Programme (NSIP), which itself falls under the strategic ambit of the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP). By 31 December 2019, wrote the author, “the stipend-only investment for N-Power alone” had gulped N346 billion — a massive amount no federal government before had spent on direct citizen investment. Yet each volunteer, trainable youths Nigeria-wide that the author dubbed “(s)heroes of N-Power”, earned stipends between N10, 000 (for non-graduates) and N30, 000 (graduate volunteers). Though many Nigerians would sneer at this stipend, the volunteers, as the book revealed with proof, made hay: improved their personal lots, while training as possible future entrepreneurs. Meanwhile, they were drafted, as crucial manpower, to critical areas of national need: teachers, primary healthcare workers, skilled artisans for construction work and agricultural extension workers. N-Power has a life-span of two years, after which the volunteers either secure permanent jobs or branch out on their own, as employers of labour — and there were even reported cases of volunteers leaving early, many to set up own shops. But beside the N-Power main story, the author throws in, as exciting bonuses, a legacy of stimulating family history; laced with personal odyssey, at three critical junctures of his life, when all could have gone wrong. Daddy died at 68 in 1989, when Afolabi was only in JS 3, leaving him to the care of his mum, everyone called Sisi: Mrs Olubunmi Olayinka Imoukhuede (née Olusoga), who also passed away on May 1, this year. For alleged sharp examination practices, WAEC withheld almost the entire result of Afolabi’s 1992 SS 3 school certificate set, at the Federal Government College, Warri; thus forcing him to re-write his papers, though he was no party to any foul play. He scaled that re-sit with enough quality grades to earn admission into the University of Lagos to read Medicine — a burning wish of his late father, which the dutiful son obeyed to honour his fond memory, though he had doubts whether he really wanted to be a medical doctor. Still, he wasn’t sure Joseph Enaifoghe Imoukhuede, OBE, his father, would have particularly applauded his SS-3 terminal results, given the elder Imoukhuede’s 1937 brilliant exploits at King’s College, Lagos (founded in 1909), the most prestigious public secondary school of his era. Yet in 1997, he abandoned it all (no thanks to endless ASUU strikes), for an uncharted future in America.  There, he earned a degree in Accounting from Rutgers University, secured work at KPMG, trained and honed his skill as Human Capital Strategist (HCS) — a badge of honour he clearly proudly treasures, much more than an MBBS. That HCS certification, and his burning entrepreneurial passion, have clearly propelled him, in his N-Power assignment, which the likes of Dr. Waheed Olagunju, then acting MD of the Bank of Industry, a key collaborator in the programme, declared the biggest and most audacious job-creating programme anywhere in Africa. So, when in 2005 he returned, after eight years in America, it was return of the native (to borrow the title of Thomas Hardy’s famous novel).  Still, as FGC Warri and MediLag experiences show, the system had badly bruised this particular native, as his father before him, with the old Imoukhuede tricked  into prisons in Biafra, during the Civil War (1967-1970) — a nasty experience Afolabi believed shortened his father’s life. Yet like the troubadour totally devoted to the wish of his lady, he returned to help Mother Nigeria drive one of her most ambitious, perhaps Nigeria’s very first national equal-opportunity programme, to “SkillUp” her youths — SkillUp being Imoukhuede’s private-sector, industry-pushed skill development Academy, before public service duty called. He gushed: “I finally decided in late 2005, that I would go along with my instincts and leave a developed country for my developing country.” Nigeria would appear the clear winner here, even if the author, had he stayed back at KPMG, could now have been earning six to seven figures in US dollars. Indeed SkillUp, and its TVET — Technical and Vocational Education Training — philosophy, which was Imoukhuede’s MCS Consultancy’s answer to the dry-up of training jobs, in the post-bank consolidation years from 2004, has aided to conceive N-Power, as presently structured. That would explain the book’s subtitle: Private Sector Pragmatism to Government Idealism.  It’s a collaborative pubic-private sector philosophy that should be embraced in other spheres of national life. Still, beyond Afolabi Imoukhuede and exacting but exciting odyssey, the book comes with rich historical parallels; and stimulating vignettes that underscore networking. In 1956, Joseph Imoukhuede, the first non-Yoruba permanent secretary in the old Western Region Civil Service, was named Agent-General of that region in London, UK.  He had the mandate to administer huge sums of money in scholarships, awarded to students of that region overseas. In 2015, Afolabi Imoukhuede got the N-Power job to administer an equally humongous budget to train and re-tool Nigerian youths for the modern economy, in the worst of economic times. The author — and admirably so — has not shied from enthusing: across two generations, spanning the 20th and 21st centuries, the Imoukhuedes, father and son, have discharged their duty to their country, with honesty and integrity, not smudging the spotless family banner.  Not that can be said of many, in contemporary Nigeria. Yet all through this book, the recurring theme has been team-work, processed along the P-I-E-R philosophy:  Passion, Integrity, Empathy and Reliability/Resilience. N-Power was no one-man show: from the superintendending Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, to Imoukhuede’s then immediate boss, Mrs Mariam Uwais (who the author always hailed: “Her Excellency”, but who almost always retorted: “Which Excellency?”), to the lowest of the team members; and even the 40-odd agencies, local and international, that worked together to make N-Power a reality. What’s the weakness of this book?  Maybe it’s an unending story masterfully told, by a basic man of numbers with nevertheless the lexis and style to say what he wants to say, in uncluttered prose!  And maybe the audacious declaration of N-Power an unqualified success, when the jury is still out. Aside from a few mix-up in historical dates, and even fewer typos, the book will add value to any library, anywhere in the world, as an authority on Nigeria’s quest to turn her huge youth population, to tremendous human capital. 