Sir: Nigeria in 1979 returned to a democratic system of government with late Sir Shehu Shagari as president but he was overthrown by General Muhammadu Buhari in 1983. The second attempt was during General Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida regime but the election conducted on June 12, 1993, which was seen by many as the freest and fairest, was annulled by the then government. This is why Nigeria shifted its democracy day from May 29 to June 12 in commemoration of the victory of late Chief MKO Abiola, in that election. However, Nigeria in 1999 returned to a democratic system of government with Olusegun Obasanjo as president and Atiku Abubakar as vice-president under the umbrella of PDP in 1999. The 21-year democratic journey in Nigeria has witnessed 16 years of PDP and APC with five years. The question here, has Nigeria’s democracy been effective? Abraham Lincoln defined democracy as a government of the people, by the people, for the people. But democracy in Nigeria unlike the way Lincoln defined it, is characterized by a lot of irregularities which include election rigging, imposition of candidates as well as godfatherism. We have witnessed a scenario whereby governors were impeached, members of House of Representatives and the Senate as well as state House of Assembly members were suspended for no justifiable reasons. Democracy in Nigeria is under threat because leaders in power are more concerned with how to achieve their goals rather than working for the success of those who voted them into office. With democracy, corruption has come to stay in the country; billions of dollars have ben looted right from 1999 to date while citizens are dying of starvation, frustration and depression. On the other hand, whenever I see the way elections are being conducted in Nigeria, I weep for our democracy, especially local government elections. Come to think of it, how could a single party win all chairmanship and councillorship election in a state? The ruling party in a state would win all the seats in local government elections. Are we really practising democracy? And this thing has been happening for more than two decades and no one tries to end it. Moreover, despite being in a democratic era for 21 years, poverty is still walking naked in Nigeria.  Youth unemployment is on the increase. Other factors militating against the success of democracy in Nigeria include hate speeches, scarcity of water, vote-buying, abandoned projects, poor infrastructure among others. Furthermore, the democratic system of government in Nigeria seems to have attracted a lot of insecurity issues across the country; for instance, the Boko Haram insurgency which started in 2009 has been lingering up to date. Armed banditry in the northwest has been taking lives on a daily basis, and farmer-herder clashes are threatening agricultural activities. These, as well as political intrigues and the quest for power at all costs, have brought disunity to our dear nation.  It is unfortunate that democracy has divided Nigerians across religions, tribes and regions. Instead of electing competent people into power, Nigerians do vote people from their communities even if they incompetent. I call on federal government to do all it takes to make democratic system of government effective in Nigeria and end insecurity especially the armed banditry in Northwest and the insurgency in Northeast. The North is bleeding!