Terrence Ugochukwu Odenigbo, popularly known as TerrytheVoice, is gradually rising to become one of the leading voices of his generation. His new music video, Foreign, featuring Jamaican artist, Iyah Gift, was recently released and has garnered a lot of views, was shot in Kingston. Currently in the United States of America, where he is recording more music and shooting more videos, TerrytheVoice had a chat with ace novelist and filmmaker Onyeka Nwelue. Excerpts: You recently released a music video, Foreign, featuring Jamaican artiste, Iyah Gift. We learnt it was shot in Kingston. What was it like? Tell us about the music and Iyah Gift. The idea of “Foreign” started last year July in Jamaica when I met Iyah Gift at a bar two days before I left for New York. We quickly connected and scheduled a studio session the next day, then I had Jesse, my producer send me 3 beats. Iyah picked the first and I laced the hook almost immediately, it was magic! His flows and melody sat so well on the instrumental. The session ended late in the night and I had an early morning flight out of Kingston. So, I made sure I had all the data sent to my producer via WeTransfer and told Iyah I would be back in a couple of months. It took a few extra months to complete the project but I’m glad we made it happen. Fast forward to February 2020, I got back to Kingston and we shot the video!  We also saw a picture of you and Usain Bolt. Tell us about it. I met Usain at some American restaurant. It was very close to Kaya Herb house in Kingston. We just finished picking up what we ordered and Mr Bolt was just sitting casually with friends. I had to ask my friend if it was really Usain Bolt and she confirmed it was him. I said “Ok then, I gotta get a picture!” I walked up to him, introduced myself and made my intentions known and he quickly obliged. You were recently in Mexico, with borders of countries closed. What is happening there? Any new projects? And what is your take on the current situation of the world? Mexico City is great and I’m learning a little bit of Spanish. It’s really calm down here in La Condesa although I have not left my Airbnb yet, lol. I plan to get to a friend’s studio in the weekend to re-record my verse on a song. The pandemic has for sure affected me in some ways but I’m tryna make the most of every situation I find myself in. For instance, I’m currently locked out of Africa and cannot get to Nigeria or South Africa, and this is disrupting my plans. But I’m in Mexico “quarantining” because I don’t want to overstay my US C-1, which permits entry into the United States for just 29 days. I usually use this visa to tour the United States and the Caribbean. I think the pandemic and the lockdown that has stemmed from it is causing a lot of mayhem globally right now. People are losing their jobs, businesses are folding up, countries are still confused about what exactly is going on – some of them are learning to do things differently the hard way with a cure/antidote for the pandemic not in sight until at least November. I still think we should stay locked down though, find a way to make things work remotely until the pandemic is fully contained. We should maintain a decentralized mindset so we don’t stay fixated, waiting for things to ease up. We can still get things done right now. That’s what I think and believe.  Are there new releases in the coming months, as you have been busy shooting new music videos? Yes! I have a couple of new songs dropping soon. I’m putting out a new music video by month end. I’ve shot about 3 videos within the past 2 months. So yes, expect new content soon. What do you hope to achieve with your music? Who is your target audience? I really want my music to be heard all over the world. My target audience is every single soul that catches a vibe in my tune. I try to make good music that appeals to the interest of everyone. Where do you see yourself in the next 5 years? Running my company TerryTheVoice LLC fully established with various job opportunities as well. I also see myself selling out concert and shows, winning awards and carving myself a permanent niche in the hearts and minds of people.  You sound a bit like Black Magic. Have you met him? If so, do you have plans for collaborations? Haha! I get that a lot. No, I haven’t met him actually, but I do hope to meet someday and work with him. I started listening to his music back in High school. I still remember Black Magic 2.0 till date, that album still slaps! You split your time between the US and South Africa now? Why did you choose those territories? South Africa and the United States give me the sort of clarity I need for my art. I always get fresh ideas when in either of these places. So, if I’m not in California or Iowa, best believe you’ll find me in Johannesburg or Cape Town. Would you be collaborating with South African House musicians? Oh, yes! That is definitely on the cards. When do you release an album? I’m not certain yet.  I’m putting out my EP this summer and after that, I start working on a new project immediately. It could be another EP or perhaps this time, an album.