 THE Federal Government has lamented the refusal of some COVID-19 carriers to submit themselves for treatment at isolation centres. It is also expressed concern over reports that health authorities were not getting enough support from the public for  contact tracing. The government added that it was deeply worried that some diverted HIV drugs were now  being used by unscrupulous health facilities to treat COVID-19 infected persons. Chairman of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, Mr. Boss Mustapha and the National Coordinator Dr. Sani Aliyu, raised the alarm during the daily briefing of the taskforce in Abuja on Thursday. Mustapha, who is also the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, charged members of the public to always cooperate with health officials whenever they visited for contact tracing. He noted that many people, who had tested positive for COVID-19 had died due to the worsening of their conditions while staying away from isolation centres. Mustapha said: “We have received reports about citizens refusing to help with contact tracing and those who refuse to go into isolation after testing positive. “It is in the interest of everybody that contacts are traced so as to slow down the spread of the virus. It is also in our interest to go into isolation facilities for close monitoring. “A number of fatalities have been recorded due to change in the condition of patients while staying outside the isolation facilities. Our appeal is that if agents of the state get in touch with you regarding testing, contact tracing activities, please cooperate.” Also,  PTF coordinator Dr. Aliyu, said it was regrettable that some  diverted  second line HIV drugs were  being used by some health institutions for the treatment of the pandemic disease. He said: “We are also seeing diversion of certain products like second line HIV drugs, for instance Lopinavir and Litonavir, that are used for HIV treatment, currently being used for COVID-19 infection. “We  are asking health institutions to make sure that they have proper assessment processes for people presenting for possible COVID-19. ”We have been observing a steady rise in maternal and child mortality as a result of disrupted essential services. We have also seen live-saving maternal, newborn and child healthcare services, routine vaccination, access to care for chronic conditions such as HIV and other treatments not being delivered in our hospitals. ”Hospitals are there to look after patients, not to turn patients back.People should not be allowed to die or suffer because of COVID-19 infection. We must not allow preventable deaths to occur in our communities simply because of COVID-19 or because we are afraid of it.”. Aliyu also  raised the red flag on an alleged  sale of    letters seeking buyers for contracts from the PTF. He said : “I want to inform the public that the PTF has not been giving out contracts. The PTF is not a procurement body. We understand there are a lot of fraudulent letters going around, trying to sell contracts to members of the public. So, buyers beware.” The  Federal Government has said that it will commence the disinfection of all the hotels where evacuated Nigerians were quarantined for 14-days. It  also promised to  commence the decontamination of airports as part of the preparation for the resumption of domestic flights from  June 21. ”The decontamination process is ongoing. We are currently in all the six geo-political zones right now. In fact, tomorrow (today), we will be decontaminating the hotels where the returnees were kept.”