 SIR: Rainy season is a season every farmer prays for as it leads to growth and productivity of their crops. Also, many residents are happy as atmospheric heat is reduced drastically in their houses and the environment is cooler and more conducive to all. Rainy season has come with a lot of advantages that brings prosperity to our nation but not devoid of its associated problems. Nigerians cannot forget too soon the devastating effect of flood that killed 363 people, damaged power transmission and generation infrastructures, displaced 2.1 million people, affected 30 states with an estimated damage and losses of about N2.6 trillion. A lot of hazards are created this season especially in the electricity supply chain which affects adversely the lives and properties of the citizens, therefore, the need to checkmate all these hazards that are created and find precautionary measures to militate against its effect. Safety is the act of being free from any form of hazard that can lead to fatality and destruction of properties, which entails that safety is always everyone’s primary responsibility. One of the most incidents that takes place during the rainy season is road traffic incidents. These incidents are caused by over speeding, bad headlamps, bad wipers, non-functional air conditioners and heaters, braking suddenly, non-adherence to road traffic rules. Many families have lost their love ones, children have been orphaned and communities have lost dignitaries this season because of road traffic incidents. Everyone must be proactive and safety conscious to ensure that necessary precautions are taken before driving during this season. Electricity incidents during this season is very prevalent and has led to many losses of lives and destruction of properties. There has been news of a police officer that died when attempting to cut overgrown trees under the power lines. Seeking shelter under trees, building houses under power lines are very dangerous because the environment is usually wet, any issue of downed lines may energize the ground which may lead to death. Most of our streets especially in unorganized settlement are always flooded this season, some people choose to bury electricity wires in order to avoid paying electricity bills, this act has caused so much danger in those localities as some of the flooded areas are energized and has led to people receiving electric shock. Earth leakage circuit breaker (ELCB) should be installed in our homes as this will keep electrical appliances safe and break out any part of the house that has electrical issues. Do not attempt any electrical repairs if you do not have the required skills and knowledge as lives maybe lost. Adult and children must not touch electrical appliances with wet hands as they can receive electric shock. All electrical appliances immersed in water must be discarded immediately. For those of living in flooded areas, they must listen to government instructions on weather. The news of flood overtaking our homes cannot be overemphasized as we remember flood incidents in Lagos and Tafa LGA of Niger State where so many lives and billion-naira worth of properties were lost. Taking proper precautions from government and listening to weather news will save lives and properties such as ensuring all electrical appliances are put at higher a in the house, having functional torch lights, throw ropes and relocate whenever one is advised by government to do so. Government should improve drainages and open blocked waterways as well as build canals to help channel the water well. Lastly, mosquitoes breed well during this season and is the reason why many visit the hospital, having been bitten by female anopheles mosquito which transmit malaria. So, all stagnant waters should be drained. Fumigation of our surroundings is encouraged. Let us ensure insecticide treated nets are well fitted in our windows and doors, also, insecticides can be applied to kill these mosquitoes at night. As the world continue to fight the COVID 19 pandemic, we must listen to all professional guidelines by WHO, NCDC and other statutory regulatory organizations. 