A civil society organisation (CSO) known as Concerned Nigerians has condemned the arrest of the chairman of the board of trustees (BoT) of the Coalition of Northern Groups (CNG), Mr. Nastura Sharif for leading a protest against the insecurity in Northern part of the country. They group in a statement by its convener, Deji Adeyanju, in Abuja urged the Nigerian Police to release him immediately. The protesters had on Tuesday, taken to the streets of Katsina calling on Aminu Masari, the governor and president Muhammadu Buhari to resign over their inability to safeguard the lives and property of Nigerians in the North. Reacting to the development, Adeyanju berated the Federal government and the Police of being intolerant of dissents. “We are greatly worried that the President is arresting critics of his sheer incompetence in the handling of security situations in the North instead of the bandits killing Nigerians. The president should arrest the bandits and not patriotic citizens speaking up against the gross incompetence of the government. A government that negotiates and begs bandits cannot be arresting critics. “The president needs to show leadership and stop arresting those criticizing him. We are in democracy and this system of government gives the citizens the right and freedom to hold elected public officials accountable”. If the president can’t tolerate dissents, then, he should be courageous enough to resign. Freedom of assembly is one of the most fundamental rights of the citizens in a democracy,” Adeyanju said. Adeyanju said the primary responsibility of any government is the security of lives and property of its citizens and president Muhammadu Buhari and the governor of Katsina, Aminu Bello Masari have greatly failed in this area. “All the energy being expended by the Police in arresting Mr. Nastura Sherif and other Concerned Nigerians who protested on Tuesday in Katsina should be channeled into taming the monstrous bandits terrorizing the people of Katsina and other parts of North”. “We are solidly behind Nastura Sherif and we call on the Nigerian government to release him immediately from detention,” Adeyanju stated.