SIR: Since time immemorial; degrading libels, vituperations, and aspersions have always been levelled against the Nigerian Police. And it seems no one is interested in talking about the second side of their coin – the positive sides. It has always been a general thought, borne out of misconceptions and stereotypes, that anyone in the black uniform is either wicked, corrupt or extortive. A very sick notion this is, and must be called to halt. There are many bad eggs in the Nigeria Police, no doubt, but bad eggs exist there the same way they exist among the non-policemen. The police are not angels, they are normal human beings and as a result, they can goof like any other person would. The corrupt ones among them are only corrupt on their own, and would have been equally corrupt in any other profession they might have belonged. To every story, there are two sides. And from my personal encounters with some, I can candidly attest to the fact that there are many good eggs among the Nigerian Police. I recall an experience on November 10, 2019, when I was making my way from Anambra to Kaduna State, wherein my expectation of getting to Kaduna around 10pm failed, and as a result, I ended up entering the city some minutes past 12 in the night. Amidst fears, I went to Kawo Police Station and narrated my ordeal to the policemen there, and after showing them proofs, I was allowed in. Not only did I pass the night there; safe and sound, but also, I was also transported with police van to the nearest bus-stop, where I boarded a vehicle to my house the following morning. In my mind, I was wondering if they are the same policemen people would besmirch with libelous words. We have heard and read of policemen rendering help to ordinary citizens; like one Sergeant Edward Onriodo who relieved an unknown woman of her throes, by giving her a decent amount for upkeep during this pandemic lockdown. We read of similar accounts of three policemen said to have helped a woman who was in labour on Friday, April 17, at Ikoyi, Lagos around 3am. Not only did they convey her and her husband to the hospital where she finally gave birth, they also gave her some cash. Are these salient acts not commendable? Instead of denigrating the Nigerian Police every now and then, why don’t we, individuals, also work on redeeming our images and change for better citizens? For, a good police force can only exist in a corruption-free-society. Imagine a situation where all Taxi drivers have their particulars, intact and up-to-date, no policeman will have the guts to ask them for bribe or settlements as they would call it.