 Nigeria used to be the champion of the Black race and was respected all over the world for that. The first Prime Minister of Nigeria, Sir Abubakar Tafawa Balewa instituted the defence of the dignity of the Black person anywhere in the world as a cardinal principle of Nigeria’s foreign policy. Ambassador Ignatius C. Olisemeka (CON), former Permanent Secretary and Minister of Foreign Affairs, on October 20, 2019 lecture titled “Nigerian Foreign Policy”, stated that Balewa’s cardinal principle was embellished on June 29, 1976 by the then Head of State, General Olusegun Obasanjo, who, while redefining the permanent interests of Nigeria, included “the promotion and defence of social justice and respect for human dignity, especially the dignity of the black man’. This principle had always been the manifest destiny of Nigeria since independence, until the George Floyd’s murder when Nigeria displayed an inexplicable silence, totally out of character. Since the 1960’s, Nigeria has always been known as one of the greatest, if not the greatest advocate for the struggle against racism and apartheid. Nigeria galvanized its people to contribute resources and to pay the ultimate price in ensuring the liberation of Zimbabwe, Mozambique, Angola and Namibia from colonialism, the elimination of apartheid in South Africa and the march towards racial equality and social justice in Southern Africa. The dedication and commitment of Nigeria to this cause earned the country the recognition as one of the Frontline States fighting to put an end to apartheid and racism in that sub-region of Africa. Nigeria’s reaction, or more correctly, non-reaction to the murder of George Floyd, is mindboggling.  It is absolutely the anti-thesis of the country’s cardinal principle of defending humanity, particularly the black race anywhere in the world. Apart from some courageous Nigerians who defied the heavy rain and came out to demonstrate in Lagos, and a protest one in front of the USA Embassy in Abuja a few days after the burial of George Floyd, there was an apparent conspiracy of silence among the Nigeria’s hitherto vociferous civil society organizations. Where were they? One may wish to ask where are the Civil Society Organizations of the country? Where are the hitherto vibrant trade unions and National Association of Nigerian Students? What about religious organizations, the ever-ready indefatigable market women, the successors and disciples of Gani Fawehinmi law comrades and many others who never countenanced man’s inhumanity to man? Why has everyone become so weak and docile? Have we been blinded by Covid-19 lockdown which has inhibited us from coming out nationwide to express outrage? After all, many countries ravaged by Covid-19 – the USA, Spain, UK, Germany and elsewhere in Europe, in Asia (South Korea and Indonesia come to mind), African countries including Ghana and South Africa respectively, defied lockdowns, came out to protest against and denounce the gruesome murder of George Floyd and racist police worldwide. Some might argue that you cannot expect jobless, hungry and dispossessed people to come out to protest on empty stomachs. Others might argue that since extra judicial killings also take place in here, Nigeria has no moral high ground to stand on in condemning the cold-blooded murder of George Floyd by the Minnesota police. There is no moral equivalency here. Even as we cry, we can still see.  No doubt, every Nigerian, except criminals and murderers, passionately believes in human rights and abhors the obnoxious treatment of fellow humans. The fact that extrajudicial killings still persist in Nigeria should not stop the people, both officially and unofficially, from openly condemning such heinous acts both in the country and wherever they occur. Nigeria, after all, is not an exception to the incidence of extrajudicial killings, as they occur in almost all countries of the world where the bad and the ugly exist. Every country has its own skeletons in the closet.  So, Nigeria, like other countries, should not be timid to stand with the rest of the world to condemn in the strongest terms the vicious police murder of George Floyd. Nigeria is also a signatory to the ‘Universal Declaration of Human Rights which emphasizes in its preamble the recognition of the inherent dignity and of the equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family as the foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world. Article 1 of the Declaration states as follows: “All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood”. Article 3 states; “Everyone has the right to life, liberty and the security of person” while Article 5 states “No one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment or punishment”. Nigeria is also signatory to and is bound by the African Unity (AU) Charter of Human and Peoples’ Rights known as ‘the Banjul Charter’. Above all, the Fundamental Human Rights entrenched in the Nigerian 1999 Constitution, as amended, binds the nation to its full implementation without any equivocation. The country has always fought vigorously against racism in favour of social equality and justice and should not distract from its manifest destiny of defending the dignity of the black person. Even if covid-19 lockdown prevents open demonstrations, it does not prevent official and unofficial statements of condemnation from government and various civil society groups which the media could disseminate to the world. Nigeria should not have been “missing in battle” when the whole world was expressing their revulsion and utter repugnance over the horror. What was Nigeria expecting to gain from this shameful silence, this abdication of our manifest destiny?  President Trump who neither has respect for President Buhari whom he described with unspeakable language, nor for Africans whom he denigrated as refugees from “shit hole”, nor for Nigerians whom he said would not want to return to their mud huts once they stepped into the USA. What are we afraid of?   Lack of American support for our policy objectives?  Where is our pride and honour as home of the largest aggregation of Black people in the world? The least that can be said of Nigeria’s official silence in this matter is that it was not well thought out by the Nigerian authorities concerned. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will have to resuscitate its think thank called “Crisis Management Committee” that used to rise up to the challenges and assist the foreign minister to proffer consistent, shrewd, swift and effective responses to policy issues after rigorously subjecting them to the prism of national interest. In addition, it would be most beneficial to the nation if the wealth of experience and the intellectual prowess of members of the Association of Retired Career Ambassadors of Nigeria (ARCAN) should be harnessed to assist the federal government in an advisory capacity in the formulation and making of foreign policy, 