The former Special Adviser to former Lagos State Governors Babatunde Fashola and Akinwunmi Ambode, Paul Kalejaiye, was 60 last week. In this interview with JOSEPH ESHANOKPE, the All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart speaks on politics and other national issues. Are you satisfied with the way the Lagos State government has handled the COVID-19 pandemic? One must commend the government of Lagos State led by Mr Babajide Olusola Sanwo Olu for the way and manner the coronavirus (COVIC-19) pandemic has been handled from inception to date. The government was not only proactive but was also prompt. Also, judging by the magnitude of the population of Lagos as well as its commerce nature, the response was good. Recall that the journey started with contact tracing. The first difficulty here is that some of the people gave wrong contacts while some disappeared into thin air. The speed at which isolation centres were put in place is remarkable. The public enlightenment programme began in earnest while palliative measures were put in place. Yes, Lagos figures are higher, yet recovery of patients is also higher. Access the performance of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the last one year. Accessing the performance of APC in the last one year is quite subjective because an all-round assessment may be difficult. However, it is just fair to score it average.  This is coming from the backdrop of numerous challenges ranging from the drop in oil price to the pandemic. To expect the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to be happy with the APC government is to fool oneself. This is so because it is no longer business as usual. The President Buhari Muhammadu Government has been focused at bringing the nation on course after the 16 years of mis-governance. Furthermore, we must accept the fact that the way and manner the minimum wage issue was handled is incredible. We did not record strikes as it was in the past. The judiciary has also enjoyed higher degree of autonomy. The security situation, though still challenging, the government has not slept with its two eyes closed. Beyond these, the integrity of Mr president and his team is not in doubt.  Management of the national resources is a demonstration of higher level of prudence comparatively. However, there is still much to be done in areas of tackling corruption, security and rejuvenation of the economy, youth empowerment and infrastructure. Do you see criticisms from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as credible? The PDP is yet to position itself as credible opposition.  It is yet to put its house in order. We have not seen constructive criticisms. What we see is shadow chasing.  A credible opposition must be ready to address state of the nation and come up with probable solutions not just to be unhappy. Would you consider partisan politics a dirty game? I do not consider politics as dirty. There are two people in the world, the good and the bad. It all depends on the way we play politics.  Politics must not be seen as do or die. Politics must be developmental driven and people-centred. Politics, which is synonymous to participation in governance, is a serious matter. It will remain as clean or as dirty as both the lead and the led wants it to be. The people must continually be the watchdog. What touches all should be debated by all. For me, more professionals, credible Nigerians and God-fearing people should get involved to sanitise the polity. We can’t afford to seat on the fence. Political actors must see every election as just one that will keep coming as long as we allow democracy to run the way it should be run. What is your take on appointments of youths in government? Appointing youths into government must be commendable. Their tomorrow should start today. Experience can only come by participation. Experience is not brought from heaven. The involvement of the youths in governance must also go beyond mere pretences. We must as leaders by words, actions, legislation and what have you tap into the robust intellectual capabilities of our youths. However, our youths also have a long way to go. There is the need for them to tread softly. The craze to get rich overnight can take nobody to no where .Our society is very complex, our unity is in our diversity. Notwithstanding, like my leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu taught us: “Power is not served freely’’. How would you score the government in its fight against corruption? It is difficult to score the government high in the fight against corruption. Corruption is still with us. It will take a whole lifetime to achieve this because the country’s foundation is firmly rooted in corruption. We must appreciate that the judges are part of our society. They cannot be totally expected to behave like people from another planet. They are doing their best, but we still have a long way to go. The government’s efforts at fighting corruption is still work in the mill. We must remember that it takes two to tangle. We must, as a people, be involved in all of there. We must make up our mind to embrace a corrupt free society in our business practise, conduct of our daily life and above all engage in all that is legitimate. For the government, efforts must be intensified. The zeal at which the fight against corruption started when the government initially came in has diminished. The anticorruption agencies must wake up from slumber. Would say the Judiciary has performed well? The judiciary remains the last hope of the common man. It, therefore, must see itself as such. Corruption in the judiciary should not be heard of. A judge’s position held in high esteem as second to God must be so seen. Yes, it is part of our society, but judiciary occupies a unique position. The government must equally reciprocate by improving on the conditions of their service. The complementary role of the Bar is also a sin-qua-non if this is to be achieved. The appointment of Prof Ibrahim Gambari as the Chief of Staff to the president has generated a lot of controversy. How do you see it? The appointment of the new Chief of Staff should not generate so much controversy. Who has the power to appoint? Who is the appointee meant to serve? Who reserves the power to hire and fire? Is the appointment meant to serve ethnic or tribal sentiments? Answers to all of these questions point to one direction: Mr President. So be it. Our role as citizens is to ensure that the appointee does not run contrary to his oath of office and the constitution of our land. As for his credentials, I see the appointment as suitable and appropriate. You were 60 years recently, what is your advice to the politicians? At 60, my advice for politicians is that we should play by the rule of the game… I give God the glory. I am indebted to my late parents and indeed everyone that has played significant role in my life. I appreciate Asiwaju Bola Tinubu for identifying my talent and bringing me to political limelight. My advice for politicians is that we should  play by the rules of the game.