 THE All Progressive Congress (APC) in Bauchi State has said reports of the seizure of a multi-million naira property allegedly linked to Governor Bala Muhammad by the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) is enough reason for him to resign as governor or be impeached. It would be recalled that the property which houses Zinaria International School, located at Plot 298 Wuye District, Cadastral Zone B3, FCT, Abuja, was seized by the commission. Confirming the seizure, spokesperson of the commission, Rasheedat Okoduwa (mni), said Mohammed cannot face trial yet because he enjoys immunity by virtue of Section 308 of the 1999 Constitution. The Commission in a statement said the governor will be prosecuted after his tenure. But the APC has urged the governor to take the path of honour by stepping down as it is done in other climes. The demand is contained press statement made available to The Nation and jointly signed by the Chairman of the Media Committee of APC in the State, Comrade Sabo Mohammed and the Secretary Mallam Saadu Umar. ‘The APC is appalled by the scandalous reports of the seizure of a property,  Plot 298, Wuye District, Abuja, linked to Governor Bala Muhammad (GB) by the ICPC. The spokesperson of the ICPC said that Governor Bala unlawfully allocated the property belonging to the Federal Ministry of Agriculture to himself and his family while serving as the Minister of the FCT, Abuja. This appalling scandal would warrant a resignation or impeachment in saner climes. Thus, we hereby urge Mr. Governor to take the path of honour. But in swift reaction, the State government has faulted the commission’s report describing it as a tale of lies against the governor. A rejoinder statement issued to newsmen by the Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Media, Mukhtar Gidado, described the Commission’s narrative as not only false and misleading, but raises fundamental issues of constitutionalism bothering on human rights and rule of law. He refuted the Commission’s story in its entirety stating his principal did not flout any policy or break any law. Gidado stated for the records that Zinaria International School was established and had been long operational, offering quality education, in a cost-effective manner, to all and sundry, long before Senator Bala Mohammed became Minister of the FCT. He added that ‘’like any other corporate entity, due to planned expansion, the School applied for land, a legitimate right it would have exercised, irrespective of whosoever was the Minister of the FCT, at the time’’    