COVID-19 has thrown up unprecedented challenges in all facets of human endeavours. The development is also a source of concern for industry and key players both in the public and private sectors. The Director-General, Lagos Chamber of Commerce & Industry, Dr. Muda Yusuf, in this online interview with Assistant Editor OKWY IROEGBU-CHIKEZIE, reflects on a wide range of issues and proffers the way forward What is your take on the economy given the slump in oil prices? Oil price is one of the most difficult variables to predict. No analyst foresaw the current plunge. There are too many inponderables around oil price. This is the reason it is not good for an economy to be too dependent on primary commodities.  Of course, this is a conversation we have had over the decades, but nothing fundamental has been done to address the structural issues needed to diversify the economy. What is best at this time is to conceive of a  economy without oil revenue and construct an economic management model based on that premise. It is instructive that a review of the 2020 budget is being undertaken.  Even the review of the oil benchmark to $30 per barrel has been overtaken by events. Oil price is now in the $20 per barrel threshold. The review is inevitable given the collapse of the underlying assumptions of the budget. Beyond the budget, there are other dislocations that would result from the current oil price shock- these include weakening of investor’ confidence; generation of speculative pressures on the currency, depreciation of the naira exchange rate, pressures on foreign reserves which has profound macroeconomic implications, tumbling stock prices, heightened inflationary pressures on the back of currency weakening and increase in production and operating costs for businesses. Others are weakening of purchasing power with adverse implications for the welfare of the citizens, higher fiscal deficit, weak capacity to implement the budget, high risk of capital flow reversals, resurgence of round-tripping in the foreign exchange market, if the CBN forex management model remains unchanged and escalation of project costs in both the private and public sectors. What should be the role of the government at this time? Urgent steps should be taken, through appropriate policy choices, to attract equity domestic and foreign private sector capital for infrastructure financing. The government needs to look beyond tax credit in its quest for complementary funding sources for infrastructure. We should look more in the direction of equity financing. But for this to happen, the policy and regulatory environment must be right. Also, idle non-revenue yielding assets of government should be sold to generate liquidity, while the foreign exchange market should be liberalised (as much as possible) to attract forex inflows into the economy. In addition, Public-Private-Partnerships should be bolstered to attract private capital into the critical sectors of the economy and urgent steps should be taken to reduce the production costs for oil producing companies to make the sector more competitive. Public-Private Dialogue should be deepened to harness quality ideas on how to navigate through the shocks in the economy, as well review the spending structure of government and the cost of governance.The ballooning recurrent expenditure, in the face of declining revenue, is a cause for concern. How do we situate the Central Bank of Nigeria’s stimulus package? A stimulus package of N3.5 trillion is staggering and unprecedented. There were additional policy measures announced by the CBN to cushion the effects of the coronavirus on the economy. It is an initiative that is laudable.  But effective targeting is important to achieve the desired outcomes. Certainly, it would have positive enterprise level impact on businesses that can access the facility. It will impact their liquidity and operating cost. Other complementary measures announced by the apex bank include a one-year moratorium on CBN intervention facilities; interest rate reduction on intervention funds; creation of N50 billion credit facilities for SMEs; restricting and refinancing opportunities for existing facilities; activation of N1.5 trillion InfraCo project for building infrastructure; N100 billion facilities for pharmaceutical companies and healthcare practitioners and N1 trillion loans to boost local manufacturing and production across sectors. It’s also important to ensure seamless access to the funds, especially by small businesses [without compromising the security of the funds].  Many SMEs have complained in the past about difficulty of access to the intervention funds However, like in most economic challenges, monetary intervention can only fix a fraction of the problem.  There are fundamental macroeconomic issues that investors would still have to contend with.  These are issues around the impact of the coronavirus pandemic on crude oil price, exchange rate depreciation, depletion of foreign reserves, inflationary pressures, stock market slump and general investors sentiments. These are critical drivers of investors’ confidence.  Unless the external sector normalises, there is very little domestic policy responses can do to fix these disruptions, especially in the light of the vulnerabilities of the economy.  The interventions are focused largely on the supply side of the economy.  However, a supply side stimulus needs a complementary demand side fortification otherwise there would be the unintended outcomes of unsold inventories build up.  It is therefore, important to bolster purchasing power of citizens which has been decimated by the slump in economic activities. Both fiscal and monetary measures are imperative to make this happen.  Meanwhile, we await the guidelines that would spell out the details of how the facilities would be managed. How about the health sector? The health sector component of the fund is particularly laudable because the most critical issue at the moment is the fixing of the looming public health crisis.  Therefore, focusing on the health sector is perhaps the most important thing to do at this time. This is a time to prioritise measures that can deliver quick wins. What are the clear implications of COVID-19 for the global economy? Dislocations in the global economy given the slump in global output, turmoil in global financial markets as fears of the pandemic wiped out over $8 trillion in the market value of listed firms globally, reduction in global oil consumption as economic activities slowed down, resulting in falling oil prices, disruption of global supply chains, the aviation industry, manufacturing, trade volume and many more. Many corporates are increasingly revising their earning forecasts downwards. And what about the domestic economy? Weakening oil prices, induced by the pandemic, leading to the downward review of the 2020 budget, disruptions in business and economic activities as companies and businesses shut down operations, following lockdowns and mobility restrictions. Aviation, hospitality, SMEs, manufacturing sectors are among some of the worst hit in the current situation. There is the worsening fiscal and external position of the country in the light of lower receipts from oil exports, depreciation of the naira exchange rate across various market windows, adverse impact on Nigeria’s trade, as the major trading partners in Asia and Europe are grappling with the challenge of lockdowns. How should businesses respond to this situation? Organisations should adopt flexible business models to ensure tight control on costs and non-revenue generating segments of the business and review their supply chain and focus on import substitution and backward integration as much as possible.It’s also important to leverage technology in business processes for efficiency and cost effectiveness, and broaden the scope of remote working for employees. How does the concept of Working from Home fit at this time? Working remotely can be very cost effective and efficient. One of the major benefits of this current experience is the fact that it compels many companies to adopt the remote working model for their operations.  There are some operations that could work well with this model.  Am sure after the pandemic disruptions, many firms would embrace the practice or culture of working from home. Things have to evolve.  In a cosmopolitan city like Lagos, this practice needs to be imbibed by many organisations. It would reduce the traffic congestion on Lagos roads.  It is also good for the welfare of the workers because it saves them the stress of driving through the sometimes-horrific Lagos traffic. What role should government agencies play in promoting investment at this time? Agencies of government need to be more investment friendly.The recent initiatives of the government on the Ease of Doing Business is in consonance with this proposition.  They should be facilitating investment growth rather than seeing themselves as revenue generation agencies. They should also consider the limitations faced by investors, especially the SMEs in the economy. Regulators should be seen to support the efforts of government to promote investment, rather than become a burden on business.  Regulatory agencies need to be better funded by government to reduce their dependence on fees, fines, levies for the running of the agencies.  This arrangement often stifles investment and economic diversification efforts. Many regulatory agencies depend on the fees and levies imposed on business to run their operations.  This should not be the case. Isn’t the talk about economic diversification more urgent now than ever? The only way to reduce exchange rate volatility is to diversify the economy in a sustainable way. Three critical factors are crucial to driving economic diversification in the economy. These are the quality of infrastructure, policies and institutions. It is crucial to get these key parameters right. It is equally critical to ensure proper alignment among these key variables to ensure sustainable diversification. This policy factor has many dimensions – monetary policy, forex policy, interest rate policy, tax policy, trade policy, procurement policy and investment policy.  Each of these policies has a major role to play in the economic diversification process.  The policy mix must be right for the desired outcomes to be achieved. The monetary policy for instance should be designed to drive domestic investment through a moderation of the monetary tightening stance of the CBN.  This is needed to moderate interest rate in the economy.  It is difficult to drive domestic investment at current levels of interest rate which is well over 25 per cent for most economic players.The economy needs investment, especially domestic direct investment to drive diversification.  Happily, this is beginning to change with the recent policy measures introduced by the CBN and the various interventions in the development finance space. The foreign exchange policy is another very important policy component which impacts on economic diversification. A forex regime that perpetuates a rent economy would not serve the cause of diversification.  It creates opportunities for arbitrage, corruption, resource misallocation, impedes the inflow of investment, and create transparency issues in the allocation of forex. The multiplicity of rates is inimical to sustainable economic diversification. Inappropriate forex policies could impede the inflow of foreign exchange into the economy and contribute to the weakening of the currency. It is also important to avoid a forex policy regime that penalises domestic production and incentivises imports. Such policies inadvertently undermine the country’s drive towards self-reliance. How appropriate are government’s palliatives and their administration? There is a major problem with the appropriateness of the palliatives announced by the President. The school feeding programme for instance is not relevant at this time.  All schools are closed already.  There is the issue of the currency of the database of the vulnerable people. It was compiled few years ago.The segment of the vulnerable that should be targeted at this time are the urban poor, many of them are in the slums of Lagos, especially, and other states on lockdown. This was the expectation around the palliatives that was anticipated in the wake of the pandemic and eventual lockdown. The pre-COVID-19 pandemic palliatives should be markedly different from what should happen at this time. There is need for a comprehensive review of social intervention programme to bring it in alignment with the social crisis resulting from the Coronavirus pandemic.The context has changed; therefore, the intervention model should change as well.