As part of activities commemorating the first anniversary of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu-led administration, the Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Moyosore Onigbanjo (SAN), has given the scorecard of his ministry in the last one year, ADEBISI ONANUGA reports.  LAGOS State Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Moyosore Onigbanjo (SAN) has said the state would enact a Victims Right Law to enable victims of crimes, including those of gunshot, to receive urgent medical attention. He spoke while addressing reporters and stakeholders at a recent ministerial briefing at Alausa, Ikeja. Onigbanjo said the proposed law highlighted  the case of the late Miss Moradeun Balogun. On December 2, last year, 28-year-old Balogun was returning from work and got off a bus at Gbagada Bus Stop, Lagos. As she walked towards a street near her residence, she was attacked and stabbed in the neck by robbers. Some good samaritans rushed the victim to a nearby popular hospital, which refused to attend to her because they did not have a police report. This was despite the “Compulsory Treatment and Care of Victims of Gunshot Act, 2017 and the Criminal Code Act.” Balogun later died as a result of trauma of having lost too much blood. Onigbanjo said the law would make it mandatory for hospitals in Lagos to render immediate first aid to victims of trauma such as accidents, stab wounds, gunshot injuries and other medical emergencies. He said once the law was in place, it would become an offence for hospitals to reject victims because of police report. He said the Victims Right Law would form part of the proposed legislative reforms of the state government. “The Victims’ Rights Law is to address situations where victims of crime or emergencies are not given initial medical treatment.” He listed other proposed laws to include the Domestic and Sexual Violence Law that would lead to the creation of an Agency; Amendment to Cultism Law, Amendment to Administration of Criminal Justice Law to address innovations and developments in the criminal justice system. “Others are the Administration of Civil Justice Law to develop and articulate a civil justice system and Animal Law to address the issue of domestication of wild animals in the state,” Onigbanjo said. Onigbanjo said 2,249 offenders were prosecuted and convicted for  violating  the Covid-19 social distancing regulations in the last three months. He said the convicts, who included some Nollywood celebrities, were sentenced to community service for  various offences, adding that their punishment was supervised by the ministry at various public institutions, including hospitals, remand homes, traffic management and market sanitations. The commissioner said the state also recovered  N1,242, 765,569 debt from residents through mediation in the last one year, adding that the sum came from the 22,896 cases that were amicably resolved among parties by one of its agencies, the Citizens Mediation Centre (CMC). He said the CMC, charged with providing free legal services to residents, received 39,586 cases for mediation in the last one year, of which 30,017 were mediated and amicably resolved. His words: “A total number of 39,586 cases were received for mediation. Out of this number, 30,017 were mediated and 22,896 were totally resolved. The cases not treated were either abandoned by the parties or independently resolved by them.” He said the Directorate of Public Prosecution (DPP) received 1,092 case files in the period under review, and issued 1,079 legal advice. He said of this, 1,148 information and proof of evidence were filed in court. “The DPP, within the period under review, received a total of 282 applications for Plea Bargain, out of which 230 was approved while 52 applications were rejected. “The DPP obtained a total of 127 judgments, one of such judgment, State of Lagos v. Olalekan Hameed, was via remote hearing during the pandemic lockdown leaning to the conviction for murder and sentencing to death. “The DPP equally filed charge of involuntary manslaughter against a Truck Driver on BRT corridor at Ikorodu; charged a Police Officer for Murder of one Kolade Johnson; prosecuted the case of Danish citizen who allegedly murdered his wife and daughter; and murder of wife of Maersk MD, among other cases,” Onigbanjo said. He said the judiciary took delivery of audio visual equipment that would enhance adjudication of cases amid the corona virus pandemic. He said the ministry would gradually phase out lay prosecutors at Magistrate Courts to ensure speedy trial and decongestion of the dockets of magistrates and judges. On the other hand, he said the Directorate of Civil Litigation defended the 144 cases that were filed against the state government in the High Court, Federal High Court, Court of Appeal and the Supreme Court in the last one year; it secured 40 judgments and concluded a number of cases, with reduction of contingent liability for government. He added that the State Office of the Public Defender (OPD) saddled with the responsibility of providing legal aid and other related functions to the masses, especially the less-privileged and the vulnerable, received 427 petitions and 690 criminal cases in the last one year. “In the period under review, OPD received 427 petitions, concluded 85 through ADR; received 690 criminal cases, 140 civil cases, embarked on four rescue missions, treated 40 domestic violence cases, addressed the matter of 6 children who were in conflict with the law, obtained 14 judgments, handled 10 police matters, kept 6 children in OPD custody and assisted in paying compensation to people, including saving the child in the Jehovah Witness blood transfusion case. “The OPD also visited all correctional services in the State to render free legal services to inmates who do not have legal representation, as well as embarked on several training.” Onigbanjo said the Commercial Law Directorate of the ministry drafted over 100 agreements from May 2019 to May 2020 on behalf of the state government, while 14 major agreements were concluded. In terms of ramping up infrastructure to strengthen the judiciary and the police, he said Sanwo-Olu inaugurated a combined High/Magistrate Court complex named Christopher Olatunde Segun Courthouse at Badore, Ajah to promote easy access to justice for Lagosians at the grassroots within the period under review. “The fully equipped court complex is made up of five Court Rooms, which consists of three magistrate courts and two High Courts, lawyer’s office, kitchen, Judges’ chambers, library, Registrar’s Office and conference room facility,” he said. Other projects were Ilashe Area L Police Command; Area J Police Command, Elemoro; two new complexes at Iba and Ojo LGAs for the CMC; and the refurbishment of police law library at Panti. 