From security agencies to the law courts and government houses, rape remains a buning issue. The Niger State government on Thursday said laws in the nation’s statutes are not strong enough to deter rapists, considering the increasing cases of attacks on women across the country. The secretary to the state government, Ahmed Ibrahim Matane said this when receiving the Niger state chapter of the Nigerian League of Women Voters who staged a peaceful march to the state Government House in Minna, the state capital. He said, “What is happening across the country today regarding rape is that we do not have laws that are punitive enough and because there are no examples to show that people are being penalised.” The state chairperson of Nigerian League of Women Voters, Dr Aisha Salihu Lemu said, “aWe want stiffer punishment for rapists, punishment like death should be pronounced on any rapists.” Also in the state, a 21-year-old man Gambo Jubril was said to have raped a seven-year-old girl in Minna. The suspect reportedly first sent the victim to buy sachet water, and thereafter pulled her to an uncompleted building wher he allegedly defiled her. In Onitsha, Anambra State, a man,  Ikechukwu Ekenta, 43, has been arrested for allegedly defiling his four-year-old daughter. Ekenta was said to have attacked the toddler when his expectant wife was away in hospital to be delivered of their baby. In Ado-Ekiti, a Chief Magistrates’ Court yesterday remanded 18-year-old Kunle Amujo in a correctional centre after being charged with sexually abusing a four-year-old. Also in Ado-Ekiti, Segun Ige, 25, was arraigned in court for allegedly sodomising a six-year-old girl. In Ibadan, Oyo State, a magistrates court yesterday remanded 29-year-old Sodiq Abiodun in police custody for alleged rape, among other charges. In Bauchi, police commissioner Lawan Jimeta advised parents yesterday against sending their girl-child out to the streets to hawk, saying that it exposes them to sexual predators. Jimeta gave the advice when a coalition of civil society organisations (CSOs) under the auspices of Women’s Voice and Leadership (WVL), paid him a visit in Bauchi, the state capital. “Parents and guardians should desist from sending girls out for hawking,’’ he said, noting that the incidence of rape continues because victims fail to speak out. He urged NGOs and CSOs to engage in enlightenment and campaign to curb the menace of violence against girls and women in the state and society at large. The commissioner gave the assurance that his command would assign gender desk officers to attend to all sexual and gender-based violence complaints by the WVL in the state. He also pledged to conduct regular town hall meetings with stakeholders on gender-based violence.