  A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress(APC) in Osun, Hon Oyintiloye Olatunbosun, has said that Governor Adegboyega Oyetola is focused and committed to fulfilling more of his campaign promises to residents. Oyintiloye, who is the immediate lawmaker representing Obokun State Constituency, said  Oyetola’s pedigree and high sense of prudency, as well as probity in resource management are assets which have helped him in governance of the state. Similarly, he noted the Governor was focused and would not yield to forces of distraction at ensuring that residents of the state enjoy dividends of democracy. Oyintiloye, in a statement on Sunday, said: “Governor Oyetola is an ardent lover of the masses who always means well for the state which is the sole reason why his policies so far have been peoples oriented.” Commenting on the policies and programmes of Osun, Oyintiloye emphasised that Oyetola has touched all critical sectors of the economy. “Oyetola has rehabilitated and upgraded hundreds of Primary Health Centres, constructed many infrastructures and enhanced social investment programs for the vulnerable population. “He has also maintained prompt payment of salaries, improved the state security network through community policing, as well as improving environmental degradation through periodic dredgings of waterways which has saved lives and property, among others. “Although, it’s a general knowledge that there is a number of challenges ranging from financial shortfalls to socioeconomic instability occasioned by global economic downturn but in all, the state government still stays focused by not derailing on its resolve to engender good governance”, he said. He maintained that APC in the state of Osun is a united, happy and progressive party which has not abandoned its ideology predicated on unity, loyalty and respect for leaders. He equally said Oyetola is not in any way, moved by the obvious mischief, especially within the opposition party, aimed to deter, distract and derail government that i on the track to better life of the residents. Oyintiloye urged Osun residents to continue giving Oyetola their unalloyed and unwavering supports needed to take the state to the pinnacle of development.   