In 2019, the Samsung QLED TV range received universal praise for its innovative display quality, sound, design and numerous pioneering features. This year Samsung added a welcome twist to an incredible story. With the 2020 QLED range, the best just got better. You can now turn the ordinary into the extraordinary with immersive sound, endless detail, minimalist design and unrivalled technology. This is Samsung’s most complete television ever. This is no surprise coming from the brand leading the way across the world and acclaimed by experts. “Our goal is to continue Samsung’s unparalleled legacy of providing leading TV viewing experiences by combining the advantages of our next-generation displays with AI technologies, immersive technologies and breath-taking sound quality – a personalised journey that turns a TV into a series of incredible adventures,” said Dudu Mokholo, Chief Marketing Officer at Samsung Central Africa. Any great movie has an equally great trailer. Below are the highlights that showcase the greatest QLED in show-stopping action: This is a TV that will change your expectations of what a TV can do QLED offers an unparalleled visual and auditory adventure from the comfort of your living room. Available in 4K or 8K and from 43″ to 85””, the QLED series was designed with options to fit any space and budget. It’s simply a matter of choosing your viewing pleasure: Experience jaw-dropping detail and resolution – Real 8K resolution with Quantum Processor 8K With QLED’s brightest and vibrant colours, you can choose to watch everything in 8K by advanced AI upscaling. Feel the power of every frame with 33 million pixels and a resolution four times that of 4K. Quantum Processor 8K ensures you always have 8K, no matter the source quality of the original content ¹ Get even closer to the action with dynamic sound that tracks the story We all know that action movies with amazing sound arrangements provide the most realistic experiences when experienced at movie theaters. So how can this realism be recreated in the home? Samsung’s sound developers came up with Object Tracking Sound+ technology, in which sound follows movement onscreen through six speakers built into the TV.Thanks to this technology, a video’s audio follows the action on-screen in real time. When a car moves from the left to the right-hand side of the screen, so will the sound it makes; and when a heavy object drops from the top to the bottom of the screen, so will the audio. Doesn’t that sound good. Experience maximum picture, minimum distraction – Infinity Screen You can now push your viewing experience to the limit with a nearly-invisible bezel. In the flagship Q950TS-series, black edges are shrunk to almost nothing, and an ultra-slim frame removes any distractions so you can get a more immersive viewing experience. Explore the magic of Infinity Screen², a truly bezel-free design that removes any distractions for the most immersive TV experience. Be the star of the show QLED Smart TVs, powered by Tizen, makes it easier to find the content you love with personalised recommendations. It’s time to discover TV designed just for you. Want to watch what’s on your TV and your smartphone on the same screen? With MultiView, you can. Whether it’s live stats for sports or cheat videos for games, simply connect your phone and dual-screen like never before. To make sure you’re always in control, the TV is powerfully integrated and simple to use.  The 2020 Samsung TV also comes with a brand-new feature for mirroring your phone’s screen. Tap view feature allow phone’s screen to be displayed on your TV so you can enlarge photos, show friends a video, or maximize a spreadsheet for easier viewing. Set up Tap view in the SmartThings app and on your TV to start transferring your phone’s screen with a simple touch. Take Control Ultimately, QLED puts the power in your hands. With the Samsung OneRemote you have effortless access and control. Devices that are automatically recognised by QLED can be easily controlled—no need for separate remote controls. But the power doesn’t stop there. You can also do amazing things through’s Samsung’s Intelligent virtual assistant – Bixby3. You can ask Bixby for show recommendations, make quick title searches or control connected devices. Bixby knows what you like and makes sure you don’t miss out by suggesting shows you’re interested in but might not be watching at the moment. And because we live in a connected world, you’ll enjoy your SmartThings Dashboard, where you can put all of your connected devices on one screen. Simply set up the QLED SmartThings Dashboard to receive notifications as well as monitor and control your other smart home devices. With all this digital magic you’ll start to feel like anything is possible. This year, Samsung has created truly unrivaled flagship TVs that give new meanings to picture perfection. With the 2020 QLED, the best just got better. The QLED range is available in 8K Q950T/Q800T (85”, 75”, 65”), 4K Q80T (75”, 65”) and 4K Q60T (65”, 58”). ¹ Viewing experience may vary according to types of content and format. QLED: Samsung QLED is Quantum dot based TV. ² Available on Q950TS and Q900TS 3 This feature is only available in certain languages. About Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. inspires the world and shapes the future with transformative ideas and technologies. The company is redefining the worlds of TVs, smartphones, wearable devices, tablets, cameras, digital appliances, printers, medical equipment, network systems and semiconductor and LED solutions. For the latest news, please visit the Samsung Newsroom at https://news.samsung.com/africa_en/