The Police in Ebonyi have arrested a former Ebonyi Commissioner, Donatus Ajah on allegations of murder. Ajah was accused of having a hand in the death of a 46-year-old man, Azubuike Inya. Ajah and the late Mr Inya are from Amankwo village, Nkpoghoro community, in the Afikpo North Local Government Area of Ebonyi State. Investigations revealed that the killing was occasioned by intra-communal crisis, involving two factions of Amankwo village. One of the factions was said to be led by Ajah and another by one Ifeanyi Obila. The two groups have constantly clashed for supremacy and control of the community. The killing of Inya, which occured on May 23 according to sources is as a result of another clash between the two groups in the area. It was gathered that the deceased’s alleged killers approached some villagers who were relaxing in a drinking joint, at the village and inflicted machete cut on them; a development that threw the area into chaos. The late Inya, on hearing the cries of the people at the bar, rushed to the scene and started begging the attackers to desist from what they were doing. It was at that point, the assailants attacked him with their machetes until he died. His  younger brother, Joel, claimed the killers’ target was his brother. He said: “When these people came and could not find my elder brother, who I think was their target, they started attacking everyone there. And people were running helter-skelter. “That was when Azubuike Inya came from inside the village. He pleaded with them not to do such a thing, that it was not good. They attacked him, and they killed him with their machetes. “It was Zentus’s(Mr Ajah’s is also known as Zentus) boys that killed Azubuike and it was on the 23rd of May, around some minutes past 8pm.” But Ajah denied involvement in the incident and subsequent death of Inya He said: “The truth is that I was not at home and so cannot tell the beginning of the crisis that led to Azubuike’s death, apart from what I heard from witnesses, just like other people. “There is no way I could have directed anyone to kill Azubuike or any other human being. Was he a goat or an animal I can kill to eat the flesh? Was he not a human being created like everyone else? Which problem did I have with Azubuike that would make people believe I have a hand in his death? “Am I dragging his father’s property with him? Was he working under me, to say he stole my money? What did he do to me to warrant being killed and what would I benefit from his death?” “Yet, it was the same Ifeanyi Obila that started telling people that I have a hand in Azubuike’s death. I believe God is the giver and taker of life and will always disappoint Obila and his cohorts, who feel they will only be satisfied if they hear that I am dead today”, he said. The Police Commande commenced investigation, which led to the arrest of Mr Ajah. Police Spokesman, Loveth Odah confirmed the arrest. “Yes he is in our custody. We are still investigating the matter,” she said.