The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) on Monday displayed certificates and other credentials of all the six governorship aspirants seeking the party’s ticket ahead of the September 19 Edo State governorship election. The display of Aspirants credentials which is novel to the party was line with the guideline earlier released by the party and it was designed to enable party members and the public to assist the party’s screening committee by scrutinizing the information, credentials and documents provided by aspirants and availing the Screening Committee of counter and correct information. The credentials of Governor Godwin Obaseki and five other aspirants who have bought, completed and submitted the party’s expression of interest and nomination forms on display include Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, Hon. Dr. Pius Odubu, Engr. Chris Ogiemwonyi, Hon. Osaro Obazee and Hon. Matthew Aigbuhuenze Iduoriyekemwen. Details of the documents placed on the notice board on Monday at the National Secretariat of the party, by the National Organising Secretary, Barrister Emma Ibediro showed that the incumbent governor, Godwin Obaseki, has 3 credits and 3 passes in his 1973 West Africa Examination Council (WAEC) submitted for screening. The subjects Obaseki passed include: English P7, Literature P7, CRK C6, History A3, Geography C6 and Chemistry P8. The governor later proceeded to higher school, the Institute of Continuous Education between 1976-1979 before gaining admission into University of Ibadan, where he studied Classics. For Pastor Ozagie Ize-Iyamu, his 1979 West African Examination Council (WAEC) result showed that he made division 1 with the following grades; English Language C4, English Literature C4, History C4, Mathematics A3, Chemistry P7, Biology A3, Economics C4 and Agricultural Science P7. He later studied Law at the University of Benin, graduated from the Law School in 1986/87 and called to the Bar in 1987. Shedding light on what informed the display of aspirants credentials, the party’s national secretariat, National Publicity Secretary of APC, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu told newsmen in Abuja on Monday that the action was a precautionary measure by the party from falling victim of previous experience in Bayelsa state. According to Issa-Onilu, “We have had experience that was not so palatable. We have had experiences that were so shocking and we won’t be doing the right thing if we don’t learn from those experiences. “You will recall what happened in Bayelsa, we thought we did the best we should, but it turned out that we did not do enough. So, the best thing we have to do now is to go beyond ourselves to the things that may not be known to us. “Beside the fact that we have put it out here for anybody who has information to help the screening committee, we are also taking official steps to verify some of these documents to be sure that we do the right thing and come out clean. “By mere putting it on the board here, making it transparent, putting it before the public, it does mean that people who know them very well; school mates, aquintances, friends and even enemies could come up with whatever they have. We are expecting help from whatever angle it could come from. “All we are interested in is that, we ensure transparency, ensure that we comply with our constitution, the electoral act and the Constitution of this country. Give everybody a fair chance and be seen to have done your best.” When asked whether the NWC will call for an emergegency National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting as demanded by some party members, the National Publicity Secretary said: “Why should there be emergency meeting, what is the emergency, Covid-19? “We, NWC are involved in the day-to-day running of the party and this is part of the routine that we carryout, this is not the first time and whoever said that also is expressing view, which is also allowed in democracy.”