 THE George Floyd murder and protests are not the first time the fault lines in American society are exposed in all their gory details. In the foreseeable future, they will not be the last time. Racism in the United States of America, captured and accentuated by social media, has become such a blot on their escutcheon that virtually everything about America is now questioned globally, whether it concerns their leadership claim, their self-appointed guardianship for democracy and Christian religion, or their famous constitution. Many Americans understand the peril their country is now facing; but whether enough of them appreciate the calamity knocking at their doorsteps is a different thing. And whether they like it or not, America is in crisis, its worst existential crisis in centuries. No section of the American society has disappointed the world and everything America stands for than its Christian evangelicals. President Donald Trump repudiates everything the bible stands for, not to say everything America has projected globally and has been noted for and ennobled by. Why the country’s vocal evangelicals, to whom Mr Trump extravagantly appeals, do not quite appreciate the poisonous brew being served them by their wholly amoral and nihilistic president is hard to explain. By an inscrutable argument, the evangelicals seem to think that Mr Trump is an instrument in the hands of God to restore religious fervour to America and to destroy the march of liberalism and permissiveness in the society. Even if that goal was true and could be attributed to God, even if Mr Trump, as an unfit vessel, were to be an instrument in God’s hands, it is still hard to explain why the evangelicals would want to conflate Mr Trump’s flaws with the immutable standards of the bible and Christian faith. When God moves through the pages of history, noted former German Chancellor, Otto von Bismarck, man should try to catch the hem of His garment, even for a moment. Evangelicals erroneously think opposing Mr Trump’s deplorable morals and worldview amounts to opposing God. But the world and Christians opposed Adolf Hitler — though his atrocities indirectly helped to speed up the creation of the State of Israel — without ever suspecting or fearing that doing so stood the risk of thwarting God’s designs. Mr Trump is indubitably a racist so completely destitute of fine grace and moral character. There can be no fear that opposing him risks alienating God. The American president is a direct antithesis to all that Jesus Christ stands for. It is fit and proper to denounce him in terms neither his friends nor his enemies should ever consider extreme.