The All Progressives Congress (APC), Edo State chapter, has said that God and Edo electorate will make its standard bearer, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, governor of the state later this year. It gave the assurance that Ize-Iyamu, a former Secretary to Edo State Government (SSG), would emerge victorious on September 19 and take over from Governor Godwin Obaseki on November 12, in view of his popularity and acceptability by residents of the state. Edo APC, Tuesday in Benin through its Publicity Secretary, Chris Azebamwan, said: “The earlier the members and leaders of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) realise that the governorship battle is already lost and won, the better for them. “Obaseki and his co-travellers in the PDP should stop deluding themselves, because Ize-Iyamu, by God’s grace, will be Edo governor this year. Edo people have unanimously stated loud and clear that they have had enough of the last four years of misfortune and misgovernance. “Not only do Edo people deserve better, they have better choices from the array of fantastic brains that God has endowed them with and they will massively vote for Ize-Iyamu on September 19.” Meanwhile, members of the executive of APC in Ugboko Niro Ward 5, Edo state, where Ize-Iyamu registered, have authenticated his membership of the party and they are backing him to emerge victorious as the party’s candidate in this year’s governorship election. Chairman of the ward, Mathew Ogbebor, who led other members of the executive on a solidarity visit in Benin to Edo APC’s governorship candidate after his Monday’s victory, dismissed speculations that Ize-Iyamu failed to complete his registration at the ward level, while affirming that a membership card signed by him was issued to him, after the completion of his registration, in accordance with the party’s constitution. He hailed Ize-Iyamu as a worthy Edo son and a notable member of APC, whose emergence as the governorship candidate had united the party and provided assurance of victory at the poll. In his response, Ize-Iyamu praised members of the executive of the ward for insisting on the truth, despite pressure and intimidation from some persons seeking to cause confusion in the party. The governorship candidate gave an assurance of a resounding victory during the September 19 election, while urging the APC members to continue to mobilise Edo electorate. In a related development, Egor local government chapter of the APC in Edo state has donated a campaign office to Ize-Iyamu to help his election bid. Egor APC members, led by its spokesman, Amen Osunde, who is a former Chairman of Edo State Petroleum Monitoring Committee, made the donation to the party’s governorship candidate in Benin, while announcing their plan to commence door-to-door campaign in the council area to mobilise Edo residents to vote for Ize-Iyamu. The governorship candidate, while receiving the donation, lauded the APC members for their commitment to his mission to lift Edo state from its present position and return it to the path of growth.