 On Sunday, May 31, over 2Baba, Efya, DJ Spinall and 30 other African stars took turns thrilling millions of viewers across Africa and the globe at the virtual concert tagged Hope for Africa Benefit Concert. The virtual concert had Ozzy Agu, Osas Ighodaro, Dakore Egbuson Akande, Mawuli Gavor and Wanjira Longauer as hosts. The virtual concert, a collaboration between Multichoice and One Africa Global foundation, is part of efforts to support the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic in Africa. The 3-hour-long televised concert featured performances by top African music artistes that included 2Baba, Efya, DJ Spinall, Akothee, CIC, Cobhams Asuquo, Dakore Egbuson-Akande, Jah Prayzah, Jeff Maximum, Kyee Benda, and Waje. The artistes took turn in giving goodwill messages of hope and encouragement to every African, from the comfort and safety of their homes. Broadcasted throughout the 58 nations in Africa, the virtual concert kicked off at exactly 7 pm with Ghanaian’s Efya belling the cat. Efya kicked off the show with a sterling performance. Her performance was introduced by Osas, one of the hosts from Nigeria. Her performance lasted for three minutes. Shadaya from Zambia took over the baton from Efya. The beautiful singer lighted up the concert with the rendition of Michael Jackson’s ‘We are the One.’ Next was Nsogi from Angola, who merely shared words of encouragement to fans and Africans in less than 78 seconds. Ykee Benda from Uganda was next and he brought the reggae vibe when he decided to serenade over 1 million viewers with his sound. DMW music act, Mayorkun took over the baton from Ykee Benda with a short word of advice to Africans to remain safe always. On her part, Betty G from Ethiopia did a rendition of one of her songs. Though she was seated all through her performance, she gave a sterling performance with her seat-dance vibes. The performance was followed by another performance by BM from Congo. BM didn’t just perform, he brought his best vibe on. BM tuned up the energy in the house with the soukous and makossa vibe. His performance charged up the room. Nandi from Tanzania also rendered her performance with a band of four instrumentalists, two backup singers, and a dancer. Her performance saw her giving a special rendition in Swahili. LIJ Michael from Ethiopia was next after DJ D-OMY from Tanzania was the first disc jockey to perform on the virtual concert. He mixed some of Africa’s biggest songs in just three minutes. Mavins act, Ladipoe serenaded with his song, ‘Voices’. The rapper was straight to the performance shortly after his words of encouragement to Africans. Another interesting performance was that of Cobhams. The music producer, singer, and songwriter gave a special rendition on coronavirus. The soulful song had the talented instrumentalist and singer creating awareness with his performance through song. Other performances that followed include Adina from Ghana, Keche from Ghana, Scientific from Liberia, and Jeff Maximum from Congo. Innocent Idibia known as 2Baba took over the stage next. He kicked off with an acoustic rendition of his song, ‘One Love’. The famous and talented singer was backed by a pianist in a studio. The singer also used the opportunity to speak and create awareness of COVID-19. Popular band, Alternate Sound from Nigeria serenaded the fans with a medley of various sounds performed in a live session during the concert. The band’s performance was followed by performances by Jose Chameleon from Uganda, Jah Prayzah from Zimbabwe, and CIC from Liberia. Poco Lee from Nigeria also took some time to show Africa his dance steps before Waje took on the stage to perform one of her songs. DJ Spinall also joined the team of entertainers that thrilled audiences from different parts of Africa. The Nigerian DJ switched up the tempo for the five minutes he played. Naomi Waboe from Kenya and Lizha James from Mozambique gave words of advice to fans and viewers across Africa. Mr 2Kay from Nigeria took over to entertain with his song. The singer did a couple of songs during his performance which lasted three minutes. Sarkodie came up next. The rapper took on the organisers of the virtual benefit concert to endorse their contribution while acknowledging the need for Africans to donate. Mzvee from Ghana did an acoustic with a guitarist for three minutes. Tome from Nigeria followed suit with an acoustic of her song from far away from Canada. Masterkraft from Nigeria took on the keyboards playing the piano. He played Michael Jackson’s ‘Heal the world’ with the piano. DJ Xtrio from Angola joined the fun and made an impact in his allotted time. Other sterling performances include Akothee from Kenya, Tekno from Nigeria, Stonbwoy from Ghana, and Flavour from Nigeria. The show ended with a rendition of one of Michael Jackson’s songs by Dakore Akande.