Defence Minister, Maj.-Gen. Bashir Magashi, has listed the factors militating against Federal Government’s efforts at ensuring tight security and fostering lasting peace across the country. He said inadequate manpower and funding are the major issues hindering the nation’s security and peace efforts. Magashi addressed State House Correspondents on Wednesday in Abuja after the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting. The minister said these were among his presentations to the meeting, presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari. Magashi, who said the FEC members discussed the challenges of the Defence Ministry, expressed optimism that the situation would be sorted out. “We spoke about our shortcomings. We talked about manpower shortage, inadequate funding for the Ministry of Defence. We talked about all the operations we have been conducting, the successes and failures of each of the operations right from Operation Lafia Dole to Operation Tawase. “The shortcomings of each of the operations were discussed and, God so kind, contributions were made by members of the council. I think in no distant time there will be a change in the conduct of our affairs in the Ministry of Defence,” he said. Also, Environment Minister Mohammad Abubakar gave insight into the programme of action of the ministry, especially as it affects the Ogoni Clean-up in Niger Delta region. According to him, 57 sites have been pencilled down for cleaning of hydrocarbon impact, a breakdown of which included 21 current and 36 recently awarded clean-up sites. Abubakar also said part of the programme of restoring the affected areas back to their natural state was the 25 million tree planting, which was in collaboration with the Rivers State government. He added that the remediation work in the Ogoni Clean-up programme had created some 775 jobs in Ogoni area, with more still being expected. The minister said there was a programme to train 400 women in agriculture, aqua-culture and poultry to improve the living standard of the people. According to him, out of the 774,000 jobs President Buhari recently approved to be created, the Ministry of Environment, being one of the implementing agencies, would employ 200,000 skilled and unskilled labour as well as another 2,000 through the erosion department. He said the ministry was also to create jobs in waste recycling to reduce, reuse, repair and recover waste. “It is no longer fashionable to just produce, use and dispose because the planet is getting too choked up with pollutants. We are very big in recycling.”