That the journey of a thousand miles must start with a step could aptly described the route that Olajide Omotayo went through to land his maiden qualification for Olympic Games in Tokyo, Japan. He is one of few African players that went through the ranks from cadet to junior before becoming a senior player with the Nigeria national team. Though, the Lagos State-born athlete was not considered as a title contender at the 2019 African Games in Morocco, by stint of hardwork, he was crowned the men’s singles champion. Prior to the 2015 African Games in Congo Brazzaville, Omotayo who just moved to Europe to pursue a professional career in the Italian league was called up to the Nigeria national camp in readiness for the African version of the Olympic Games holding in the Central African nation. As a 20-year-old, the former Nigeria national junior champion fought well against some senior players but he placed sixth and missed five-man team cut. “I didn’t qualify for 2015 African Games because in the deciding match to pick the final five, I was leading 2-0 in the encounter and was considered the favourite to win the tie,” he recently told Olympic Channel. “I did not know what just happened as I lost the match to miss out from the contingent to Brazzaville. It was the worst moment of my life as a player as I made up my mind to quit table tennis,” The disappointment put Omotayo into ‘deep depression’ as he lacked the strength to keep going. The event prematurely ended his table tennis.  He however, took consolation in his movement to United States where he wanted to start a new life outside table tennis. “It was like life was trying to pull me down and I allowed this to get into my head to get me depressed,” Omotayo recalled. On getting to America, Omotayo wanted to further his education but his passion for table tennis cannot be quenched as he continued to take part in competitions across U.S. But it took a heroic performance by his compatriot, Aruna Quadri, at the Rio 2016 Tokyo Olympic Games to inspire Omotayo back into the game.  It was the win by Quadri over German legend Timo Boll in the round of 16 that did the magic for Omotayo’s interest to be re-ignited again. ‘I watched the match that qualified him (Aruna Quadri) to the quarter-final at the Rio 2016  Olympic Games, and it was so good that Aruna won it against one of the world’s best players. He beat Timo Boll [three-time Olympic medal winner]. I was so happy – it was like I was the one who got to the quarter-final. I was like if Aruna can do it, I can also do it if I put in the work’,” Omotayo said. Within some days, Omotayo dumped  his American dream to return to Europe and set himself huge targets. “I was then ranked 632 in the world. I said to myself, ‘I want to start playing more professional tournaments and I want to be top 200 in the world in two years,” he added. Less than a year after his return, Omotayo worked his way back to the Nigeria national team and was part of the team to the 2017 African Championships in Morocco and was also part of silver-winning Nigeria men’s team at the 2018 Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast. Australia. But Omotayo however, gave an insight to what he can do when at the 2019 African Games in Morocco, he shocked his idol Aruna Quadri being his biggest victory to date to emerge as men’s singles champion. Still basking in the euphoria of what happened in Morocco in 2019, Omotayo took his Olympic Games’ dream to Tunisia at the African Olympic Qualifying Tournament and it was there he sealed his slot to feature at his maiden Olympic Games holding in Tokyo, Japan. “I just flashed back. Everything that happened in my life happened so fast. Four years ago, I was watching Aruna Quadri in Rio and now I have qualified for the Olympics. You can’t imagine all these feelings. What if I had quit playing table tennis? Look at what I have now achieved! It’s emotional.” “I now have self-confidence and belief that I can be whatever I want. If you want anything in this life, you must fight for it. Nobody owes you anything. Nobody. Everything you want in your life; you have to fight for it. If anyone gives you something or does something positive, hold that person in high esteem,” he said. For Omotayo, the COVID-19 pandemic has indeed been a blessing in disguise. “Unfortunately since the lockdown globally, my apartment is not big enough to have a table tennis board at home so I have not been playing for more than a month now but I tend to watch videos of myself and I have been trying to come up with a game plan by trying to figure out the what are the  things that I’m doing so well and the things am not getting right. “I believe the postponement of the Olympic Games will afford me the chance to train more and be ready for the games. ”Also my target at Tokyo is to go there and play at my best because I know if I play at my best, good result will eventually show up. Also, one of the advantages of this whole postponement is that I have one more year to prepare and get better,” he explained.