 CHAIRMAN of the local chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State Igo Aguma remains in office, his Media Adviser Livingstone Wechie said last night. He was reacting to the purported suspension of Aguma by some members of the party’s Caretaker Committee in the state. In a statement, Wechie said: “It is known fact that prior to this time, the APC in Rivers State had been polarised into various factions and this is not new to the public and party members. The factionisation of the APC in the state resulted in the opening up of two factional offices in the state along Aba Road in Port Harcourt . “Upon the assumption of office by the Igo Aguma-led State Executive Committee of the party, it became important in keeping with our resolve to restore peace and reconciliation in the party to acquire a new office complex that will be neutral to all as using either of the two former factional offices would not promote reconciliation. “Party members are aware that during this period of the COVID-19 pandemic, meetings of large numbers are held virtually, especially when some of the members are in their fifties. This we have done successfully so far. “The meetings so far held by the APC executive committee in Rivers State were widely publicised and well-advertised on national dailies and other media platforms. “Also there is a platform where all executive committee members of APC Rivers state are participants and every detail of meetings and relevant matters are always available to all. “As a party that respects the rule of law and enforces same, it is not strange that when you wield the big stick to discipline any member of our party for any act of indiscipline, reactions of this sort will not be unexpected. “May I state that the so-called suspension of the chairman of the APC is of no effect and defunct.” Aguma denied all allegations in the purported press statements and renewed his call for APC faithful to close ranks and join him in restoring peace to the party.