 Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has described the death of the former lawmaker representing Lagos Central in the National Assembly, Sen. Munir Adekunle Muse on Tuesday as a huge loss to the state. The late Muse, who was a one time chairman of Apapa Local Government Area, passed on in the early hours of Tuesday, aged 81. Sanwo-Olu, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Gboyega Akosile, said the elder statesman committed his time, resources and effort to build Lagos during his lifetime. The Governor extolled the virtues of the late politician, whom he described as “a dedicated democrat with balanced progressive outlook”. Despite his withdrawal from active politics occasioned by his old age, Sanwo-Olu said the deceased was always in touch with leaders across the State to offer valuable contributions towards development. The statement reads: “This morning, Lagos State woke up to the awful reality of the demise of a committed Lagosian, youth development enthusiast and elder statesman, Sen. Munir Adekunle Muse. For us, this is a broken news because the late former federal lawmaker passed away at a time his wealth of experience in corporate administration and political leadership was desired to guide our steps towards taking our dear State to another level of development. “Having served in the Nigerian Port Authority (NPA) for more than 30 years, the late Sen. Muse retired to serve Lagos, first as community leader and council chairman in Apapa, then as a respected federal lawmaker. His sterling leadership quality earned him respect across the State and beyond. He was the stabilising factor behind the lasting peace enjoyed by members of the Lagos chapter of Association of Local Governments of Nigeria (ALGON). “A devout Muslim and committed family man, Sen. Muse was gentle to a fault and not known to be cantankerous. Rather than engage in needless complaint, he believed in underground strategy to achieve results. His death is a huge loss to Lagos in particular, and the nation in general.” “On behalf of my family and the good people of Lagos, I commiserate with the family of the late distinguished man, Senator Munir Muse.” “I pray that the almighty Allah will admit the deceased into Aljana Firdaus and grant his family the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss.” Sanwo-Olu said.