 PROJECTS valued at N120.7 billion were on Wednesday approved by the Federal Executive Council (FEC) in the Road and Water sectors. Works and Housing Minister Babatunde Fashola told reporters at the State House in Abuja after on Wednesday’a FEC virtual meeting that three roads were approved for his ministry at N115.65 billion. He said: “The Ministry of Works presented two memoranda for consideration and award of three roads, all of which the Council graciously approved. “They are the award of the Jebi-Lamba-Bele Road in Adamawa State, for N26.829 billion. The Achingali-Udobi-Udona-Umuwana-Ubakala Road, including the bridge, across the Imo River in Imo State, for N11.540 billion. The Jarmai-Bashar-Zuruk-Andame-Karim Lamido Road, linking Plateau and Taraba states, for N77.279 billion. “These projects are consistent with the ministerial responsibilities we are mandated to execute under the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan and the commitment to improving road transport infrastructure because these roads connect critical agriculture, mining and economic areas of the country, to improve the ease of doing business, to reduce journey time and so on. “For example, the road that links Plateau and Taraba states, when completed along with the Ibi Bridge, will reduce the journey time from Abuja to Jalingo in Taraba State from about 12 hours to about eight hours. “It will be a significant reduction in journey time. Also, the other roads will be equally beneficial in bringing down cost of goods, cost of transportation and cost of doing business.” Water Resources Minister Suleiman Adamu said the Council approved N5.02 billion for the revised estimated cost for the completion of Zungeru-Wushishi Water Supply Project in Niger State. He said: “Today, we presented to Council a request for approval of revised estimated total cost for the completion of Zungeru-Wushishi Water Supply Project in Niger State in favour of Messr R. Services, Zilon Construction Services Joint Venture  for  N5.021 billion, raising the project from N1.93 billion to N6.955 billion, inclusive all taxes. “This is a project that was started in 1998 by the Niger State government. They could not continue. Eventually, it was transferred to the Federal Government.” Interior Minister Rauf Aregbesola said the Federal Fire Service responded to 2,615 fire calls, saved 724 lives and assets valued at N1.629 trillion between June and October 2019. The minister said the figure was evaluated within the operational competence of the fire service to evaluate the values of property to put clear information and message of their activities and what they have done. “In their intervention therefore what this means is that they have prevented destruction of assets worth N1.629 trillion between June and October 2019,while saving 724 lives and responded to 2215 fire calls,” Aregbesola said.