No fewer than 69 people have been reported killed in a fresh attack by suspected members of Boko Haram insurgents in Borno State. The attackers, who came in the early hours of Wednesday targeted Gubio residents, who are mostly herders. It was gathered the attack was in retaliation of the killingof some members of the sect almost a year ago. Some local sources have confirmed that the gory attack claimed 69 lives as some of them described the incident as a pogrom. “We counted up to a total of 69 corpses”, a local hunter said, Haruna Gubio said. He continued that “the attackers opened fire on anybody in sight both adults and children,” a resident said. There are also unverified reports that the insurgents rustled many cows in the communities during the attack. No official statement has been issued by the army in respect of the attack at the time of filing this report but the Civil Society Organisation expressed sadness over the unfortunate incident. The Head of the Coalition of the CSO in Borno State, Malam Ahmed Shehu on the Whatsup page of the Forum described the situation as “sad and barbaric”. The statement on the whatsup handle reads: “That was a piece of very sad news, it seems like we are going back to the old days of the insurgent killing and abducting soft target in villages and along major roads, ” he said. “Of recent Northern Borno route has become a no go area…as the insurgents will mount a roadblock, screen commuters, and kidnap humanitarian workers only. “Last week, five people were kidnapped through the same process, among them was Abdurahman, a SEMA Camp Chairman in Monguno, whose wedding day was fixed for last Sunday and three others. “On Sunday, the route was attacked again and commuters were assembled and strategically engaged in video-recorded discussions by the insurgents for almost an hour. “From the information available civil servants and teachers documents were seized and later returned and about four people were abducted. There is urgent for the protection of vulnerable civilians and local aid workers,” the statement said. Gov. Babagana Umara Zulum is reportedly said to have left for Gubio to assess the level of impact of the attack.