 ON May 29, 2015, when His Excellency, Rt. Hon. Ifeanyi Lawrence Ugwuanyi, was inaugurated as the third executive governor of Enugu State, he did not leave anybody in doubt as to his capacity to reinvent the state. Enugu people equally did not doubt his capacity to make the state the centre of attraction and the number one state as far as peace and security are concerned. As he mounted the podium at the Michael Okpara Square venue of the event, the people of Enugu State, friends and well-wishers, who had gathered to witness the epoch-making event, cheered him as he reeled out his promises for his people. One of the promises he made to the people of Enugu in his inaugural speech was to work assiduously to ensure peace and good governance in the state. He also promised to embark on aggressive infrastructural development across the state, particularly in the rural areas, where the majority of the people reside. Even though, these promises were made amidst looming recession which enveloped the country soon after he became governor, there was no modicum of doubt in the people’s mind that he would live up to the promises. This was due largely to the fact that Ugwuanyi, having spent 12 years in the House of Representatives, where he represented Igbo-Eze North/Udenu Federal Constituency, was very conversant with the socio-political, religious and economic problems confronting the state. Not long after he assumed office as governor, the people of Nimbo, in Uzo-Uwani Local Government Area of the state came under heavy attacks by some herdsmen, killing scores of people, and destroying property worth millions of Naira. The unprovoked attack on the innocent and peace loving people of Nimbo by the herdsmen challenged Ugwuanyi’s zeal to prove that he could protect his people and maintain peace in the state as he promised. And, he did not disappoint as he promptly rose to the occasion. He quickly set in motion machinery to reorganize and empower the existing local security outfit so as to complement the efforts of the police and other security agencies. Thus, the Enugu State Neighbourhood Watch was established even as the vigilance groups in various communities across the state were fully recognised by the state government. The governor, subsequently released over N100 million for their take off in all the 17 local government areas of the state. The money was meant to provide training logistics and operational gadgets to enable them respond to any security threat in the state. About 5,200 members of the Neighbourhood Watch drawn from all the local government areas in Enugu State have been actively complementing the efforts of the police to maintain peace in the state. These personnel are also on the payroll of Enugu State government. However, while people from the North-Central, South-south and Southwest, as well as some states in the Southeast, were complaining that herdsmen, kidnappers and other criminal elements have taken over their forests, Ugwuanyi’s foresight and proactive instinct led him into the formation of Enugu State Forest Guards. About 1700 men were employed to ensure the smooth and successful operation of the Forest Guards. Forest Guards, as a security outfit, were charged with the responsibility of ensuring that all the forests in the state are safe, secure and devoid of any kind of criminal activity. Kidnappers are known to have found the forest as a safe haven where they keep their victims after abduction until ransom has been paid. Herdsmen have also found the forest as a fertile ground where they commit all sorts of atrocities ranging from crop destruction to armed robbery, rape and outright killing, among others. Armed robbers are not left out among the criminal players in the forests. With the foregoing in mind and in order to live up to his promise of providing peace and security in the state, the governor established the Forest Guards Security outfit. Although the slogan, ‘Enugu is in the hands of God,’ has become a kind of signature tune in Enugu, Ugwuanyi would not leave anything to chance. He is a leader who believes that even though God watches over the affairs of the state, he would do what he ought to as the governor to ensure that peace and security reign in the state. Between the middle of last year up to March this year, there was increased crime in the Southeast, including Enugu, which unfortunately led to the kidnap of a Catholic priest in the coal city state. Ugwuanyi did not find that security breach funny and that led to the provision of more vehicles to all the security agencies in the state. The state government purchased 360 security patrol vehicles made up of 260 Siena vehicles and 100 Hilux vans, which were distributed to security agencies, vigilance groups and forest guards in the state. The 260 Siena vehicles were distributed to Neighbourhood Watch groups and Forest Guards in the 17 local government areas of the state, while the Hilux vans were given to the army, police and Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC). In 2015, Ugwuanyi equally embarked on a similar journey, when he distributed about 30 vehicles each to the army, police, NSCDC, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), and in fact, all the security outfits in Enugu, to be able to operate maximally and ensure that Enugu remained. In fact, Ugwuanyi has demonstrated capacity and commitment to the security of lives and property of the people of Enugu, especially with the establishment of the Forest Guards and recognition of vigilance groups as partners to rid the state of criminals and criminality and maintain peace and security. The fact that Enugu State currently tops other states when it comes to security is attributable to Ugwuanyi’s pragmatism and his understanding of the fact that peace is the number one panacea to all-round human development. As he clocks five years in this onerous task of ensuring that the existing peace and security in Enugu remain, I can only wish him well and pray that Enugu continues to be in the hands of God.  