 WHILE we cannot join issues with the Awujale, the highest custodian of tradition in Ijebuland, on most of the issues raised, his position on the Mogoosu of Ibido-Ogbo needs some clarifications. Kabiyesi said amongst other things about Mogoosu: (1)          That the Mogoosu is not an Oba or a chief and does not preside over any community in Ijebuland. We wish to state very clearly that Mogoosu is the Oba of Ibido-Ogbo, a town under Odogbolu Local Government. Ibido-Ogbo is one of the sixteen (16) towns and villages that constitute Ogbo Community where Chief Ayo Adebanjo hails from. In fact, Papa Ayo Adebanjo holds the Chieftaincy title of ASIWAJU of Ibido-Ogbo, conferred on him by Oba Thomas Olaitan Oduntan (1960 – 2008). (2)          That Mogoosu is a palace official.  We say an Oba cannot be an official in his own palace apart from being the Oba. Maybe Kabiyesi,  Awujale, historically should refer to  Mogoosu as a prince of the Obanta palace which he truly was. (3)          That a few weeks to the coronation, somebody is just picked as Mogoosu to then crown the Awujale. We hereby say with pride that Oba Mogoosu crowns any new Awujale before he can become a king. This has been from time immemorial. The throne of Awujale of Ijebuland is too revered, sacred and highly regarded that a commoner would be called to crown him. Only the Awujale, as a paramount ruler, enjoys this privilege of being crowned by an Oba and not just a priest or a chief. This should be a pride to the throne and Ijebuland in general. (4)          That Awujale had not seen or heard from the Mogoosu that crowned him since 1960. This, to us in Ibido-Ogbo, is not strange as tradition demands that the Mogoosu could not see “face to face” with the Awujale after coronation.  If this happens, it means the Mogoosu wants to retrieve the crown he willingly gave to the Awujale. This simply is a case of keeping to the rules. Ibido-Ogbo, as today, has an Adele Oba in person of Chief Muritala Okeowo, pending the installation of a new Mogoosu of Ibido-Ogbo.  It is on record that the Mogoosu of Ibido-Ogbo had always crowned any new Awujale and written records from 1750AD show that Mogoosu Oba Adenumi who reigned between 1750 – 1799AD, crowned Awujale Gbelegbuwa I in 1760AD and Awujale Fusengbuwa in 1790AD. This table (attached) shows successive Awujales crowned by the Mogoosus of their time till 2nd  April 1960 when the late Mogoosu, Oba Thomas Olaitan Oduntan, Erebileyinjoye II, crowned the present Awujale, Oba Sikiru Kayode Adetona, Ogbagba II. In the autobiography of His Majesty, Oba S. K. Adetona, then Prince Sikiru Kayode Adetona was shown discussing with Mogoosu, Oba Thomas Olaitan Oduntan (see the photo pages of the book).  Also, the Nigerian Tribune of 4th April 1960 and “Iwe Irohin Kakiri Ile Yoruba” all published the same coronation ceremony of 2nd April 1960 in full details including photographs showing Oba Mogoosu in his full royal apparel as an Oba wearing his beaded crown. How is Mogoosu then NOT an Oba! In the early years after Oba S. K. Adetona’s coronation, there was good communication between the Mogoosu and the Awujale through palace emissaries. The rapport and the cordiality between them led to the appointment of the Mogoosu, Oba Thomas Olaitan Oduntan, as a customary court judge at Ita Osu, Ijebu-Ode along with the then Ajalorun of Ijebu Ife, Oba Oyenuga between 1960 and 1966. These records and facts are there and can be checked.  What went wrong between the duo thereafter remains a matter of conjecture. Finally, this clarification is not an affront on the authority of Kabiyesi, Alaiyeluwa, the Awujale of Ijebuland, but to put the records straight and for Mogoosu to be recognised in his proper status.