As the Federal Government begins the second phase of the four weeks easing of the lockdown to open up some economic and social activities, the evacuation of Nigerians abroad has been suspended until a new policy on mandatory supervised isolation of persons arriving the country is completed. Also, prior arrangements of evacuation of Nigerians from outside to the Country is suspended until the new policy being developed with the private sector comes into place.
The National Coordinator of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, Dr. Sani Aliyu, made this known at the briefing on Monday in Abuja. According to him, “Mandatory supervised isolation of persons arriving outside the country will continue to be for 14 days until a new policy comes into place. “There will be no further evacuation of Nigerians until the new policy that is currently being developed with the private sector comes into place. Any prior arrangements of evacuation of Nigerians from outside of the country is suspended until the new policy comes into place. “The goal of phase two over the next four weeks is to balance public safety with protecting likelihoods, as well as allowing full restoration of economic activities across the country. “Starting from tomorrow, Tuesday, the 2nd of June 2020, the easing of the lockdown will be characterised by the following: The Nationwide curfew will remain in place but the timing of this will be reduced to 10 p.m. to 4 a.m. The purpose of the curfew is to limit social interaction and therefore, reduce the risk of transmission of the virus. “Persons that are on essential duties, including but not limited to those involved in the provision of healthcare services, media services and critical infrastructure exempted from the curfew. “All interstate travel by individuals remains prohibited except for essential travels and the movement of goods and services. All restrictions on the free movement of goods and services is now removed interstate. “There will be a full opening of the financial sector, which means that banks are now allowed to operate in normal working hours 5 days a week.” He further added, “The mass gathering of more than 20 people outside of a workplace or places of worship remains prohibited. There will be controlled access to market and locations of economic activities but local authorities will continue to provide guardians on opening times.
“Restricted opening of places of worship will be based on state government protocols and strict guidelines on physical distancing and other non-pharmaceutical interventions. This will apply to the regular churches and mosques services only. “Mandatory supervised isolation of persons arriving outside the country will continue to be for 14 days until a new policy comes into place. There will be no further evacuation of Nigerians until the new policy that is currently being developed with the private sector comes into place. “Any prior arrangements of evacuation of Nigerians from outside of the country is suspended until the new policy comes into place. All these measures will need to include compliance on non-pharmaceutical interventions.”