 THE Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN)-led private sector coalition against COVID-19 (CA-COVID) has gained the support of stakeholders across the economy. CACOVID has also  taken a step further in its COVID-19 sensitisation and education drive into local communities in Nigeria, by gaining the support and partnership of Oba Adedotun Aremu Gbadebo the Alake and paramount ruler of Egba Land, Ogun State. The traditional ruler in his palace in Abeokuta expressed his support for the coalition while addressing his palace chiefs. He further educated them on the dangers posed by COVID-19  and demonstrated to them key hygiene practices such as proper handwashing techniques, social distancing practices and use of protective masks. This sensitisation activity carried out by CACOVID and the Oba is aimed at raising more awareness and education about the global pandemic in the community, therefore helping to curb its spread in Nigeria. Community spread has been identified as one of the major means by which COVID-19 spreads in Nigeria, and driving sensitisation deep into local communities is one of the most effective means of helping to mitigate the spread of the virus. Speaking during the sensitisation activity, Oba Adedotun Aremu Gbadebo stated that “the spread of the coronavirus is real and can affect everyone, old or young, rich or poor. Over the past few months in Nigeria, we have lost a lot of our brothers and sisters to this Virus”. He further explained that “The rate of community spread is increasing, and the virus is spreading mainly through person to person contact. This is why I am joining forces with CACOVID to ensure that everyone in this community is fully aware of the preventive measures and ways to stay safe.” The CACOVID is a Private Sector task force in partnership with the Federal Government, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and the World Health Organisation (WHO), created with the sole aim and vision of eradicating COVID-19 from Nigeria and Africa at large. This task force is tasked with pulling resources across industries to provide technical and operational support while providing funding and building advocacy through aggressive awareness drives. This will be achieved through collaborating with the Government to provide direct support to private and public healthcare’s ability to respond to the crisis by providing funds to set up several testing, isolation and treatment centers in all geo-political zones; aggressively increasing general public’s awareness, education and buy-in to prevent panic and resulting chaos.