 PENSION Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD) is set to pay the first batch of verified former workers and Next-of-Kin (NoK) of the Nigerian Aviation Handling Company (NAHCO), the Executive Secretary, Dr. Chioma Ejikeme, has said. The PTAD boss, in a statement, stated this was in line with the takeover approval of pension-related matters of some agencies, privatisation and liquidation by the Bureau of Public Enterprises in 2017, among which is the Nigerian Aviation Handling Company (NAHCO). According to her, the Directorate carried out a verification and biometric capture exercise for eligible former workers and NOK of deceased former workers of NAHCO during the Directorate’s parastatals pensioners’verification last year. She said the collated data were subjected to rigorous due processes culminating in the computation and auditing of the entitlements of the verified ex-workers and NOKs. She added that the Directorate is prepared to pay the first batch of NAHCO’s former workers and NOKs that are eligible. She emphasised that for the pensioners and NOKs to access the benefit, it is pertinent to they know certain salient points that define their eligibility. She said this includes the payment to be made for any outstanding terminal benefit on the effective date of NAHCO’s privatisation when the Federal Government’s entire equity holding in the company was disposed of; payment would be made in batches subject to availability of funds; and The effective date of the privatisation of NAHCO was 31st August 2005. She said workers who left prior to privatisation of NAHCO had been settled by the company and do not have any terminal benefits. She said the Federal Government was not responsible for the period served beyond the effective date of NAHCO’s privatisation and thus former workers and NOKs in this category were not under PTAD; and that NAHCO’s former workers engaged after the privatisation do not qualify for any entitlement under this arrangement. She assured that the welfare of pensioners remained PTAD’s priority.