Nigerian celebrities like Terry G, Bobrisky and Tayo Sobola have remained unshaken in their loyalty to incarcerated Instagram celebrity, Ramoni ‘Hushpuppi’ Igbalode. Pending the outcome of his case, the celebrities have remained unmoved in their support for Hushpuppi. Actress Sotayo Sobola angrily hit back at Instagram users abusing Hushpuppi. The 34-year-old took to her page to defend him with a warning that people should be careful with their posts. ”Before you judge anyone be sure that you are clean, ” she said. ”Nobody knows tomorrow! Its a phase that will surely pass.” Continuing she says, ”I see a lot of people dropping comments here and there to say evil things about Hush and some of these people are not pure. Yes, he is my friend and I will never and can never deny him. Nobody holy pass… we should be careful how we quickly come out here on social media to tear people down. Its very bad… I am not in support of fraudulent acts but will never deny the ones that I know!” However, minutes after sharing the post, the movie star received a lot of backlash from many Instagram users as she was accused of encouraging fraud and scam. Reacting to the accusations, the actress who is fondly called Sotayo Gaga was quick to delete the post. She then shared a new picture captioned: ”Oga say make I delete. I am not in support of fraudulent acts but please mind your businesses.” Similarly, a day after Hushpuppi was arrested, singer Terry G posted a picture of the socialite while urging his 1.1m Instagram followers to pray for him. According to Terry G, nobody is perfect, therefore, we must keep praying for God’s protection. “None of us is clean nor perfect, all we pray is for God to bo our asiri… pray for him.” Just like Sotayo, the Akpako master pulled down the post shortly after sharing. In the same vein, controversial cross-dresser, Bobrisky pledged loyalty to the Dubai big boy. Sharing a picture of Hushpuppi on Instagram, Bobrisky wrote: “Many of us are just the biggest hypocrites ever !!! Before his arrest many of you were on his DM, comment section kissing his ass. But immediately you heard about his arrest your true self came out. If you don’t like him stand on ur ground. “Stop faking love when you see him and then go behind to call him names. To cut d story short be yourself and stop acting two face. I Stand with @hushpuppi . Many of you will insult me under this post, but guess what I don’t care.” Hushpuppi, though, not an entertainer, has won many music fans’ heart for giving out funds. Popular musicians have also touted him as philanthropist. Many artistes include Olamide, Iyanya 9ice and others sang Hushpuppi’s praises in their songs. Hushpupp has been in police custody for some days after he allegedly defrauded the United States (US) of $35 million meant for Native Americans in the battle against the coronavirus pandemic. According to reports, Hushpuppi was arrested alongside two of his friends in  United Arab Emirates by the International Police (INTERPOL). Meanwhile, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission(EFCC), on Thursday, has declared Hushppuppi wanted over series of suspected cybercrimes.