 President Muhammadu Buhari and Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki have commiserated with the General Overseer of Trinity House (Church), Lagos, Pastor Ituah Ighodalo, on the death of his wife, Ibidunni. In a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, the President said the cleric faithfully prays for the country, and the government. He reportedly “sent President Buhari a personal letter of condolence when his former Chief of Staff, Mallam Abba Kyari, passed away in April”. “Please, accept my condolences. May God give you the fortitude to bear the loss, and strengthen you in this trying time,” the President said. Also, in a condolence message to the cleric, Obaseki said: “…As close friends, our grief is hard to describe in words. “Ibidunni was one of the finest among us; she was full of life and gave herself to causes that edified life and living. In her personal capacity and through the Ibidunni Ighodalo Foundation, she impacted society, helping to bring joy and happiness to peoples’ lives.” The late Mrs. Ituah-Ighodalo, 40, may have suffered a heart attack and died in her sleep around 2 a.m on Sunday, The Nation has learnt. The former Miss LUX Nigeria reportedly died inside her hotel room in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital. She was said to have travelled to Bayelsa and Rivers states where her events company, Elizabeth, was helping with the building of isolation centres for COVID-19 patients. The Nation reports that the late beauty queen was also instrumental to the setting up of the Enugu Isolation Centre, from where she shared a post on her now deactivated Instagram page, about fracturing her leg while on it, but still ensured the job was done well. Confirming her death, a statement by Asue Ighodalo on behalf of the Ighodalo and Olaleye Ajayi families appealed that their privacy be respected in this difficult time. Although the statement was silent on the place and possible cause of death, Mrs. Ituah-Ighodalo’s manager, Lawal Nurudeen, told BBC pidgin that she died inside her hotel room in Port Harcourt. The Rivers State Police Command, last night, had not confirmed the cause of her death as its spokesman Nnamdi Omoni, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), said he had not received any situation report on the matter. Regarded as a role model and amazon by many, the late Mrs. Ituah-Ighodalo brought life back into many marriages, using her personal struggles with conception and childbirth to give hope to millions of people across the world through her Ibidunni Ighodalo Foundation (IIF). After going through 11 Invitro-Fertilisation (IVF) and waiting 11 years to have a biological child, she took it upon herself to inspire aspiring parents or those facing the same challenges and gave them many reasons to live, be happy and hopeful. The late model married Pastor Ighodalo in 2007 after the latter’s wife left him for the United States of America (U.S.A). Their union steered controversy that made the cleric to leave the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) and found the Trinity House of God, which the duo nurtured with love and devotion. Aside that she was stunningly beautiful and carried herself with grace, the late Mrs. Ituah-Ighodalo was known for her passionate love for children, which led her to adopting many kids. As soon as news of her death broke, condolence messages started pouring on social media platforms with those whose lives she impacted putting up her pictures and videos on their pages. A 30-second video of the late beauty queen and her husband playing – said to have been shot last week – was also uploaded under the hashtag Ibidunni Ighodalo, which had thousands of comments last night. In the video, she is holding her husband around the neck region while he playfully calls Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to come and rescue him from domestic violence. Other eminent personalities who have sent condolence messages include former Education Minister, Dr. Oby Ezekwesili, who wrote: “Life! Ibidun Ighodalo? Just gone …like a candle in the wind. Too much of a heart-breaking news. May God comfort our very dear Pastor Ituah and rest of family in the way that only He can in Jesus name.” Many other Nigerians have continued to send similar messages to the bereaved families. Activist Toyosi Akerele-Ogunsiji wrote: “Aunty Ibidun, gone like that? In your prime? This is devastating on so many levels. My blood is cold and I’m just tired of 2020. Just spent with everything! God, please help me comfort Pastor Ituah Ighodalo. Rest well, Aunty.” Evangelist Gbemi Daniels said: “God, You Are Faithful In All Your Ways. With a sad, shocking and broken heart I received the news of the death of Sister Ibidun Ighodalo. Peace of the Lord be with Pastor Itua Ighodalo, families and all Trinity House family. Good Night and Rest in Peace “It Is Well With Our Soul!” Bunmi Oladuntoye wrote: “I didn’t know Ibudun Ighodalo on a personal space but I knew about her infertility journey and how she had 11 failed IVFs. This woman got a point where she was able to tell her story without holding back and adopted 2 lovely kids. Rest in peace, Ibidun Ighodalo.” A mental health advocate Lawal Dolapo said: “I get very anxious and concerned about two topics, motherhood and mental health. I always looked up to Ibidun Ighodalo-Ituah on the whole motherhood journey, and now, she’s gone. Rest in peace Ibidun Ighodalo Ituah, you are a queen, you will always be a Queen.”