  Telecoms firm, Smile Communications said it has significantly changed its data plans as a measure to cushion the negative effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on its customers and the nation’s economy. Its Chief Marketing Officer, Abdul Hafeez, said the decision was informed by its desire to lessen the burden on families whose wards have been taking online classes at home and businesses whose workers have been working remotely by availing them the most competitive data offers in the market. “We are revamping all our data plans making them the best value, and usable anytime of the day,” Hafeez explained. He said the firm unveiled a range of data plans with tenor that range from daily, weekly, monthly and yearly. The daily and weekly offers boast of varying validity periods of one day, two days and seven days at N300 to N1500 and GB of between 1GB and 6GB. Afeez said the monthly offer validity period is 30 days and can be used at anytime of the day and night. The prices range from N1000 to N18000 with data volumes and is between 1.5GB and 100GB, adding that the validity period for the BumpaValue plans offer three options of 60 days, 90 days and 120 days with data volume of 50GB, 80GB and 100GB. The one-year data plans price range from between N8,000, N16,000, N36,000, N70,000 and N120,000 and data volumes of 15GB, 35GB, 90GB, 200GB and 400GB. Noting that the range of the revamped data plans on offer are unsurpassed in the value, Afeez further explained that the revamped data plans are robust, wide ranging and versatile while each of the offerings is tailor-made for both the individual and corporate users. He urged forward-looking customers and prospects alike to embrace any of their preferred offerings and enjoy the benefits inherent in any of the revamped data plans. A cross section of customers on the Smile network has already commended the company for introducing more value, anytime use and greater affordability through the revamped data plans. To Oluseyi Balogun, a Smile customer based in Anifowose Area of Ikeja, the revamped data plans will help cushion the biting effect of the inclement economic times. He gave kudos to Smile for always looking out for the best interest of its customers. Ngozi Madukor, an undergraduate in one of the Higher Institutions in Lagos opined that the revamped data plans is pocket friendly and exactly what is needed by the teeming Nigerian youths whose disposable income is daily being depleted by contending needs. Market watchers are unanimous in their view that Smile is continuously innovating to beat existing market benchmark all in a bid to provide products that will serve their customer’s best interest in the present turbulent market landscape. They urged the company to continue to innovate so as to always meet the demands of their customers and consumers