The hiring and firing of parastatal chiefs should provoke little or no uproar, so long as laid down processes are followed.  But the May 20 sack of Usman Gur Mohammed, erstwhile managing director of the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN), has bucked all that. Power minister, Sale Mamman, via a statement by Aaron Atimas, the minister’s special adviser on media and communication, announced Mohammed’s sack, replacing him with Sule Abdulaziz, on an acting capacity. “As part of continuing measures to reposition and improve the performance of the power sector in the country,” the statement said, “the Minister of Power, Sale Mamman, hereby announces major changes in the Transmission Company of Nigeria.” Prof. Ibrahim Gambari, the new presidential chief of staff, by a letter he titled: “Re: Aligning the Transmission Company of Nigeria Power Initiative”, would suggest a presidential endorsement of the sack, since the chief of staff is the president’s factotum. But from the structural plain, Boss Mustapha, secretary to the government of the federation (SGF), has weighed against the sack, from the due process angle. Through a memo to ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs), including the Central Bank of Nigeria, the SGF pushed for due process, approved disciplinary procedures and fair hearing, anchored on the provisions of the Establishment Act, and principles guiding Chapters 3 and 16 of the Public Service Rules. “For emphasis,” the SGF’s statement insisted, “on no account shall a minister of the Federal Republic unilaterally or arbitrarily remove a serving CEO, without recourse to the procedure contained in this circular.” That is clearly a huge blow for due process, since it is hinged on existing regulations and processes.  It also guides against ministers unfairly using executive fiat to settle scores, after personality clashes with parastatal chiefs.  On the procedural score alone, aside from its systemic reach, the SGF’s intervention should trump the CoS’s — not only in the present case, but in other cases that might emerge. Ordinarily, the CoS doesn’t have a dog in this fight, except if he is projecting the president’s personal decision.  Even then, the president’s decision must be driven by the systemic processes guiding the hiring and firing of public servants.  Still, no matter what, it shouldn’t be the subject of media or public controversy, as this case is turning out.  It is yet another case, in which intra-administration communication could be far better handled. There should be better, more efficient and more effective ways, by the president, to reach his ministers (and parastatal chiefs): either by systemic means (through the SGF) or personal reach (through the CoS), without making a meal of it.  It is a needless distraction the Buhari Presidency cannot afford. But even beyond the policy front, it is rather shocking that the TCN helmsman’s sack has not only triggered an intra-union feud, it has also turned an equal-opportunity grist for the mill of media campaigns, in a classic case of how not to set agenda. The national executive of the Senior Staff Employees of Electricity and Allied Companies of Nigeria (SSAEAC) endorsed the removal of TCN boss, claiming Dr. Mohammed was fairly indicted for “anti-Labour practices”. But the TCN chapel of SSAEAC, which shoe pinches and which should know, gave the ousted TCN boss a rave review.  Indeed, the local TCN union went overboard, declaring that with Mohammed’s stellar technical, managerial and labour records, they would rather have him stay at his post than any other. That, however, is out of their turf, for it’s no business of any union to dictate who the company boss is. The reportage, in two newspapers, also followed two diametrically opposed paths, suggesting some media campaign. In one, the ousted TCN boss was the best thing to have happened to that outfit. In the other, he was the gravest pestilence to have ever ravaged TCN. So, the absurdity: one event but two different campaigns — one for the minister; the other for the sacked TCN boss, in a desperate bid to corral public sympathy! It’s another grand distraction. The Federal Government must clear up the mess surrounding this sack. The Nigerian electricity power conundrum is crippling enough without another sterile and distracting controversy. More importantly, the administration should better master its internal communications, to avert similar cases in the future.