 The Nigerian military on Friday retired 342 Non-Commissioned Officers (NCOs) from service after equipping them with skills for self-reliance. The retirees comprising 243 from the Army, 100 Navy and 16 Air Force personnel, were disengaged at the Nigerian Armed Forces Resettlement Centre (NAFRC), Oshodi, Lagos state, where they were camped for six months reintegration as well as business and craftsmanship trainings to ease their life outside the uniform. Speaking at the ceremony, NAFRC Commandant, Air Vice Marshal (AVM) Kingsley Lar said they were the first batch to be retired this year, adding that the second set would include 100 paramilitary and civil servants from key ministries who are due for retirement. He commended the retirees for dedicating 35 years of their lives to the good of humanity, a task which has been mentally and physically strenuous. “As you graduate today, you have transferred from active military duty to the legion of veterans who continue to make positive contributions to the Federal Republic of Nigeria,” AVM Lar told the retirees. According to him, a total of 359 were billed to attend the pre-retirement training at NAFRC but some of them were returned to their respective services for various reasons while a trainee trainer identified as Master Warrant Officer (MWO) Garuba Mohammed died on June 5, barely two weeks to the graduation.  AVM Lar said the COVID-19 lockdown did not affect the field trips aspect of the trainings because all practicals were concluded before the government banned movements. He also explained that all theoretical aspects were concluded inside NAFRC. In spite of the pandemic, the Commandant described the retirees as fortunate, noting that President Muhammad Buhari had solved the major problem retirees faced. “He approved a living pension for retiring military personnel unlike before where it was so little such that they did not even bother to register for the pension. But now, what you earn in retirement for some of the categories is even higher than what they were earning currently in service. Resources available to them have been greatly enhanced. Use the resources wisely. Invest in low risk areas so that you can sleep well and enjoy your retirement with your loved ones whom you did not have time with over the years,” he said.