The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has described the “continuous borrowing” by the Federal Government as worrisome. The Chairman of the PDP, Prince Uche Secondus, made this assertion when he led members of the National Working Committee (NWC) to meet with the Senate PDP caucus in the Senate. Secondus told reporters that the issue of rising national debt and Electoral Reforms formed part of its deliberation with the PDP Senators during the three hour closed session. Secondus said: “I think that for today’s meeting at the Senate in the National Assembly, we came to interact with our Senators, the PDP caucus. “We held a very useful discussion on behalf of the leadership of the party. “We tabled before the Senate Caucus of the PDP the issue of Electoral Reforms which is also on our minds and on the minds of Nigerians. “We are also worried about the continuous borrowing by the Executive Arm of Government. “If it continues like this, Nigerians would be feeling the pains on their neck and it will get to a point if we continue to borrow the way the Executive arm is carrying on, it will be difficult to breath both politically and economically. “So, this must come to an end, there must be an end to borrowing. “Those are the issues we have asked our Senators to raise in the Senate.” On the upcoming Governorship Election in Edo State, Secondus said: “Edo election is ongoing, the processes have started yesterday (Tuesday) was the three-man delegate’s election. On the 19th is the Congress proper.” When asked whether the party has directed its Senators to oppose the borrowing as well as stage a walkout during the consideration of the loan in plenary, Secondus said: “They know what to do.” The Leader of the Senate PDP Caucus, Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe, on his part, described the meeting as “very productive.” Abaribe said: “The (National) Chairman (of the PDP), Uche Secondus has come to meet with the PDP caucus in the Senate and we have had a very useful discussion about the happenings in the National Assembly and our role in the Senate and in the National Assembly and I can say that it was a very productive meeting.” On the allegation that PDP Senators were not being carried along by the party executive, he said that all the matters that affect Senators were all discussed and satisfactorily resolved. “And like I said, it is normal that there are disagreement between political parties and we can be very certain that these disagreements can easily be resolved when you understand each other and when you have meetings of this nature which we have done. “The Senators are very happy and we are on the same page with the party. PDP is strong and PDP is united,” Abaribe added.