Four days to the proposed resumption of domestic flights, the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) declared on Wednesday that six carriers have ‘crossed the airworthiness mark.’ NCAA’s Director, Airworthiness Standards, Engineer Ita Awak, disclosed this after a stakeholders meeting . Specifically, the NCAA director said the regulator has mandated returning carriers to use only reagents approved by  Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEM)  to disinfect their aircraft. To ensure safety, former Director-General of NCAA, Dr Harold Demuren, has canvassed carrying out of a simulation flight before the opening of the airports to passenger traffic. He said: “We need to assure passengers that it is safe to fly. A simulation, two days before the opening of the airports is encouraged.” His stance was also backed by Mr. Chris Aligbe, the chief executive officer of Belujane Konsult emphasising the essence of the exercise is for the safety of  passengers and airport users. The National Coordinator of the Presidential Task Force on Covid-19, Dr. Sanni Aliyu in his submission said the mandate of the task force is to protect public health. On the opening of the airspace, he said: “We are keen to see aviation sector resume, making sure that airports open in a safe manner.” The immediate past National President of the National Association of Nigerian Travel Agents (NANTA), Mr. Bernard Bankole on measures he thought should be considered said, “Airlines should extend validity of tickets, and it will go a long way.” He also added that porters and personnel at the carousel and lavatories area should be looked into. Bankole corroborated the stance of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) on the discouragement of non-travelling persons inside the terminal. In his reaction to Mr. Bankole submission, Engr. Tayib  Odunowo, the Director of Aerodrome and Airspace Standards (DAAS) in Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority said porters at the airports would not be allowed any longer.“You will not find them again,” he promised. On the financial health of the airlines in the country, Grp Capt. (Rtd.) Edem Oyo-Ita Director, Air Transport Regulation for NCAA said: “Only three airlines have submitted their financial health while waiting for others.” 