Niger Delta Students’ Union Government (NDSUG) has condemned the brutal rape and murder of its female member, Miss Vera Uwaila Omozuwa, a 100-level student of Micro-Biology at the University of Benin (UNIBEN). The Senate President of NDSUG, Jimmy Success, in a statement in Port Harcourt called on the school management and the security agencies to swiftly investigate the tragedy and bring the perpetrators to justice. Success said: “It is with great grief in our hearts that we announce the death of a young and promising student in one of the institutions under our jurisdiction. “A female student of the prestigious University of Benin who was brutally raped and later died in the hospital. Miss Vera Uwaila Omozuwa was a 100-level student of the University of Benin from the Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Life Sciences. “The 22-year-old victim was said to have been raped on Friday May 29th at her church, the Redeemed Christian Church of God, RCCG in Ikpoba Hill, Benin City, Edo State. “It was gathered that the deceased had gone to church to read as usual in preparation for the ease of the lockdown before resumption of school. The perpetrator was said to have attacked her, raped and smashed her head with a fire extinguisher leaving her to die. “Miss Vera was rushed to the University of Benin Teaching Hospital (UBTH) where she battled for her life at the intensive Care Unit (ICU). She, however, gave up the ghost on Saturday May 30th at midnight following excessive loss of blood and deep cuts sustained from the attack. “As the mother of Niger Delta Students, on behalf of the Leadership of the union and the student community, I wish to extend my condolences to the family of the deceased. “And also crave the indulgence of the Students’ Union Government in the University of Benin and the School Management to implore better means of reducing and curtailing these violent occurrences against the girl child and students in general. “We also want to appeal to the conscience of our youths to abstain from any form of aggression against their fellow youths especially the tender females. I hope that the perpetrators will be brought to book. “We demand justice for this innocent girl and hope that the perpetrator will be brought to book. I call on the State government and all security outfit to swiftly investigate this issue and bring to book the perpetrator of this wicked act”.