Edo All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship aspirant Pastor Osagie Ize Iyamu, has denied reports he has exited the race. A statement by his media aide, John Mayaki, said: “We want to clarify to members of the public that the laughable report claiming that Pastor Osagie Ize Iyamu has dropped out of the APC governorship race and demanded a refund is completely false. “It is a deliberate falsehood created and circulated by those who are afraid to confront him at the polls and are thus seeking ways to cause confusion and mislead the people. “Pastor Osagie Ize Iyamu enjoys swelling support from party members across the 18 LGAs of the state. Therefore, he has no reason to quit the race.” He added:  “We urge members of the public to disregard information from questionable sources operated by individuals with no credibility especially as it pertains to the aspiration of Pastor Osagie Ize Iyamu. “The people responsible for the mendacious claims are associates of the incumbent governor who has chosen to invite the courts into what ought to be a democratic process, instead of a making a case for his election to the members of the party. “That, in itself, should tell the people who is considering quitting the race. Pastor Osagie Ize Iyamu anticipates the June 22 direct primary and is focused on continuing talks with members of the party.” He also dismissed the report of a court decision directing Anselm Ojezua, the sacked Edo APC Chairman, who heads the Obaseki/Shaibu Support Movement, to continue in his former position. Mayaki said: “Those claiming that a fictitious court order has reinstated the sacked Anselm Ojezua have only succeeded in admitting a truth they have long denied: that Anselm Ojezua has no position in Edo APC today, and the authentic leader of the party in the state in Colonel David Imuse (rtd.). “How can a case that was never filed, never heard and without participation by lawyers be said to have been ruled on? “The simple way to dismiss this falsehood is to ask those peddling the news to provide basic details such as case file number, legal representatives, and Presiding judge. “It is now clear that Governor Obaseki and his media propagandists have no achievements to show or campaign with. “They are now running a 24/7 fake news mill aimed at misleading people. It is such a shame that with almost four years at the helm, this is all Obaseki has to show for it.”   