 Famous actor, Chinedu Ikedieze aka Aki, in a recent interview, revealed that he will remain grateful to ex-President Goodluck Jonathan for honouring him with a Member of the Order of the Federal Republic (MFR). Aki expressed that the national honour which was conferred on him in 2011 will be the greatest surprise he got in his life and career till date. Narrating how it all happened, he said “It was Aunty Peace Anyiam-Anyiam-Osigwe, the Chief Executive of the AFRICA MOVIE ACADEMY AWARDS (AMAA) who called me that time, sometime in 2010 and told me that I should send my profile and other materials. There was a time she mentioned about the national award but my brother, that was the least thing I expected to consume. At that time I was like how much are my going to be getting from them to my little understanding then. I didn’t pay much attention to it but I submitted the information she required. About some months later, somebody called me that I should go and check one of the national dailies that my name was shortlisted for the national award honors, and I was like how, to be honest I had forgotten that I submitted my credentials.  I ran quickly to go and get myself a copy of the paper and opened the page and I saw my name, I was no 144 on the category of member of the federal republic, I couldn’t believe it. I will be forever grateful to Goodluck Ebele Jonathan for remembering us for the little things that we do, that we were able to change the narrative in the entertainment industry, it was bigger than I could chew. I am so grateful and remain forever grateful for his gesture.” Recounting when he knew he had hit fame, the thespian and entrepreneur said it was when he made his first million in early 2003, “I couldn’t believe it, I knew that wow this happened, I am sorry I have to be honest I said okay so I have been doing something,” said Aki. In 2007, Ikedieze received the Lifetime Achievement Award at the African Movie Academy Awards and in 2011, he was awarded the MFR for his immense contributions to Nollywood and to the economic growth of the country.