The Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) has commiserated with the family of the immediate past Governor of Oyo State, Abiola Ajimobi, who died on Thursday. NGF’s Chairman, Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State, in a condolence message he issued on behalf of his group, said members had hoped Ajimobi would recover from the lung surgery he recently had. Fayemi said: “It is important to note here that I have personally followed developments since news of his lung surgery broke and when he showed signs of recovery, I was happy. “However, our hopes sank a bit once it was said that he had slipped into a coma, but we prayed and continued to hope that he got out of coma and recovered. “But man proposes and God, the infinite arbiter, disposes. Inna Lillahi wa Inna Illaihir Raji’un. “I, Dr John Kayode Fayemi, wish, on behalf of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum, the umbrella body for all the 36 Governors and their peoples at the sub-national level, to offer our deepest condolences to the family of our Late colleague and father Abiola Ajimobi. “The late Abiola Ajimobi was not just our colleague as governors, he was also a pillar of support to the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) whose contributions to the Forum’s debates were filled with wisdom besides their depth. “While he was governor of Oyo State, the late Ajimobi was not just one member of the NGF who left indelible impressions in the minds of all members who were fortunate to have served during his time but also provided valuable counsel to the Nigeria Governors’ Forum Secretariat. “With insight and foresight, the late Abiola Ajimobi encouraged the strengthening of ties between governors and served as a counsellor to other governors including my humble self. “For a man of 70, he was not just ebullient but was lively while being fatherly. There was never a dull moment with the late former Governor. “We, at the NGF honour his legacy and mourn his loss along with his family and friends as we pray to Allah (SWT) to grant him Jinnatul Fiddausi and his family the fortitude to bear this great loss,” Fayemi said.