 WHEN I arrived at the Noi Bai International Airport in Hanoi, Vietnam, on April 11, 2019, one thought dominated my mind: How far along the path to recovery has the country come after at least two decades of civil war (1955-1975), which eventually involved its immediate neighbours and, more importantly, the United States, China, and the old Soviet Union? This thought became dominant because of the devastating effects of the war on lives and property. Over 2 million Vietnamese were killed in the war; 3 million were wounded; and 22 million became refugees. The war also demolished the country’s infrastructure and economy. I could not but ask myself how such a country could recover from such a ruinous war, which lasted nearly seven times as long as the Nigerian civil war (1967-1970) and inflicted much less damage? It took only a few hours to realise the high quality of governance at every level and how disciplined a society Vietnam is. A tour of the country showed how much national improvement had resulted from these traits. To be sure, there are motor vehicles of different shapes and sizes, motorcycles (okada) are still the predominant mode of personal transportation. They dominate the streets, even in the biggest cities, such as Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City. Yet, in nearly two weeks spent in both cities, not a single accident was reported. What is most encouraging about Vietnam is the people’s entrepreneurial spirit, which mirrors the government’s enterprising adventures. After the war, the government embarked early on egalitarian land distribution and equitable economic policies aimed at improving living standards and reducing inequality. And the people seized the opportunity and worked the land. Once a poor country, the relative poverty rate in Vietnam quickly became less than that of China, India, and the Philippines. Today, Vietnam is a middle-level country. For quite some time, agriculture was the mainstay of the economy. Today, Vietnam is the world’s largest producer of cashew nuts; the largest producer of black pepper; and the second largest rice exporter in the world. However, the country has since moved beyond agriculture. Today, light manufacturing, information technology, and high-tech industries are a large and fast-growing part of the national economy due to huge investments in science and technology in recent years. Against the above backgrounds, I was curious to know how Vietnam has been coping with the coronavirus pandemic, especially given its shared border and trade ties with China. The findings show a country that is proactive, plans well, executes its plans, has the trust of the citizens, and strives to be self-sustained in its COVID-19 containment and treatment strategies. As of June 15, 2020, the total confirmed cases in Vietnam is 334 out of which 303 have been treated and discharged. Not a single death has been recorded. Yet, Vietnam is a country of about 95 million people. How did this happen? There are several major factors. First, Vietnamese authorities were aware of the pandemic very early and started planning before they even had their index case on January 23, 2020. Second, after monitoring the situation in China for a few days after the index case, Chinese tourists were quickly banned from entering Vietnam and all foreign nationals were later banned from entering the country. Strict quarantine and testing measures were put in place for returning nationals. Third, drastic and people-centric strategies were developed and strict quarantine measures were enforced, especially in communities with even a single reported case.  Each local administration meticulously traced every single person who may have been infected with the virus and quarantined entire streets as well as villages even over a single case. At the same time, hospital capacity was beefed up to cope with possible cases. Bed spaces, health workers, and Personal Protective Equipment were meticulously monitored to prevent overflow or shortages. Fourth, the authorities effectively mobilized the strength and the participation of both the government and the citizenry in making COVID-19 prevention a priority. Wearing face masks, washing hands with soap or sanitizer frequently, maintaining physical distancing, and avoiding large gatherings quickly became the new normal. Both the government and the people did not mind sacrificing immediate economic benefits to protect people’s health and lives. Fifth, rather than rely on China for medical supplies and testing kits, the Vietnamese authorities turned to their scientists and factories as early as January. Testing kits were developed by Military Medical University and Viet A Company. The Ministry of Science and Technology funded the projects and the kits were licensed by the Ministry of Health. They also produced their own PPEs The COVID-19 testing kits they produced provide result within an hour with a 90 percent accuracy. The testing kits use the Real-Time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method, and have passed European Standards. They also have been recognized by the Emergency Use Listing procedure of the World Health Organization. The testing kits, which are said to be adaptable with multiple types of testing equipment, went into mass production in March. The kits are exclusively ordered by a distribution partner and are now being used in many countries, including the UK, the US, India, and Mexico. Over 20 countries and territories are said to be negotiating for the purchase of the testing kits from Vietnam. What is particularly significant about the Vietnamese approach is the early decision to decentralise the containment and treatment efforts. Local communities have been in the forefront of the fight against COVID-19 in Vietnam, quickly identifying infected persons, tracing, tracking, and treating them, where necessary. The high degree of compliance with appropriate mitigation measures also played a major role in Vietnam’s success. It is most unfortunate that Nigerians still have to be educated about how deadly COVID-19 is when the number of Nigerians killed so far by the virus far exceeds the total number of infections in Vietnam. With infections rising and killing more and more people, it is high time to mount widespread public education to reduce the level in public ignorance and increase compliance with mitigation measures. Without a doubt, the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 has preached the necessary sermons. The situation is now beyond sermonisation. It is now time for real grassroots education at the community level.   