 A firm, Platform Capital, has renovated and handed over three ultra-modern lecture halls to the Executive MBA programme of the University of Lagos Business School (ULBS). The firm’s Chairman, Dr. Akintoye Akindele, also pledged a $10,000 prize to the best graduating student of the Executive MBA programme; automatic employment at Platform Capital and its portfolio companies for the top as well as graduating students; and internships for students of the programme yearly. The ULBS building was renovated, and lecture halls were fitted with state-of-the art technology including interactive white boards, sound systems and furniture needed for digital learning. In his remarks at the unveiling of the facility last Thursday, Akindele said Platform Capital would do more for the business school. “The launch of the world class lecture halls in the University of Lagos (UNILAG), was just phase 1 for the University of Lagos. We are going to complete the entire building before the end of the year, install a full end-to-end fibre data link to complement the state-of-the-art telecommunications and infrastructure. With that in place, from these lecture halls, we can run programmes from Harvard to Silicon Valley Business School to ISM Paris and many more business schools online and real time for our best and brightest on the continent. If we educate and expose one mind who goes, innovates and solves a problem, imagine the compound effect of that on Africa,” he said. The donation was a response to the UNILAG Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe’s call for support to improve the institution’s business/entrepreneurship education service delivery through provision of requisite learning facilities technology and content partnership. Praising Platform Capital, Prof. Ogundipe said the facility would promote e-learning real time. “This is a unique facility given to the university by Platform Capital and we are grateful to have received a facility like this which will enable students to have online lectures real-time. This will not only increase our ranking but will also increase our visibility as a university that is e-learning compliant,” he said. Also speaking, Executive Director, University of Lagos Business School (ULBS), Prof. Abraham Osinubi, said the facilities would help the institution achieve its goals. “The goal of the University of Lagos Business School is to create a business synergy in education, leadership and management in a world-class setting and we thank Dr. Akindele of Platform Capital for providing us with the facilities which we need to effectively implement our goals.” Other principal officers of the university and executives of the firm attended the unveiling.