There are numerous pros to trading Forex, but when entering the Forex Market, traders, especially beginners, need to ensure that they acknowledge and understand the cons as well. Forex Trading involves significant risks, and one of these substantial risks involves falling prey to scams and fraudulent Forex brokers as the trader’s identity, sensitive information, capital, and other funds may be accessed and compromised in this way. There is constant development in improving technology and this is often abused by individuals with malicious intent who target vulnerable individuals who may not have prior knowledge on what to look for to identify scams and fraudulent situations and brokers. Forex trading in itself is not fraudulent or a scam, but there are, however, malicious individuals who seek to lure in unknowing traders by appearing to be legitimate brokers. It is imperative for traders to ensure that they are adequately able to identify when a broker is merely a scam, and sometimes this may be harder than it appears, but when having a thorough look at legit brokers, the differences can become quite apparent. Some of the Forex Trading scams that traders need to beware of, include, but is by no means limited to: These are but a few examples in a long list that traders will need to familiarize themselves with so that they can identify a scam before investing capital with a broker, or any other entity that claims to be legitimate. When comparing brokers, before choosing a broker to facilitate trading activities, this is the first and most imperative factor to consider as regulation and authorization ensures the security of clients funds. Traders need to thoroughly investigate the broker’s claim to be regulated and authorized by visiting the website of the regulatory entity and verifying the licence/regulation number that the broker provides. Traders also need to ensure that it is a well-known, reputable regulatory entity and although there are many, some of the most common include FCA, ASIC, FSCA, CySEC, and several others. Although there are reliable, reputable brokers who are not regulated, traders are advised against using their services as the lack of regulation can still pose a risk to the security of client funds should the broker be unable to meet financial obligations. Before choosing a Forex Broker, traders need to review lists that contain the names of brokers who have been verified as scam brokers. These lists are frequently and consistently updated to protect traders from falling prey to them. Some of the Forex Brokers who have been verified as scam brokers include, but is not limited to: The common saying that ‘if it is too good to be true, it probably is not’ is one that sheds substantial light on this step in avoiding Forex trading scams and it pertains to the offers that scam brokers provide to lure in unknowing traders. Should a broker advertise accounts, or any other products and services that guarantee large profits, it may indicate that the broker is a scam as there is no fail-safe way which guarantees profits in Forex trading. Scam brokers also offer their services, products, and trading conditions at exuberant prices where an entry-level account has a minimum deposit which would be equal to what an institutional broker would not even charge for premium accounts. When viewing the broker’s website, traders need to look at the following factors: Should there be information on customer support, traders need to verify this by contacting the broker through the different avenues provided to verify promptness and relevance of information and feedback. It is extremely easy for scam brokers to claim that they are award-winning and to cite a substantial list of rewards that may not exist but may look attractive to the untrained eye as traders are likely to trust an award-winning broker. Should there be information on awards provided by a broker, traders need to verify the authenticity of such rewards cited on the broker’s website. This is one of the fastest ways to identify whether a broker is legitimate, or scam without having to conduct tedious and time-consuming research, but traders are advised to conduct their own research nonetheless to verify information provided by review sites. There are numerous review sites that offer comprehensive information pertaining to Forex brokers along with customer review sites that provide a platform for customers to provide their experience with a certain broker. When the trade has conducted their own research and investigation into a particular broker, they can verify their findings by making use of such reviews to substantiate their own findings. When viewing a Forex broker holistically, traders should get a general idea of the broker merely by exploring the broker’s website and its trading conditions. Generally, when getting a feeling of unease, or having doubts towards the broker’s legitimacy, this generates an immediate and intuitive feeling of distrust. It may be a bit more challenging for beginner traders to develop a proverbial sixth sense towards identifying scam brokers as opposed to more advanced traders who know what to look for in identifying a legit broker from a scam broker. Despite this, traders are advised to conduct thorough research to substantiate such intuitive feelings by gathering the facts. Even in an age where technology is constantly being developed to protect internet users from individuals with malicious intent, there are still numerous scam brokers who take advantage of the advancement in technology to lure in unknowing victims. Learn more about Forex Trading for Beginners here. Traders will need to familiarize themselves with the characteristics of legitimate brokers so that they can more easily identify a scam broker in addition to using resources to validate brokers before choosing to invest with them or trade through them.