Let us take a ride and where else can we start than the beginning. Yes, from Sira and Kaodini: They had known each other since childhood. They played together, smiled together, cried together and together they pitied people who assumed that they were lovers. Sira, a lawyer, moved to Lagos and became a partner in a law firm. Kaodini stayed back in Port Harcourt and rebuilt his life by starting a farm after his father’s wealth went dry like a cursed river. Each of them had relationships at different points but with time it occurred to them that they should be together, but there was a snag: One was in Lagos; the other in Port Harcourt. Kaodini offered to relocate to Lagos, where Sira had a thriving career. She kicked against him abandoning his farm, his dream. He eventually found someone to run the farm and the countdown to his relocating to Lagos to join Sira began, but what she heard from his mother shortly before he was to join her was: “Sira. My baby, our baby. He is dead.” Let us leave Sira and Kaodini. Join me on a ride around a city battling the side effects of soot, where your shirts, shoes, televisions and other property are ever at the mercy of smokes from kpo-fire, the illegal petrol refiners. All Godson, a resident of this city’s waterside settlement, wanted was a job to support himself and his mother. Corporal Enenche, on the other hand, was looking forward to quitting the police and joining a private firm. He had three weeks to go. On one of his last assignments, he and his team led by Shehu, who was always pronouncing ‘pay’ as ‘fay’, arrested Godson and minutes after arresting him, he fitted into the description of an armed robber who struck earlier in the day. Before giving him jungle justice, Shehu stole his phone on the excuse that he had gay porn on it only to end up later that night masturbating to the porn. Enenche made away with his white sneakers. But where will the one who stole the king’s trumpet play it? Please let me take you on a journey into the life of a man who knew he was dying and chose to witness his own funeral service dressed in designer wears, sunglasses and matching shoes. He wanted his estranged wife at the service but she ignored him and only came after he had been cremated. She had wished to spit on his grave for all the domestic violence she experienced while married to him and the sexually transmitted diseases he gave her. But he had no grave because he was cremated. Let us take a breather so that you can understand the essence of these rides. Sira, Kaodini, Enenche, Shehu and Godson are all creations of Chimeka Garricks, a two-time published author and lawyer. His new book, ‘A Broken People’s Playlist’, is a collection of short stories inspired by music and the titles of each of the twelve stories are the songs which inspired them.  It is written in English that is unapologetically Nigerian. Do not have a heart attack if you see words such as ‘ajebuttered’. Garricks was only exercising his poetic licence. The use of first-person, second-person and third-person narrative techniques makes room for varieties. ‘A Broken People’s Playlist’ will make you laugh; it may make you cry; it will get you angry at our nation for the extra-judicial killings, the literal and metaphorical darkness, the corruption, and other ills. It boasts of many unforgettable characters, whose flaws would have made us slap and almost beat to coma if only we could meet them; its prose has the power to make you savour it like palm wine fresh from the tree; and pacing and focus do not suffer from unnecessary swerving in this smooth-singing, hard-hitting collection. One of the stories ’In The City’, a crime thriller with puzzles you have to piece together, can get heart racing and wonder: What are they going to do to him? It is a story rendered in moving language. Some of the stories are linked. Two of such are titled ‘I Put a Curse on You’ and ‘I’d Die Without You’. Dr. Tonse features in both tales. The narrator in ‘Music’ also features in another story where he was drunk-calling his ex-wife. ‘Love is Divine’ also has a link with ‘Hurt’. Garricks’ dexterous management of suspense makes it practically impossible for a reader to guess right. There are good twists to the tales.  I like Garricks’ sentencing; he was unpretentious. Sample: “We tore at each other’s clothes, but gave up mid-way and merged, half-dressed on your living-room wall. As your face headed down between my legs, as always, we paused for a moment and chuckled, because we remembered— the first time you ate me, my first time ever, I farted uncontrollably through a long orgasm, and you rolled off and laughed till I joined in. Thursday was kisses, bites, sweat, thrusts and screams— a frenzied mauling because there was no tomorrow.” The stories also have the right dosage of humour that will keep you turning the pages. The collection shows that literature is a reflection of society. The major themes include domestic violence, extra-judicial killings, extra-marital affairs, love, hatred and family. There is a recurring motif of searching for meaning and redemption in this laudable collection. The black soot challenge in Port Harcourt also features very well. Garricks’ handling of his characters guarantees us a damn good collection that will be remembered long after closing page 252. Dami, a very good bad guy, is, for instance, just difficult to forget. Prof. and some other flawed characters are likely to be with an average reader for a long time. Coincidentally, ‘A Broken People’s Playlist’ has a vital message, which the world has been echoing in the last few days through protests in major capitals of the world: Black Lives Matter. This sentence appears on page 191. It is the inscription on a character’s T-shirt. Since a Minneapolis policeman ignored George Floyd several ‘I can’t breathe’ chants and killed him, the need for racism to be strangulated has come back to the front burner. Garricks’ first novel ‘Tomorrow died Yesterday’ remains a talking point about a decade after it was published and is bound to be so long after Garricks’ time on earth. After reading ‘A Broken People’s Playlist’, all I can say is: Mr Garricks has done it again. He gave us a brilliant novel in ‘Tomorrow died Yesterday’ and has repeated the feat with this collection of short stories. One last message for Garricks, an unapologetic Port Harcourt boy: If music is your source of inspiration, play on so that ‘Tomorrow Died Yesterday’ will get a younger sibling in the form of another full-length novel.