  THE Interim Management Committee of the NDDC has alleged that the NASS is prosecuting it because it refused to pay some lawmakers for fake contracts. Do you think this is the case? The reason for the probe of the IMC by the National Assembly on the surface can be attributed to an oversight function which is constitutional. But beyond the veil and just as the IMC has alleged, it is suspicious particularly when there is an ongoing probe of a 19-year period, since the creation of NDDC and suddenly, the Lawmakers in the National Assembly want to commence a probe. What is the rush in doing that? Which is more important now, the probe of a 19-year period or that of a 6-month period? I am surprised that these Lawmakers have given prominence to their own probe above that which the President has ordered. It’s not enough to hear from our Lawmakers, we must also hear out the Interim Management Committee of the NDDC, and the supervising Minister. Incidentally, the Minister and one member of the IMC are also members of the Senate and the House, respectively. If the IMC says they are being witch-hunted for not approving some suspicious and fraudulent payments for some Lawmakers, then, it is a serious matter and must be investigated. Who else can do that, if not the Forensic Auditors? It’s obvious that some persons want the Forensic Audit in principle but they do not want it in practice. I have been privileged to see some of the documents purportedly showing that there are demands for contracts not executed. The money is too huge to be ignored. Am surprised that the Niger Delta people and in fact, Nigerians are not lending their voices. It is clear that politics has blinded our ability to speak up against this deliberate rape of the economy through the NDDC. When a child is crying and pointing his finger at a particular direction, it’s either his mother or father is there or in most cases, a scary masquerade is in that place. In this case, the IMC has spotted a scary masquerade and that needs to be checked out. The IMC has been accused of flouting the Procurement Act under the watch of the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, what is your take on that. We are in a pandemic and the law is very clear that at such times, the Commission with the approval of the Minister can award certain contracts for intervention, that may not have any budgetary provision and them later on, send the details for the President to approve. The problem is that people are not reading nor doing some research. First what does the Constitution say about such situations? Permit me to put it out here; Public Procurement Act 2007 No.14. 42—(1) A procuring entity may carry out any emergency procurement where; (a) goods, works or services are only available from a particular supplier or contractor, or if a particular supplier or contractor has exclusive rights in respect of the goods, works or services and no reasonable alternative or substitute exits. (b) there is an urgent need for the goods , works or services and engaging in tender proceedings or any other method of procurement is impractical due to unforeseen circumstances giving rise to the urgency which is not the result of dilatory conduct on the part of the procuring entity;(c) owing to a catastrophic event, there is an urgent need for the goods, works or services making it impractical to use other methods of procurement because of the time involved in using these methods. Now read further: 43—(1) A procuring entity may for the purpose of this Act, carry out an emergency procurement where; (a) the country is either seriously threatened by or actually confronted with a disaster, catastrophe, war, insurrection or Act of God. And finally, this: 43—(2). In an emergency situation, a procuring entity may engage in direct contracting of goods, works and services. So where has The IMC gone wrong? It’s a simple case of giving a dog a bad name in other to hang it. How has your group, the Citizens Quest for Truth Initiative been fighting the sleaze in NDDC? We are not a crime fighting group. Rather we are registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission as a Leadership group. We identify good leadership, encourage them and also train citizens to follow in that direction. And where there is bad leadership, we also identify them and speak up. We started our advocacy with the NDDC few months before we became officially registered. It is on record that amongst all the groups which have pervaded the media space, we are the only NGO that has transverse the nooks and crannies of the 9 States of the NDDC, verifying the state of projects executed, interviewing citizens and putting out our findings in the media space. Although, as the case is in our country, it was difficult for us to access information on how much the Commission at that time received vis-à-vis projects executed. But to a large extent, we were able to ascertain that NDDC was functional in very many communities albeit with several abandoned and substandard projects. But things are better today, because we have a responsive team that waits no time in granting us access to information on the activities of the NDDC. As a matter of fact, Citizens Quest For Truth Initiative is built on the foundation of search for the truth. We don’t believe in handouts rather, we try to verify and ascertain the veracity of the claims, allegations and counter allegations. Ours is to put out our findings, lend our voice and let the authorities responsible rise up to the occasion. The call for the scrapping of the NDDC is gathering momentum, do you subscribe to this? I have not heard much about the call for a scrapping of the NDDC, but assuming without conceding that it is true, then, it validates the President’s order for a Forensic Audit. Before winding down the Commission and coming up with something new, we must find out where we made mistakes with a view at finding the solution before we can move forward. NDDC is a child of a necessity and you can’t throw away the baby with the bath water. Do you think that the present funding structure for the NDDC is hampering its performance, especially with the difficulty in getting its budget passed by the NASS? The issue of no budget or low performance of the budget only began with the 2016 Budget. The question is, what has happened from 2001 to 2015? And in any case, why would anyone or group of people choose to frustrate the Budget of an interventionist agency like the NDDC? The hidden but hard truth is that budgets are usually influenced by individuals who have the power over its funding and implementation. As long as it has to do with Contracts, it must be either facilitated or hampered, drowning on those involved. Just as the President recently changed the laws and granted autonomy to the State Assemblies and the Judiciary, except something similar is done for such intervention agancies, it will be difficult to achieve maximum results in the implementation of the NDDC master plan. Unfortunately, it seems that nobody is interested in the development of the region. Those who should ensure that the region that sustains the national economy are being fingered in the violation of the region. For instance, the IMC through the Managing Director and the Executive Director, Projects have laid bare the truth on the violent looting of monies meant for meaningful development. Need I repeat same here? Sadly, no one cares. The Niger Delta youths have lost focus as many of them are given the crumbs from the loot, so they are satisfied rather than demand to know the identities of those who have held the region hostage. The 2019 budget was passed only few weeks ago and it has elapsed. Surprisingly, the same Lawmakers who frustrated it’s passage and implantations are now asking for details of the performance of the same budget. Where does that happen? The sad reality is that the Lawmakers responsible can probe the actions of others under what they refer to as oversight function, but who will probe the Lawmakers for the deliberate delay of the passage of the budget? They have become untouchables. In the end, it will only mean that under the Change Government of President Buhari and the APC, no meaningful project was executed. There are no presidential legacy Projects after five years of Buhari on the saddle. Who is responsible for this mess and who gets punished? Do you think the forensic audit will expose the big names behind the fraud in NDDC, or will it end up as previous investigations in Nigeria? If the President is determined without being cowed by the same actors who plundered the region, then we should be prepared to be shocked by the big names behind the sleaze over the years. The Forensic Audit will definitely open up a can of worms. We are already reading some of the preliminary findings and the names are not strange. Have you ever wondered why a particular state has produced the Chairman of the Senate Committee on NDDC for 20 years now? Do you think it is ordinary and do you expect that those involved in this organized scheme will fold their hands and watch anybody expose them? They have too much money to fight back and this is a typical example of “we are fighting corruption and corruption is fighting back.” We are seeing that already. They have what it takes to mobilize more stakeholders to join them in the fight against Akpabio and the IMC. The truth is that the fight is against the President who ordered for the Audit. The Buhari I know will not backtrack on this Forensic Audit, no matter the blackmail by some people who are the big names behind the sleaze. Apart from the NDDC, which other ways do you think the government can address the challenges of the Niger Delta region? Very simple in principle but difficult in practice because of the importance of this region to the nation’s economy, it must be treated on the exclusive list where the President can override the National Assembly to engage in massive development. The bottlenecks experienced in the passage of the budget can be overcome if the Commission is treated like the NEMA. The Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs should not only be seen as a supervisory body but must be empowered to influence decisions taken by the Board and Management of the Commission. It does not matter who the Minister is. Again, the Act establishing the Commission has to be amended considering that the initial master plan is supposed to end this year, 2020. We have to go back to the drawing board and find out the way forward and that’s why the Forensic Audit is necessary. It’s not just to expose those who plundered the resources but to find a way to close the loopholes. The President can declare a state of emergency in the region and ensure that those who have hampered development in the region are not allowed access anymore. The multinational companies in Oil and Gas can go into partnership with the Ministry to engage in more quality projects like the LNLNG is doing with Federal Government to construct the 39-km  Bonny – Bodo Road with two mini bridges, cross culverts. Hospitals, Universities, dual carriage Roads and Bridges, Housing schemes can be built under a direct partnership with the Federal Government through the Ministry of the Niger Delta Affairs, instead of paying monies to the Central Bank which ends up in the pockets of a few professional hawks. The Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs, has been dismissed as inefficient and irrelevant to the Niger Delta region, do you agree. Those who allege are not well informed. The Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs has a signature project known as the East-West road which falls the critical projects to be handled by the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority, managers of the Sovereign Wealth Fund now known as the Presidential Infrastructural Development Fund, PIDF. The Ministry is merely a supervising body. Those dismissing the Ministry are not even aware that the NSIA has refused to complete the East-West road, from the point where President Jonathan left it in 2015. My group has written them, no response. We took our advocacy to the Minister for Niger Delta Affairs and we have visited the Contractors handling the project. Without wanting to take too much of your time, I will oblige you to give me space again to speak on our findings concerning the deliberate marginalization and underdevelopment of the region by agents of some politicians. It’s a full discourse on its own. Some of the people who opposed to the forensic audit insist that the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, The last time I checked, Akpabio didn’t initiate the idea of a Forensic Audit. It was the Governors. The President merely accented to it and asked Akpabio as the supervising Minister to handle. So how can anybody twist the truth, accusing Akpabio? Until we stop playing politics with development, we will remain in the dark while the rest of the world is moving on. Others allege that he is one of the beneficiaries of the sleaze that bedevilled the Commission and therefore lacks the moral strength to champion the audit. If Akpabio was a beneficiary of the sleaze, we will find out. Do you think that any reputable Forensic Auditor will trade their hard earned reputation for a cover up for a Minister? The more reason the Audit should be carried out. Akpabio ought to be the one frustrating the Audit if the allegation is true. Those who allege should submit the evidence. It is not enough to throw tar at people without substantial evidence. The issues I mentioned about those in power who have hijacked jobs to themselves, got paid without executing them, I have the evidence. 