 THE Rivers State government is set to construct a fourth flyover at the GRA Junction in Port Harcourt, the capital city. It will also expand the Rumuola flyover to create more lanes. These will complement Rebisi, Rumuogba and Okoro-nu-Odo flyover projects, which have reached advanced stages of completion. Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike stated this while addressing reporters during an inspection tour of projects being executed by Julius Berger Nigeria Plc in Port Harcourt and Obio/Akpor Local Government Areas. Accompanied by the Managing Director of Julius Berger, Dr Lars Richter, the governor also reviewed his administration’s urban renewal programme at both the Old and New Government Reservation Areas. Noting that work would soon be completed in most of the ongoing projects, he promised to dualise Mummy B Road to Stadium Road to ease traffic flow. He stated that his decision to embark on projects even at a time the government is fighting COVID-19 is because the people would need the infrastructure after the pandemic. Wike debunked the claim that only Julius Berger is executing projects in the state. He said Lubrik Construction Company Limited, Wellman and Wellington Construction Company Limited, VKF Construction Company and Roadmap Construction Company were among indigenous firms handling the state’s projects. The governor expressed satisfaction with the level of work done at the various projects sites and said the projects would be delivered on schedule. He said that his administration would invest in building standard hospitals to discourage medical tourism. Richter assured the state that Julius Berger would deliver the three flyover projects on schedule. He praised the governor for his management of COVID-19, which also impacted positively on the level of work done by his company. Other projects inspected include the new Government House Clinic/Administrative Building, dualisation of Olumeni Street in Old GRA, dualisation of Tombia, Emeyal, Elelenwo Streets in New GRA, the judges quarters and the Mother and Child Hospital.