But for the Zamfara State precedence, the allegation that some northern traditional rulers collude with bandits to sack and kill their own people, could have sounded so sensational, its credibility very doubtful.  Even then, the Federal Government should name this alleged Katsina brood of vipers. Throwing allegations in the air is not good enough. Presidential spokesman, Garba Shehu, had alleged in a television interview that some Katsina royals were aiding and abetting banditry, to make an economic kill from it; just as their earlier Zamfara cousins, most of who are now mercifully relieved of their high duties. “It is not that we are making direct accusations on anyone,” the presidential aide had said, “but it is also true that even in the president’s native state of Katsina, some traditional rulers have been found complicit in collaborating with the bandits to harm their people.” That was a grievous charge. But it was even more shocking that Mallam Shehu would make an almost categorical statement — “some traditional rulers have been found complicit in collaborating with bandits …” — yet started the sentence with an almost sorry apologia: “It is not that we are making direct accusation on anyone …”  That is a lexical dissonance that leaves a bitter taste in the mouth, and puts the government in very bad light. If there are indeed such rogue traditional rulers, what the traumatised people over there (and indeed the rest of the country) want is the announcement of definite arrests, prosecution, trial and conviction, with deposition and prison climaxing the process. That is the glorious path to name, shame and punish, to re-earn the confidence of the long-suffering people, traumatised for much too long by these bandits, plebeian or royal. Yet, that is not to claim Mallam Shehu’s allegations were a mere red-herring. If anything, Zamfara proved such practices were quite widespread, if there was a strong economic pull and reasonably strong chances to escape justice. Even then, Zamfara is today a credible reference point — even to support allegation that such shameful royal misconduct could be rife — only because nine traditional rulers (including one Emir) had been deposed, under two different administrations in the state. Those depositions took place over a nine-year period, by former Governor Abdul’aziz Yari and sitting Governor, Bello Matawalle. Aside from the illegal mining of gold, which was the main economic driver of banditry in Zamfara, that many traditional rulers were involved showed an extended bloody racket, in otherwise high places. That could also be the story in Katsina, though the economic driver is unclear yet. Nevertheless, it is trite that the Boko Haram terrorism in the North East may have put too many small arms in wrong hands. These arms spur criminality — armed robbery and kidnapping in the urban centres; cattle rustling, village-sacking, killings and maiming in the far-flung remote areas, where state security presence is thin. In such areas, it is the village heads and other grades of traditional rulers that form a thriving intelligence channel, which antennae feel out crime at its earliest conception, and alert the security authorities for prompt action. Imagine having a rogue village head as part of that network! That is the grim danger in having a compromised, crime-abetting ruler in those far-flung areas — which is why the security agencies should round up those compromised rulers, while they put in place better inter-service strategies, to batter and maul these marauders.  Their victims, that long-suffering population in remote rural areas, have a right to security. But as the harsh glare focuses on erring royals, the government must be careful not to surrender its basic security duty to traditional rulers, straight or rogue. That a state’s most basic duty is to secure its citizens is trite. The government, as the state’s prime agency cannot — and must not — fail in this sacred and onerous duty. Still, beyond the security challenges, Katsina appears the latest manifestation of the institutional near-collapse in the North. For too long, poverty and lack of equal opportunity have been left to fester.  So, as the government battles insecurity, it should put measures in place to correct chronic social inequalities that crest in criminality and senseless killings.