  The most notable woman in Northern Nigeria was the legendary Queen Amina whose legacies in leadership still stand to her name.  History remembers her role as a world-class leader who achieved fame as both a great warrior and an amazingly  brilliant economic strategist that was able to expand her territorial influence and grow the economy. She was noted for the brilliance she brought to the leadership of her sphere of influence. However, in contrast, today’s Northern woman, both the educated and the illiterate, have been seemingly excluded from leadership. The puerile reference to socio-religious issues  by the male political elite as the reason  why women should only be seen and not heard falls flat on the face of reason when the historical antecedents of a phenomenal leaders like Queen Amina are brought to the fore. Her political and economic exploits as a leader remain to be matched by a good percentage of men that have provided leadership. Today, the Northern Nigerian economy has been on a downward slide. The UN statistics of the poverty level in the North is staggering. The number of out of school children is exacerbated by the millions of  almajirai roaming the streets of most cities in the country and who have again been in the news with the recent spread of the pandemic amongst the very youthful demographic. The Boko-Haram collateral damage victims, the Internally Displaced  People (IDPs) are another economic group wasting away under very dire circumstances in the region. Just recently, the Northern Governors Forum decided to address the issue of the almajiri system in the north. However, while they are making efforts at rehabilitating and probably reintegrating modern system of education into their curriculum, The Round Table conversation decided to take a closer look at the root causes of the almajiri system and how to better take some long lasting steps at reversing a trend of a regional problem that invariably has impacted and would, if not holistically addressed systematically would continue in the long run. Fati Eunice Ibrahim (Dr.), is a politician, a philanthropist, a human rights activist, an entrepreneur, a UN Sustainable Development  Advocate and a member of the New Leadership of the Arewa Consultative Forum. She was a member of the 2014 National Confab representing Kaduna state.  She is an educated woman of both Fulani and Hausa heritage. She had thrice unsuccessfully contested election to represent the Zaria Federal constituency in the House of Representatives in 2003, 2007 and 2011. She laments the fact that just one female from Adamawa state got elected into the senate in the present 9th Assembly . This she sees as the evidence that women from the north seemingly have a shrill voice at the highest law-making arm of government – the National Assembly. Fati Eunice Ibrahim believes that there is an unspoken  ‘voicelessness’ from the women of the north because more often than not, the northern male elite push forth religion and culture as reasons for the state of absolute disempowerment of northern women. The women when given a level-playing field are as productive and as committed to the welfare of the region and country while still maintaining the tenets of any creed and equally the culture. In fact, she believes that the zone is today home to the most number of illiterate men and women, highest number of IDPs, maternal and child mortality, almajiriai, poverty and other forms of social ills because women in the zone have been handed the shortest end of the stick  economically and politically. Having been a delegate to the 2014 National Confab, Fati Eunice Ibrahim believes that even though there are a myriad of problems, it is not too late to look for solutions. In fact, she believes that the confab was a good platform that empowered members to address most issues of national relevance under not less than twenty four committees. She believes that nothing trumps education for all especially women who are the hands that rock the cradle. As a UN Sustainable Development Goals advocate, she knows the realities on ground, has been involved with empowerment and advocacy for human rights and justice and believes that leadership would always be at the top when development is on the table. The fact that women and children are often the most impacted by poverty and other social ills, failure to integrate women into government especially the legislative arm of government has been the reason their voices are seemingly mute while matters that affect them are papered over by male political elite. In her view, the present economic situation in the region can only be addressed by a deliberate paradigm shift in the leadership evolution processes where the best candidate not based on gender gets to be elected to leadership positions especially the legislative arm. At present, the almajirai system is just a symptom of a deeper systemic  malaise. The idea of an unchecked population growth due to the fact that most men marry multiple wives even when they do not have the economic power to cater for the children from such marriages is showing itself with the army of uneducated and  unskilled youths who are just a time bomb almost exploding. As a person that belongs to many continental and global development agencies and and entrepreneur , she feel that there are basic steps that governments either at state or federal levels must take to create viably economies It is a known fact that when you empower a woman you empower a nation because they carry their burden and that  of the children be. Cause they are the burden bearers. It is therefore a good idea to educate women, empower them through the promotion of SMEs and financial empowerment of their entrepreneurial efforts. For those that are involved in the agricultural level, states can encourage them with both subsidized fertilizers and financially supporting their cooperatives. Training for skills acquisition helps both the women and the youths in very economically viable ways. The conversation on The Round Table is about solutions to the myriad of regional and national problems that have pushed the country into the poverty capital of the world with record maternal and child mortality, millions of out of school kids, over population without a requisite productivity levels, malnourished kids that eventually do not fully develop both mentally and physically for optimum productivity and the rise in social ills that keep everyone unsafe. When kidnapping started in the Niger Delta, there was lethargy in decisively handling that because it was seen as ‘Niger Delta’ ptoblem. Today, kidnapping is a national problem that goes from Yenogoa to Zaria, Oshogbo to Enugu etc. The idea of child marriage predominantly happening in the north is a developmental faux pas. When a girl child is married off early, education is stalled and both death or excessive child bearing are possibilities but no resources or education for the children’s optimal development in ways they cease to be burdens to society. China had to take decisive actions to control its population and make sure that education is a priority and today they are a world economic power. The Northern political elite must make deliberate efforts to make the political space all inclusive. The Northern women must be allowed to operate on a level-playing field and those competent and willing ready to use their voice because when a woman raises her voice, it is usually for the good of every citizen. Our dialogue continues… 