 BEFORE the global insecurity fostered by the Covid-19 pandemic, which has redirected people’s work habits, curtailed working hours, and redefined social relations, there was this matter, which needs the attention of the Lagos State government and all good people in the land. It should rank uppermost in their hearts once we tide over the Covid-19 challenge. It has to do with another form of insecurity, which the underutilization of land has been breeding in Lagos with potentially dangerous consequences for all. Across all the 52 local government areas in Lagos, parcels of fallow land dot everywhere, overlooked by government, courted by speculators, and utilized occasionally by some persons with less than noble intentions for the state. Some are bare land begging to be cultivated for food for internal consumption and external trade. Some are subjects of disputes by landowning families who are yet to resolve their internal contradictions. Some are in prime locations, awaiting the right time to sell them at attractive prices. Some are forgotten bequeaths. Some previously hosted properties which have been pulled down for grander projects that remain in the realm of imagination. What is common to them all is that they remain underutilized in a place that has a limited land area of 3, 577 square kilometres with a burgeoning population of 24.5 million people that need to be deployed optimally for accelerated growth. Land should not remain fallow in a state that requires urban regeneration to ensure the environment is fit for human habitation and rejuvenation. To leave these lands fallow will only foster insecurity in several facets of life. When lands are idle, there is a shortage of food production. Where the people cannot feed themselves, they become dependent on external forces with embarrassing consequences to their self-worth; they also squander needed capital for internal development on buying food from external sources. When the lands are idle for a prolonged time, they will eventually fall into wrong hands, thereby causing speculation and corruption in the use of land, and gravely distorting economic projections.  I invite us to look at land as money. When you leave money idle in banks, it is under-traded; it does not work for the owner to its optimal capacity. But when it is put to productive ventures such as manufacturing, farming, or trading, it brings multiple blessings to the land such as boosting employment, stimulating other ancillary businesses, and attracting tax income to the government to address other vital areas of the economy. Overall, it boosts confidence in the economy, raises hope in the citizenry, and contributes to internal security. Land, in this case, should go beyond its definition in the Land Use Act to include all mineral resources in and on it. The control of the mineral resources should not be under the Federal Government but individual states, which will pay appropriate taxes to the former. To restore the much-needed pride of place to lands, it is my view that the state should begin with a mapping of all existing idle lands on local government basis, ascertain their ownership, determine the ends they can best serve, and embark on an aggressive campaign to foster a partnership between organised groups and individuals on rental basis on how to optimally utilize these lands for the common good. I do not canvas state acquisition of the land, but a rental partnership for a fixed tenure in the first instance to put land to identified ends that can enhance the productive capacity of the economy, stimulate social cohesion, and encourage security. It is akin to the government giving a seal of approval to a private deal designed to aid economic prosperity and social stability along well enunciated socio-economic goals by government. When the tenure ends, ownership reverts to the lessors unless a new agreement is drawn. This drive can only complement the accelerated development of Lagos State envisioned by successive administrations. It takes cognizance of the reality that Lagos has a limited land space of just 0.4% of Nigeria’s landmass of 923, 773 sq. km, which needs to be carefully harnessed to meet up with its projected development. To this end, the time may have come to start working towards getting a bill passed that would seek the Total Eradication of Idle Lands in Lagos State, capture the essence of this new partnership, and position Lagos as the path-charting state that its manifest destiny has assigned to it. And that is an assignment to consider once we have a better grasp of the challenge of this Covid-19 pandemic. 