Ahead of the planned reopening of schools, Oyo State Government on Monday commenced training for teachers from all Local Government Universal Basic Education Authorities. The government had asked terminal classes including Primary Six, Junior Secondary School Three (JSS3) and Senior Secondary School Three (SSS3) students to resume on June 29. The training according to the government is to help and prepare the teachers on the basic procedures for handling COVID-19 in schools. The Executive Chairman, Oyo State Universal Basic Education Board, Dr Nureni Adeniran said the training on ‘Reopening of Schools’ is part of the State Government’s pre-opening mandate. He added that the training is targeted at getting participants prepared ahead of any possible identification of coronavirus case, with a view to ensure that teachers and pupils remain safe while in schools. He said, “The workshop is expected to equip participants with necessary knowledge on Covid-19 and how to manage it during these trying times among pupils. Let me add that the workshop has representation from each zone in the State and is aimed at ensuring the safety of children and teachers in the State. “Asking only Pry 6 pupils to return to school is strategic. Each school is spacious enough to contain all Primary 6 pupils in the State. So, there is actually no cause for alarm”. He also added that OyoSUBEB would look into constituting an Advisory Board to complement the efforts of the State Government on combating Covid-19, while every school has been mandated to adhere to all precautionary measures during this period. Dr. Adeniran said that with the threat of coronavirus pandemic and the need for pupils to return to schools, it was imperative for the State Government to train teachers who would be in regular touch with the pupils on how to interact, while they also ensure their safety. “To contain the spread of the disease in schools, Oyo State Government under the leadership of Governor Seyi Makinde has deployed trainers who would train teachers. These trained teachers would in turn train their colleagues on precautionary measures and how to manage each pupil after the long stay at home. “The Oyo State Universal Basic Education Board has distributed facemasks to all non-teaching and teaching staffs across all Local Government Universal Basic Education Authority in the State,” he said He added that, part of the Board’s precautionary measures taken to prepare every staff member for the task ahead as well as ensuring that each school would provide wash hand basins and alcohol based hand sanitizers for the use of both students and staff.