Enugu State Police Command has arrested a total of 22 male suspects for the offences of conspiracy, armed robbery, unlawful possession of firearms, stealing, receiving of stolen property and cultism. Enugu state police spokesman, ASP Daniel Ndukwe said the arrests were made in May. Items recovered include: One Berretta pistol, 8 locally made firearms, 9 rounds of live ammunition, one live cartridge, one motorcycle, 12 handsets, 2 axes, one dagger, 3 knives, one laptop and N6, 000.00 The PPRO revealed that a distress call received at the Independence Layout Police Station that armed robbers were operating in the area, in the early hours of June 1st led to the arrest of one Gerald Chinyeaka while the others escaped. In Igbo-Eze North LGA, 3 persons were arrested for receiving stolen goods following a report of burglary in a village in Enugu-Ezike. Those arrested include Ejike Ali, Ogili Sunday and Ukaonu Odoh. In another development, one Agboeze Chukwuebuka, an armed robbery suspect was arrested for
robbery a man of N6,000 in Obollo-Affor The police, assisted by Neighbourhood Watch of the area, arrested the suspect while others escaped. Also arrested were Eze Ifeanyi and Emeka Okafor, both of Ebonyi State. They were arrested at Amechi-Idodo by police on COVID-19 enforcement duty at Enugu/Ebonyi States border security post. They were intercepted en-route Ebonyi State from Enugu on a Suzuki Jaguar motorcycle with Reg. No AFK 865 QU. A locally made revolver with 5 rounds of live ammunition and two mobile phones were recovered from them. Some suspected cultists were also arrested while holding an initiation at a bush in Nsukka. They include Isiala Salifu, Agbo Izuchukwu Gerald Oneze Chinecherem (20yrs) and Onah Chinedu. They were arrested by Operatives of the Command’s Anti-Cultism Unit with the assistance of the Neighbourhood Watch Group of Umuakashi Nsukka in a bush in the area. The Suspects reportedly confessed to being members of Black Axe Confraternity and that they contributed money to procure arms and other weapons used in executing cult activities. A combined team of Anti-Cultism Unit and Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) Operatives also arrested Onyedika Okeke (also known as “Bull Dog”), Igwe Ugochukwu and Igbokwe Anayo in their criminal hideout at New Artisan, Enugu. They were alleged to be preparing for a robbery operation. They were also said to have confessed to being members of Supreme Vikings Confraternity (also known as “Bagger”) and have been involved in criminal activities, including armed robbery. In a related development one Izuchukwu Nnaji (aged 22yrs), Olamide Abudukabiro (aged 28yrs) and Chibueze Onwuasoka (aged 20yrs) were arrested by Operatives of the Command’s Anti-Cult Unit, with the assistance of Vigilante Group. This was sequel to a report that a group of suspected cultists robbed some victims of their valuables at New Artisan, Enugu. The suspects were also reported to have confessed to the crime as well as being members of Supreme Vikings Confraternity. Three (3) knives used during the robbery, two (2) ATM cards and one (1) phone allegedly robbed from one of their victims, were recovered from them.