The legal battle for the control of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) continued on Friday with a Rivers State High Court in Port Harcourt declaring that Mr. Victor Giadom cannot serve as acting national chairman of the party. Justice Florence Fiberesima granted an order of perpetual injunction restraining Giadom, a former deputy national secretary of the APC, from parading himself as a member of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party and Azunda Wori. Respondents in the suit are the suspended National Chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole; Giadom; the Acting Chairman of APC, Rivers State, Igo Aguma and the National Legal Adviser of APC, Babatunde Ogala. The National Publicity Secretary of the party, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, said yesterday on the heels of the court’s ruling that there was no leadership vacuum in APC. Giadom himself had secured an ex parte order on March 16, 2020 from a Federal High Court in Abuja making him the Acting National Chairman. Based on the court order, he had written a letter to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), claiming to be the Acting National Chairman. However, the Rivers State High Court which declared that he could not serve as the national chairman of the party also granted an order restraining him from issuing, signing or endorsing any document or correspondence to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) or any other body or institution in the capacity of the National Chairman or Acting National Chairman of the APC or howsoever as an officer of the APC. A copy of the interim order signed by Assistant Chief Registrar, Patricia Victor, mandated the APC not to recognise Giadom, named as the third defendant in the case, as a member of the NWC. The plaintiffs had prayed for: “A declaration that sequel to the resignation of the 3rd defendant (Victor Giadom) as Deputy National Secretary of the 1st Defendant (APC) in 2018, for the purposes of contesting in the 2019 general election as Deputy Governor of Rivers State, the 3rd defendant is no longer the Deputy National Secretary of the 1st defendant. “A declaration that the third defendant (Victor Giadom) is not a member of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the first defendant, having resigned his membership of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the first defendant for purposes of contesting in the 2019 general election as the Deputy Governor of Rivers State. ”A declaration that the resignation of the third defendant (Victor Giadom) as the Deputy National Secretary of the 1st Defendant in 2018 is valid and effective from 2018 till date. “A declaration that the third defendant (Victor Giadom) is not the National Chairman or Acting National Chairman, or Deputy National Secretary or otherwise howsoever a member of the National Working Committee of the 1st defendant. “An order restraining the third defendant (Victor Giadom) from issuing, signing or endorsing any document or correspondence to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) or any other body or institution in the capacity of the National Chairman or Acting National Chairman of the 1st Defendant or howsoever as an officer of the 1st Defendant. “An order of perpetual injunction restraining the first, second, fourth and fifth defendants from recognising or regarding the third defendant as either a member of the National Working Committee (NWC), the Deputy National Secretary, National Chairman or Acting National Chairman of the first defendant.” In granting the prayers, the court said: “That an interim injunction be and is hereby made restraining Giadom acting by himself or through his privies or agents howsoever described from parading himself as the National Chairman of the first defendant or Deputy National Secretary of the first defendant or member of the NWC of the first defendant pending the determination of the motion on notice. “That an interim injunction be and is hereby made restraining Giadom from issuing, signing or endorsing any document to INEC or any other body or institution in the capacity of the National Chairman or Acting National Chairman of the first defendant or in whatsoever capacity pending the determination of the motion on notice. “That an order of interim injunction be and is hereby made restraining the first, second, fourth and fifth defendants acting by themselves or through any of their officers, agents or privies from recognising or regarding Giadom as the National Chairman of the first defendant or Deputy National Secretary or member of the NWC of the first defendant. “That every order in this suit including the originating process and other subsequent processes be served on the defendants at the first defendant secretariat at 65 Aba Road, Port Harcourt, Rivers State by pasting same on the notice board.”  No leadership vacuum in APC —Issa-Onilu In a statement on the ex parte motion granted Giadom to assume office as Acting National Chairman of the APC yesterday, the National Publicity Secretary of the party, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, said none of the four defendants named on the said process was served with the originating processes in the suit, and “as a result, the party became aware of the existence of such an order on June 17, 2020 through its circulation on social media.” He said: “A cursory look at the said order will reveal that it was granted on March 16, 2020 to fill a purportedly vacant office of National Chairman ahead of a National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting which turned out to have been convened in contravention of the APC Constitution. “To begin with, Justice Liman of the Federal High Court had on March 13, 2020, in the case of HON. TUNDE BALOGUN V ALL PROGRESSIVES CONGRESS (SUIT NO. FHC/L/CS/414/2020 affirmed the appointment of Sen. Abiola Ajimobi as Acting Deputy National Chairman (South) by the APC National Working Committee (NWC) and directed as follows: “That an Order of Interim Injunction is granted restraining the Defendant either by itself or its servants, agents, privies, assigns, officers or officials or otherwise howsoever from ignoring or refusing to recognise Waziri Bulama as Ag. National Secretary, Senator Abiola Ajimobi as Ag. Deputy National Chairman (South) and Paul Chukwuma as Ag. National Auditor of the Defendant, pending the determination of the Motion on Notice for Interlocutory Injunction herein.’ “In furtherance of the above and complying with Article 14.2 (iii) of the APC Constitution, Sen. Ajimobi assumed the position of Acting National Chairman on March 13, 2020. Article 14.2 (iii) provides: “The Deputy National Chairman shall act as National Chairman in the absence of the National Chairman from his zone.” “In essence, there was no vacancy to fill on the said March 16, 2020 as Sen. Ajimobi had already assumed the role of Acting National Chairman. “More instructively, the said Order by the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory was also made after the Court of Appeal had already granted an Interim Stay of Execution of the Order of the High Court suspending the National Chairman. In ADAMS ALIYU OSHIOMHOLE & ANOR V COMRADE MUSTAPHA SALIU & ORS (CA/A/187/2020) the Court of Appeal held thus: “An Order of Stay of Execution of the Ruling of the FCT High Court in Suit No: FCT/HC/CV/837/2020 delivered on 4th March, 2020 is granted pending the determination of the Motion on Notice which is now slated for hearing on 20th of March, 2020 “An Order of Injunction is granted restraining the Respondents themselves, their agents, privies and/or officers jointly or severally from proceeding to take any further steps to give effect to the said ruling. “The Court of Appeal is, of course, a higher court in the hierarchy of courts, and without prejudice to Sen. Ajimobi’s role as Acting National Chairman, by its decision and the operation of law, there was indeed no vacancy to fill necessitating the said order. “It will interest the public to note that it is the same ex parte order of March 16, 2020 granted in the face of the pending orders of both the Federal High Court and Court of Appeal that is being alleged by Victor Giadom to be extended by the FCT High Court. “Worthy of note is the fact that the said ex parte order was granted pursuant to the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory Civil Procedure Rules 2018. Order 43 Rules 3(2) and (3) of thereof provides: ‘An Order of Injunction made upon an application ex-parte shall abate after 7 days”. ‘The court may upon application extend the effective period of an ex-parte if he satisfied that the motion on notice has been served and that such extension is necessary in the interest of justice or to prevent an irreparable or serious mischief. The application for such an extension shall be made before abatement of the order and the extension shall not be for a period exceeding seven (7) days from the day the extension is granted.’ “The above provision clearly indicates that the said ex parte order granted on March 16, 2020 expired on March 23, 2020. We have no information that it was ever extended, and even if that was the case, the said extension would have expired on March 30, 2020. “In other words, his current claim to the chairmanship of the APC is not founded on any law but instead on impunity. “It is necessary to also restate that the said Order was specifically targeted at the purported National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting scheduled for March 17, 2020. “It is on record that the said meeting was convened in violation of Article 25(B) of the APC Constitution and as a result, it was never held on the fixed date. Once the specific event targeted by the order had passed, there is no premise upon which to insist on the pendency of such an order. “On the basis of the above analysis, we wish to restate that none of the defendants in the alleged suit where the said ex parte order was obtained has been served with any process of court. “This includes copies of the order itself as well as that alleged extension of same order yesterday, June 18, 2020 which has been circulating on social media. Perhaps the orders are intended for use only on social media. “We assure our teeming members that the APC has no leadership vacuum. By the constitution of the party, Sen. Ajimobi has assumed the role of National Chairman following the decision of the Court of Appeal upholding the interlocutory injunction suspending the National Chairman from office. “A majority of members of the NWC are determined to preserve our party’s zero tolerance for impunity and will continue to uphold the law in fulfillment of the mandate given to us by members of our great party.” Giadom’s counsel, Oluwole Afolabi, had said earlier in the week that a court had recognised his client as Acting Chairman. He said a statement issued by the party affirming Senator Abiola Ajimobi as Acting Chairman must have been issued in error or out of ignorance of the order of the FCT High Court issued on 16th of March, 2020, by Hon. Justice S.U Bature in Suit No. FCT/HC/M/6447/2020. I’m chairman, Giadom insists in letter to INEC Giadom, citing the FCT order, has dispatched a letter to the Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), claiming he is the chairman of APC. “I want to respectfully through this medium bring it to your attention that I have been appointed as the Acting National Chairman of the APC. A copy of the order of the FCT High Court, Abuja affirming my authority as the Acting National Chairman of the APC is herewith attached,” he said in the June 18, 2020 letter. He added: “Please note that in the earlier judgment of the FCT High Court suspending Comrade Adams Oshiomhole from office on March 4, 2020, as affirmed by the Court of Appeal, Abuja on June 16, 2020, Mr. Oshiomhole’s appeals were dismissed on that date. Copies of the orders of the court in the two cases are herewith attached for your perusal. “As the Acting National Chairman of the party, all processes, documents, and communications including those concerning the conduct of elections meant for the APC are to be served on me.”