Trafalgar Square and Waterloo Station in Central London were scenes of violent clashes between far-right thugs and Black Lives Matter (BLM) supporters on Saturday, featuring about 1,300 troublemakers. Police also had a raw deal with the warring sides as they had to fight back with batons to repel attacks from them. Police chiefs had imposed the 5pm curfew on all demonstrations in a bid to quell the unrest as the anti-racist rally championed by BLM and a pro-statue counter-protest by far-right thugs descended turned into full scale hooliganism. Hooligans who had joined the pro-statue demonstration were seen attacking policemen before clashes broke out between BLM activists and the far-right faction in Trafalgar Square. After the groups were driven out of Trafalgar Square at 5pm, the clashes spilled over to Waterloo station where a group of BLM activists were seen beating a lone white man accused of being a member of a far-right group. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson later spoke out against what he described as the “racist thuggery.” The Prime Minister, who urged protesters to avoid the demonstrations all together – wrote on Twitter: “Racist thuggery has no place on our streets. Anyone attacking the police will be met with full force of the law. “These marches and protests have been subverted by violence and breach current guidelines. Racism has no part in the UK and we must work together to make that a reality.” Elsewhere in the country tens of thousands gathered at anti-racism protests that were largely peaceful, even though clashes also erupted in Bristol and Newcastle. Trouble began when the clocks struck 5pm but about 1,200 protesters in London ignored requests to go home, choosing instead to stay in Trafalgar Square – one of the flash points where a small number of troublemakers on both sides sparked violent clashes with police earlier in the day. Elsewhere, between 350 and 400 Black Lives Matter protesters headed south of the River Thames to Waterloo station, chasing men they said were members of hate group EDL. Smoke bombs were let off and bottles thrown as police struggled to protect the men on the steps of the train station. In Parliament Square, officers herded the final far-right protesters away from the statue of Churchill and began moving them across the green space and onto a road. Although the area was later clear of demonstrators, piles of rubbish were left behind. Shortly before the curfew, a man believed to be a Tommy Robinson supporter was attacked by angry crowds in Trafalgar Square. The injured man was swarmed upon before he was punched and kicked to the floor, leaving blood streaming from his nose. Other protesters managed to drive a wedge in between the man and his attackers and stop the violence before police moved in. He was later taken out of the square by officers, staggering unsteadily on his feet. Met Police confirmed five people had been arrested for offences including violent disorder, assault on police, possession of an offensive weapon, being drunk and disorderly and possession of Class A drugs. A total of 15 people were treated for injuries at the London protests. Six of the patients, all members of the public, were taken to hospital. Six officers suffered minor injuries after ‘pockets of violence’ were directed towards the Metropolitan Police. In a statement, Met Commander Bas Javid said: “Thousands have travelled to London despite being asked not to, and some of those have been intent on causing harm. “We understand why people want to express their concerns and have worked hard to keep people safe. “Many people have complied with these conditions and have listened to officers during the day, and have behaved as we have requested in order to keep them safe. “A number of people have not followed these conditions, putting officers, and others’ safety at risk. “There have been pockets of violence directed towards our officers. This is completely unacceptable and I condemn those involved.” Police had to block off two pedestrian bridges between Embankment and Waterloo in London. Officers said they had been blocked off as Black Lives Matter protesters had been on them attempting to get north in the capital. Tommy Robinson vowed in a video posted on social media last weekend that he would be visiting the capital on Saturday to ensure the city’s historical monuments were protected. He later backtracked and said he would not be attending, but protests went ahead without him. Demonstrators on all sides flocked to Central London despite desperate pleas from the Home Secretary to “go home to stop the spread of this virus.” Police Commander Javid added: “We impose conditions for people’s safety. One of those conditions was that the assembly must finish by 5pm. “If you’re at Parliament Square, you must go to Victoria. If you are at Trafalgar Square, you must go to Charing Cross. Go home.”