FCMB Group has notified the Nigerian Stock Exchange(NSE) that its pensions arm, FCMB Pensions Limited, has entered into an agreement to acquire 96% of Aiico Pensions Limited. This is part of a deliberate strategy to grow the Group’s investment management portfolio and build on the inherent synergies between pensions management and banking. FCMB Group recently increased its stake in Legacy Pensions (now FCMB Pensions) to 91.6 percent in 2019 and has full control of the business. FCMB Pensions has since grown its assets under management (AUM) to N325 billion with 350,000 customers as of March 2020, while that of AIICO Pensions is estimated at N126 billion with over 240,000 customers. A combined AUM of N451 billion and almost 600,000 customers will take the entire Groups customer base to 8,000,000 and its total AUM (inclusive of all investment management activities) to over N560 billion. Analysts have already seized on the announcement expressing broadly positive views of its impact for both FCMB Pensions and FCMB Group. One investment banking analyst described it as “a positive move and a statement of intent from FCMBs management to leverage its non-banking businesses to drive profitability”. Another analyst described it as a “Landmark transaction giving a mid-tier player a great opportunity to bulk up”, further remarking “We believe the combined entity will be better positioned for stronger organic AUM growth and fee income contribution to the Group’s performance” This acquisition is one of several proactive steps along with digitisation the company has embarked upon to enhance its market position and competitiveness as the industry braces itself for the commencement of Retirement Savings Account (RSA) portability. FCMB Pensions has strengthened its investment committee with the addition of Mrs. Titi Odunfa Adeoye to its Board of Directors. Mrs. Adeoye is the Founder and Chief Investment Officer of Sankore. The new Director holds an MBA from Harvard Business School, a BBA in Accounting (summa cum laude) from Howard University and is a Certified Public Accountant (Gold Award). Mrs. Adeoye’s skills in investment strategy were honed at firms like Goldman Sachs in New York. Her area of expertise is strategies for the creation, growth and preservation of individual or family wealth with a focus on “alternative” asset classes. Chairman of FCMB Board of Directors announcement, Mr Ladi Balogun, said: “The business intends to use its scale for positive effect towards investing in the growth of the Nigerian economy while ensuring safety and the most competitive returns for its customers”