The decision to re-open schools has been left to the various state governments.  A major concern is the large class size of many public schools which would not allow for the required physical distancing.  KOFOWOROLA BELO-OSAGIE and DAMOLA KOLA-DARE report on stakeholders’ recommendations. Though no date has been fixed for resumption, schools are itching to open again for teaching and learning.  The Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 response has left the decision on resumption of schools and churches to states. To this end, states are preparing protocols for resumption. The private schools, parents and teachers are not left out. Many of them have presented suggestions to the government on how schools should resume operation. A major concern about the resumption of schools is the issue of overcrowding, especially in public schools. In many public schools, some classes have up to 100 pupils – many times the internationally recommended class size (15-40). Deputy National President, National Parent-Teacher Association of Nigeria (NAPTAN), Chief Adeolu Ogunbanjo, said overcrowding and congestion in public schools was major concern. Private schools are disappointed that the PTF gave no date for schools to resume. However, Adeolu advised the government to soft-pedal on re-opening schools, especially as figures of COVID-19 cases are still rising. He advised the Lagos State government to learn from South Korea which had to shut down after re-opening because it had damaging effects. He recommended that three shifts of morning, afternoon and evening sessions should be put in place when schools resume so pupils can adhere strictly to social distancing rules. He also called for a simulation of the re-opening process to see how it is going to look like. “Overcrowding is a sensitive issue in our public schools. If schools are to resume in the state, a third shift should be introduced to the one proposed by government. So,we can have morning, afternoon and evening lessons. “But as of now, it is not advisable to re-open because the figures keep rising.  In Korea, schools were re-opened, but they had to shut down again because it had damaging effects. “Then apart from sensitising everyone in schools on how to handle the situation, it is important we simulate what should be in place before the actual re-opening so that we won’t go the way of South Korea, hence we should not be in a hurry to re-open,” he said. For Mrs. Biola Orekoya, a public school teacher in Lagos, the government must do something to reduce class sizes.  She agreed classes should hold in batches.  However, she expressed concern about the burnout effect on teachers who would have to take multiple sessions each day. With over 50 pupils in her class, she said the proposed morning and afternoon lessons may be strenuous for teachers.  She said schools may have to adopt a hybrid mode involving both physical classes and online lessons. “I handle a class of over 50 pupils, so even if we are to go with the proposed morning and afternoon lessons, the teachers will be stressed out.  Then, since online and TV and radio lessons are on, pupils can still make do with them,” she said. Should schools resume now, Mr Ademola Lateef, a parent, said it would be difficult to send his wards to school, given that they are over 60 in their classes. He said: “The safety of our children matter at a time like this. Most of our public schools are highly populated and we cannot rule that out because it is free education.  If government wants to re-open schools, proper safety measures should be put in place for the children.  Personally,it won’t be easy to send my wards back to school now until things stabilise.  Practicing social distancing will be tough because in their class they have more than 60 pupils in different arms.” Another parent, Mrs. Debola Sanusi, said for overcrowded classes, school authorities should enforce strict adherence to social distancing rules by giving them lessons in phases and on various days. She also said facemasks and personal hand sanitisers should be made compulsory for each pupil. “If it is compulsory to re-open schools now, then school authorities should make sure there is strict compliance to physical and social distancing rules.  They can also introduce lessons in phases and to avoid overcrowding, pupils can attend lessons on different days since the compulsory subjects are taught online and on radio. Face masks and personal sanitisers should be made compulsory for each pupil,” she said. The National President, National Association of Proprietors of Private Schools (NAPPS), Chief Yomi Otubela, has also weighed in on the mater. He is in support of staggered school attendance to maintain physical distancing. Speaking during an online press conference, he suggested that pupils in terminal classes – primary six, JSS3 and SS3 should resume first to prepare for their external examinations. He also recommended that states with lower COVID-19 cases could resume ahead of others. “NAPPS suggests the re-opening of schools in batches starting with the terminal classes – Primary six, JSS3 and SSS3 to enable them be adequately prepared for their external examinations. It will be recalled that NECO (National Examination Council) has also suggested the recall of BECE/SSCE candidates for revision and examination. They suggested that only such students and teachers involved in the examinations should be recalled while at the same time social distancing with other safety measures should be observed. “Where reopening of schools all over the country at the same time is not feasible because of the COVID-19 pandemic, we suggest that schools be authorised to resume in those states with no records of positive Coronavirus cases and in those with reduction in positive cases,” he said. On the preparation for resumption on the part of private schools, Otubela said NAPPS would train school nurses and cleaners to maintain hygiene practices in schools. He also noted that the public and private sectors should agree on a plan for activation regarding resumption.  He said the plan should cover what should be put in place before schools can resume. He said: “Both the governments and educational stakeholders must stop squabbling and agree on a plan to get children back to school in a safe, phased return. “The following, therefore, could serve as safety and prevention guidelines recommended for schools; provision of running water for handwashing; provision of alcohol-based hand sanitisers; provision of Infrared thermometer; compulsory wearing of face masks for staff, students and visitors; seating arrangements that take cognizance of physical distancing in classrooms and school buses; provision of a qualified nurse or health personnel in schools; regular decontamination of the school environment; cleaning of all surfaces, work tools, general areas (reception, classrooms, car parks, toilets, etc.); signposts reminding people to wash hands, practice social/physical distancing and wear face mask; provision of Personal Protective Equipment (Face mask, gloves, etc).” On plans for resumption, the Lagos State Education Commissioner, Mrs. Folasade Adefisayo said the government was already working on protocol for schools, in collaboration with private school owners. She said the government was considering alternating school days for pupils and had recently employed 2,000 teachers to beef up the work force. “We are aware of overcrowding, so there must be protocols that will address that.  There are many things we are thinking of – like not coming to school every day so we will be able to spread the children across the whole school. You don’t have to go to your class to learn; you can learn in a room with tables and chairs,” she said.