 Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon. Mudashiru Obasa at the weekend told the panel of enquiry raised by the Assembly to probe allegations of financial misconduct against him by SaharaReporters that it was the handiwork of his enemies. Speaker Obasa appeared before the 9-man fact finding panel of the House headed by Hon. Victor Akande (Ojo Constituency 1). Responding to questions from members of the Committee, Obasa stated that all the allegations made by SaharaReporters in its reports were unfounded. He stressed that the vehicles bought for the members of the House and other expenses made by the House were done with the approval of the House and that of the Fund Management Committee (FMU) of the House headed by him. “We bought Land Cruisers for Principal Officers of the House. The cars we buy for Principal Officers are always higher than those of other members and we followed the due process in the purchase. “We went through the Public Procurement Agency (PPA) and others and the vehicles were distributed appropriately. “It was agreed at the parliamentary meetings on about four occasions and the Clerk of the House is the Secretary.  “Also, it is not true that my wife collects N10 Million monthly from the House. Anyone who says she does should come with proofs and evidences. “My approval limit as the Speaker of the House is N100 million. Anything above that would have to be approved by the Fund Management Committee. On Prado Jeep that we bought for the members, we followed the due process like we did in that of the Principal Officers,” he said. Obasa also debunked an allegation that N258  million was spent for the printing of invitation cards for the inauguration of the 9th Assembly. He stressed that the whole event cost N61 Million and that  N1.1 Million was spent to print the invitation cards. On the expenditure of N80 Million as estacode for the training of women in Dubai, the Speaker said that wives of 20 lawmakers attended the event and that he was there to declare the event open. “The House of Assembly is above common standard of excellence and we have to train people, and this comes with a cost. Learning is not cheap and I have never collected N80 Million for estacode at a go before,” he said. Defending the purchase of eight Hiace buses for committee works in the Assembly, Obasa said that it was discovered that the House was spending a lot of money to repair vehicles, which he said was why the House decided to buy the buses and that the buses were there for everybody to see with documents to defend the purchases. The Speaker also denied the allegation that he spent N53 Million for a trip to the United States of America with his mistress.