 NIGERIA’s largest quoted company and Sub-Saharan Africa’s largest cement company, Dangote Cement Plc has listed its N100billion debut bond on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), paving the way for investors to trade on their bonds. The listing of Dangote Cement’s N100 billion bond boosted the outstanding non-sovereign bonds to the psychological N1 trillion mark. With more than N530 billion outstanding corporate debt issues and some N400 billion outstanding sub-national bonds, the Nigerian debt capital market is increasingly becoming a viable source of long-term funding for both corporates and state governments. Dangote Cement’s maiden bond issue was fully subscribed, making history as the largest single corporate bond issue in the capital market.  It was the first series under the company’s N300 billion shelf bond issuance programme. A total of 100 million units of N1,000 par value of the Dangote Cement’s N100 billion Series 1 5-year Fixed Rate Senior Unsecured Bonds were admitted to the official list at the NSE. While the bond will be redeemed at the end of its five-year tenor, it will pay fixed coupon twice a year. The applicable coupon rate is 12.50 per cent. Dangote Cement plans to use the net proceeds of the bond to refinance existing short-term debt previously applied towards cement expansion projects, working capital and general corporate purposes. The listing of the Dangote Cement’s debut bond further deepens the Nigerian debt capital market, which had seen large-cap issuers like Access Bank Plc, United Bank for Africa, Lafarge Africa and Flour Mills of Nigeria, among others. With the success of large-cap issuance like Dangote Cement’s N100 billion, many analysts said the medium to long-term impact of active issuances and trading on the secondary debt market would further open up long-term debt capital to small and medium companies. Chief Executive Officer, Central Securities Clearing System Plc (CSCS), Mr. Haruna Jalo-Waziri, said the N100 billion bond would further reinforce the depth of the Nigerian debt capital market and the ability of local corporates to fund long term projects from the domestic debt market. He said CSCS was excited as the depository to the N100 billion landmark issuance noting that as the depository to about half a trillion-naira outstanding corporate bonds from 23 issuers, CSCS is playing important roles in building issuers’ and investors’ confidence in the domestic debt market. According to him, with the debut N100 billion bond, Dangote Cement has once again reinforced the capacity of the Nigerian debt capital market and set a new benchmark in terms of size and pricing of corporate bonds. Dangote Cement is Africa’s leading cement producer with nearly 46Mta capacity across Africa. It is a fully integrated quarry-to-customer producer, with a production capacity of 29.25Mta in its home market, Nigeria. Obajana plant in Kogi State, is the largest in Africa with 13.25Mta of capacity across four lines; Ibese plant in Ogun State has four cement lines with a combined installed capacity of 12Mta and Gboko plant in Benue state has 4Mta. In addition, Dangote Cement has operations in Cameroon (1.5Mta clinker grinding), Congo (1.5Mta), Ghana (1.5Mta import), Ethiopia (2.5Mta), Senegal (1.5Mta), Sierra Leone (0.5Mta import), South Africa (2.8Mta), Tanzania (3.0Mta), and Zambia (1.5Mta).