The House of Representatives has expressed reservation  over the whopping sum of N186 billion reportedly spent by the Federal Government so far on School feeding programme and decided to carry our a comprehensive investigation of the funds for accountability. The National Coordinator of the School Feeding Programme Dr. Mrs Sinkaye Temitope and National Safety Net Coordinating Officer Mr Iowa Apera told the House Committee on Public Accounts that N64bn out of N186 billion said to have been spent was spent  on feeding the school pupils alone. The Chairman of the Committee  Hon Busayo Oluwole Oke and other members of the Committee expressed displeasure over the development, describing  it as outrageous and unacceptable. Consequently, the Committee currently investigating the management and utilisation of the Presidential Task Force PTF on COVID-19 however demanded a complete project audit of the programme immediately The lawmakers were visibly angered by a document submitted to the committee which showed that the NICTO office received a credit of $400 million from the World Bank, $321 million from Abacha Restitution and another $400 million said to be balance from the government equity fund. The National Coordinator told the lawmakers that the feeding programme had been on-going since 2016 when the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs initiated it and had so far gulped N186 billion in  totality. According to her,  the budget breakdown showed that N63.2 billion, N32.2 billion and N124.4 billion were spent by the office in 2018, 2019 and 2020 respectively. Other committee members including Honey. Chudi Momah (Anambra, APGA) and Hon. Miriam Onuoha (Imo, APC)  denounced the report saying that many schools and communities were yet to benefit from school feeding programme. Momah was visibly enraged  as it was documented  that 200,000 pupils from different families had benefited  from it from Ihiala local council area of Anambra State which he refuted. The Committee  Chairman Hon. Oke who also administered an oath to the National Coordinator also said that the Committee would look at the documents submitted adding that the funds mighty not have passed through appropriation by the parliament.