 THE immediate past national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief John Oyegun, declared on Friday that the decision of the party’s screening panel to disqualify Governor Godwin Obaseki from the party’s forthcoming governorship primary was nothing short of a hatchet job. Oyegun, a strong supporter of the governor, said Obaseki’s disqualification was designed to pave the way for the installation of a stooge. In a statement signed by his Public Affairs Adviser, Ray Morphy, Oyegun said: “The disqualification of Obaseki by the APC Screening Panel is a hatchet job aimed at installing a stooge that will allow some people unfettered access to Edo treasury. “While not a surprise,  that disqualification is a clear indication that internal democracy has been murdered in APC; a party which we founded on the principles of fair play and good conscience! “I dare say that APC will suffer dire consequences in Edo State if this disqualification is not speedily reversed. “As a matter of fact, Oshiomole is indeed the one who is guilty of anti-party, not Obaseki. Oshiomole is the one who is acting unconstitutionally not Obaseki. “I hope that Oshiomole will not go down in history as the undertaker of APC.” In a separate response on Friday, Special Adviser to the Edo State Governor on Political Matters (Edo South), Osaigbovo Iyoha warned that “the arbitrariness and persistent disregard for the rule of law” by the National Chairman of the  APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, would  cost the party dearly in the September  governorship election in Edo State. Iyoha, who spoke to journalists in Benin City, said the National Chairman at the last count had violated 15 articles of the party’s constitution, claiming “Oshiomhole has turned the APC into a one-man show. Nothing makes sense to him now except the removal of Godwin Obaseki from office.” He accused Oshiomhole of using his powers as APC national chairman to force Obaseki out of the party and the governorship contest, which is tantamount to infringing on the right of the governor to aspire to any office in the land. He said: “For Oshiomhole, it is either Obaseki goes or he destroys the party. He is destroying the party’s ticket the way he destroyed Zamfara, Imo and Rivers states tickets. I hope the party leaders and the President live up to their responsibilities and put Oshiomhole where he belongs. “At the last count, Oshiomhole has violated 15 articles of our constitution. The worst thing you can do is to assault the motto of our party. There is no justice in what Oshiomhole is doing. He has become a judge in his own case. Oshiomhole actually created the Edo Peoples Movement (EPM), all in a bid to push Obaseki out of the party.” Clerics drawn from different parts of Edo State have thrown their weight behind the re-election bid of Governor Godwin Obaseki. They cited the governor’s performance in infrastructure, education, healthcare, among other sectors of the state. The clerics, who gathered in Benin City during a prayer session for peace in Edo State, noted that the governor has performed credibly well in his first term in office and deserves a second term to consolidate on his numerous impactful projects in the state. Speaking at the prayer session, Chaplain of the University of Benin (UNIBEN), Egbenusi Osazee, who drew his sermon from Psalm 61, admonished Christians to pray for Edo State and the governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, who no doubt, has demonstrated good leadership qualities and deserves to be supported in his second term bid. He noted: “There is no power but of God; power is ordained by God. “We still have some months before a new administration, so the person that God has put there now is His Excellency, Mr. Godwin Obaseki. “We owe him a responsibility to pray for him and ensure he comes back to power” He added: “Man did not make power, whether spiritual or civil. There is no power that is ordained except by God; if you like you say the person is tyrant or novice. The powers that be are ordained by God.” Pastor at the New Covenant Gospel Church, His Glory, Theodora Abiola Omobude, urged Christians to have trust in God, believing that no matter the rage of the fire, God will always put it 