 THE  HIGH court at Igbosere, Lagos on Wednesday sentenced two men Williams Udoh and Ubong Isaiah to death by hanging. Udoh also got 21 years for raping a married woman In Kano, police said they arrested a 30-year-old man who allegedly raped about 40 women in one town within  a year. Command’s spokesman Abdullahi Haruna confirmed the arrest, saying that the suspect simply identified as Mohammed confessed that his victims were young girls, married and old women. Haruna said the suspect sneaked into a home to rape a girl when her mother raised the alarm, leading to his arrest. He would be paraded soon, Haruna said. Police in Benue State on Wednesday said a medical doctor was arrested for allegedly raping an 11-year-old girl in Otukpo on Tuesday. The Nation gathered that the girl was brought from a village to babysit for the man. The girl said the doctor came at her when his wife traveled to Kaduna. “That night, he came home acting drunk and tried to touch me but I ran out. Yesterday night, he came back again, and whisked me away from where I was sleeping to his room and forced himself on me. I sustained injures in my private part, neck and mouth because we struggled for some minutes before he overpowered me.” The doctor was said to have blamed alcohol for his act. Wednesday an Abeokuta Magistrates’ Court in Ogun sentenced a 21-year-old man, Musa Anifowose, to two years in the correctional centre for raping an eight-year-old girl. The Magistrate, I.O Abudu, said all the evidence tendered in court proved beyond reasonable doubt that the convict was guilty of the offence. Trial judge, Justice Oluwatoyin Ipaye,  while delivering judgment on the two men convicted in Lagos, said the prosecution proved its case beyond every reasonable doubt. She held the offences of rape, armed robbery and conspiracy to commit robbery were indeed committed by the defendants. A coalition of women groups under the aegis of Badagry Women Development Forum (BWDF) on Wednesday staged a peaceful protest against incessant rape incidents in the country. The women, with T-shirts and placards condemning rape and violence against girls, marched through the streets of Badagry and visited markets, traditional rulers and the three local governments in the area. A Bill which seeks to protect rape victims against stigmatisation was passed for second reading in the Senate on Tuesday. The Bill titled: “Rape and Insurgency Victims Stigmatisation (Prohibition) Bill 2019” was sponsored by Senator Mohammed Sani Musa (Niger East). Senator Musa in his lead debate said the Bill would, among other things, encourage victims of rape to appear and testify in court. A 45-year-old man,  Maduabuchi Ijioma, has been picked up by police in Abia State for allegedly raping a five-year-old girl. The incident was said to have in Aba. A police source in Aba told our reporter that a case of rape and defilement was reported at Ndiegoro Police Division on June 1, by the parents of the victim. The source added that the suspect would be charged to court as soon as investigation into the matter was concluded. The Director-General of National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP) Dame Julie Okah-Donli said, “I am an advocate for special courts for rape trail. “Anybody who justifies rape will be arrested as a suspect and dealth with accordingly.”   