It has been confirmed that popular Instagram celebrity Raymond Igbalode a.k.a. Hushpuppi has been arrested by International Police (INTERPOL) Nigeria, and there are plans to extradite him to Nigeria. Hushpuppi was reportedly arrested three days ago. He was alleged to have hacked into the United States (US) unemployed database and impersonating citizens qualified for unemployment funds. He and his other accomplices in Nigeria, Dubai and other countries allegedly defrauded the US of over $100 million meant for Native Americans in the battle against the coronavirus pandemic. Here are few pictures of Hushpuppi known for his reckless display of wealth on social media, with popular football stars and prominent Nigerian personalities Hushpuppi with Manchester City Footballer, Benjamin Mendy On March 26, 2019, Hushpuppi shared a picture of himself with Manchester City defender and French international, Benjamin Mendy. Huspuppi with Senator Dino Melaye, Dogara, many other celebrities at Dino’s birthday party in Dubai Former senator representing Kogi West, Dino Melaye on January 8, shared pictures from his birthday party which was held in Dubai. The birthday party had in attendance the former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, former APC chieftain, Timi Frank, political activist, Deji Adeyanju, Hushpuppi and many other celebrities. Hushpuppi with Wizkid in Dubai On November 1, 2018, Hushpuppi shared a picture of himself with Wizkid. The two were seen to be hanging out somewhere in Dubai. Huspuppi with Davido at brother’s wedding Ray Hushpuppi was a guest at luxurious wedding ceremony of Adewale Adeleke, chairman of HKN Music and brother of Nigerian singer Davido, to his heartthrob Kani, in Abu Dhabi. Sometimes in March 2017, Hushpuppi had taken to social media to call out the pop star, Davido for not being able to match his wealth which resulted into a media war between the duo. Chelsea player Tammy Abraham spotted with Huspuppi Everton forward Alex Iwobi hangs out with HushPuppi in Dubai Other pictures of Huspuppi and his luxurious lifestyle 