 HOW did you get into modelling and what was the motivation for you instead of going into something else? Growing up in Port-Harcourt, people always told me that I look like a model. I have always been skinny, tall and leggy, but I never knew what modelling was until  I saw Naomi Campbell on the Runway and  my life changed. At that moment, I   knew this was what I wanted to do for the rest of my life. I came from a family of tall people but my father was against my choice. He believed in education and insisted that I have to go to school, graduate and earn a decent living. He was the only one that was not  cool with the idea. I am not sure any other thing will be as fulfilling as this. When I am on the runway, I feel alive, when the clothes sell out, I am at my happiest. What were the challenges at the beginning and how were you able to overcome it? My major challenge when I started was fear, because I had no one who encouraged me to try out auditions. I was on my own, bugged down with the fear of under-performance: how will they see me, where would I  start from? My first public audition was Mercedes-Benz fashion week in Ghana.It is one of the most distinguished in the country, and you are no model if you are not yet on it. I put my fear aside; I had missed a lot of castings in Nigeria and Ghana then for being afraid. So, I said to myself, ‘look if you really want to be a top model, you have to be confident’ and what is modelling if not confidence and boldness? I went ahead and auditioned.  I met a lot of people, I was given a name tag , when it got to my turn, I became nervous, I panicked  but the guy in charge of directing the models asked me to relax and do my best. I did my pose which was wrong and off. Unfortunately, I had no formal training, I could hear them laughing and got a maybe after the audition.  I went home feeling sad but glad I auditioned; I never expected a call back. When they called to inform me I made it, that was one of the happiest days of my life. And since then, it has been no more fear,. I am yet to get to the top but I am confident now. Tell us about some best moments in your modeling career? My best moment I will say, happened just recently, in March when I went for the Winneba Fashion Week here in Ghana. Though I thought no one appreciated me for being a model. I was honoured in Winneba rather than in Accra where I have done my best jobs! I also won the best female Model last year and I wasn’t at the show, I couldn’t make it though I was invited. All my best moments happened in a day; I know it sounds unbelievable but that’s the truth. Immediately I got there, people noticed me as the girl with the strong walk, which I always want people to know me for. Designers wanted me to walk for them too, and at the end of the show people actually came back stage to tell me they enjoyed the show because of me, I was told my walk was amazing and they couldn’t stop admiring me. To me that was everything I ever worked hard for, if it were to be in Europe or America I would have gotten a big contract after that. Have you had any experience that makes you want to quit modelling? Yes; I have had experiences that make me wish to stop modelling. And that is because  I am too skinny. People feel I do not eat food, I am anorexic, I have met scouts that advised me to be on pills to gain weight, and it is not a skinny world after all. At a point, I actually quit modelling for some time but later I had to start modelling because I wasn’t happy. I have also been to castings where I was informed to my embarrassment that they won’t get me a dress to wear, because I  am too slim, the designer has no cloth for me,  Wherever I hear that, it totally breaks my spirit, and for days i will be depressed and moody. But when I accepted myself for who I am, I stopped caring about what people say and I have been doing great. Who are your mentors and role models in modelling? Modelling in West Africa could be lonely and solo when you are not connected. So, I have never been opportune to work with people I can look up to; it is almost an “you are on your own” cold place. I learnt almost everything I know on YouTube watching Naomi Campbell and other super models. So, my role model is Naomi Campbell because she inspires me a lot, her walk is amazing just like mine. She’s straight forward and tells you things to your face. That’s better than backstabbing. What was the best show or competition you have participated in? Glitz Fashion Show in Accra was my best show so far because it brings a lot of designers and models together from all parts of the world, you get to meet people, make new friends. Whereby when they see you for the second time they will definitely remember you and that’s a plus. Glitz Fashion Show brings people together and that’s the best thing about modelling, you get to learn and meet different people from different country. How would you compare your modelling experience in Nigeria with that of Ghana? When it comes to modelling, Nigeria is better than Ghana; models are well respected and organised in Nigeria and they are paid well. The only difference is that the competition in Nigeria is way too high compared to Ghana. I still wish to walk on major runways in Nigeria and I’m seriously planning towards that…so, there’s a model for hiring. What makes a good model and what are your beauty regimens? What makes a good model is to know what modelling career you want to pursue and work on yourself to be the best, before going for modelling as a career. There are different types of models, unfortunately, some models do not know what suits them. So, it is important to know where you fit in best, brand yourself and work hard to be the best. My beauty regimen? I exercise, not a fitness freak because I am already too skinny anyway I wash my face at least twice a day and never ever sleep with makeup,  no matter how tired  I am. I am also into moisturisers for the dark skin girl, in the future I might roll out my brand of skin care range. How do you keep fit and what kind of food do you eat? Actually, I eat everything but I make sure to exercise sometimes when I have the chance to. I try not to eat late night food because it makes you develop belly fat. Besides modelling, what other things do you do? Besides modelling, i dance Salsa and  Kimzomba and  I am a bar tender. What will you not be caught wearing as a model? Nothing. Is that not what modelling is all about? And I have the body for it. What advice will you give to aspiring models? Start early, be yourself and don’t try to be like anyone because you can only be you. I will also tell them to work hard to build  their brand, don’t wait for anyone and never give up. What is your life philosophy? Do unto others, what you want them to do unto you. How well have you coped under COVID-19 and what have you learnt about life as a result of this pandemic? It has not been easy, everyone has been affected by it but what I have learnt is that we never know when we will die. So, use your time well and do the best you can, help others if you can. No need for hate. What can make you cry, angry and laugh? Whenever i am being told to gain some weight. What other personal details will you like to share with readers? I love to train models on how to catwalk.  I train them personally and I also have a YouTube channel for that.  It’s iconblessingazome on YouTube, kindly search and subscribe.  BIODATA  Full Name:                          Blessing Azome Brand Name:                     Iconblessingazome Gender:                               Female Marital Status:                 Single Date of birth:                     September 2 Religion:                              Christian Height:                                 5”9 Educational background:                       B.A in English Occupation History:                                Model; Bartender Skills:                                    Bead-making, Salsa dancing, Modelling Hobbies:                             Dancing, swimming, song writing