Members of the Ondo State House of Assembly and political appointees on Thursday gave boost to the re-election aspiration of the state governor, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredeolu by purchasing his All Progressives Congress (APC) expression of interest and nomination forms for the party’s ticket for the November 10th Ondo State Governorship Election. Lawmakers elected under the platform of The ruling APC in the House teamed up to purchase the N2.5million nomination form for the governor while all political appointees in the state pull up resources to secure his N20 million expression of interest form. Speaking to newsmen at the National Secretariat of the party in Abuja after purchasing the forms, the groups separately said that their action was informed by the need for the continuity of the good works the governor has been doing in the last three and half years in the state. Though the delegation admitted the national leadership of the party’s authority over the mode of primary for the emergency of the party’s flag bearer, they said that party stakeholders in the state have decided on an indirect mode of primaries to nominate the party’s candidate. The Deputy Speaker of the Ondo State House of Assembly, Adeboboye Samuel who led his colleagues to pick the nomination form for Akeredolu, said their supporting for Akeredolu’s re-election was based on the need to ensure continuity in developmental projects in the state. The lawmaker explained that the gesture underlined the fact that they appreciate the inroads recorded in the state since Akeredolu assumed the helm of affairs in the state over three and half years ago. The law maker described the governor a loyal party member, who has used his resources to build a strong and formidable party in the state. He denied the widely held notion that the state chapter of the party was factionalised. The political adviser to governor, Hon. Victor Olabintan who led all political appointees said they all teamed up to procure the expression of interest form for the governor as a show of endorsement of the good work of the governor. “This is a governor with a difference. After late Governor Adekunle Ajasin, he remains the only one that brought industry to the state. He is a politician with a difference, he doesn’t tell lies. That is why we believe in him,” Olabintan stated. Asked if the governor has the support of the national leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, in his re-election bid, Olabintan stressed that while Tinubu has the whole of Nigeria has his domain, he is not supporting any candidate, but only wants the best candidate to emerge as the party’s candidate, which is Akeredolu. Earlier on, the National Organising secretary of the party, Emma Ibediro assured that the party would conduct a free and fair primary for all those angling for the ticket of the party.