After about two decades, the Federal Government is set to conduct a new bid round for marginal fields for indigenous firms to shore up revenue and boost local participation in the capital and technology intensive upstream sector of the oil and gas sector, writes LUCAS AJANAKU.  PRESIDENT  Muhammadu Buhari has approved the sale of government’s stakes in 57 oil blocks owned by oil majors. The Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) said it had on June 1 flagged off the sale of marginal fields in a fresh bid round. Marginal fields are oil discoveries which have not been exploited for long, due to one or more of the following factors: very small sizes of reserves/pool to the extent of not being economically viable; and lack of infrastructure in the vicinity and profitable consumers. Importantly, the last time that bid rounds took place for marginal fields in Nigeria was in 2002.  Factors such as politics, corruption, and alleged lack of technical competence and failure of winners in the last process to utilise the fields for oil production, have been blamed for the long delays in or suspension in the process. DPR said the fields are located on land, swamp and shallow offshore terrains. It added that the exercise, which would be conducted electronically, would include expression of interest/registration, pre-qualification, technical and commercial bid submission and bid evaluation.  Guidelines The guidelines on the oil bid round and payment by interested bidders, according to the DPR, shall attract non-refundable fees. These are application fee of N2 million per field, bid processing fee of N3million per field, data prying fee of $15,000 per field, data leasing fee of $25,000 per field, competent persons report (CPR) of $50,000 and $25,000 for fields specific report. Interested bidders are expected to pay a total of $115,000 in statutory fees and another N5 million in local currency. At the official exchange rate of $360/$1, the 57 oil fields on offer gives N2,364,800,000 including the N5 million payment. The agency added that all application fees and processing fees are expected to be paid into the Treasury Single Account (TSA) while Signature Bonuses are expected to be paid into the Federation Account. Also, fees for data leasing, data prying, CPR and Field Specific Report should be paid into the National Data Repository (NDR) account for repayment. According to the approved guidelines, applicants must show evidence of technical and managerial capability and must also demonstrate the ability to fully meet the objective of undertaking expeditious and efficient development of a marginal field. The flag-off of the 2020 marginal bid round comes amidst the country’s poor financial situation which has made the implementation of the 2020 a Herculean task for the Buhari government with capital and recurrent expenditures already slashed. The commencement of the  oil bid round is coming 18 years after the first one was conducted in 2002.  Oil price crash problem The country has been grappling with drop in oil prices  due to  a fall in global fuel demand caused by the lockdown measures aimed at containing COVID-19. It was estimated that the delay in licensing rounds may have denied the country of revenue in form of signature bonuses of about N350 billion ($972.22 million) this year, from N939 billion originally expected, officials had said on web call. The Group Managing Director, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mele Kyari, said the times were rather inauspicious for foreign investors into the oil industry.  “Where you require foreign investment … this is not a good time,” he had said of a potential licensing rounds, arguing that “the appetite would be very very low.” He expressed optimism that marginal fields were less impacted by low oil prices because they would most likely be taken up by local producers and would require less capital to develop. Nigeria, a member of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), has been hard hit by dipping oil prices which will, ultimately, hinder its ability to deliver on budget promises. This realisation is not lost on the government as Finance and Budget Minister Zainab Ahmed hinted that  some upstream oil and gas projects would be delivered “much later than originally planned” due to scaled back government investments because the country was having trouble selling some of its oil cargoes, and would also have to cut production to below what it was originally expected in the budget. The country is a party to OPEC and OPEC+ agreement to trim output to help balance the global market. She said projected oil and gas revenue would inevitably drop by over 80 per cent this year. Past lessons The group said the government’s objectives of conducting previous bids have always been to increase oil revenue, raise proven oil reserves to about 40 billion barrels, and boost oil production to about three million barrels per day (bpd). These objectives are, however, hardly met for obvious reasons. Aside inability to collect more than $750 million in signature bonuses from the various bid rounds, of the 175 marginal oil field licences issued between 2000 and 2007, only one has been developed into commercial production. The group said rather than growing, daily oil production capacity has consistently dipped, from about 2.3 million bpd in 2014 to 1.6 million b pd as at last year. They said previous bid rounds showed a sharp decline in expression of interest from serious investors, local and foreign, with only 57 per cent of the oil blocks on offer in the 2005 exercise receiving at least one bid. By 2007, they said the figure dipped further to 40 per cent, with many of the serious investors expressing concerns about the law regulating operations in the oil industry. Court  intervenes The Federal High Court sitting in Lagos has restrained the Federal Government from selling or accepting bids for eight of the marginal oil fields pending determination of a suit challenging their status. Justice Chukwujekwu Aneke granted the order of interim injunction against the Minister of State for Petroleum, his ministry and Engr Auwalu Sarki following a May 20 ex parte application filed by 10 oil firms. The firms and ‘their’ marginal oil fields are Independent Energy Ltd – Ofa OML 30; Associated Oil and Gas Ltd/ Dansaki Petroleum Unlimited – Tom Shot Bank OML 14; Bayelsa Oil Company Ltd – Atala MFOG-2C and Bicta Energy and Management System Ltd – Ogedeh OML 90 MFOG-2D. Others are Del Sigma Petroleum Ltd – Ke OML 90 MFOG-2E; Goland Petroleum Ltd -Oriri OML 88 MFOG-2F; Sahara Energy Ltd/African Oil and Gas Ltd – Tsekelewu OML 40 MFOG-2G and Sogenal Ltd Akepo – OML 90 MFOG-2H. The judge restrained the respondents from advertising a bidding process for the field(s) which were awarded to the applicants, or selling them. The judge further granted an interim injunction authorising the applicants “to continue to manage, operate, control, explore… the marginal fields pending the hearing and determination of the substantive suit.” He adjourned till June 29 for mention. 