 THIS is a period when many entrepreneurs are  working hard to meet their business obligations and still stay safe. In what ways have the sit at home period due to the covid 19 pandemic affected the contemporary art scene in Nigeria? The stay-at-home period has had both negative and positive effects on the art scene in Nigeria. Negatively, several exhibitions, conferences, auctions, residencies, workshops and talks have been suspended or cancelled. An example is the monthly talk series ‘Point of View’ organised by The Ben Enwonwu Foundation in conjunction with Alliance Francaise/Mike Adenuga Centre Lagos and the Society of Nigerian Artists. In addition, because of the uncertainty, collectors have been uncertain in acquiring or commissioning new work. Several staff have also been laid off or furloughed. The resulting impact is a loss in revenue and increased difficulty by the artists in sustaining themselves. It is difficult at this point to predict the exact number of galleries or art entrepreneurs that will be forced to close their businesses post COVID-19. However, the pandemic has inspired new creative directions among artists. Other positive effects include the embrace of technology and social media channels in reaching new audiences as evidenced in the number of talks on Instagram Live and the sales of work by Nigerian artists at such international houses like Bonhams and Sotheby’s. What stage of preparation were you for the exhibition season when the pandemic struck? I was at an advanced stage with a complete calendar of exhibitions for both local and international artists at the Omenka Gallery. We were a few weeks to the opening of fast-rising artist Ikechukwu Ezeigwe scheduled for April 11, when the Federal Government imposed a lockdown. Omenka is a frontline art gallery in Nigeria. What hopes to reopen the venue as the lockdown eases up somewhat? Omenka Gallery remains cautious in reopening fully to the general public as the safety of our clients and staff is of the utmost importance. In the meantime, plans are underway to open our first fully virtual exhibition with Ikechukwu Ezeigwe. As the president  of the Society of Nigerian Artists, any plans afoot for the lesser artists to recapture themselves financially this period? As president of the Society of Nigerian Artists, I have recently been appointed by the Federal Government as a member of the committee on Post-COVID-19 Initiatives for the Creative Industry. We are tasked with partnering with the government on an economic stimulus and on immediate, short and long term plans to mitigate the effect of the pandemic on the sector. I have no doubt that these palliative measures will impact on emerging, as well as established artists. How did the private art galleries fare during the lockdown? Several private galleries have not fared very well as they’ve suspended activities, laid off or furloughed their staff. How do you combine science, that being your first discipline, with drawing and painting? I approach my painting and drawing scientifically as they are a result of systematic research and discipline. A lot of time is spent researching on my themes while keenly observing nature including anatomy and such subjects as mythology. In my work, I also organize several talks and conferences which centre on bringing together artists, scientists and policymakers in finding creative solutions to problems that affect Africa and the rest of the world. How soon do we expect your solo exhibition? My solo exhibition was earlier scheduled for October this year at Alliance Francaise/Mike Adenuga Centre Lagos. As the lockdown eases, it will become clearer if it can still hold by then or new dates will be announced. 