Governorship aspirants in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ondo State have refused entreaties by some leaders in Abuja to step down for Deputy Governor Agboola Ajayi. The Nation gathered that Ajayi is expected to resign this week and pitch tent with the PDP. His spokesman, Babatope Okeowo, said there is no constitutional provision that his boss must resign his position if he wants to contest any position, whether in the PDP or the All Progressives Congress (APC). Checks showed that many PDP aspirants like Banji Okunomo, Elder Eddy Olafeso and Eyitayo Jegede have picked the party’s nomination forms. Okunomo told our reporter on the phone that he would not step down for any aspirant. It was, however, gathered that the permutation by some chieftains was to field Ajayi as running mate to Jegede if the push for others to step down fails. Sources said Ajayi has secretly obtained the PDP governorship form and is opened to any option made available to him. A PDP chieftain, who pleaded anonymity, said: “We are waiting for them, as their plans to pair Jegede and Agboola Ajayi is already on the cards. “Don’t forget that we all resisted the initial plan of the national leadership to give the deputy governor an automatic ticket. “From what we are getting now, the same elements who are bent on controlling our party from outside want to bring Agboola on board at all costs. “The question we are asking is that what is the reason for this desperation by Agboola? Here is a man who wanted to be governor and that ambition made him to fall apart with Governor Rotimi Akeredolu. “Are they saying those of us who have built this party since inception are fools? “The man went to APC and worked against us, which led to our failure in 2016. How are we sure that there won’t be crisis as a result of his inordinate ambition soon after the election? “What suddenly happened to the hyped slogan of Ondo South for Governor, which was the driving force for some southern gladiators to join him in the defection plan from APC.”