Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun, former Lagos State House of Assembly Speaker Adeyemi Ikuforiji and the member representing Somolu Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Ademorin Kuye, yon Wednesday condoled with the family of the late Lagos East Senator Sikiru Adebayo. The All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwarts said the senator’s death was a big loss to his constituents and other Nigerians he helped. Also, former Lagos State Deputy Governor Dr. Idiat Adebule, Elegushi of Ikate Kingdom, Oba Saheed Elegushi, and Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM), Mrs. Abike Dabiri-Erewa, expressed sadness over the demise of the Lagos East senator. The governor, in a condolence message, described the senator’s death as a “shared pain, mutual loss” not only to the family but to Ogun and Lagos states as well as Nigeria. He added: “Pepper (or Pepperito), as he was fondly called, had become a phenomenon and a symbol of loyalty to his friends, fidelity to a cause and courage, even in tempestuous times. Senator Osinowo, a consummate politician and patriot, will be sorely missed by all. “Posterity will accord him his due recognition for his legacies of service and forthrightness. I recall with nostalgia his unwavering support in my bumpy journey to the office, which continued till he breathed his last. Pepper never forgot his roots, even as he served the nation in different capacities and locations. He was a worthy Ambassador of Ogun State. “I urge you all to find solace in this Prophetic counsel: ‘Amazing is the affair of the believer, verily all of his affairs is good and this is not for anyone except the believer. If something of good/happiness befalls him, he is grateful, and that is good for him. If something of harm befalls him, he is patient and that is good for him.’ (Saheeh Muslim #2999).” Kuye described Osinowo as a trailblazer and a servant-leader who put the interest of Lagos State above his personal desires. In a statement in Abuja, he said: “The news of the sudden death of Distinguished Senator, a teacher, a dogged fighter, a stabiliser and my very good brother, Senator Bayo Osinowo, came to me as a great shock and in an unimaginable way. “I’m still in awe, trying to imagine how agile, strong, smart, witty and great he was. Osinowo was a trailblazer, a compassionate politician and a leader who put service above self.” In a statement he personally signed, Ikuforiji said: “…I look back on the good times we shared. I remember our several trips to Ijebu-Ode while the house, which has now become his resting place, was being built. It was in the course of these trips that Senator Osinowo introduced me to the best egusi joint, a testament to his unparalleled hospitality.” Ikuforiji recalled that during his 10-year tenure as the Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Osinowo’s political sagacity was a major factor in the stability and progress of that period. Dr. Adebule described the deceased as a loyal party man and grassroots mobiliser. In a statement by his media aide, Temitope Oyefeso, Oba Elegushi said: “We have been denied the services of a democrat and one who is committed to the good and well-being of the people. The late Senator Osinowo was passionate about the development of Lagos and he gave his best in the service of Lagosians till the end.” Mrs. Dabiri-Erewa said: “I was perturbed with feelings of emptiness and stunned to speechlessness. As the senator representing my constituency, Senator Osinowo was a consummate politician, friendly, with a great sense of humour, generous, down to earth, loyal, consistent and compassionate.” Association of Local Governments of Nigeria (ALGON) National President Kolade David Alabi said he was shocked and saddened to hear about the death of “a rare gem, Pepperito, an inspiring leader who used his voice as a legislator to speak on behalf of his people. His death has left a mark of real courage and leadership skills worthy to emulate by all”. The late Osinowo was one of the very few people that fought for democratic rule, and always on the frontline”.