We can handle Coronavirus (COVID-19) and any disease that finds it way into our country,” our minister had boasted in the early days of the virus. Do we needlessly beat wardrums without mapping out strategies to triumph? Though the pandemic caught us unawares, winning the battle against the deadly virus is not by population but effective measures put in place. Paying lipservice to sensitive situations like this will do us no good. Could we say because we had conquered some in the past like the Ebola virus, we need not panic? We didn’t take the necessary steps. The music industry, film industry even our comedians turned it to joke, both the rich and the poor laughed over it ,oblivious of how dangerous it could be. Pastors, Imams and traditional priests didn’t show any concern when the battle began. Nobody expected it would affect all sectors of human life. Different theories were propounded by Nigerians: some said it was a developed virus by the Chinese to conquer the world and take the place of United States as the world’s super power. Some claimed it is a spiritual attack from God to set the saints free and make His name known across the world. Now ,we have to blame ourselves for our carefree attitude. During my pre-quarantine days on campus, I was enjoying my day when I heard that ASUU Chairman, Prof. Biodun Ogunyemi had declared a two-week warning strike. It was no surprise because poor leadership, poverty, corruption, among others have been impediments to the the country’s growth and development since independence. Within the two weeks’ warning strike, the Coronavirus hit the country massively and dominated the national space,even till this moment. Cases were being reported everyday and the number of infected people increased daily . “We can handle it” but our streets started getting deserted,fear filled the atmosphere, no more handshakes, hugging etc. “Stay at home, stay safe” was the new chant. The early days of the lockdown were hell on earth. There was nowhere to go.The country was locked down,no movement of sorts. Everything seemed strange to me. Worship centres, social gathering must be avoided as a measure to curb this pandemic.There were cries of another economic recession. However, COVID-19 pandemic which led to the lockdown has helped me to think over my past and set long-time goals. Aside, it has helped many youths to discover their talents. I pray that this ends soon. Our carelessness has kept us indoor for days. If this fails to stop soon, it will have damaging effects across the entire fabric of the country. Prayer is the only solution for now, albeit, Federal Government, state government, local government, medical personnels, law enforcement agencies have taken great steps so far. We, citizens too, also need to adhere strictly to the rules given by the government to contain the spread of this virus. 