Ondo State Governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu and his predecessor, Dr. Olusegun Mimiko, on Thursday expressed sadness over the death of a former governor of the state, Evangelist Bamidele Ishola Olumilua. Late Olumilia was governor of old Ondo state between January 1992 and November 1993. Governor Akeredolu described him as a consummate politician who achieved remarkable and indelible feats. Akeredolu in a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Segun Ajiboye, said the late Olumilua injected a lot of thinking into governance while conducting the affairs of the old Ondo state, from which Ekiti State was created. He stated that his demise amounted to further depletion of the generation of politicians who believe that politics and governance were about service to the people. According to statement, “Olumilua lived a good, worthy and exemplary life from which younger generations can learn and imbibe the attributes of discipline, strong character, forthrightness, patience and hardwork. “My words to them were words of consolation, of encouragement and of solidarity. Though of age, the death of a dear one must be deeply sorrowful, when the departed is as wonderful, humane, astute and profound in thoughts and wisdom, the pain becomes much more riveting.” Dr. Mimiko on his part encouraged Olumilua’s children and wives to take stock and be prepared to carry on with confidence and on the deeply remarkable legacies of their patriarch. “Evangelist Olumilua was to me a true leader. Ours was a relationship that was never broken by partisanship, time and or location. He remained true to his leadership roles to me till the end and I valued him like a true political beneficiary. “While time is not yet ripe to write of his indelible contribution to my political history, my family and I wish to extend our condolences to his immediate and extended family members, political and religious associates, the people and government of Ekiti State and all lovers of social democratic governance, a cause to which the late Olumilua devoted most part of his adult life.”