Two aviation agencies – Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) and Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) have relocated their corporate headquarters to Abuja. The relocation came on the heels of a ministerial directive issued on May 4, 2020 urging them to within 45 days effect compliance to ensure efficient and effective coordination and enhanced service delivery between them and the ministry. Disclosing this at the weekend, General Manager, Public Affairs, NAMA, Khalid Emele said the Managing Director of the agency, Captain Fola Akinkuotu and other critical staffs have been operating from the new operational headquarters in Abuja. Emele said though the agency has adhered structure to the ministerial directive, arrangements are being made for other strategic personnel to follow suit in due course. Last Wednesday the Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) commenced the relocation of its corporate headquarters to Abuja from Lagos in line with the Ministerial directive that ordered all aviation agencies to move their corporate headquarters to Abuja. The move by the AIB came a day before the expiration of the 45 days ultimatum issued aviation agencies to move their corporate headquarters from Lagos to Abuja. Its Commissioner/Chief Executive Officer, Engineer Akin Olateru who disclosed this in Lagos said the agency was adhering to the ministerial directive. Olateru said he alongside   other strategic officers had since been operating from Abuja. He said the agency movement was in compliance of a ministerial directive issued May 4, 2020 mandating them to take the step to ensure an efficient and effective coordination and enhanced service delivery between the Federal Ministry of Aviation and its agencies. The Minister of Aviation in a letter dated 4th May, 2020 had ordered all the agencies under the Ministry to relocate their Headquarters office to the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja within 45 days. The letter read in part: “I am directed to remind you of the presidential directive issued in 2012 requesting agencies under the ministry to relocate their corporate headquarters to the Federal Capital Territory for efficient and effective coordination and enhanced service delivery between the ministry and its agencies and to note that, eight years after the directives, the agencies are yet to comply. “Accordingly, considering the current situation and the economic impact worldwide, as well as the need to reduce the cost of governance and manage the scare resources in a sustainable way, it has become imperative and further to the Minister’s directives to request that you facilitate and complete the relocation exercise of your corporate headquarters to Abuja within the next 45 days, in line with earlier directives.” According to the Bureau, the relocation, which is an ongoing process, will take a while for other essential staff to relocate to the Head Office considering the lockdown and funding to aid the exercise. The Bureau has also effected these changes on all its social media platforms and other formal means of communications. Other affected agencies included the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) and Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) which are yet to comply. Two other agencies: Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMET) and Nigerian College of Aviation Technology (NCAT), have their headquarters in Abuja and Zaria, Kaduna State respectively.