 How has COVID-19 affected LaLiga as one of the most important football leagues in the world? The global COVID-19 crisis forced the postponement of LaLiga back on March 12th, leaving no confirmed return date. But LaLiga hasn’t stood still during this time. Despite the postponement of the competition, LaLiga has maintained its commitment not only to football but to societal development, leading several high-profile solidarity actions during the confinement period in Spain, in addition to coordinating and promoting those of others. Tell us about the LaLiga se juega en casa initiative? LaLiga has, beyond the actions of the respective clubs, been a notable and pioneering promoter during the confinement in Spain. It has created its own solidarity initiatives, but also acting as a hub to bring together and coordinate many other actions. Under the global ‘LaLiga se juega en casa’ strategy (‘LaLiga is played at home’), over €1.2 million has been raised for the acquisition of medical equipment, among other things. Among the most innovative and followed actions were the macro charity music concert LaLiga Santander Fest and eSports tournament LaLiga Santander Challenge, which drew an audience of over 61 million from all over the world; which, together, managed to raise more than €1.2million for the acquisition of medical equipment, among other milestones. Being a football brand, why is LaLiga investing in societal development across the world? One of LaLiga’s most important stated objectives is to support societal development and football growth around the world, under the slogan “We have an obligation to give back to society what society has given us.” We see the values of football as the ideal means of building a better world and, as a result, has put its influence and experience at the service of society. Tell us about some of the key societal development initiatives? Some of these initiatives are: social and sporting projects for youth development, permanent academies, the creation of socio-educational schools, projects for instilling values, social intervention projects, local scouting projects with high performance visits to Spain, collaborations with national teams, projects to train coaches and managers, annual Spanish Academies Meetings, and MoUs with national leagues and federations. With this objective in mind and thanks to this clear structure and method, LaLiga has contributed significantly to societal development through football around the world. 313 projects have been run in 35 countries since September 2015, training 200,000 children and 20,000 coaches and educators thanks to the 645 coaches sent by LaLiga. Likewise, 284 socio-educational schools have been created and 32 MoUs have been signed with leagues and federations in more than 26 countries, offering the perfect breeding ground for the proliferation of even more sporting and social projects in the future. Since LaLiga’s entrance into the Nigerian market, what has been its impact to the country’s football society? LaLiga came to Nigeria in 2016, with the goal to be closer to its local fans and to grow together with the local football actors. That’s why we’ve always tried to work through strategic partnership, designing projects beneficial for every part involved. Nigeria is a football country, and we’ve been working to develop football sector through those partnerships we have with Legacy Sports, LMC, NWFL, Lagos Business School or HiFL among others. To give a few examples, through our partnership with LMC and NPFL, we’ve trained over 400 local coaches, in the last four years, 160 only this year, and Nigeria is the first country where LaLiga has reached the fourth edition and fourth level of this coaching seminar. Those coaches have then been involved in the young players’ development across the country, improving their performances at the U15 NPFL and LaLiga promises tournament, but also in the youth squads of the national team. The MVP of last edition had the chance to fly to Spain and train with Málaga CF for 10 days, which shows our commitment to enhance our partnership with our local partners, year by year, but on the long term. Another example, our collaboration with Lagos Business School (LBS), shows our commitment to help on the growth not only of the game itself, but of football and sports industry in the country, through the different common programs launched between LBS and LaLiga Business School. Of course we don’t forget our main engine, our fans, who are the reason why Atlético de Madrid visited Nigeria in 2018, to play at the Uyo National Stadium, and why we organized our first ElClásico Public Viewing in Lagos earlier this year. What should Nigerians expect from LaLiga in the coming future? LaLiga philosophy is to continue promoting the growth of football around the world, both in the medium and long term, with a clear societal focus. This central and immutable premises can be expressed through three specific objectives for the future: the sustainability and continuance of the projects launched thus far, in search of a permanent rather than just a temporary impact; in fact, the second objective is to train and empower the stakeholders involved to become autonomous, so all training carried out by LaLiga is reflected in the future; and finally to forge new paths both in terms of the projects and the countries and groups receiving training. If football knows no borders, neither does its promotion by LaLiga. In Nigeria, we will keep on working with our local partners and will explore new ways to collaborate. We will soon announce a project with NWFL, as we want to support women’s football development, but there will be some new initiatives to bring LaLiga closer to the local fans as well, as we understand how important they are for us. We are looking forward to engaging with them again, and hopefully it will be very soon.  