 An award-winning Media-Personality-of-the-year-2018 Kelvin Akparanta has emphasized the needs for the nation to diversify the economy with oil price in constant jeopardy. The Abia-born Akparanta is a graduate of biochemistry in University of Calabar  but later ventured into media/digital marketing and got certified from the University of Johannesburg. In an interview in Calabar, he said: “While in school, I realised that my senior colleagues that graduated were still seeking jobs. I had a passion for writing, so I had to start a career in media which I saw to be so promising but my attention was divided in school and that made me had an extra year but I later graduated in 2015.” According to him, going into digital marketing as a business was as a result of the need for it in the society. “I started with graphic design and at a point; I noticed that a lot of persons that were asking for graphics were brands that want to use graphics as a way of disseminating information and reaching their target audience. “And in the process, I noticed that most brands don’t even have the knowledge of how to reach their target audience, that’s where my interest in digital marketing came up. I started looking for clients to help them reach their target audience.” He added: “However, when the COVID-19 pandemic set in, I noticed that a lot of businesses realized the digital space as a major platform where they can leverage for sales and meet their target audience. “During this period I have trained few people on the use of social media and digital marketing but when the pandemic is over, we have a plan of opening an academy herein Calabar, where we will train 100 persons in Broadcasting, Graphics design, Digital Marketing, Content Writing among other areas that make up the media sphere. “And please note that the training will be free of charge because that is a way of giving back to society and help, people realize that the media is the new oil and one can really earn a good living in media and digital marketing”. Akparanta, who runs a corporate image branding company with many jobs to his credit, including  “the branding of Hitz FM, Sparkling FM, FAD FM, Miss Africa, Calabar Carnival and Big Brother Naija”. He called on governments and other agencies to partner with him to curb the rate of unemployment in the society and he charged young people to be focus. “My message to young people especially in Calabar is that, you don’t have to run to other cities to make it, you can still make an impact here and earn a living. “Irrespective of where you are, location is not a barrier, have a focus, have a plan, work towards your plan. It may take a longer time but as far as you know where you are going, you will definitely arrive”.   