Ondo Governor Rotimi Akeredolu has declared his readiness for any form of primary election his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) adopts. Akeredolu spoke to State House Correspondents on Tuesday after meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa in Abuja. The Governor also said he was not in doubt of getting the governorship ticket of the APC at the primary, adding that his mandate was divine. Akeredolu said he was in the State House to Buhari that he was running for re-election and to present his Expression of Interest forms to him. Speaking about the report that the APC had settled for the direct governorship primary pattern, Akeredolu said: “I am not aware of that policy but if it is the policy of the party, fair enough, we are good to go in any form of primaries. “That is why you see our people, they say it openly that direct or indirect, Aketi is a goal. Whichever one you want to adopt, direct or indirect, Aketi is a goal, we will win whichever one. “A lot of people know about me and that was what happened in the last time too. When I tell you I am sure, my confidence is in God Almighty. For me, God will do it. I am not in this battle myself, it’s the battle of the Lord. So, I have no fears, God will do this and I know very well”, said. Speaking about his reason for visiting the State House, the governor said “as you know, Ondo State elections will be coming up in October and our party, APC has set down the rules and guidelines for the election and clearly we are at the time now to obtain Expression of Interest and our nomination forms. “Having obtained the Expression of Interest and Nomination Form, I decided to let the President know of the fact that I will be contesting election again. The last time I contested, I made it known to him that I will be running for the election. “So I have only come here to let the President know of the fact that I will be running for this office and I pray God Almighty that I will be successful and that I needed his blessing and he wished me very well, that’s why I have come”, he said. When asked if he had been assured of President Buhari’s support for his ambition, he said putting the President in such a position to disclose who he supports for an election would be unfair to him as he ought to be seen as father to all sides. “Mr. President is a father to all of us, let us be fair to him but he knows what we have tried to do. Remember, you saw in a photo display, the President visiting Ondo State, to visit our Ondo Linyi Industrial Hub. “That is a monumental achievement and the President was proud of it and he even said so especially that we are able to come up with this idea with the Chinese companies and other companies there in Ondo Linyi is worthy of emulation by every body. “That can go for giving you a pass mark, it can go for President supporting you. But all I know is that the President is a father to all, he don’t expect him to say this is my candidate. But I know that he has seen our work and he has said to me pointedly, you have done very well in Ondo State”, he said.