A 34-year old man identified as Olusegun Abe who impersonated Flight Lieutenant SA Abe with a view to defraud family of late NAF pilot, Flight Lieutenant Ohai Idonije has been arrested. Flight Lieutenant Idonije was killed by Boko Haram insurgents and the family were still processing his benefits when Abe turned up requesting for sensitive documents from the family to enable him process the benefits. Dressed in Nigerian military woodland camouflage uniform with the rank of Wing Commander, Abe was said to have approached a sister to the deceased, Mrs Tola Gbadamosi and introduced himself as her late brother’s senior colleague at NAF. He was said to have promised to assist the family in claiming the benefits of the deceased. Narrating what happened, Tola who is a crime reporter of The Hope Newspaper said, “Sometimes late last month, the suspect came to my office to drop his contact number and left instruction that I should call him, claiming to be my late brother’s colleague. “I called his phone and he came to meet me in my office, fully dressed in military uniform. ”He gave an impression that he would assist us in processing my late brother’s benefits. So, he asked me to hand over the originals of some sensitive documents, which he intended to use in claiming the benefits.” Tola stated that she contacted Acting Commander of the NAF 209 Quick Response Group (QRG) team of Intelligence/ Regiment personel from Ipetu Ijesa, Osun State when she sensed fraudulent intention. On his part, the suspect said he got Tola’s contact on social media after he learnt about the death of her brother. He said he drove from Abuja to Akure and confessed his friend who works with the Nigeria Immigration Service helped him with fake ID cards. ”I don’t know what came over me. And my pastor had told me he saw handcuffs in my hands, but I did not listen. I am a native of Ekiti State. I am married with a son and running a Masters programme in Abuja but i do business everywhere. “The military uniform is from my uncle, a retired Air force Officer from Ekiti State. The man has travelled out of the Nigeria.” The suspect, according to NAF, would be handed over to the Ondo Police Command for further investigations and prosecution.