 I take a ride today at the expense of the concept of separation of powers which is the underlying principle of the presidential system of government being practised in both the US and  Nigeria. Indeed,  these  are trying times for the practice of separation of powers given the nature and personalities of the two  presidents of both nations. The  Nigerian President is withdrawn, aloof but  quite  calculating and has maintained a modicum of political  stability even though in terms of insecurity, the killings in many parts of the nation especially the North where he comes from, make the country    look  like an entity  threatening   to collapse  like a pack  of cards. In  fact  the ruling party that  he heads and leads is battling with a Trojan  horse that  has infiltrated it  roundly  such that  I tremble  at  its survival and   unity of purpose  at this point in time. The American President  on the other  hand has taxed the workability and efficiency of the separation  of powers  system  in   the US   so   much with legal  issues and has been  so  absorbed  in his reelection in November 2020 that  great  doubts are   being raised that  he may not abide or accept the results of the 2020 US  presidential  elections,  if he loses. Which  is  a very  cataclysmic prospect  for a United States that  is the nation that really gave  the world the gift of the presidential  system to  ensure and enshrine that  power is not abused,  or   misused, such  that    a dictatorship will  arise in any democracy  worthy of  that  name. But  benign neglect  and capriciousness  are  clear invitations to political confusion and instability anywhere  they  are seen in a presidential system and it is in that context that  I  examine  the practice of separation of powers  in both nations today. It  is necessary  to dilate first on the motive  of those who  originated  the concept of the separation  of powers,  who were called ‘the founding fathers of the US ‘  who included the likes of George Washington, the first  president and  Thomas Jefferson the prolific writer   and also    president on equality, freedom and  human rights. Unfortunately   today,  most of the US  founding fathers are being denounced as past  slave owners  and their  statues  are being attacked, threatened or destroyed since the killing of George Floyd, the Black  American    murdered  by a   white  police officer who knelt on his neck till  he died of asphyxiation subsequently on May  25. The  nationwide protests in the US ballooned into a global  one that has questioned the role of colonialism in slave trade and is seeking recompense and historical reappraisal  of the role  of hitherto  revered historical  and political  figures like even Winston Churchill. Unfortunately for US President Donald Trump ,  he remains the major  pillar of support not to denigrate historical figures and statues     on   racism and  has issued legal  penalties and fines as punishment,   but  he, as usual,   is moving in opposing direction to popular will  for  now in his  nation. We  go back  to our mission  again,  which  is to show  the essence of  separation  of powers which  simply   is to ensure that  the three arms of government namely the executive , the judiciary and the legislature are  equal and independent such  that one  does not dictate or encroach  on the authority of the other. It  is  purely   a system   of checks  and  balances   on the use   of power   legitimately. But the three    arms    of government  are  constitutionally intertwined and interwoven   to work  harmoniously  for the advancement of good  governance, peace  and political  stability. In  Nigeria there is amity between the executive and the legislature because  the ruling party has a majority in both the House of Representatives   and    the  Senate that  plays ball  with the motives and policies of the government. It is with regard  to the management of the ruling party that  the government has problems with  judicial   litigations on the structure and administration of the ruling APC. It  is not as if the judiciary is an activist one but  most party administrative   issues have become matters for judicial interventions  when  they are indeed very  clear  political    matters  for the executive in government and the party leadership  and hierarchy  to resolve. Two  examples on the   recent   defection of the APC governor   Godwin   Obaseki, to PDP  are    enough  to  illustrate  this viewpoint Barely 24 hours to the PDP primaries  of   June 25 ,  there  was a case in Port Harcourt , which is now the judicial  capital of Nigerian politics, asking the court to debar  the former APC  governor from contesting on the platform of the PDP  to which  he has defected,  brought by a PDP litigant . The  PDP  reportedly asked for an adjournment to resolve the issue out of court and the judge reportedly gave a three hour adjournment after which the court convened and dismissed the case with  commendation to all parties concerned for doing well in settling out of court . That  is a judicial   settlement of a case that should  have been resolved politically  by the parties ‘management and administration  which  lost  control one way or the other.   Certainly,  that is a successful  judicial   resolution of a political  matter without judicial adjudication, which is a rarity in Nigeria’s  politics of separation of powers. The  second case is the issue of  Victor  Giadom ,  the Acting Chairman of the APC reportedly  backed on account of legality by the President according to the Presidential  spokesman. I  doubt  if legality could   be the reason for the president’s backing   because   there  are  many   conflicting   court   injunctions    for and  against  this  Acting  Chairman  both  in his   acting and  substantive  capacities  in the Party’s hierarchy. What  I suspect is that in announcing the revocation of the disqualification of the   former   APC  governor of Edo   State   from the  APC  at the  last  APC  Primaries, the Acting Chairman read the President’s mind  correctly  and the president gave his support, albeit  belatedly, after the Edo State  governor had defected . Such    correct  reading of the mind of one’s boss  is called  telepathy. Which   can   be hazardous   if one   gets   the boss’s    mind wrong. How  the President will  rally  his troops in the APC around this Acting Chairman  which  the NWC of  the party said  is not even their member  officially,  is the president’s problem  because ultimately the buck stops  on his table. So  far,   procrastination has been  the thief of time of the APC leadership on election issues and there is need  for the   party   to  wake up  from its Rip Van Winkle  sleep  of 20 years in   the present  four year term of office in ruling Nigeria. On  the contrary, while there is collaboration between the Executive and Legislature in  the   Nigerian separation of powers , there  is  no  love lost  between both in the American presidential, separation of powers. A  good recent example  was  the failed impeachment of the US president by the House  of Representatives,   which was overturned  by the Senate   where the president’s party  has  the  majority. Another  good example emerged  this week  when the Senate Majority  leader of the president’s Republican  Party announced that the  Party or the senate  has filled all the 200 judicial  vacancies in the US Courts of Appeal. Such    judicial   appointment   is a legislative function of the US  Senate     where  the President’s   party  is in a small   but powerful   majority. Which means the Republicans have put in place judges that value Republican issues and  are anti- gay rights , transgender , and abortion . . Indeed all values that the Obama Administration valued and put in place in its two terms are being dismantled judicially   by the executive arm of government with the placement     of   compliant judges in the judiciary . That  is carrying separation of powers to its logical  conclusion  or  too  far   culturally  and for  a long time after Trump would have left office whether ,   he  is reelected or not in November . Another interesting example of   testy   separation of powers in the US was  the recent case of Trump’s  first NSA  retired General Mike Flynn who  was to be sentenced by a US Court for lying on Russian involvement in US Politics on the eve of Trump’s election  and   assumption   of office . . The US Department of Justice  [  DOJ ]  later in court said it had changed its mind on   prosecuting  the case and   because of  new   evidence ,  there was no need for the case or the prosecution to continue . The trial  judge cried foul and  alluded to political  interference on behalf of the US president . The  trial  judge refused to dismiss the case and the DOJ  appealed to a higher court which ruled that  the trial  court was trying to circumvent  the prosecutorial powers of the DOJ which  is an executive and not judicial  function . Which   was  a fine way to  define  the extent and limits of separation of powers   between   the judiciary    and the executive . Of  course Trump’s   opponents have been busy bashing the head of the DOJ and  US  Attorney  General  William   Barr  ever  since . But then that is that nature  of politics and the essence of the principle  of separation  of powers . Once again, From the fury of this raging pandemic, Good Lord Deliver Nigeria Amen. 