Leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) Nnamdi Kanu on Monday disclosed the readiness of Biafra for independence and sovereignty. Kanu said in a statement by the IPOB Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful in Owerri that they were fighting hard to ensure that Biafra attained independence and sovereignty in his lifetime. According to him the necessary mechinary had been put in place to achieve the goal. “IPOB is totally ready and doing much to ensure that Biafra independence and sovereignty comes in our life time,” he maintained. “Therefore, every Biafran must be prepared to welcome the sovereignty and independence of Biafra in no distance future.” He congratulated all Biafrans for their resoluteness and determination towards the peaceful observance and successful outcome of thie noble event championed by IPOB in rememberance and commemoration of the fallen heroes and heroines who paid ultimate price and sacrificed much of their lives in the Biafra-Nigeria civil war between 1967 and 1970. “This year’s celebration of the epoch event went successfully well across Biafraland without any hinderance. All Biafrans around the globe celebrated this event in their respective countries of abode. “We equally thank Biafrans of Ijaw (Izon), Annang, Ibibio, Igbo, Uhrobo, Isoko, ltsekiri, Efik, Igede, Igala, Igbanke (Igbo Akira), Igodomigodo, Esan, Ogoni and others who contributed immensely for the huge success recorded in this year’s exercise. “Those who participated in this year’s Biafra rememberance day with candle processions all across South East and beyond did well, and we pray the Almighty God (Chukwu Okike Abiama) to continue to protect them for what is absolutely coming in future. “This 30th of May 2020, our people remembered those who fought for us to live accordingly and we are on the know that their spirit and memories shall continue to abide with us until Biafra freedom is completely achieved.” He also said that “IPOB is working the clock round both locally and internationally to ensure that those illegally arrested by the Nigeria army and police at Eleme during their candle procession are released without further delay.”