  TONTO Dikeh and Mercy Aigbe were at loggerheads with their ex-husbands over the 2020 Father’s Day celebration. Tonto and Mercy had taken to their Instagram pages to celebrate themselves on Father’s Day while wishing other dads around the world a joyous celebration. While Tonto’s ex-husband, Churchill Olakunle didn’t let the shade from his former wife slide, Lanre Gentry responded to Mercy Aigbe’s tribute with a direct shade. Tonto had written, ”Happy Father’s Day to me because I’ve done it all by myself and aced it anyways. Dearest son, being your dad has been a great honour. Tonto moved on to throw shade at Olakunle saying, “Actions prove who someone is… Word just proves who they want to be.” Reacting to the post, Churchill said, “Happy Fathers’ Day to all the fathers in the world. A father is a father irrespective of marital challenges. A father is not only by way of giving birth to a child; but by way of taking care of children around you, and children around the world who are in need,” he began. Responding to the shade from the ‘Damage’ actress, Olakunle wrote, “I pray for all the fathers in the world that your child/children will not be used as a tool of jealousy, because of broken relationships like it’s done in the old era. As I celebrate this day, I pray this won’t be the era when single parenting ends up affecting a child/ children’s mentality thereby confusing them.” As fans scrambled to feast on Tonto and Churchill’s war of words, Mercy Aigbe and Lanre Gentry renewed their estrangement. “Happy Father’s Day to me, to all the responsible fathers out there and all single parents who play a dual role. May we eat the fruits of our labour in Jesus name. Thank you, Jehovah for grace,” the ‘Osas Omoge Benin’ star wrote. Gentry won’t let it stride as he responded saying, “Any woman in the world witch herself happy father’s day should prepare to be paying for the children’s school fees. Again, Happy Father’s Day and happy Sunday to my good people all over the world.” Tonto was married to Churchill between August 2015 and May 2017 while Mercy separated from Gentry based on domestic violence.