U.S based former Green Eagles and Mighty Jets midfielder, Andy Atuegbu went memory lane to share intimate memories of his footballing family, relationship with late brother, Aloysius Atuegbu and exploit abroad, with TAIWO ALIMI. Andy Atuegbu is a striking copy of his younger brother, Aloysius ‘Block Buster’ Atuegbu, 1980 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) winner. The resemblance is unmistakable as both of them are sturdy with muscular arms and legs like a prize fighter. Andy and Aloysius had bonded from childhood. You only need to be reminded of Aloysius midfield presence, doggedness and ruggedness in the colours of Rangers International and the Green Eagles, to understand the tenacity and awesome power of Andy on the pitch. Andy Atuegbu easily evokes memory one of one of foremost football stars to leave Nigeria’s shores for University education. He came back occasionally to play for club and country in between studies. Their eldest brothers, Matthew and Nicholas also played football to the highest level. At a point the four Atuegbu brothers (Matthew, Nicholas, Andy and Aloysius, perhaps the first time that four brothers would be playing in a Nigerian club), played in the colours of the great Mighty Jets of Jos. In-fact the team was so good that it was selected by the Nigeria Football Association (NFA) to represent the country during an international meeting. Back to Andy Atuegbu, he was a member of the celebrated Mighty Jets squad that won the inaugural National Football Club League back to back in 1972 and 1973. The team also defeated Nigeria national team, Green Eagles, who were on national playing tour in preparation of the European tour of Russia, Poland, and Czech Republic. Andy explained: “Mighty Jets played against them in Jos and defeated them woefully. The then acting chairman of the Nigeria Football Association (AFN) Justice Ademola Adeoba was so impressed by our performance, that he decided that Mighty Jets will be a better representative of Nigeria. This trip was the first time in the history of Nigerian Football that four brothers, including myself, travelled overseas on a football playing tour to represent Nigeria. Our late mother was not happy during our absence.” He later captained Mighty Jets  Andy also made the Green Eagles team between 1972 and 1976, as well as the Nigeria soccer team to the Olympics in 1976 and becoming one of the few players to be invited from abroad to play for fatherland. Though he would have played alongside his brother at AFCON 80, he opted out due to engagement in his U.S University. Like a gold fish that has no hidden place, Andy soon became the toast of University of San Francisco (USF). His presence in the midfield and goal scoring prowess was a thorn in the flesh of opposing teams. For four (1974-1977) years as an undergraduate, ‘The Dons’ won the Division 1 Men’s Soccer Tournament (NCAA) otherwise known as College Cup in 1975 and 1976. His outstanding play led to his selection in the All American first team of 1976 and in the All American second team in 1975 and 1977. Andy was also complimented for scoring the winning goal that gave ‘The Dons’ the National Challenge Cup in 1976 and voted NCAA Most Valuable Player (MVP). He went on to captain the team. Impressed by his College performances, Andy was signed by Oakland Stompers in the North American Soccer League (NASL) in 1978 but moved on to Edmonton Drillers the following year. By 1985, he had been snapped up by three other clubs before hanging his boot. Soccer America Magazine named him in the NCCA Player of the Century list of honours. Meanwhile, the journey to stardom for Andy started in their humble abode in Jos-Nigeria. Finding football “The house that I grew up in Jos had two mango trees in the front and two mango trees opposite our house. As soon as my brothers and I came back from school, (St. Theresa Catholic School), we would embarked on a football competition, namely, two defending one side of the tree and two defending the opposite. Aloysius and I would team up against our two older brothers. Sometimes, our friends will join in the competition.” He noted that their footballer father also fuelled their passion, in spite of stiff resistance from their mum. “My father was an ex-footballer, and we merely followed in his footsteps. My mother was so much against us playing football because we always neglected our house chores. The first four children in my family were all boys. Growing up, we were intensely involved in the youth competitions for the schools, clubs, and streets. I think that this exposure laid the foundation of our competitiveness. Whenever Aloysius and I paired up and played against our older siblings in the two by two house tournament and lost, we didn’t take the defeat lightly. I believe that this experience moulded our individual competitiveness. Growing up, I hated losing in anything, especially football games and academics.” They soon took their skills to the state youth team. He said: “Matthew, Nicholas and I joined the Plateau State Club, consisting of Sam Garba, Ismaila Mabo, Sule Kekere, Layiwola Olayiwola, Gabriel Babalola, and Uba Junior. Patron of the club, Alhaji Isyaku transformed the team into a semi-professional club. He contracted a Brazilian coach, Samuel Lopez to tinker the team. That was when Mighty Jets became a semi-professional club. Later, Aloysius joined us and of four of us became semi-professional football players. Our mother, though, was happy that her children were employed, playing for one of the top clubs in the country, was apprehensive whenever we went on a road trip to play other teams.” Their mother’s premonition almost came alive when they were involved in a ghastly auto accident on their way to Benin- Edo State for a league match. It almost cost them their lives. “This is the first national revelation about the near death accident that Mighty Jet football club had on our way to Benin to play the Vipers. At the time, the bus driver who transported us was a Plateau State employee. On our way to Benin, we stopped for lunch in Sagamu. The driver of our bus decided to drink alcohol. “On our way to Benin, via Ogbomosho, it started raining, and most of us were napping. The next thing we knew, to our horror, our bus started sliding into a gushing river in Ogbomosho! It was prevented from the unknown calamity by a small palm tree at the bank of the gushing river. The driver had fallen asleep because he was drunk. We quickly jumped out of the bus through the window to a safe roadside embankment. “When we got back, our mother usually never greeted us outside. But this time, she was outside waiting for us, and we were all surprised. We were surprised, because the press and media were not aware of our accident. The first thing she said was, “Did you people have an accident?!” I said, “No…”, and she told me not to lie to her because she had a “maternal instinct that we indeed had an accident”. This was an experience and an incident that I will never forget in my life.” Igbo boys in Jos Andy still has fond memories of Jos, the city that he said birth some of the greatest football players in the country due to its coordinated grooming system. “Growing up in Jos was a very pleasant experience for me; we had strong inter-elementary schools competitions in track and field and football. I am proud to say that Jos produced a lot of renowned great ex-football players, among them: Sam Garuba (late), Peter Anieke (late), Sule Kekere (late), Christopher Udemezue (late), Henry Erewa (late), the Dankaro brothers, Matthew Atuegbu (late), Nicholas Atuegbu(late), Aloysius Atuegbu (late), Kenneth Abana, Stanley Okoronkwo, Layiwola Olagbemiro(late), Ogidi Ibeabuchi, Godwin Ogbueze, and Ismaila Mabo. I have pleasant and fun memories of growing up in Jos. The long and sad experiences of the civil war from 1967-1971 was the only unpleasant experience for me. Growing up in Jos had a huge impact on my growth, competitiveness, and humility. I am very glad and thankful that I was born and raised in Jos.” He has fonder memory of his bosom friend and brother, Aloysius, who died on May 25, 2008.  “Aloysius was a very gifted and talented football player. In games that we played together for both country and club, I was amazed and proud of his level of skill and dedication. At one point during the retiring stages of his career, I had mulled over the idea of bringing him to the U.S.A for further studies and also to play football in a more relaxed environment. Our mother nixed my idea because she preferred having him close to her.” Though, it was widely hushed that Andy hold Nigerian football leaders responsible for the death of his brother, he said he never blamed anyone, though devastated. “I was devastated with the death of my younger brother, Aloysius, and I dearly miss him a lot. When he was alive, he was always at the airport at my entry to Nigeria whenever I came to visit. May his soul and the souls of all my loved ones who have transitioned to the Lord continue to rest in perfect peace? (Matthew and Nicholas are late too). I don’t blame anyone for his death, the almighty God is in charge. I was blessed and happy that he and I were opportune to play together and to travel extensively for both club and country.” If the 68 year-old had any grouse with Nigeria sports authority, it is for another reason. “The national sports council sold the narrative that my studies in the U.S.A were funded by them, which was a bogus fallacy.” A greater regret was missing his father’s burial way back in 1975. “Our father died on the 15th of March 1975, six months after I left Nigeria for the USA for my studies. Our older brother, Matthew was in Hungary for a football coaching course. My trip back to Nigeria was supposed to be for just two weeks because my education was still in session. We came back to Lagos on the 16th of March, 1975. Nicholas, Aloysius, and I, and some Igbo speaking team mates of ours travelled to my hometown, Adazi-Nnukwu in Anambra State. “Our trip to my hometown was very rocky because our charted car did not drive smoothly due to the adulterated fuel purchased during our trip. When we eventually arrived, we missed all the burial ceremonies. We never got the chance to say good-bye to our father. March 15 is a date that has left a permanent mark in my life. Father, may you continue to rest in perfect peace. Amen.” In the classroom, Andy also finished in flying colours. He received his B.S degree in Chemistry in 1977 and the M.S (Master in Science) in Chemistry in 1985 from USF. “As a child growing up my ambition was to be a medical doctor. When I got to the U.S.A, I still had that ambition, but the academic regulations for foreign student who wanted to study medicine are not friendly to us. I switched to Chemistry because it was one of my best subjects. Upon graduation, I was employed by a pharmaceutical company, Syntex Inc. I later joined a group of senior staff scientist in conducting drug discovering. I did that for 25 years and retired from the corporate world.” In this area, Andy has been busy and has helped in the invention of drugs useful as anti-HIV compounds and inhibiting of the replication of the virus. He is married to a lovely and compassionate wife, Maureen, from his hometown. “We are blessed with three children: twin daughters – Stephanie Nonyelum and Sandra Chima, and a son – Chukwudi (Chudi) Richard Atuegbu. Our daughters played football during their early childhood and decided to explore other types of sports as they got older, such as track and field, basketball, and lacrosse. Our son Chudi played football the longest, from youth to freshman year in his university. I tried coaching them when they were younger but I was not patient enough,” he added.