A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State, Chief Chukwuemeka Eze, has rejected the judgement of the state High Court, which declared Igo Aguma, the interim Chairman of APC in the state. Eze, a loyalist of the Transport Minister, Rotimi Amaechi, said the judgement was an attempt to leave the APC in perpetual crisis and eventually kill the party. The party stalwart insisted that the judgment if allowed to subsist unchallenged would give a leeway for the continuous occupation of the Government House by the PDP beyond 2023. He said: “Justice Omereji did not just end at granting all the prayers of Aguma, he went beyond the bounds of Aguma’s prayers to impose him Caretaker Chairman of the Rivers APC”. Eze wondered where Omereji derived the powers to override the APC and the Nigerian Constitution to declare Aguma Chairman against the wishes of stakeholders and members. Eze said that the leadership of the Port Harcourt City Local Government Chapter of APC sometimes in February, 2020 disowned Aguma based on his conduct against the leader of the APC, Amaechi. The part Chief noted that Aguma’s success in politics was made possible by Amaechi, who appointed him Commissioner for Sports. Eze queried the parameters the court used to make Aguma the sole administrator of the APC alleging that it was designed by external “forces that feel that Amaechi is a threat to their 2023 Presidential aspiration”. He said: “The court judgement of 9th June, 2020 is a miscarriage of justice and against all known norms of natural justice and that it will not stand because an imposter cannot lead the State chapter in any form. “I am a strong believer in natural justice which is supreme, I wish to urge all and sundry not to be bothered of all these gangups as it will amount to a hoarse. It is just matter of time.” Eze urged party faithful to remain calm adding that the development would help to strengthen the party to forge ahead in its vision of reclaiming the state in 2023.