Former Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chairmen under the auspices of Association of Local Governments of Nigeria (ALGON) have said that their defection to the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kwara State is tantamount to getting to the Promised Land. They added that they are happy in their new party. All but one of the suspended but later reinstated council chairmen had earlier in the year defected to the APC. ALGON is reacting to a statement credited to a pro-democracy group, the Kwara Solidarity and Integrity Forum (KSIF) that Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrasaq is using instrument of the state to coerce chairmen and other political office holders at the local government level to join the APC. In the statement, state ALGON Chairman and Secretary Joshua Omokanye and Abdullahi Bata said: “The state cannot be set into anarchy as we can boldly say that the governor is a peace-loving man, struggling to rebuild the state. “Our defection (all council chairmen except one) and other political office holders at the local government level was concluded last year. “It isn’t a new development. Earlier this year, we were with APC members in Patigi (in solidarity) during the party’s campaign ahead of the House of Assembly by-election, among other outings we’ve have been politically involved in. We are citing these instances to nail any misgiving about our long-concluded defection. “KSIF should not in any way be dismayed simply because we are free to exercise our rights as enshrined in the constitution. The unprecedented achievements of Governor Abdulrasaq across sectors within a year in office served as impetus. “The collective decision was reached after consultation and deliberation with our members. It was unanimously decided that the best option for us will be to pitch tent with the APC under the leadership of Governor AbdulRazaq. “Our choice to work together is in the interest of the good people of the state, coupled with the way and mature manner the governor has been handling local government issues. “Therefore, we members of ALGON, Kwara State chapter, hereby declare for APC and call on our supporters and well-wishers to support the Governor Abdulrasaq  administration to move the state forward. “For the avoidance of doubt, there is need to state it categorically that the governor did not force, intimidate, coerce or harass any member of the local government council executive and legislature to defect to his party. “We are at liberty to make our choice and we have done so. We have since quit PDP. The leadership has dissociated from us. So, the issue of being threatened with salary seizure and arrest by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) officials didn’t manifest anywhere.”