‘Bond Nwanne,’ the former manager of popular singer musician, Phyno has published a book titled “Grounded ways to the music industry”. He said the book touches on “artistes understanding the music business, developmental processes of an artiste’s talent, branding both online and offline, carving a niche for yourself and building a formidable fan base. It also sheds light on building relationships and networking as an artists within and outside the music industry”. The book features heavyweight artiste managers and music executives such as Seun Bankuli, who featured in Beyoncé’s album & a Grammy nominee; Bizzle Osikoya, co-founder of the plug management for Davido and also an A&R expert; Magic-Mike, founder Freemedigital, one of the leading music distribution companies in Nigeria; former GM Sony Music Entertainment West Africa Kamal; Davido’s former manager & Seyi Shay’s manager, Stevespotlight; JJC&419 squad manager & Organiser of Nigerian Midem Africa forum and a host of others. Bond Stanley has been a force in the artiste and music management business for a long time and is well versed in the workings of the music industry. The book is useful for artistes, managers, entertainment practitioners, intending investors and label owners, offering insightful principles on artiste management. In 2017, Bond created a Talent Show, Grounded talent search, geared at discovering and encouraging new/young talent in music and mentoring them. Indigenous hiphop act, B Shine Akabike, based in Enugu was the winner of the maiden edition. Bond Ebigbo Stanley, who is the C.E.O of Grounded Promotions, is armed with years of experience in managing some of the most successful artistes in Africa like Phyno and Runtown. His experience in the music industry spans over a decade with diverse roles such as artiste manager, promoter, blogger, PR, event manager, booking agent and road manager. He tapped into these experiences to write the book with a view to helping established and upcoming artistes and contribute positively to the growth of music industry. He is highly respected for his enormous contributions in the growth of Eastern music entertainment scence. The native of Nnewi North LGA in Anambra State studied computer science in IMT Enugu State. He relocated to Lagos state where he lived,hustled and acquired all his knowledge in the music industry. He lives in the New Jersey, United States.