Akindele Olufunke Bello, popularly known as Funke Akindele and Jenifa, is a Nigerian actress and producer. Funke starred in the sitcom I need to know from 1998 to 2002. In 2009, she won the Africa Movie Academy Award for Best Actress in a leading role. She plays the lead character in the show Jenifa’s Diary for which she was named best actress in a comedy at the 2016 Africa Magic Viewer’s Choice Awards. Funke was born on August 24, 1977 in Ikorodu, Lagos State, Nigeria. She obtained an Ordinary National Diploma (OND) in Mass Communication from the former Ogun State Polytechnic, now Moshood Abiola Polytechnic, She later got a degree in Law. Chukwuebuka Obi-Uchendu was born on 14 July 1982. He is known for hosting the reality show Big Brother Naija, the long running Rubbin’ Minds talk show on Channels TV as well as co-hosting The Spot and Men’s Corner on Ebonylife Television. Obi-Uchendu has received several award nominations and won the award for Outstanding TV Presenter of the Year at the Nigerian Broadcasters Merit Awards for his work on Rubbin’ Minds. Folarin Falana was born on October 27, 1990. He is better known by his stage name Falz. The rapper, songwriter and actor began his career while in secondary school after forming a group called “The School Boys” with his friend before his professional career as a music artist began in 2009. Falz became more well-known after his song “Marry Me” featuring vocals from Poe and Yemi Alade. He owns an independent record label called Bahd Guys Records. He released his debut album Wazup Guy in 2014. His second album Stories that touch was released in 2015. He released 27 as his third studio album in 2017. On January 15, 2019, he released his fourth studio album Moral Instruction. Falz was born in Lagos to renowned lawyers and human right activists Femi and Funmi Falana. He was called to the bar in 2012 after graduating from the Nigeria Law School in Abuja. Falz completed his basic and secondary school education at St. Leo’s Catholic Primary School, Ikeja and Olashore International School, Osun State respectively. He is an alumnus of the University of Reading England, having graduated with an LLB honors degree in Law. Omotunde Adebowale David also known as Lolo 1 of wazobia, is a Nigerian radio presenter who hosts the radio programme, ‘Oga Madam’ on Wazobia FM 94.1. Omotunde attended Ijebu-Ode Anglican Girls secondary school where she also spent part of her school days in a hostel. She is a graduate of Law from Lagos State University and she later went to law school. Femi Adebayo is a lawyer, film actor, director, producer and Special Adviser to the Governor of Kwara State on Arts, Culture and Tourism. He is the son of the veteran actor, Adebayo Salami. He was born in Lagos, southwest Nigeria, but originates from Ilorin, Kwara State. He attended the C&S College for his secondary school education then to University of Ilorin where he obtained a bachelor’s degree in Law, and earned a master’s degree in Law at the University of Ibadan. 