SHACMAN Nigeria  has introduced two models of fire trucks to its range of trucks, thus boosting the truck business in the country. The firm, in a statement, said SHACMAN F2000 and L3000 were added to the existing trucks, which are tractor heads, dump/tipper trucks, mixer and lorry trucks. The fire truck upper-body had been built with 14,000 litres (10,000-litre water tank + 4,000-L foam tank) and 10,000 litres (8,000L water tank + 2000L foam tank). They also have been equipped with high quality carbon steel plate and anti-rust treatment (inside). It can rotate 360 degrees and have water max range of 60m and foam max of 55m. The trucks have suction depth and time of greater than or equal to 7m and less than or equal to 35s. The fire-fighting pump pressure is given as 1.0Mpa with flux of water and foam 60L/S and 48L/S respectively. Each is said to have a 26m fire hose, a sprinkler of max 10m and a horizontal rotation angle of 360 degrees, which makes it very efficient for fire-fighting. The SHACMAN fire truck light-weight, highly rigid body and suspension will help in reducing to the barest minimum; deaths, injuries and economic losses consequent upon the recent ravaging outbreak of fire across states. Chairman, Transit Support Services (TSS), Mr Frank Nneji, said SHACMAN was a leading truck manufacturer in China, adding that it had since inception manufactured over one million vehicles of different varieties. Nneji explained that SHACMAN Nigeria, drawing from local experience in vehicle operation, had designed the  heavy duty trucks for the Nigeria condition with popular and tested power trains made up of Weichai engine (styre), fast gear box and Hande axles. TSS hopes to add the fire trucks to its range of assembled SHACMAN trucks in Nigeria. He said: “SHACMAN trucks can be trusted to offer the most cost-effective operation in Nigeria, delivering a high return on investment to operators. Transit Support Services Limited brought the SHACMAN products to Nigeria through a network of dealers that had been equipped with comprehensive after services supported by the SHACMAN Group.”