   KOGI State Governor Yahaya Bello on Monday predicted victory for the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo and Ondo states governorship elections. He also said the ruling party will triumph over its current crisis and wax stronger. The governor spoke with State House correspondents after meeting with the Chief of Staff to the President, Prof. Agboola Gambari, along with his colleagues from the Northcentral zone. Bello  said there is no division in the party, adding that the various interest only saw the same point from different angles. He said: “Our party is one solid party. In a particular big family like that, you won’t rule out misunderstanding in one way or the other. But I can assure you that our party is strong under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari and as a father, he is already looking into it and I can assure you that we are going to come out very strong.” Bello predicted victory for the APC in Edo and Ondo, saying: “We are going to win Edo State and we shall win overwhelmingly for APC, we are going to go to Ondo state and win it overwhelmingly for APC. We will take Anambra State and record it as a second APC state in the Southeast and integrate our Igbo brothers into the fold and we are going to take Ekiti and Osun once again.” He added: “So, we are going to continue to expand our coast. So, APC is strong;  we are not divided, we are only seeing one same point from different angle and we are trying to make ourselves understand the points, that is just it, there is no misunderstanding”, he said. Bello, who expressed sympathy for Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki, said notwithstanding his incumbency, the APC would take the state back from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) during the election. “We have seen those in power before that were dethroned, we have seen practically that President Muhammadu Buhari of APC dethroned PDP, the former President that was on seat. So, that is not any trouble at all. “APC is going to win Edo State. But unfortunately, I really felt the exit of my colleague, His Excellency Governor Godwin Obaseki, in whatever circumstance to another political party, is painful. Also, the Director-General of the Progressive Governors’ Forum (PGF), Dr. Salihu Lukman, said the Senator Abiola Ajimobi-led National Working Committee (NWC) will enjoy the forum’s support. In a statement in Abuja, he said: “For the avoidance of doubt, HE Ajimobi is a respected founding member of the Forum. Any day and anytime, H.E Sen. Ajimobi will enjoy the fraternal support of all Progressive Governors. The PGF-Director-General,  said the governors were concerened about the leadership crisis, adding that they are committed to the resolution of the conflict. He, however, admitted that the approach and perspectives of each progressive governor in solving the crisis may vary. Lukman said the governors have reached same consensus on the problems as contained in the resolutions of the emergency teleconference meeting of Saturday, June 13. He said: “Part of the resolutions, which was made public include collectively working to ensure strengthening fair and democratic internal party mechanism for the selection of party candidates in all elections.” Lukman said despite insinuations of division among the governors in some quarters, the governors are  united and committed to unity and the operations of the National Working Committees (NWC0 in accordance with the APC Constitution. Lukman stressed: “It will be downgrading to attempt to project HE Sen. Ajimobi as a factional leader of the NWC. “APC will overcome its current leadership challenges; progressive governors and all APC leaders will emerge strongly united.” 