For years, the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) has operated from a rented apartment. That is about to end, writes CHINAKA OKORO  When I enter a place, I must leave the place better than I met it.” Those were the words of Minister of Niger Delta Affairs Godswill Akpabio when he addressed the management and staff of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) during a visit to the agency in its rented headquarters on Aba Road, Port Harcourt, Rivers State. Akpabio, the supervising minister for the  interventionist agency, was shocked that the commission was paying over N200 million as rent yearly for the place. According to him, “the situation is disheartening.” He then resolved: “The era of NDDC paying rent for its corporate headquarters is gone for good.” The minister was not unaware of the challenges of funding, but he seemed to have worked it all out. To him, “money to complete the building can be realised in a month, if NDDC’s management chooses to.” Today, the NDDC has responded to the minister’s challenge to pool resources to complete its new head office complex. Its Interim Management Committee (IMC) led by Prof Kemebradikumo Pondei worked round the clock to deliver the project. The count down to the inauguration has begun, as Pondei said he was looking forward to inviting President Muhammadu Buhari to inaugurate the 13-floor new permanent headquarters on the Eastern By-Pass, Port Harcourt. From all indications, the President is set for the historic event. In his Democracy Day  broadcast, the President pledged: “The Head Office of the NDDC will be commissioned shortly.” The headquarters is a project to be proud of. Little wonder that Pondei describes it as an impressive and befitting testimony of what the NDDC is capable of achieving. Shortly on assuming office, he swung into action to turn things around. After a careful assessment of the challenges militating against the project, Pondei held a crucial meeting with the contractors to iron out the knotty issues. The problems were quickly cleared to pave the way for the contractors to go on full throttle. The elimination of the encumbrances, demonstrates the determination of the interim management to weave a positive story around the multi-billion naira project. Pondei”s first major assignment outside the NDDC was the inspection of the permanent headquarters complex. He was accompanied by the Acting Executive Director, Projects, Dr. Cairo Ojougboh; the late Acting Executive Director, Finance and Administration, Chief Ibanga Bassey Etang; Mrs. Caroline Nagbo and Cecilia Akintomide, who are members of the IMC. They were joined by virtually all the directors of the commission in the on-the-spot assessment of what needed to be done to break the jinx of non-completion of the magnificent building that has changed the skyline in the Marine base area in the Garden City. At the site, which was then shackled by the contractors’ scaffolding, Pondei expressed satisfaction with what he saw, noting that the new headquarters would provide a secure and conducive working environment for staff. He said: “We must make sure that this edifice is completed and handed over to Mr President for commissioning this year. We will give the contractors all the necessary support to ensure that the project is completed expeditiously without compromising on quality and approved designs.” Pondei added: “The IMC is changing the way things were done in the past and we are determined to work as a team. The Minister of Niger Delta Affairs charged us to change the way things are done in NDDC and focus on executing legacy projects that will impact lives in the region.” According to him, the commission is anxious to complete the project so as to add value to the work of the NDDC towards meeting its mandate of facilitating the rapid development of the Niger Delta. The IMC’s determination to complete the project has paid off as NDDC will soon be relocating there. Barring delays occasioned by the COVID-19 pandemic, the movement to the “promised land” is expected to start very soon. The Project Manager, Clement Udie, an architect, said in March that the building, which was initiated by the defunct Oil Minerals Producing Areas Development Commission (OMPADEC) in 1996 was now virtually ready. He said  apart from the 13-storey main building, the complex also includes a four-storey ancillary building, gate house and security blocks. “Other facilities include drains, paved walkways, parking lots, retaining wall, sewage treatment plant, perimeter fence and the  installation of four 800KVA and one 1000KVA generators,” he said. He explained that the ancillary building will accommodate a medical centre, car park, restaurant, bank, among others, noting that all the service equipment for the main building, including electrical equipment such as lifts and escalators have been installed”. Udie said over the years, there had been modifications on the scope of the project which have impacted on its cost. On completion, he said, the complex would accommodate all the directorates, departments and units of NDDC, stating: “It will provide a conducive environment where government business will be carried out with ease and convenience. Besides, the project’s revised scope is aimed at solving the age-long flooding of the William Jumbo neighbourhood by providing a network of perimeter drains which will discharge through double-cell culverts on the Eastern By-pass into the creeks.” The Project Coordinator, Ebiwene Bozimo, also an architect, promised that the contractors would complete the project on schedule. He said they were working according to set standards, stating that the contractors were determined to complete the project this month. Bozimo said: “The only challenge we are facing is in getting items delayed by the COVID-19 pandemic. However, every task that is not involved with anything external is going on at the highest pace and we have promised the commission that every task that is not connected with overseas will be completed on schedule.” Amid the attention on the project, NDDC is also working on permanent offices in all its mandate states. Currently, construction is at various levels in the states where the commission is using rented offices. Apart from Abia, Imo and Rivers, the NDDC still operates from rented offices in Akwa Ibom, Bayelsa, Cross River, Delta, Edo and Ondo. When on July 12, 2016, the NDDC commissioned a modern Rivers State Office complex on Olu Obasanjo Road in Port Harcourt, it was celebrated with pomp and circumstance. The building is on four floors with ample space for offices and a basement floor for archiving and car park. It also has provisions for several facilities, including a large reception hall, conference/multi-purpose hall for 250 people, staff canteen, sick bay and offices for drivers on the ground floor.  