 RIVERS State governor Nyesom Wike is as colourful as the suspended chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole. Both are hyperbolic, sometimes hysterical, too instinctive, love to speak on all issues, no matter how mundane or provocative, and are regarded as fearless and indiscriminate in choosing and engaging their enemies. It does not matter who the enemies are, or just how highly-placed or insignificant: an enemy is an enemy, one to be engaged rather than avoided. Mr Wike, a lawyer, is an educated but no less coarse variant of former Ekiti State governor Ayo Fayose. Of all the governors today, including the insensitive and self-important Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna State, the Rivers governor is easily the most remarkable for the earthy sense of humour that festoons his statements. Mr Wike cannot be restrained when he is animated by governance and politics, nor mollified when he is enraged by opposition or dissent. Former president Goodluck Jonathan and Dame Patience used to arrest the attention of Nigerians and tickle their midriffs in their days in power. But since the dour former army general Muhammadu Buhari mounted the throne, an unremitting humdrum has settled on Nigeria, a humdrum that has in the past few years been relieved only by the activities and unguarded utterances of Mr Wike. The Rivers governor has added colour to politics, drama to what is otherwise a tragedy, and replaced open revolt with brinkmanship. What do his enemies think of him? It is hard to say, but they know what his friends think of him: that his essential self is more theatrical than malicious, a man who lends his guttural voice to his passion and blows his top at the drop of a hat. No contemporary governor concentrates attention on his person and personality like Mr Wike. There are of course parallels in the Second Republic; what with the likes of Oyo State governor Bola Ige whose constant resort to the classics, epigrams and sarcasms rile his enemies to no end, Kano State governor Abubakar Rimi and his successor Bakin Zuwo whose irreverence and iconoclasm nearly tore their state apart, Anambra State governor Jim Nwobodo whose debonair looks sometimes got the better of him and illustrated his strategic mistakes in positioning the Jim Vanguard against the Ikemba Front. Thank God, then, for Mr Wike for relieving the country’s boring politics with his unique voice, short-lived intemperance and shoot-first-ask-questions-later approach to opposition politics. Indeed, if he cares to know, the country is enamoured of his undiscriminating style which sees him fighting political leaders and causes inside and outside his party. Since he assumed the governorship of Rivers State, he has not said or done anything as colourful as his view of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leaders, who were bent on imposing Edo State governor Godwin Obaseki on the PDP as candidate in September’s election. Mr Obaseki had recently defected from the APC and joined the PDP after conferring with Mr Wike and other PDP governors in the zone. Until Mr Wike likened party leaders backing the Edo governor to tax collectors, it was thought that Mr Obaseki had secured the support of everyone that mattered. In their haste to get him to join the PDP, Edo PDP leaders simply overlooked their governor’s divisive politics and invited him in. The nature and conditions permitting Mr Obaseki’s crossing to PDP became, it would appear, more evident following Mr Wike’s recent outburst. He said: “I told them that in Edo State, we must handle the issue carefully and carry everybody along. They must respect human beings and not behave like tax collectors. They said because an order was obtained from a Federal High Court in Port Harcourt, then I am responsible. I have had sleepless nights to resolve the issue in Edo State. The Governors of Edo, Adamawa and Delta States know what I have done to resolve the issues in Edo State. As a result of this senseless accusation, I have pulled out of Edo State settlement. My integrity matters…They are tax collectors. Let them challenge me and I will come out with more facts. Nobody will rubbish me by raising false accusations against me. I will fight back.” He said enough in that statement to convey a wide range of emotions and dispositions, ranging from displeasure to candour, chastisement and insomnia. That was not the first time he would whip up sentiment by taking on PDP chiefs.  On September 11 last year, he thoroughly cleaned out the committee set up by the PDP to investigate the emergence of Ndudi Elumelu as the minority leader of the House of Representatives. Without mincing words or attempting to shy away from indelicateness, he expressed his conviction that the committee was the most corrupt in the history of the party. He did not stop there; the veteran warlord went further to publicly thank Former Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt Hon Austin Opara, for withdrawing from the committee by not entangling himself “in the illegal activities of the tainted committee”. In his telling offensiveness, he said: “The committee set up by the PDP on the illegal emergence of Ndudi Elumelu is the most corrupt committee ever set up by the party. We thank our worthy son, Austin Opara, for withdrawing from that committee, so that he is not entangled in the illegal activities of the tainted committee. We are warning PDP to be careful not to toy with Rivers State. The state has all it takes to withstand the PDP and fight the party to a standstill. Rivers governor is not one of those governors that anyone can cajole. He is not one of those governors that will kowtow to illicit activities.” Indeed, even though the PDP has been a regular subject of his ire, he is usually prepared to gut anyone who criticises him for his convictions. If they breathed too deeply or even swallowed noisily enough to irk him, he would descend on them with all the precision and boldness of an axe on a log. Thus, he made no bones about denouncing some PDP governors as nocturnal sycophants and even managed to stick one in the presidency’s side while at it. In September 15 last year, he matched temper with speech and fumed: “We are the only state that the Federal Government refused to pay us our money used to execute Federal projects because I don’t go to see him in the night and I won’t go. He is not my friend, he is not doing well, but he won in court; should I say that the court did wrong? No. President Buhari, congratulations, but carry Nigerians along. Unify the country, the country is too divided. I am saying what is right. What I will do, I will do, what I will not do, I will not do.” If that were not indicative enough of the governor’s marauding censoriousness, his audacity moved him to match the PDP grit for grit in 2018 when the party tried to move its convention and the presidential primaries from Rivers State. He blatantly cautioned that, “Nobody should dare Rivers State any longer. Enough is enough. PDP should know that we are not a punching bag. We are not people you can use and push. We are not harlots. Whenever you want, you come. When you finish, you push us aside.” In April this year, a visibly exasperated Mr Wike accused powers in Abuja of attempting to introduce COVID-19 into his state through the express agency of some 22 Exxon Mobil Staff and the pilots who flew them into his state. Public chagrin directed at him for detaining his suspects prompted him to lash out in his peculiarly vehement style. “They said civil aviation is under exclusive list and I heard there was a Minister who was quoting Law and I said the Minister should go and release them now. We are in a democracy not a military government where you will sit down somewhere in your own office and direct me. I am not one of those Governors that will beg you for you to help me. Beg you for what? The right things must be done, especially for something that is killing people. Every day, you hear new cases. They are not happy that there is no new case in Rivers State. They are not happy, so their own is that let us do something that will make them have new case in Rivers State. Exxon Mobil brought in 22 of their members into Rivers State without testing. So, even if they have Coronavirus, they should enter?” The governor’s mannerisms and oratory may appear hyperbolic, humorous, comic, and resistant to the finer graces that should emanate from his office, but his belief in what he says and his unwavering boldness in denouncing affairs which run afoul of his paradoxical moral compass  render his comments on the Edo imbroglio credible. How could you not love the lovable rascal, Mr Wike? Indeed, so far, the PDP has released a statement lacking in Mr Wike’s distinguished conviction concerning the absence of tax collectors in their party, but it is difficult to shake off the feeling that the incendiary Rivers governor did not best his interlocutors. 