 Grieving Senior Pastor of Trinity House Church, Pastor Ituah Ighodalo, preached on Sunday at a funeral hours after the demise of his wife, Ibidun. The ex-beauty Queen died around 2am on Sunday in Port-Harcourt where she was on an official engagement. But despite his personal grief, Ighodalo proceeded to deliver a short brief at the funeral of 25-year-old son of Biola Okoya, Adedeji. In a composed but emotional tone, the bereaved cleric said: “Everywhere tensed, confused frightening and disturbing but here we are today.
“I mean if they had told us last week that we would be here to celebrating Ayodeji’s life, I would say it’s not possible. He was ill, no doubt! But, we were believing God that he would be well. “But, here we are right now and there he is and of course a lot of you know that I really shouldn’t be here but that’s how life is.” On his deceased wife, he said: “2 o’clock this morning, I received a news that shattered my life but life must go on and here we are today. So, I have just come to speak to us very peacefully on something I have called Life. Life! Life! Life! “Life is a deep mystery. There’s no one human being no matter how wise they are like Solomon who can say to you that they fully understand life. “The Bible says: we see in part; we understand in part, we prophesy in part and he says most of the times we see like in a dark valley but there is going to come a time when we will see clearly as Jesus sees. Life is a mystery and let us accept the mystery of life. “I was telling some people.. I think yesterday or today (laughs …and things have come back in its ways) that we don’t have control over most things in life. “You don’t have a control of how you were born, who gave birth to you, of whose womb you came, your complexion, your race, your colour, that of your eyes, your heights, and even very limited control over your weight. “Some people struggle over their weight. They eat small and they grow fat; some eat much and they grow thin. And they are all confused all other the place. So, nobody has control over life. “This time yesterday, if anyone had told me that today this is the way thing would be, I would say it’s not possible. How can it be possible? But this is how life is? This is how life is. Life is nothing.”