Pupils who are to go to new classes can resume so as to write their examinations, the Federal Government said on Monday. In effect, those in Primary Six, Junion Secondary III and Senior Secondary III who are to sit for the National Common Entrance Examination, the Basic Education Certificate Examination and the Senior School Certificate Examination (SSCE) can return to school. The schools must comply strictly with safety measures to be issued by the Federal Ministry of Education. The government said all daycares and primary schools, as well as secondary and tertiary institutions, are to remain closed until further notice. National Coordinator of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, Dr Sani Aliyu, who spoke during its briefing in Abuja, said: “Students in only graduating classes – Primary 6, JSS 3 and SSS3, will be allowed to resume in preparation for examinations. “All day cares and primary schools remain closed till evaluation. Schools are encouraged to continue with the electronic learning and visual teaching, but the pupils may proceed to take the National Common Entrance as soon as it is feasible, provided that they are compliant with issued non-pharmaceutical interventions. “For secondary and tertiary institutions, all schools are to remain closed until further evaluation.” Aliyu said arrangements are to be made for graduating students in JSS 3 and SSS 3 to resume at both boarding and day schools as soon as possible for intensive revision. “All educational establishments are to conduct exhaustive reviews to ensure compliance with the issued guidelines on COVID-19 before the opening up for this purpose. They will open up only for the purpose of exiting students. “Arrangements are to be made for students taking part in NABTEB and BEC examinations, WAEC examinations, NECO and sub-exams respectively. “All schools must comply with the strict recommended steps and required measures to be issued by the Federal Ministry of Education before an institution is reopened in the timeline to be provided,” he said.