A Federal High Court in Abuja heard on Monday how a team of soldiers attached to the 93 Battalion in Takum, Taraba State, attacked a police team that went to arrest a suspected kidnap kingpin, Hamisu Bala (aka Wadume). An Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP), Felix Adolije, who said he led the police team sent to arrest the suspect, gave details of how his team was ambushed by the soldiers, allegedly led by Captain Tijjani Balarabe. Adolije, who was testifying as the first prosecution witness in the trial of Wadume and six others, said three policemen and two civilians died, while five other police officers were injured in the attack that took place on August 6, 2019 at Ibbi town in Taraba State. Led in evidence by a lawyer from the Federal Ministry of Justice, Magaji Labaran, the police officer thanked God for spearing his life to enable him recall all that transpired. The witness said his team’s involvement in the matter began when a petition was referred to it by the Inspector General of Police (IGP). Adolije said it was stated in the petition that some kidnap suspects, who were unidentified then, demanded N200 million ransom from relatives of their victim. The witness said when his team analysed the four phone numbers with which the suspects were making the demand, led his team to “a soft target” in Taraba State, Bashir, who in turn led them to Wadume in Ibbi, on August 6, 2019. Adolije said his team, which comprised six officers, left its base in Abuja for Jalingo, the Taraba State capital, on August 5, 2019. The witness said his team first reported at the headquarters of the Taraba State Police Command in Jalingo, on August 6, 2019 to brief the Commissioner of Police about their mission. He said his team was given an introduction letter to the Area Command in Wukari, where their arrival was documented. According to him, the team was also issued a document to back its mission to Ibbi Police Station, from where they would set out to arrest Wadume. Adolije explained that the person he referred to as the “soft target” was named Bashir (now deceased.) He said Bashir led them to Wadume’s house in Ibbi, Taraba State, adding: “The pointer was with us and he led us to the street where the main target lived. “On getting there, he pointed to the main target from inside the bus. So, I came down with Inspector Sani, in our complete uniforms without cap and jacket. I asked Sani to remain standing by the bus. “I brought my identity card out. I realised that the target was with 10 boys lying down on the mat. I showed him my identity card. I told him we were policemen from IRT (Intelligence Response Team) in Abuja. “I told him that there was a case we were investigating and that his attention was needed in Abuja. Neither he nor any of his boys asked any question. Quietly, he got up and followed me to our bus. “I asked him to follow us and he followed us. There was no argument between us and anybody. We entered the bus. I asked one of my boys inside the bus to restrain him. Then we drove back to the police station.” Adolije added that he informed the Station Officer that they had completed their mission and was heading back to Abuja. He said unknown to them, the soldiers at the last of the three checkpoints they encountered while arriving the town had been alerted about their mission. “As we were going back, we got to the last army checkpoint, which we encountered when we were coming in. “The checkpoint was the first as we were going out. They (the soldiers) asked us to stop. They saw us in uniform. Then, one of the soldiers asked us where we were coming from. “We told him we were the ones whom they passed about 30 minutes earlier. Then one of them asked us if we did not know that the person in our vehicle was a very influential person in the town. “I already alighted when he asked me that question. I said I didn’t know who even told him that we had made an arrest, and I told him, ‘Please, we are still going far, allow us to go.’ “Then, he reluctantly removed the barrier to allow us to go. On getting to the second checkpoint mounted by the mobile policemen, they only asked us if we were through. And we said yes. “Then we headed towards the last one mounted by soldiers. As we were in between the mobile policemen’s checkpoint and that of the soldiers’ ahead, I saw a Sharon bus with full light.” The witness said the soldiers at the checkpoint removed the barrier without asking any question, adding that their vehicle had barely passed when they started hearing gunshots. “I saw an army Hilux with gun mounted on top, overtook the Sharon bus. The soldiers started firing. Then our bus started staggering and somersaulted three times. I was seated with the driver in the front. He fell to my side. Then I struggled, by the grace of God, and came out of the vehicle. “I left my AK-47 and pistol inside the vehicle. I started running. There were heaps of yams on the other side of the road.” The witness told the court that he managed to scamper to a tree for safety and quickly removed his uniform.