Berger Paints Nigeria Plc has unveiled a unique premium painting solution, Berger Swift Painting (BSP), to deliver quicker, neater and smoother painting in the most efficient and effective way with the use of mechanised and advanced tools. Managing Director, Berger Paints Nigeria Plc, Mr Anjan Sircar said the new service came out of the company’s ingenuity and quest for innovative products and services. He described Berger Swift Painting as a revolution noting that the company has always been on the forefront of trail brazing in products and service delivery. “Berger Swift Painting is a new concept in the Nigerian painting industry. The concept is expected to revolutionise the industry in Nigeria. Berger Paints Nigeria is the first paint company to offer this novel service in Nigeria. The new service will completely change the process of painting in the country,” Sircar said. He said the new service will ultimately make project execution quicker, neater and smoother as operators will not have to worry about paint spillage or dusts on the furniture as there will be on-site support to help move and cover furniture to ensure space remains neat. “Berger Swift painters are well trained, well kitted and safety conscious. They follow all hygiene protocols to ensure safety of lives and properties. This is more apt at this period of Covid- 19 pandemic. The painters will properly sanitise their hands and use appropriate nose masks,” Sircar said. He pointed out that apart from havoc posed by substandard products in the paint industry, prolonged duration of painting, dusty environment while painting and poor finishing are other challenges faced by customers. According to him, the introduction of Berger Swift Painting service will solve these challenges by delivering quicker, neater and smoother painting. The new service from Berger Paints is expected to bring the country at par with the western world in the area of quality service delivery. He noted that Berger Paints Nigeria, which started operation in Nigeria in January 1959, has grown to be a leader in the coating and allied industry in Nigeria as it has over the years built a reputation as the first in setting standards in the paint industry in Nigeria. He added that the company pioneered a wide range of specialty products that are much sought after in the dynamic and ever-changing paints market.