The series of death in Akinyele area of Ibadan, the Oyo State capital city continued on Monday as a five- year- old boy, Mojeed Trimisiyu was killed by unknown assailants. According to information gathered from sources, the boy was killed while defecating at the bush behind his parents’ house, shortly after the early morning downpour. He was said to have been matcheted to death by the assailants who were suspected to have escaped through the nearby bush in the vicinity. Efforts of the mother who heard his shout for help could not save him as he was confirmed dead on arrival at the nearby hospital he was taken to by neighbours. The distrust mother said: “When the rain subsided, he told her elder one that he wanted to go and defecate. The elder one opened the back door for him to go defecate. “Had I known I would have asked him to defecate in the front of the house. Suddenly, he cried out ‘Mummy, Mummy. “His elder one and I rushed out to the backyard but didn’t see him initially. Then I went to check inside the bush and found him macheted. He hadn’t died when we got there. People took him from my hand to take him to the hospital.” The Oyo State Police Command in confirming the incident when contacted said the unfortunate death occurred around 2.00PM. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) of the command, Olugbenga Fadeyi said the police was investigating the incident. Fadeyi said: “I just received information that, around 2.00 p. m. (Monday) at Olorunsogo area, Moniya in Akinyele Local Government Area, that one Mojeed Trimisiyu, a boy of about five-year-old while defecating inside the bush at the backyard of his parents’ house, was killed by unknown person or persons. “They hit him with a shovel on his head and fled. When the boy was brought to hospital, he was confirmed dead as a result of the injury sustained on his head. His body has been deposited at a mortuary. The Divisional Police Officer (DPO) of Moniya is currently investigating the matter”. The people of the community now live in palpable fears as a result of series of gruesome deaths recorded in the axis in recent weeks. The latest killing follows three earlier cases including that of Grace Oshiagwu, Barakat Bello and Azeezat Shomuyiwa in the same Akinyele local government area. The killings have gone unabated despite the words of the Commands Commissioner of Police to relocate to Akinyele. 