Life is progressive. Life, itself, is always in motion and there is no time to waste. You are here right now and you need to be aware of the fact that time flies. So you need to be mindful of how you spend your time and you should also be mindful of the people you spend your time with. Watch the company you keep and the friends you follow. Surround yourself with Only Quality People. At a point in life, you need to ask yourself few questions about the friends and associates you surround yourself with. Who are your closest pals? This, to a very large extent, will ultimately determine the kind of person you become in life. It has been said overtime that birds of the same feathers flock together but another saying is even if the birds are not of the same feathers, by the time they flock together for a long time, there is every possibility that they will develop the same feathers. So you need to surround yourself with Only Quality People. I realised at some point in life that the people you surround yourself with determines what becomes of your life. I started surrounding myself with quality people- people who are already living the kind of life that I desire to live. People who are already living their dreams- people who can challenge and inspire me to be the best I can be. Three reasons why you need OQP: * Everyone wants to roll with Only Quality People: They are quality people doing well with their lives, men on a mission. Who doesn’t want to roll with quality people? Who doesn’t want to be associated with a great person? Who doesn’t want to identify with someone doing well with their lives? If I have an opportunity to roll with Warren Buffet or Bill Gates, I will open both hands to embrace it. Everyone wants to associate with Quality People, that’s why you need OQP in your life. *They have good plans and intentions for their lives: Quality people want the best for themselves. They have good plans and good intentions for their lives and future. They are going all out for their future and that is what you want as well. You have good plans and good intentions for your life so it is imperative that you surround yourself with people who have good plans and good intentions for their own lives too. * They are living a good life already: Quality people are living a good life already. They are doing well with their lives and living their dreams already and since that is the same thing you hope to achieve, it is only sensible that you surround yourself with people who are already living the good life. You have a particular dream you are chasing. Then it’s best you align yourself with someone who is already living that kind of dream. * Their quality will rub off on your life: They have the quality in them already. If you hobnob with quality people, their Quality will rub off on you. But since that is what you want, it will happen for you. If you are close to let’s say Oprah Winfrey, her quality will sure rub off on you. Her depth, ideologies and personality will rub off on you. I want you to know that you are a person of quality and a person of greatness but you need to align yourself with like minds to fully explore your potentials. You need to surround yourself with OQP. Adenuga, an author and conference speaker, writes through lamideadenuga@gmail.com  