 AVIATION authorities have redesigned safety and security architecture for passengers’ check-in at airports ahead the resumption of flights. The new arrangement will reduce physical interface among passengers, aviation security and airlines’ personnel. Besides, reducing physical contact in screening of passengers and their luggage, the new arrangement will require intending passengers to arrive at the departure halls in good time for the new procedures rolled out by the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) and the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN). The measures are coming a few months after domestic scheduled flights were suspended as part of  preventive and containment measures to curtail the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. To drive the redesigned measures, FAAN last week commenced floor  marking of departure and arrival halls, airline counters and other strategic sections that passengers will occupy at the terminal building and other parts of the airport when they are buying tickets or waiting for boarding formalities. Investigations by The Nation reveal that the measures were put in place to enhance safety and security at the airports. It was gathered that aviation authorities are working hard to comply with post-COVID-19 guidelines for air travel, which specifically prescribe social and physical distancing at terminals. Speaking in a virtual interaction, General Manager, Public Affairs of FAAN, Mrs. Henrietta Yakubu, said  the authority had put arrangements in place for passenger facilitation and what they should expect when flights resume. She said passengers should expect delays and long hours of checks and re-checks from when they arrive the airport as well as when they depart. She said escorts of VIPs would no longer be allowed to follow their principals into the terminal and that principals would be subjected to health checks. To this end, she said passengers were expected to leave their homes early before their flights to go through the various checks before entering the terminal building. She said: “We are going to expect flight delays. Flights will experience delays from checks and re-checks. If you are travelling, I will expect you to leave home hours before your flight. Why do I say this? Because there is going to be a lot of checks in the front of the terminal. We have been told that so many activities and procedures will take place in front of the terminal. So, air travellers are expected to leave home very early so that they can get to the airport on time.” Mrs. Yakubu stated that COVID-19 had brought a lot of changes to air travel and to ensure the safety of passengers and airport users the way of doing things had to change. She added that the pandemic would make people cut down on non-essentials and lead to low demand for air travel. At airports, she said, social distancing would be 100 per cent, temperature screening, wearing of face masks, disinfection of shoes and luggage of passengers would also be carried out 100 per cent  regardless of personalities. “There will be floor markings indicating where each passenger will wait on the queue. Arriving passengers will also be subjected to temperature screening, physical distancing too will be observed while passengers are waiting by the carousel to pick up their luggage. ‘’Passengers are expected to arrive the airport with their face masks on; their luggage and pairs of shoes to be disinfected. Passengers are expected to observe to observe social/physical distancing. “Passengers will subject themselves to temperature screening and departure halls will be arranged in such a way that physical distancing too will be observed.’’ General Manager, Customer Service/SERVICOM, FAAN, Mrs. Ebele Okoye, said the authority would take a hard stance on  decongestion of the terminal building, especially outside where people who did not have business at the airport milled around. According to her, in reducing contact, the days of opening people’s bag at the airport to search what is inside should be done away with. ” I will urge the airports authorities to make provision for various passengers, social distancing, adequate information and security,  and more importantly, social security. Mrs. Okoye urged passengers to save themselves the stress of coming to the airport to buy tickets rather they should buy their tickets online, check in online and pay for their trolleys online to reduce the hours they would have to spend carrying out these activities. “Social security can be done online ticket purchase. I am sure that the airline will notify the people who purchase their ticket online to check in online and decongest the terminal building, no hangers around, touts should be out of the airport. Anyone not travelling should not be allowed to enter the airport. How do passengers get their trolley? They can pay online. You don’t need contacts.” Airport Manager, Southwest Airports/Airport Manager, Murtala Mohammed International Airport, MMIA, Lagos, Mrs. Victoria Shin-Aba said the authority was working hard to ensure there is compliance with international regulations. The International Air Transport Association (IATA) has, however, urged airport authorities to ensure they comply with aerodrome standards prescribed by the World Health Organisation (WHO). According  to IATA Director-General Alexandre de Juniac, a layered approach in biosecurity, which will impact the customer experience even before passengers arrive at the airport, remains critical. He said: “IATA is recommending that governments set up online portals to collect pre-flight information that can be used to asses passengers’ health status and allow contact-tracing should they become unwell. “Once at the airport, travellers face temperature-screening and physical distancing, and will be required to wear masks during their journey.’’ President, National Association of Nigerian Travel Agency (NANTA), Mrs, Susan Akporiaye,  urged aviation authorities to carry travel agents along on the new airport procedures. She added: “ What we need is international standards in our operations. People want to travel, but are also careful about safety. “Nigeria airports should emulate what is happening around the world. We can’t be an island. We need to be a part of global travel community. Government should carry along the travel agencies in review of procedures they are putting in place.”