In the last few weeks, the nation has had to grapple with the ugly trend of heartless individuals whose stock in trade is not only to rape young, innocent girls but also subject them to gruesome killing. As it would be expected, the evil trend has sparked outrage from shell-shocked citizens and activists who are demanding justice for the victims as well as measures that would check the menace.  KUNLE AKINRINADE reveals the factors encouraging the practice and why victims may find it hard to get justice.  IF Vera Uwaila Omozuwa had any premonition of the danger that lurked around her, she would most probably avoid going to study on May 13, 2020. But fate appeared to have written a tragic script she must act willy-nilly. Bouyed by her knack for reading, she had gone out to study at a parish of the Redeemed Christian Church of Church of God (RCCG) in Ikpoba Hill area of Benin City, Edo State. The 22-year-old student of Microbiology at the University of Benin (UNIBEN) had barely settled down in the sacred auditorium when she was gang-raped by some heartless individuals who also smashed her skull with the cylinder of a fire extinguisher. After days of intense battle by doctors to save her life, she gave up the ghost at the University of Benin Teaching Hospital (UBTH) on May 30.  Angered by the dastardly act, irate students of the university razed the church where the incident occurred on a Sunday morning. The dust raised by the incident involving Omozuwa had not settled when Barakat Bello, a National Diploma student of Laboratory Technology at the Federal College of Animal and Production Technology, Moore Plantation, Apata, Ibadan, was reportedly raped to death by some unidentified men on June 1 at her residence in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. Barakat’s distraught father, Mr. Kazeem Elepo, said he was away from home when Barakat’s sister who had just returned home from her Koranic lessons discovered her lifeless and lacerated body in a pool of blood. Elepo said: “I was not at home when the incident occurred. The victim’s younger sister was not at home too. She went for Quranic lessons. But when she returned home, she saw Barakat at the back of the house with deep cuts all over her body. She had been raped and killed. “Somebody called me on the phone that I should come home, but he refused to tell me what had happened. But when I got home, I saw that my daughter had been raped and hacked to death.” There was yet another gruesome attack on a 17-year-old girl on June 3 by some menacing rapists. The girl, a hawker, was allegedly ambushed and gang-raped by three armed street urchins in Ado-Ekiti, the Ekiti State capital. The hapless girl was said to be hawking sachet water and soft drinks in the evening of that day when she was attacked at the popular Oja’ba Market in Ado-Ekiti. The hoodlums, who were said to be armed with broken bottles, reportedly took turns to rape the girl for about 45 minutes. She was later rushed to an undisclosed hospital for treatment, after which the incident was reported to the police. Again, four masked men on Thursday June 4 broke into a house in Abijo area of Ajah, Lagos and raped a 12-year-old girl at about 2 pm. As reported at Ajiwe Police Station in Ajah, the secondary school pupil was playing alone in the compound while her parents were away when the dare-devil invaders violated her and left her bleeding from injuries sustained in her private parts as a result of forcible penetration. The girl’s mother, Anthonia, said: “I went to the office but was called on the phone and told that my daughter had been raped in our house. I learnt she was having her online class when suddenly there was a power outage. My husband rushed out to get fuel at a filling station so that she could participate in the class seamlessly. “Blessing told us that while she was in the compound, four masked men jumped the fence into the house. They took her inside and took turns to rape her, leaving her with multiple injuries.” “Immediately I received the call, I became mad. I headed for the hospital where my daughter was rushed to. When I got there, I was told she suffered ‘vaginal trauma’. The underneath of her clitoris was bruised and she had a deep tear that made her bleed severely. “She could have passed out if not that her dad got back home early. She lost a lot of blood. The bleeding stopped after the tear was stitched, although she is still experiencing very severe pains.” Earlier on April 27, five men were said to have raped an 18-year-old woman at Narayi area of Kaduna State. The suspects admitted that the victim, who was invited by one of their male friends to his house via Facebook, had her drink spiked with a local sedative called tombo. Also, no fewer than 11 suspects were apprehended on May 30 for allegedly raping a 12-year-old girl in Dutse Local Government Area of Jigawa State. The police spokesman, Abdu Jinjiri, said that one of the suspects, a 57-year-old man was arrested after he was sighted at the Limawa Market trying to lure the girl.  The difficulty in curbing perennial cases of rape in the country is primarily linked to the poor attitude of law enforcement agents, who most times demand money from victims’ family members or parents before they would arrest fleeing suspects. This was the case with a roadside trader, Mrs Mistura Abolade, whose 13-year-old daughter was raped by a man in their neighbourhood in Ijoko area of Ogun State in 2016. Abolade said she reported the case to a nearby police station but was asked to provide funds to take the girl to a public hospital for examination. She opted for out-of-court settlement when she was unable to pay, and the suspect was released. She said: “I am a poor widow who struggle daily to provide for my three children by selling beverages and soft drinks in the traffic around Toll Gate area in Sango-Ota, Ogun State. “The man who raped my daughter lived in a house on our street in Ijoko. When I reported the case at the Sango Division, the police asked me to provide funds to take my daughter for examination at the general hospital. “Because I was unable to provide the sum of N10,000 they demanded, the suspect, who had been taken to court, was released while the police urged me to accept an out-of-court settlement. That was how I could not pursue the matter again.” Another encumbrance is the non-availability of testing kit for rape victims to determine their forcible violation, the veracity of their claims and proper documentation of the outcome of medical examination. A rape kit is a container to safe keep the specimens collected during sexual violations and medical examination of victims. The kit also contains other necessary materials, including instructions and checklist to guide victims. “Unlike what obtains in developed countries, the absence of appropriate rape kits in Nigeria makes it difficult to pursue culprits or press charges as necessary in-depth evidence of penetration or violation and specimen are usually not captured and documented, making it easy for offenders to get away with their atrocious acts,” said Anne Adepoju, a social worker with the Centre for Rights and Advocacy for Children (CRAC). The factors responsible for increased rate of sexual violations includes the emergence of baby factories where young girls are forced into early motherhood by the operators of such factories;  the practice of child labour whereby teenage girls are engaged in hawking or street trading, thereby making them vulnerable to sexual violations or abuse; poor parenting compounded by poverty and paucity of funds on the part of parents to take care of their children as well as the fear of being stigmatised which restrains many victims from speaking out when they are violated.  A report released in 2015 by the United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund(UNICEF) revealed that one in four girls and one in 10 boys in Nigeria had experienced sexual violence before the age of 18. Also, a survey by Positive Action for Treatment Access disclosed that over 31.4 per cent of girls there said that their first sexual encounter had been rape or forced sex of some kind. According to the UNICEF, “abuse in all its forms are a daily reality for many Nigerian children, and only a fraction ever receives help. Six out of every 10 children experience some form of violence – one in four girls and 10 per cent of boys have been victims of sexual violence. “Of the children who reported violence, fewer than five out of a 100 received any form of support. The drivers of violence against children (VAC) are rooted in social norms, including the use of violent discipline, violence against women and community beliefs about witchcraft, all of which increase children’s vulnerability. “Nigeria has the largest number of child brides in Africa with more than 23 million girls and women who were married as children, most of them from poor and rural communities. “While data suggests a decline of 9 per cent in the prevalence of child marriage since 2003, and a projected further decrease of 6 per cent by 2030, Nigeria’s rapid population growth means that the number of child brides will in fact increase by more than one million by 2030 and double by 2050.”  The situation is not helped by the inherent weakness of criminal and penal codes of 1990, which are the laws under which rape justice is captured in Nigeria. The law defines rape as having unlawful carnal knowledge of a woman or girl without her consent, or with her consent if it was obtained by force or by means of intimidation. But experts argue that the definition of the crime by the criminal and penal code is deficient, in that other forms of rape methods and penetration are not included in the law to ensure justice for victims. Also, the Violence Against Persons (Prohibition) Act of 2015 (VAPPA), which was enacted with a broader definition of sexual violence and rape with 12 years imprisonment, has not been effectual because of improper domestication by state governments and poor implementation by enforcement authorities, especially police.  A girl-child expert, Anselm Okeke, said the loopholes in the enforcement of the law is jeopardising the efforts to get justice for victims and containment of sexual violence against women in the country. Okeke said: “Across the states of the federation, the VAPPA Act is yet to be fully domesticated while law enforcement and government agencies have not been up and doing in implementing  law to safeguard women from being raped or sexually violated. “In so many cases, minions of law connive with offenders and collect gratification to jettison proper investigation and prosecution of sexual offenders, thus frustrating victims from getting justice.” A foremost group of women lawyers, the International Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA) Nigeria, urged Nigerian authorities to rein in perpetrators and curb widespread incidents of rape in the country. The group also called for proper implementation of VAPPA Act, noting that the police must deploy due diligence in handling rape cases and shun compromise. In a statement signed by FIDA Nigeria’s Country Vice-President/National President, Mrs Rhoda Tyoden, and National Publicity Secretary, Eliana Martins, the group decried the wave of rape incidents across the country. The statement reads: “FIDA Nigeria expresses great dismay at the continuous rise in gender-based violent cases reported during the Covid-19 pandemic lockdown in Nigeria, often resulting in grievous bodily harm, psychological trauma and even death. “The facts of the reported cases across Nigeria are heart wrenching, is indicative of a debased society bereft of a value system that emphasizes safety at home or even in worship centres, from parents, spouse or even police. “It is unacceptable that the police mandated to arrest and prosecute are presently not forthcoming, leaning on compliance with Covid-19 regulations, which include social distancing in their stations and the decongestion of cells, as an excuse. “They would rather push parties for a prompt settlement and compensation of the victim for an offence, regardless of the severity of such offence. “The Violence Against Persons Prohibition (VAPP) Act 2015 is a landmark legislation on the prohibition of all forms of violence against persons in Nigeria. The Act prohibits all forms of violence against persons in private and public life, and provides maximum protection and effective remedies for victims and punishments of offenders.  “Therefore, all stakeholders should call for a stop against all forms of violence against persons especially women, children and the vulnerable in our society.” FIDA urged the public to closely monitor children/wards and protect them from being raped, abused or molested. It also urged the police to keep open all gender desks at each police station to accommodate reports on domestic violence and give quick responses to rape cases, adding that the police must prosecute all offenders and should not compel settlement of cases. The statement added: “The government must provide the requisite infrastructure, equipment, etc to ensure citizens are adequately protected; enable the police to carry out their functions; set up special dedicated courts for the trial and prosecution of gender-based offenders during the lockdown to send a clear warning to all; equip and enable the Judiciary to sit regularly during the lockdown to attend to such GBV matters; provide more shelters for the care and protection of victims; enable and support stakeholders collaborative rapid response teams for GBV across states. “Rape is certainly not a family matter; it is an offence! We all have a role to play in ending the rape culture in our society. Let’s demand accountability and through our actions, say an unequivocal no to rape.”  Also, an international human rights organisation, Amnesty International, has urged the Federal Government to declare rape a national emergency. The AI Nigeria, in a series of tweets penultimate Wednesday, described the phenomenon as a “toxic culture that encourages men to see women as passive sex objects, which must be discouraged.” AI tweeted: “The government’s response to rape continues to be woefully inadequate. Frequent reports of rape across Nigeria are a gruesome reminder of the violence women and girls face. Violence against women and girls is often not properly registered or investigated. “The rape and murder of 18-year-old student, Barakat Bello, in Ibadan is shocking. Amnesty International is calling on the Nigerian authorities to declare a national crisis on rape. Women and girls’ safety must be paramount across Nigeria. “Dear President (Muhammadu) Buhari, declare rape a national crisis. Rape is a crime. If there is no consent, it is rape, even if the victim stays quiet and does not resist. The ‘boys will be boys’ mentality warps sex into something for men, done by men to women, without regard for the woman’s well-being. This toxic culture that encourages men to view women as passive sex objects needs to be addressed. “We are joining people in Nigeria to demand justice for Omozuwa (Uwaila), who was raped and murdered in a Nigerian church. Violence against women must stop. Authorities have to ensure justice for her and other women.” It will be recalled that a 24-year-old post-graduate student of the Nasarrawa State University, Miss Cynthia Osokogu was brutally raped and murdered on July 22, 2012, at Cosmilla Hotel, Lakeview Estate, in Amuwo Odofin Local Government Area of Lagos, by her Facebook lover and his friend, who invited her to Lagos. The culprits, Okwumo Nwabufo, and Olisaeloka Ezike, who lured the victim to Lagos from Nasarawa State, were exposed by secret cameras installed in the hotel. They were sentenced to death by hanging five years later by the Igbosere High Court in Lagos, presided over by Justice Olabisi Akinlade. Meanwhile, against the backdrop of recent cases of rape and sexual violation reported in the country, the Inspector General of Police, Mr Mohammed Adamu has ordered the strengthening of Gender-Desk Units and the Juvenile Welfare Centres (JWCs) across the country. In a statement issued on Monday by the Force spokesman, Frank Mba, the IGP while unveiling new operational guidelines for the police said the step was part of measures to foster a more harmonious relationship between the police and members of the public, deepen respect for the rights of citizens, provide a new set of policing tools for tackling emerging crimes such as domestic violence, rape, child molestation and other incidents of Gender-Based Violence (GBV).