 I never met you, never really heard you speak at any public function, but never will forget you. Just how can I get that video out of my head? Just how? That video that radiated love and happiness, that video on Instagram some days back in which you and Pastor Ituah Ighodalo were the dramatis personae. In the video, you were play-beating him and hugging him and he was heard playfully alleging domestic violence. “See domestic violence. Sanwo-Olu o, Buhari, wa gbami lowo domestic violence,” your hubby was saying in the video. I can’t remember hearing your voice but I clearly heard pastor asking to be rescued. It was the last time you were together in flesh and blood. The video, which has since gone viral, was all play and clearly you guys enjoyed it. I enjoyed it too. Then less than a week after I saw the video, I heard you were gone; gone on the journey of no return. You ‘chose’ to leave us instead of living with us. The news turned black a day which had seen me writing a poem for my bestie and number one fan. It became a Black Sunday, bringing to my mind Tola Rotimi Abraham’s novel, and I couldn’t but ruminate about your life and life generally. You were a beauty queen and remained a beauty till the last. Pastor met you and fell for your charm, and gave up his ‘throne’ at the Redeemed where he was told he could not remarry because his first wife was still alive. Death and infidelity, we were told, were the only grounds for divorce. But things had long fallen apart and there was no way the centre could hold in Pastor’s first marriage. So he took a walk and happily pitched his tent with you. Marriage came with its challenges, one of which was your quest to have kids of your own; those tiny tots who love to scatter our homes with no knowledge of how to fix them. One year. Two years. Three years. Four years. Five years. And a decade rolled by and little Ibidun or Ituah refused to take form in you. Since we live in the age of science, you sought help, including IVF. The money went down the medical drain and your tummy remained in perfect shape. I hear eleven IVFs refused to yield results. You decided to accept God’s plan and opted for adoption, and life continued, and it was good. Until the bombshell: Ibidun Ituah-Ighodalo dies. And in Port Harcourt, that city named after a colonial master on the stupid pretext that there was no befitting local name. It was in continuation of your firm’s involvement in putting isolation centres in different parts of the country. You died while trying to save lives. Why do hearts suddenly stop beating as if arrested? One moment you were full of life, the next you are gone, set for dust to dust and ashes to ashes. I thought they said life begins at 40. This has turned into a big lie in your case and many others. Life has no beginning or end. Reza, a character in Abubakar Adam Ibrahim’s award-winning novel, ‘Season of Crimson Blossoms’, captured life beautifully when he observed: “We are like clothes… We get rumpled, and creased and torn, sometimes irreparably. Some of us are stitched up, patched up, others are discarded. Some clothes are fortunate. Others are not. They are born into misfortune and ink spills and whatnots…” We all just stroll by, some lucky to spend more time than the others on this unpredictable journey called life. Even for those who are lucky to have a longer stroll, the things they see do not gladden hearts: Some lose kids, some battle illness and some face calamities upon calamities. And for those who are lucky to have some form of jolly rides, we have seen their kids fight over their last will and testaments even before the earth with which they were covered has dried. Life. Life. Life. It is all full of crazy shits. Fathers raping their own daughters, pastors impregnating a girl and organising louts to rape her in the church, and policemen killing black men in a white world and ignoring ‘I can’t breathe’. He remains right. Their kids, spouses, kids, friends, families and even enemies are also casualties. Spouses, kids, friends and families miss you dearly and enemies regret the evil they forgot to do during the dead’s time on earth. Some kids’ lives are torn apart after the death of their mother or father or both. Some widows or widowers never recover from the deadly kicks from death. Empires have crumbled because of death. A pioneer’s death has been known to lead to the end of his or her invention. And a founder’s death has left many working under them unable to find their feet thereafter. At a moment like this, when a precious heart like yours just suddenly stopped, I am tempted to wonder what the fuss about life is and I wonder: Why do we need garages beaming with Rolls Royce, Cadillac, Limousine, £120,000 Bentley Continental GT, €407,000 Mercedes-Benz Maybach 62, and a lavish fleet of armoured Range Rovers worth £600,000? Maybe we should just enjoy life as much as possible before the hearts stop. Maybe we should fill our wardrobes with hundreds of pairs of shoes, designer wears and never repeat a piece of clothing or footwear. But is this life worth having in our vaults currencies running into billions, which will never finish if we live for the next 100 years? What is the worth of rooms with cobwebs in many mansions in different cities of the world? Why do we squander on homes money enough to give us hospitals of world-class standard and universities that can rival Harvard? Why can’t we see sense in the saying there is enough for everyone’s need but not for everyone’s greed? Some people have left this world and their properties have become someone else’s, and not necessarily their children and spouses. My final take: Life is not worth taking too seriously to the extent of solely keeping the wealth that can turn around the lives of millions. We live in a country with over 100 million people in abject poverty, of high maternal mortality, of one of the world’s worst out-of-school-children statistics and of millions whose tomorrow are bleak just on account of their birthplace. Let us do what we can to make our country and the world a better place. Ibidun, go well, eat whatever they eat on that side, drink anything available there and generally have the best. Pastor Ituah, I am sure, will keep your memory alive and one way of doing that may be to sustain your foundation through which you were helping women become mothers through the IVF, which failed you. You knew its failure in your case did not mean others could not benefit and you made many hear the cries of children in their homes through IVFs you paid for. To mark your 40th, you even footed the bill of 40 women to have IVFs. Say hello to Azeez Ozi-Sanni, The Nation’s ace cartoonist, who took the final bow a day after you. Tell him we will miss his masterstroke, tell him you guys’ fate has further made many of us still here feel that life is nothing. Absolutely nothing. 