 The N150 billion Sukuk being issued by the Federal Government is a high-grade investment with high return and almost zero risk, the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS) has said. The CIS, which regulates the practice of stockbroking in Nigeria, said the ongoing Sukuk issuance is a wealth-creating opportunity for Nigerians, especially in this period of COVID-19 pandemic. In a statement jointly signed by its President, Mr Tunde Amolegbe and Chief Executive Officer, Mr Adedeji Ajadi, the CIS urged investors to partner with stockbrokers for investment advice on the processes and procedures for investing in the Sukuk, which application list is scheduled to close on Tuesday, June 2, 2020. According to stockbrokers, Sukuk Ijarah is a fixed income security backed by the Federal Government, which makes it an investment without risk as repayment of investors is guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the Federal Government of Nigeria, hence, the instrument is regarded as a gild hedge. They noted that Sukuk is highly sought after by ethical Investors as it provides a regular bi-annual tax-free payment for the period of the instrument while principal will be paid at the end of maturity period which is seven years.  “The profit to investors is pre-determined at regular interval to enable them enjoy steady cash flow. Sukuk helps in redistribution of wealth. It is a risk management instrument which is ideal for both speculators and investors. Speculators can sell before maturity. The instrument will help the government to finance large projects,” CIS stated. Stockbrokers pointed out that the Federal Government has promised to invest the proceeds in specific road projects across the six geo-political zones of the country for the benefit of the citizens as a whole. The institute urged investors to approach their stockbrokers to learn more about this instrument prior to making their investment decision, noting that stockbrokers are very accessible and they are professionals equipped with skills and competencies in evaluating the risk and returns associated with such an  instrument and will be able to guide investors accordingly. “Stockbrokers will assist investors to open accounts at the Nigerian Stock Exchange’s clearing house, Central Securities Clearing System (CSCS) to keep their investments with opportunities to track it on the NSE and FMDQ in case they decide to sell before maturity,” CIS stated. 