All Progressive Congress (APC) chieftain Chief Lanre Razak has urged leaders to learn from the lessons history. He praised the pro-democracy crusaders for their agitation against military rule and the restoration of civil rule. Razak said: “First I want to appeal to Nigerians to look at the composition of ethnic nationalities (over 250) in this country before they make any objective assessment of the current state of the nation and the performance of the political class to manage it to the current level. We should appreciate rather than vilify them because human beings are the most difficult to handle and for the political class to have managed them especially since our return to democracy for the past 21 years now, I believe the politicians have done very well. “A 21 –year-old person can surprise you with a good result and the political class has been doing what is expected of them in governance. Initially, it was rough and tough because the political class came together to ensure the military return to the barracks in 1999, or what can be described as let my people go and they have gone for good. You recall that a lot of strange bed follows came together to ensure the exit of the military on May 29, 1999 and from all indications there has been a lot of realignment of political forces which is still ongoing. It was as a result of that realignment that led to the formation of the APC in 2014 which defeated then ruling PDP in 2015 general elections, when Muhammadu Buhari emerged as president and the APC became the governing party at the Federal level. “I want to assure you that the political class will consolidate on good governance and continue to sustain the nation’s democracy. We will not allow reactionary elements to emerge and destroy the democracy that Nigerians fought very hard to enthrone. We will continue to remember the heroes of that struggle such as the Chief Abiola, Chief Abraham Adesanya and Chief Bola Ige of blessed memory as well as Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu. Nigerian democracy is no longer nascent and the political class has laid a very solid foundation for democracy to thrive in the country. Before 2014, merger of political parties had never worked in this country but because of patriots like Senator Tinubu and President Buhari who decided that Nigeria should come first before any personal interest, they made the necessary sacrifice, came together and ensured the merger of some parties, the All Nigeria Peoples Party, ANPP, Action Congress of Nigeria, ACN, Congress for Progressive Change, CPC and a faction of All Progressives Grand Alliance, APGA to form the APC. “This was very usual and this group of patriots ensured total victory for our party. Having achieved that, you and I know the sacrifices that our political leaders have made and we will not allow such sacrifices to be in vain and be destroyed. I want to assure you that democracy will continue to thrive in Nigeria and we will work assiduously against the agents of evil to ensure that we don’t destroy the democracy we have achieved.”