The family of Chizoba Boye and the motion picture industry in Nigeria was thrown into mourning after receiving the news of the demise of veteran actress and filmmaker Chizoba Boye, who died on May 10. The actress died after a brief illness. Chizoba Boye, is the wife of veteran filmmaker, Sam Boye, and she was a regular face on television series, ‘Tinsel.’ She was a strong advocate for Nollywood Igbo and would be remembered for her pioneering role in ‘Living in Bondage,’ ‘Checkmate,’ ‘Scandals,’ and other Nollywood hits. Aside from her role in Tinsel, she was also a producer and presenter. Her Igbo comedy series, ‘Ka Anyi Si Ebi, was a star feature on DSTV’s Igbo Channel. It was the first Nigerian Igbo Series set in modern-day Lagos. She produced the drama series while her husband directed it. Popular Nollywood actress, Emilia Dike, reportedly slumped and died in Enugu State on May 20. The news of her demise was confirmed by popular Movie Director, Okechukwu Oku. He announced her death on his Instagram, stating he was really saddened to hear of the news. In his post, he said: “Why is death taking the best people???? I’m confused oooo. Just filmed with Mama here on my 2 last projects, excited to release it and this horrible news today. A woman with a heart of gold, Aah noooo. Will miss you Mrs Dike. Nollywood has lost a gem in you. This is messed up.” Dike featured in Nollywood movies some of which include: Ignorant Couples, Dust of Yesterday, Kings Guard and many more. Yoruba Actor, Juwon Awe, was killed by bandits in Ote, Kwara on Monday, January 27, 2020, police said. The news of his death was announced by his colleague, Ibrahim Chatta, via his Instagram handle on the night of the incident. According to Chatta, the deceased was murdered by armed men while journeying from Ilorin with a female actor, Toyosi Adesanya. He wrote: “He was young and promising, full of HOPE. Juwon was working in my industry as a continuity manager and a driver trying to make ends meet. He was attacked and murdered today by three Fulani and a Yoruba armed bandits while driving a known female actor Toyosi Adesanya from Ilorin. Adieu Juwon.” The sad news about Jennifer’s death was shared by her close friend and colleague, Uche Ogbodo, on Instagram. Omole was a member of the Actors Guild of Nigeria Spain chapter, where she was based although her friends revealed that she recently moved to the United Kingdom. She hailed from Edo State. Before her death, Jennifer was a movie producer and CEO of JennisFilms Production Ltd. She produced ‘Stolen Vow’ alongside Uche Ogbodo, Jibola Dabo, Daniel Lloyd and a host of other Nollywood actors. ‘Stolen Vow’ had UK, Spain, and Switzerland premieres with Uche Ogbodo and the late actress as executive producers. He had dedicated his life to the promotion of Islamic religion, especially in Ido local government area where he lived until his death. He was the PRO of the Muslim community in Apete-Awotan-Ayegun and environs in Oyo state. The chairman of the Muslim Community in Apete-Awotan-Ayegun and environs, Abdulwaheed Amoo, confirmed his death and burial on January 14, 2020. The veteran actor and production manager, Frank Dallas, died on February 19, 2020 after suffering cardiac arrest in his hotel room. The actor, who was popularly known as ‘Adedibu‘ or ‘Killer‘ in movies reportedly died in Umuahia, Abia State while attending a summit. The deceased, who hailed from Ohafia in Abia, was the former Public Relations Officer of the Actors Guild of Nigeria (AGN), Lagos chapter. Monalisa Chinda-Coker defeated him to emerge AGN national PRO in an election in 2019. Dallas, who was renowned for his action roles in movies, began his acting career in the early 90s. He often starred alongside Jim Iyke and Hanks Anuku in movies. Some movies he featured include ‘Emotional Pains’, ‘A Night to Remember’, ‘Back II Back’, ‘Blind Love’, ‘Sweet Love’ and ‘Hit The Street’. Veteran actor, Kayode Odumosu, popularly known as Pa Kasumu, died on the March 1 after a prolonged battle with heart failure. The renowned thespian died in a private hospital in Lantoro, Abeokuta in Ogun State. Born Ilesanmi Olukayode Olugbenga Odumosu in Ibadan on March 16, 1953, the 66-year-old veteran began acting as a teenager.  His debut role was in 1968 in a stage play ‘Iyawo Orun’. In 1969, he featured in his breakout play titled ‘Omo Ekere’. Kasumu was a household name in the Yoruba movie industry until he went off radar when he was down with Biventricular Heart Failure in 2013. The popular Yoruba actor said all he needed are fervent prayers and not financial aid from well-wishers and well-meaning Nigerians. In 2016, the actor’s condition became so serious that members of his family moved him from his home in Abeokuta to his elder sister’s residence at Aseese, an Ogun community situated off the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. Odumosu admitted that his health worsened shortly after returning from India where he had gone to receive treatment for a heart-related ailment that also affected his eyesight and memory in 2015. Some of his memorable works include Babie Á (2003), Jesu Mushin (2002) and Sàngó: The Legendary African King (1998). Veteran Yoruba filmmaker and actor, Gbenga Ajumoko died on March 22 after battling with a chronic ailment. The actor- cum- scriptwriter was reported to be critically down with in a hospital for six months in Sagamu Remo where he was diagnosed with diabetes and hypertension. He solely treated the ailments quietly until things got worse for him. He was later transferred to a private hospital located at Ibadan Garage, Ijebu Ode, Ogun State, where he died. Ajumoko worked as a production manager, actor, writer, and movie director before he died. Some of his works include, known Enikeji (2017), Agbere (2017), Yeye Efun, Wound (2019), Ako Okuta (2018). Nollywood actor, Alkali Matt, popularly known as Dareng, died while filming on set on 24 March 2020. Dimbo Atiya, who shared the news of his demise on Facebook, said Matt passed on at around 7 pm “suddenly while he was filming on a set for an epic movie in a village near Keffi.” Matt is popular for his role as Dareng in the Africa Magic series “Halita.”