Deputy Ondo Governor, Hon Agboola Ajayi has moved out of his official residence at the Government House. It was gathered security was beefed up with close scrutiny of what was being taken out during the exercise. Ajayi had been at loggerheads with Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu and several interventions by prominent individuals to bring peace between them failed. The quarrel made Ajayi to boycott government functions since March even though their differences started last year after Akeredolu returned after undergoing surgery overseas. Our reporter gathered that Akeredolu lost faith in his deputy when he learnt he was putting political structures in place to unseat him. It was gathered Ajayi and his aides wanted to move out quietly by removing their belongings on Saturday night in preparation for his planned resignation from the All Progressives Congress(APC). But aides to Governor Akeredolu raised the alarm they were looting government properties as well as attempting to sneak out some secret documents. There was said to have been a quarrel between aídes of Akeredolu and Ajayi. An aide to the Governor, who pleaded anonymity, said the movement of the Deputy Governor’s official vehicles was suspicious at that time. “He came around 9pm and wanted to go out with three vehicles but the CSO stopped him. He left  around 12 midnight,  his wife took three vehicles with state government license plate and some loads were inside. “She was stopped and had to call her husband who later came. It was  the CSO that called the CP because he saw that there was no reason parking load without inventory being taken.” Intervention by security personnel at the government house could not save the situation which prompted the policemen to call the Commissioner of Police, Bolaji Salami. A viral video saw Ajayi accusing the Ondo CP of being used to stop his movement from the government house. His media aide, Babatope Okeowo, who denied allegations of looting government property ,said his boss was prevented from leaving the government house with one of the vehicles attached to his office. Babatope said his boss was held back for over four hours and barred by policemen from leaving the government house for his personal residence within Akure because of allegations that he has perfected plans to dump the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) for the People’s Democratic Party(PDP).   