The state chairmen of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos, Ondo, Ogun and Osun states have accused Governor Seyi Makinde of neglecting the Southwest Zonal leadership of the party and prodding Chief Olabode George and Sen. Hosea Agboola to become the National and Zonal chairmen of the party respectively. The chairmen, in a joint letter to the National Chairman, Chief Uche Secondus, took exception to the Zonal meeting held in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital last week, accusing the governor of unilaterally calling a Zonal meeting without a recourse to the Zonal leadership. They describe the alleged actions as capable of destabilizing the party in Southwest and called on the National Working Committee to take immediate actions that will stem the potential crisis. Dated June 19, 2020, the letter was signed by Hon. Deji Doherty (LAGOS), Engr. Clement Faboyede (Ondo), Dr. Sikirulai Olawale Ogundele (Ogun) and Elder Sunday Akanfe (Osun). It read: “We the undersigned are party Chairmen in States of the South West Zone and we feel duty bound to alert you on the need to forestall the festering of any crisis in the South West zone of the party. “This action becomes necessary in view of the new schism rearing its head in our zone. It is our immediate concern to ensure that all hands are deck to halt the growth of needless crisis that will negatively affect the health of our party in the South West Zone. “In this respect, we take due notice of the invitation to a purported South West Zone meeting which held on Friday, 19th June 2020 unilaterally summoned by His Excellency, Engr Oluseyi Makinde, with no recourse whatsoever to the Zonal Executive. This development if not arrested may signal the beginning of terrible developments in our zone. “We are also aware that factors propelling the simmering crisis included the of Chief Olabode to become National Chairman at all cost and also that of Senator Hosea Agboola, current caretaker Chairman of Ekiti State to become National Vice Chairman. “These two men are exploring their closeness to Governor Seyi Makinde to prosecute inordinate ambition at the expense of the existing amity and understanding within the South West Zone which is currently being disrupted for this reason. “We urge the National Working Committee to take immediate action actions geared at forestalling unnecessary crisis in our Zone by calling the aforementioned men to order and educate them on the need to play by the rules and not create any trouble in the zone. “We also wish to place it on record our confidence in the Zonal Caretaker Committee to discharge its constitutional responsibilities exquisitely and will always support them in this regard. “Our interest is majorly to ensure that our party is insulated from any unnecessary crisis and therefore urge Your Excellency to take immediate actions in this respect.” Makinde’s Chief Press Secretary Taiwo Adisa was unavailable for comment as at press time.