The Federal Government has said former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar’s comment on the nation’s debt profile is mere scaremongering anchored on a false premise. But main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) supported Atiku’s stance that the economy is in shambles. A statement on Wednesday in Abuja by the party’s spokesman Kola Ologbondiyan accused the government of concealing officially documented data on debts and the alarming state of the nation’s economy. Information and Culture Minister Lai Mohammed, who faulted Atiku’s understanding of the economy, said while the Federal Government welcomed constructive criticism, such must be based on verifiable facts rather than conjectures and innuendos. “There is no doubt that former Vice-President Abubakar loves our country and wishes it well; otherwise, he would not have sustained his serial quest for the country’s highest position. One can only hope that his resort to the use of such words as ‘precipice’, ‘foreclosure’ and ‘economic ruin’ does not reflect anything but best wishes for the country at this time,” he said. Mohammed said the figure of Nigeria’s debt to revenue ratio of 99 per cent in the first quarter of 2020, quoted by the former Vice-President, is not in the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework and Fiscal Strategy Paper, where he claimed he got it from. “We are also not able to ascertain the source of the first quarter figures of N943.12 billion for debt servicing and N950.56 billion for retained revenue, which he also quoted,” the minister said. He explained that the nation’s debt service provisions in the annual budgets include principal repayments, interest payments and all other applicable charges. “Therefore, the statement that debt servicing does not equate to debt repayment is not only wrong but also ill-informed,” Mohammed said. On the former Vice-President’s assertion that revenue needs to go up, the minister said the Muhammadu Buhari administration had introduced several measures to shore up revenues, listing some of them as the passage and implementation of the Finance Act, 2019, current reforms in the Oil and Gas industry, Tax Administration and Collections, as well as the Strategic Revenue Growth initiatives. Mohammed also said since Nigeria’s debt service is expressly provided in the annual budgets and the debt service payments are made as and when due, the issue of creditors foreclosing on Nigeria, as “strangely predicted by the former Vice President”, does not arise. The minister explained that contrary to the statement credited to Atiku Abubakar that Nigeria had experienced alarming and unprecedented increase in the ratios of debt to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and debt service to revenue, indeed, Nigeria’s ratio of debt to the GDP is one of the lowest in the world. He said this was at 19 per cent as at December 31, 2019, while government is currently making concerted efforts to increase revenue in order to bring down the ratio of debt service to revenue. “One of the reasons debt service to revenue is high is because revenue generation in Nigeria has been low, with over-dependence on the oil sector. This is corroborated by the fact that the ratio of Nigeria’s tax revenue to GDP is one of the lowest in the world – at about six per cent,” Mohammed said. The minister explained that unlike what obtained in the past – when the nation borrowed to service the crass indulgence of a few fat cats – the loans being obtained by the current administration are being primarily used to finance infrastructure, such as roads, railways, bridges and power,. He added that the loans are long-term in nature, which would benefit present and future generations.