 A member of the House of Representatives for Somolu Federal Constituency, Hon. Ademorin Kuye has said he has been fulfilling the mandate given to him by his constituents in the last one year. He also said he has effected drastic change in representing his constituency in the House. He said he has corrected the notion that first timers in parliament are usually bench warmers. In a statement in Abuja, Kuye said: “Truly, the hope and expectations of all residents of Somolu Federal Constituency was very high, there was the need for a drastic change in the trend of representation in the Constituency. “People clamoured for a new dimension of representation; where all residents would be carried along with happenings at the Green Chamber; where the MHR will not just stay put in FCT, forgetting his people and constituency at home and come back only when the next election is fast approaching. “I have proven to the nation that if you are good, you are good. “I have proven notion that first-timers at the National Assembly are usually bench-warmers for four years wrong.” Highlighting some of his achievement, he said: “Before my resumption at the National Assembly, I paid a courtesy visit to the National Orthopedic Hospital, Igbobi Lagos to check the welfare of the National Hospital and to know how I  could use my office to bring progress and gladness to the staff and patients of the hospital. “This led to the drafting of a motion for the Federal Government to as a matter urgency, attend to the various needs of the hospital, ranging from infrastructural development, provision of medical tools, gadgets, etc.” On the plight of pensioners, Kuye said the sufferings of pensioners were worrisome, stating his determination to ensure that pension payments are not delayed any longer. “I presented a Bill for an Act to reform certain provisions of 2014 Pension Reform Act, among other changes to the 2014 version, the current amendment seeks to grant quicker access to more money from the retirement savings account after retirement. “I also presented a bill to amend the Pension Reform Act 2004, with the aim to criminalize diversion of the pension fund by state governments and prescribed a jail term of 15 years for state officials found culpable.” As part of measures to improve the national databank, Kuye also said he presented a bill on the compulsory registration of birth and death by amending Section 17 of the Principal Act placing the responsibility of the mandatory registration in the hands of local government or area councils.” He said that the compulsory registration will lead to accurate statistics for planning, making informed economic decisions, provision of required facilities, and empowerment where necessary. He added: “Mandatory registration of birth will ensure that government monitors every childbirth from the cradle through school and employment to the grave,” he said. He noted that if the amendment being sought is passed into law, every Local Government will have a data bank, and information from the local government will go to the state data bank while the federal government’s data bank will contain information from across the states. “These and more are the reasons why we feel he has performed beyond our expectation as a first-time member of the House of Representatives.” Meanwhile members of his constituency have also lauded his outstanding performance in the House of Representatives in the last one year. According to the constituents in a statement, Rep Kuye has presented a Bill to reform certain provisions of 2014 Pension Reform Act, to the benefit of pensioners. H said the appointment of Kuye as the Deputy Chairman, Rules and Business Committee has led to significant improvement in the health, business and the education sector. 