Senator representing Kaduna Central, Malam Uba Sani in a Democracy Day message saluted heros and heroines of the struggle against military authoritarianism and fragrant violation of the fundamental rights and freedoms of the people. He said, the annulment of the June 12 election, which he described as people’s popular will, set off a chain of events that almost brought our dear country to its knees. The Senator said that these heros and architects of modern Nigerian democracy who sacrificed and also paid the ultimate price to entrench an enduring democracy in Nigeria included Chief M.K.O. Abiola and Chief Gani Fawehinmi SAN. He also acknowledged Governor Nasir El-Rufai’s strides in Kaduna state saying he has remained unwavering in his determination to make Kaduna State a model of progress and development and is deserving of the peoples total support. While noting the efforts of the founding fathers of Nigeria who laid its foundation for democracy, Senator Uba also recognized President Muhammadu Buhari’s political sagacity for being able to recognize the monumental political wrong done Chief Abiola and moving on behalf of all Nigerians, to apologize to his family and associates. “Chief Abiola was a unifying factor and the best tribute we can pay to him on this auspicious occasion is to rededicate ourselves to building a united, just and equitable Nigeria,” he said. “I remember fondly the symbol of Nigeria’s Modern Democracy, Chief Moshood Abiola, who won the freest presidential election that was unfortunately annulled by the then ruling military junta. That annulment of the people’s popular will set off a chain of events that almost brought our dear country to its knees. “I salute in a special way my departed mentor, the inimitable and exemplary legal and human rights icon, Chief Gani Fawehinmi, SAN, GCON. He was an extraordinary gift to Nigeria who contribute immeasurably to the struggle against military authoritarianism, growth and development of Nigeria’s democracy, advancement of the fundamental rights and freedoms of Nigerians, and the extension of the frontiers of the law,” he said. The Senator described Chief Fawehinmi as his most dependable ally in the pro-democracy struggle. “We also shared a passion for education, especially the education of the unpriviledged and underserved children. He did not hesitate in accepting my advise to extend his scholarship scheme for bright but indigent students to the northern part of Nigeria. “When he instituted the scholarship program in the North he made me the Coordinator. Thousands of Northern students have enjoyed scholarships through that program. Chief Fawehinmi lives in the hearts of those beneficiaries. They are all today contributing to making our nation a better placel,” he said. Urging Nigerians to remain resilient and keep faith with the nation’s democracy, Uba Sani noted however that there are huge challenges but with focus, faith and determination they can be turned to opportunities. “Our leader, President Muhammadu Buhari is not resting on his oars. He has received the Economic Sustainability Report from Vice President Osinbajo. He is keen on effectively implementing the report in order to reposition and strengthen our economy. “I deeply appreciate the good people of Kaduna Central Senatorial Zone. They are my number one priority. We have made some progress. But we shall not rest on our laurels. I pledge to redouble my efforts to ensure the safety, welfare and security of my people. With your continued support our zone in no time will be restored to its pride of place,” he said.