A Federal High Court in Abuja on Thursday partially upheld the no-case submission of former Interior Minister Abba Moro and two others. But their joy was short-lived as the court also asked them to defend themselves against abuse of office and some other charges. In a ruling, Justice Nnamdi Dimgba discharged and acquitted Moro, Mrs. Anastasia Daniel-Nwobia (who was the ministry’s Permanent Secretary) and Felix O. Alayebami (who was Deputy Director, Procurement) on seven out of the 11 counts contained in the charge on which they are being tried. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) had charged the three persons, a private firm, Drexel Tech Nigeria Limited  with conspiracy, procurement fraud, abuse of office, money laundering, among others, on the botched March 15, 2014 Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS) recruitment. The EFCC accused the defendants of defrauding 676,675 Nigerian job seekers, who subscribed to the recruitment after paying N1,000 each. Some of the applicants died in the stampede that occurred during the exercise. The prosecution closed its case after calling 12 witnesses, following which each of the defendants made a no-case submission. In his ruling on Thursday, Justice Dimgba discharged and acquitted Drexel Tech on all the charges. He said the evidence the prosecution tendered before the court showed that the contract for the recruitment, including the e-registration, received the approval of relevant authorities. In discharging and acquitting the defendants on Count Three, the judge held that there was no ground to proceed on it. He said the charge was based on mere speculation and assumption that the contract was illegal. “The prosecution did not conduct a proper investigation. It is only when a thorough investigation is conducted that it can unearth the facts…” The judge said the defendants needed to give some explanations on counts two, four, five and 11, which border on alleged breach of the Public Procurement Act, Number 65 of 2007 in the contract awards. He said: “After reviewing the evidence, I am of the view that there is a ground to proceed. The defendants need to demonstrate how the provision of Section 15(2) of the Public Procurement Act 2007 exempted them from tender. “In the absence of such demonstration, I am convinced that the defendants need to enter their defence on this. I, therefore, overrule the defendants’ no-case submission in relation to counts two, four and five. “Lives were lost in the course of the physical recruitment exercise as a result of stampede and the first, second and third defendants (Moro, Daniel-Nwobia and Alayebami) as principal officers of the ministry, have some explanations to make as to why safety measures were not put in place, during the exercise.” Justice Dimgba adjourned till October 29 for the defendants to enter their defence.