The end may not have been heard of the leadership crisis rocking the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) as the just dissolved National Working Committee (NWC) is consulting its lawyers on the next line of action. This was contained a statement jointly signed by Hon. Hillard Eta, the acting National Chairman and Arc. Waziri Bulama on Thursday night in Abuja. The 18 out of 21 NWC of the party, rising from a meeting after the Victor Giadom’s convened National Emergency Committee (NEC) meeting in Abuja on Thursday, reiterated its position that former National Deputy Secretary had no authority whatsoever to convene a meeting of the National Executive Committee (NEC) of our great Party. The committee refered to Article 25(B) which states the officer(s) of the party empowers to convene a NEC meeting, submitting that Giadom fell short of the provision of the party constitution to summon the meeting. The statement reads: “Article 25(B) of the Constitution of the APC is explicit that only the National Chairman or the National Working Committee (NWC) is given the prerogative of summoning meetings of the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the Party either for statutory quarterly meetings or for emergency meetings. The same provision of the constitution makes it compulsory for a notice of minimum of 14 days in respect statutory quarterly meetings and 7 days in respect of emergency meetings “We note that Chief Victor Giadom had convened and conducted a virtual meeting purportedly to be a National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting of our Party wherein certain far reaching resolutions were purportedly reached. While the National Working Committee is studying the unfolding drama, it will be consulting with stakeholders and team of lawyers on the next line of action”. The committee then urged all members of the party and concerned Nigerians  to remain calm pending the outcome of their consultations The statement listed the eighteen members (out of 20) of the NWC that attended its meeting as: Ntufam Hilliard Etagbo Eta – National Vice Chairman South South, Hon. Inuwa Abdulkadir -National Vice Chairman – North West, Pastor Bankole Oluwajana – National Vice Chairman South West, Alh. Ahmed Suleiman Wambal – National Vice Chairman North Central, Hon. Emma Eneukwu -National Vice Chairman  South East, Hon. Adamu Fanda – National Treasurer, Hon. Ibrahim Masari – National Welfare Secretary, Hon. Paul Chukwuma – National Auditor and Barr. Emma Ibediro – National Organising Secretary. Others were: Hon. Sadig Abubakar – National Youth Leader, Haj, Salamatu Baiwa Umar-Eluma National Wonen Leader,  Ath Tajudeen Hello – National Financial Secretary, Mistahu Lawan Didi (National Special Leader) Barr  Wogu Boms Deluty National Secretary, Barr. Babatunde Ogala – Natiinal Legal Adviser, Mallam Lanre Isa-Onilu – National Publicity Secretary and Arc. Waziri Bulama – National Secretary as well as Sen, Abiola Ajimobi – Ag.Chairman/indisposed.