 Justice might have come almost five years late, but it did come for young Ese Oruru who was abducted on August 12, 2015, in Bayelsa State, by  Yunusa Dahiru, who subsequently took her to Kano State, impregnated and converted her to Islam without the consent of her parents. Ese was 13 years at the time. Even though Ese was rescued by the Kano State Police Command in 2016, she was already five months pregnant then. She had already been violated and was at the risk of any pregnancy-related complications because of her age. She was at the risk of death or Visco Vaginal Vistula (VVF) that might arise during labour because of undeveloped birth canal. She was also at the risk of malnutrition because she was too young to know her nutritional needs. Her education was halted and she is today subject to the social stigma of having a baby out of wedlock. Her chances of learning a skill might have been affected and her child will equally be affected by the circumstances of his or her birth. But we commend the prosecutors of her case for being diligent enough to prove their case well to get the abductor convicted on charges of abduction, illicit sex, sexual exploitation and unlawful carnal knowledge of a minor. It is instructive to note that Ese Oruru’s abduction happened barely a year after the Chibok school girls were abducted on April 14, 2014. Even though some of the girls have reportedly been released , some are still with their abductors and, in 2018, more than a hundred school girls in a school in Dapchi, Yobe State were also abducted but all, except Leah Sharibu, were released. There are reports of other abductions in Zamfara and other Northern states. Some school boys were burnt to death in their dormitories in Buni Yadi Local Government in Yobe State. We therefore believe that the conviction of Yunusa is victory for all the abducted girls and boys in Nigeria. He probably took liberty to abduct Ese because he had seen that the previous abductors were never arrested and brought to justice. He was, paradoxical as it sounds, inspired by the fact that both intelligence and investigations keep failing the vulnerable in the country. It is pertinent to remember too that the dethroned Emir of Kano, Lamido Sanusi, was implicated in the abduction saga. He was only forced to act due to public outrage. This must be one contradiction recorded against a man who tried to speak up for certain socio-cultural anomalies that limit the development of the region, like child-brides and the lack of modern Islamic practices. However, now that Ese’s life has been disrupted with the birth of her child, both the federal and state governments must take actions to rehabilitate her, both socially and psychologically. She needs a large dose of mental re-orientation and social support to enable her overcome the trauma and the impact of the social stigmatisation that might follow. The larger society must equally show her love instead of blaming her. Minors are supposed to be protected by the parents, guardians and the state. However, we implore the law enforcement and other security agencies to improve their intelligence and be more proactive in protecting the people. We hope other abducted women, girls and boys can be freed and their abductors equally face justice. 