 The first week of the reunion of Big Brother Naija Pepper Dem housemates has rounded off with a drama for viewers. The drama – as expected – was ignited by accusations against the most controversial ex-housemate, Tacha on the third day of the reunion. The highly anticipated drama kicked off with a face-off between Kim Oprah and Tacha. Kim Oprah, the fourth housemate to be evicted from the show, accused Tacha of being arrogant and boastful. The former representative of Nigeria at Miss Intercontinental also insisted that Tacha mistakes arrogance for confidence all through her 89 days in the Big Brother house. In response to Kim Oprah’s accusations, Tacha took on Kim saying she’s not only insecure but failed to stay in the house longer than herself. “I said during the short interviews that I am getting into the house and every other person is an escort. If you have an issue with it, Kim Oprah, you should fix your insecurity. Your insecurities are playing a joke on you, not me. If you have a problem with my confidence, that’s your insecurity and you should be inspired.” Tacha went on to insist that her alpha male personality is often mistaken for arrogance saying “If you are confident you are reassuring yourself of your abilities and possibilities. Arrogance is when you are exaggerating your abilities and possibilities”. The confidence and arrogance argument dragged reactions from other ex-housemates that include Venita Akpofure, Seyi, Ike, Esther, and Frodd. The situation offered Venita, Seyi, and Ike to come for Tacha in full glare. Ike said, “if you are confident, you don’t need to brag. There were times in the house when I would get mad and say no one here is on my level, not even because I’m coming from America but I am smarter than you, stronger than you, faster than you but this becomes a problem when I come to your face and belittle you which I don’t like to do or hurt people. Privately, I might feel better than you but I won’t put it to your face.” Supporting Ike’s submission, Seyi said bragging is weakness and not confidence. He said, “bragging is when you are an empty barrel just making noises.” Venita, who supported Seyi’s stand said, “Nobody should feel the need to make everyone around them feel bad to make them feel better. “Yes, have confidence in yourself but confidence is different from abrasiveness and just sheer arrogance. There is a big difference. Abrasiveness is robbing people the wrong way, rubbing everyone that surrounds you the wrong way while you feel good. Confidence is I feel good, this is me feeling good while abrasiveness is I feel good, I don’t care about all of you.” The reunion, which kicked off on June 1 has seen some of the housemates expressing their displeasure about other ex-housemates while the show host, Ebuka Obi-Uchendu, moderates the session. The show also had the self-acclaimed ‘Queen of Highlights,’ Lambo Mercy telling other housemates and viewers why she never repeated an outfit throughout her stay in the house.