 IN 1903, as the world was just welcoming a new century, Harvard trained American sociologist and foremost pan-Africanist, W.E.B. Du Bois soberly but boldly predicted in The Souls of Black Folk” that the problem of the 20th century was going to be the problem of the color line. As he goes on to explain, by the color line, he means “the relation of the darker to the lighter races of men (and women) in Asia and Africa, in America and the islands of the sea.” At the First Pan-African Conference in 1900, Du Bois saw the problem as “the question of how far differences of race…will hereafter be made the basis of denying to over half the world the right of sharing to their utmost ability the opportunities and privileges of modern civilization.” It was prophetic. Though Du Bois chose the 20th century as his focus, he was not unmindful of the history of race and racism in earlier centuries. Indeed, in the same chapter, he notes that “it was a phase of this color line that caused the Civil War” of the 19th century. There is also no doubt that Du Bois knew that the problem of the color line was not going to be resolved in the 20th century. Indeed, towards the end of his life he relocated to Ghana where he died and was buried because it was clear to him that America was not ready to solve the problem of race relations. In his time, Du Bois was the foremost scholar of the race problem in the United States. He was not just a scholar, he was also actively engaged in practical action to solve the problem across the world, including as a co-sponsor of the Pan-African conferences. In 1897, just six years before the publication of The Souls of Black Folk, Du Bois presented a paper before the American Negro Academy. Titled “The Conservation of Races”, the paper has an academic and a practical purpose. The academic purpose is to define the concept of race in both scientific and socio-historical terms. However, concerned about the political condition of Negro people, Du Bois’s practical purpose is to push his audience to greater heights, not necessarily as individuals, but as a group. However, Du Bois observes that Negroes were reluctant to embrace the concept of race and that the reason for this was that talk of race was a reminder of their oppression and the racists’ denigration of their natural abilities. White racists, not Negroes, came up with the idea of race, and they did that just to play the race card in support of the oppression of nonwhites. Is there a scientific basis for their invention? The fact that it was invented should put to rest the idea of its naturalness. But the invention stuck, and it served its purpose. Du Bois grappled with the fact of the artificiality of race. He observed that science cannot help us in the matter of making distinctions between human races because many of the so-called scientific criteria are mingled and unhelpful. Color, hair, cranial measurement cannot be used to classify human beings into different races. They are intermingled. Yet even after making this valid point, Du Bois cannot resist the conclusion that race exists and that there are three racial groups, White, Negro, and Yellow. The tension is palpable between the reality of scientific invalidation of race and the political necessity of pushing the Negro to make their own mark in a world that has invented race and has been using it against them. So, while he acknowledges the scientific problem, Du Bois feels that he has a job to do, because he knows that the scientific invalidation of race distinctions has not prevented White powers from using their power to uplift white people and oppress Black people. This was the point of his intervention in 1897. It has not worked because in the game of life between Whites and Blacks, the deck has been stacked so unfairly. And it is so weird that there is a double decker reality now as America has become the epicenter of two global pandemics: coronavirus and virulent racism. It is unusual to see racism as a pandemic. But we better believe that it is a disease that is as old as the human race itself as anthropology and the holy books demonstrate. The coronavirus pandemic has also laid bare the underbelly of racism and racial disparities in health. While African-Americans are about 13% of the population, they account for more than 40% of the pandemic deaths in the United States. This is due to many factors, all of which are related to structural racism, environmentally hazardous neighborhoods, lack of access to healthcare and to education. Systemic racism accounts for innumerable cases of unjustified arrests, unprovoked searches, and assaults by police officers. In the late 1990s, a young Nigerian-American man graduated from Harvard and was hired for his first job in Seattle. He had just received his driver’s license. Upon arriving in Seattle, he got a rental car reserved by the company. A few days later, while returning from work, he took a wrong exit from the highway to a White neighborhood. A police officer pulled him over, asked for his papers, which he handed over. To his shock, the officer accused him of driving with an expired license. He had just received the brand new license the week before he travelled. The officer confiscated his rental car, drove him to the police station and booked him. That started a frantic phone call. The Maryland Vehicle Administration which issued the license confirmed that it was current. The young man was only guilty of “Driving While Black (DWB)”. The following morning, he was released without any apology. He thanked God that his life was spared and he moved on. The murder of George Floyd in plain view on the street of Minneapolis was as egregious as they get, and it has rightly caught the attention of the world from Nigeria to New Zealand and from France to Canada. Watching the video, you see a murderer in official state uniform meant for the protection of citizens, looking nonchalantly with glee in his eyes, snuffing life out of a fellow human being. But I am wrong. The wicked spirit inside that officer didn’t allow him to see a human being moaning under his brutal hold. Did he see an animal? This is where ingrained racism unfolds in the reaction of official Washington. Even a dog would receive more heartfelt sympathy from White people than George received. We heard some platitudes about the shock. But what followed the immediate reaction was the macho attitude that has always characterized such shallow half-baked response. Certainly, they would have a more heartfelt outrage in response to the killing of a goose than they mouthed against the murder of George Floyd. George Floyd was the most recent victim in a string of racially motivated murders of Black people by White state officials or ordinary citizens across the US. In the month of May alone, there were three, with similar degrees of evil. A young man was jogging in a White neighborhood. A former trooper and his son pursued him in a truck, accusing him of being a thief. They gunned him down. A young lady and her boyfriend slept in her room only to be woken up by banging on the door. They suspected invaders. The man fired a shot to scare them away. The police officers at the door with a warrant for a totally different house opened fire, killing the lady. Floyd was the third. Between 2015 and 2020, during part of which a Black man was resident in the Oval Office, it is estimated that more than 1200 African-Americans were killed by the Police in America. When will it end? Or will it ever end? These are the questions that reasonable people are demanding answers to. 