Union Bank of Nigeria (UBN) Plc and the organisers of TEDxLagos have partnered to host entrepreneurs, social advocates, innovators and thought leaders to explore new and innovative ideas and strategies. At the virtual TEDxLagos event tagged ‘Upside’, it was a gathering of brilliant ideas and inspiring talks from an interesting line-up of speakers which included medical practitioner, Folakemi Ezenwanne; venture capitalist, Chika Nwobi; and environmental and climate governance advocate, Chukwumerije Okereke. Head of Corporate Communications and Marketing, Union Bank of Nigeria (UBN) Plc, Ogochukwu Ekezie-Ekaidem, who spoke on the bank’s partnership with TEDxLagos, said the bank was pleased to partner  TEDxLagos for the third consecutive year. “Now, more than ever before, we believe that great ideas and collaboration are key to moving Nigeria, and indeed, our world forward. Therefore, this partnership with TEDx, a platform known to unravel and amplify brilliant ideas, is one we have identified as a worthy cause, especially in these times,” Ekezie-Ekaidem said. A major highlight of the day was the session Rise: Innovating in Uncertainty, hosted by Union Bank. This aspect of the programme was designed to shine the spotlight on individuals and groups who are innovatively rising in the face of the difficult times the world faces today. Speakers in the session included Simi Nwogugu, Trustee of Project Ark and Executive Director, Junior Achievement of Nigeria; and two winners from the ongoing Union Rise Challenge- Katfwang Fwangkat, Chief Executive Officer of Yen Express, a telemedicine and mobile pharmacy platform and; Adams Bamigbose, Founder AGL Artistry, a social enterprise focused on converting waste into Art, Furniture and more recently, mobile handwashing devices. Ekezie-Ekaidem said Union Bank’s partnership with TEDxLagos reiterates the bank’s continued commitment to innovation, creativity and support for Nigeria’s growth. On-air-personality, Bella Rose Iyere-Okojie was also on hand to entertain the audience in her role as event host, while music sensation, Di’Ja thrilled participants with a musical performance.   