The Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission(EFCC), Mr. Ibrahim Magu has confessed the anti-graft war is tough and demanding. He said every fraudster is a wounded lion and could go to any length to attack investigators. He said the costs of fighting corruption may be grave, but the costs of not fighting it is more deadly. He said the agency has secured 2. 240 convictions and recovered assets in excess of N980billion. Magu made the submissions while receiving Lifetime  award from  Ghana’s Chartered Institute “Anti-corruption war is truly tough and demanding but it has its rewards. Honour is greater than gold and appreciation is more important than gratification. “As a law enforcement officer of more than 30 years’ experience,  I know what it takes to tackle corruption.  This is why I always say that, fighting corruption is not a tea party. It is not a cocktail party either. “There are hazards on the job. It is by the mercy and grace of Almighty Allah that we are overcoming all the challenges the job entails. “The greatest challenge of the anti-corruption war is corruption fighting back.  The fight-back can take any dimension and it is important that we are all prepared all the time for whatever fraudsters may weave and dangle against us.  Every exposed fraudster is a wounded lion  and you know what a wounded lion can do! He said that notwithstanding the difficulties in tracking corruption proceeds and prosecuting suspected looters, the EFCC under his stewardship in the last five years, secured 2240 convictions and recovered assets in excess of N980billion. He said: “We have convicted top brass in     politics,  judiciary,  military,  civil service, academics and in the private sector. “We have sent several  oil thieves into jail to preserve our oil wealth as a nation.  We have made corruption to be a fearful and dangerous engagement through our consistent crackdown on every suspected fraudster. “In short, we have  succeeded in creating a culture of caution and carefulness in the handling of  financial resources, both in the public and private sectors. “The consciousness we have created about anti-corruption cannot be quantified in money terms because it is deep, wide and large. “We are aware that we have ruffled many feathers. We have  touched the untouchables and we have dared lions in their dens. We are doing all these, not because we love dangers and death, we are doing them because we value the comfort and development which anti-corruption brings. “We value good lives for our fellow men and women and we value better future for all our children.  The costs of fighting corruption may be grave, but the costs of not fighting it is more deadly. “This is why we continue to call on every Nigerian to enlist in the anti-graft war.  A good war is a war that is waged by the majority for the good of the majority.” He insisted that the EFCC is determined to stop looters in the country irrespective of the dangers posed to him and its detectives. Magu added: “Nigeria and Ghana share so many historic things in common.  I will strive to continue to make Nigeria and Ghana proud and by extension, make humanity better as we continue  the anti-corruption fight. “The war is a never-ending war, as long as we have the corrupt in our midst.  Our hope in all of our efforts is that God is against corruption. He is with us and will ever be with us.” Executive Director of the Chartered Institute of Public Resources Management & Politics, Ghana, Dr. Richards Kpoku Akuate, described Magu as a “highly respectable, world class criminologist, erudite law enforcement officer, a visionary technocrat, renowned management expert, public service administrator. He said  the Institute decided to formally induct him into the 2020  fellowship hall of fame of the Chartered Institute of Public Resources Management and Politics (Ghana). “This illustrious statesman is an uncommon professionalism global reckoning in a class of his own, a pace-setter leadership colossus of unparalleled distinction, anti-corruption crusader and a most experienced investigative strategist,” he said. He said the Institute having carried out over three years intensive research on the personality profile of Magu in regards to public service and development is proud of his unassailable statesmanship pedigree towards fighting corruption and other forms of financial crimes.  