 The National Coordinator of the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) in Nigeria, Princess Gloria Akobundu has commended President Muhammadu Buhari for his commitment to good governance and the continued development of the country. Akobundu, who is also the head of the  African Union Development Agency (AUDA) in Nigeria observed that the President Buhari-led government has impacted the nation’s democracy, economy and infrastructure positively within the last five years. In a statement by her media assistant,  Abolade Ogundimu, Akobundu was quoted as saying that President Buhari deserves applause for his commitment to development in all sectors of the nation’s economy. “The APC-led government came in with a roadmap for the development of every sector of the economy and deepening democracy, which have been vigorously pursued. “Nigeria,  a nation of over 200 million population is now self-sufficient in rice and other foods due to President Buhari’s policy backing the production of crops grown in the country and deliberate support to farmers and other allied workers. “Similarly, infrastructural deficits are getting better attention through improved funding, for example, ongoing road constructions across the country, standard railway constructions and many more,” she said. Akobundu  added that President Buhari has further proved his passion for good governance, in line with the African Union (AU) Agenda 2063. “AUDA-NEPAD and APRM are AU vehicles of Continental development and promoting good governance and the present Federal  government has renewed Nigeria’s commitment to their mandates. “It is on record that President Buhari approved transformation of NEPAD to AUDA-NEPAD in Nigeria, overseeing its complete domestication process which will include enacting of enabling law for effective operation. “He has also led other African leaders to AUDA-NEPAD/APRM and EFCC Nigeria’s Special side events at 73rd and 74th United Nations General Assembly in New York. “Also, the country is in the process of conducting its Second Cycle Review because President Buhari gave the approval last year after 11 years of initial Review. “He carefully  appointed members of National Governing Council of APRM which had been inaugurated as required for successful second Review by APRM Continental,” she said. Akobundu said the review exercise will be conducted at the grassroots to get their inputs in certain areas of governance and submitted to the Federal government for consideration as National Programme of Action. She added that the review exercise would be completed this year,despite the challenges being posed by COVID-19 pandemic, hoping to deploy technology in some aspects of the process. Akobundu attributed the successes recorded by the agency under her stewardship to President Buhari’s commitment to its mandates, urging Nigerians across ethnic, religious and political divide to give more supports to his government for further delivery of good governance to the nation.