A former chairman of Ovia North East Local Government of Edo State, Mr. Solomon Odemwingie, has urged members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state to bury the hatchet and support Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, the party’s governorship candidate in the September 19 election. Odemwingie, who spoke in Benin, said the party needed to work together and guard against throwing away the “cake you already have in hand.” Noting that Edo State will witness development if Ize-Iyamu is elected governor, the former local government boss told the party members that the disagreement between ex-National Chairman Adams Oshiomhole and Governor Godwin Obaseki had been laid to rest. He said: “We must all remember or know that the present is the funeral of the past. As things are today, the resignation of Obaseki from the APC has separated them politically. Politically or otherwise, the duo can be seen tomorrow on the same table with forks and knives. You and I will not be there. What happened between them is a chapter in the study of politics. “Let us feel happy that a man who is a colossal presence in the politics of Edo State for very many years, one who is an inspirational icon and one who is a strong grassroots mobiliser, has been elected as APC candidate.” Describing Ize-Iyamu as a garrison commander of Edo politics, Odemwingie said the APC candidate should be given the opportunity to implement his ‘Simple Agenda’. This, he said, includes the construction of good roads, resuscitating Bendel Brewery and Edo Line Transport Service. According to him, Ize-Iyamu suffered electoral manipulation in the past and exhibited exemplary attitude of peace and co-operation without taking the law into his hands. Odemwingie recalled that the APC candidate had gone to court to seek redress, but justice did not come his way, yet he remained law-abiding, knowing that one day another opportunity would come. The former local government chairman said Edo residents, particularly members of the APC, were aware of the role Ize-Iyamu played in the building and development of the party when it was formed. He urged them to speak with one voice and rally round him to ensure victory for the party.