 TWO of the books by Wole Soyinka and Lola Shoneyin are billed for an on-screen adaptation by Mo Abudu’s EbonyLife for Netflix after a partnership was struck. A major highlight of the partnership will be the on-screen adaptations of Shoneyin’s best-selling debut novel, The Secret Lives of Baba Segi’s Wives and Soyinka’s Death And The King’s Horseman, a play by 1986 Nobel Prize laureate in Literature, author, poet & playwright, Wole Soyinka. One of the films will premiere on the service in 2020. On her part, Shoneyin said “I was thrilled when Mo contacted me about making a show out of my novel, The Secret Lives of Baba Segi’s Wives. I’d turned down so many offers but this one felt right. It was an opportunity to see my work in the hands of a woman who pursued excellence in Africa in the same way that I did. I grew to trust her very quickly, so when she told me about the possibility of working with Netflix, I was overjoyed. Soon, people everywhere will have access to the story of Baba Segi. And that is more than I could have asked for as a writer.” Netflix entered into a multi-title partnership deal with Mo Abudu after many of her productions got on the Netflix roll. Abudu’s EbonyLife has been commissioned to create two Netflix Original series as well as multiple Netflix branded films and a series that have been licensed to the service. “Mo is at the forefront of creative storytelling in African television. Her passion for creating high-quality, riveting multi-genre films and TV shows that capture the imagination while showcasing the diversity and richness of Nigerian culture is evident in her impressive body of work,” says Dorothy Ghettuba, Netflix’s lead for Original Series in Africa. “We’re thrilled about this first-of-its-kind partnership in Africa that will bring some of Nigeria – and Africa’s most iconic storytelling to screen. We look forward to supporting Mo as she brings all these diverse Nigerian stories to the world.” “As a Nigerian storyteller, my biggest motivator has always been to tell authentic and untold stories that resonate with every person, regardless of where they’re from in the world while showcasing our culture, heritage, and creativity,” says Mo 