Stakeholders in Nigeria’s oil and gas industry and the maritime sector have hailed the takeover of the Export Free Zones (EFZs) involved in oil and gas activities in Nigeria by the Oil and Gas Free Zones Authority (OGFZA) in line with relevant legislations. The stakeholders also applauded the political will demonstrated by the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mr. Abubakar Malami and his counterpart in the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Niyi Adebayo, for their correct interpretation of the Nigeria Export Processing Zones Act (NEPZA) Cap No 107, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria (LFN) 2004 and the Oil and Gas Export Free Zone Act Cap 05 LFN 2010. They also praised President Muhammadu Buhari for standing firm on his avowed determination to correct the wrongs of the past. Before Otunba Adebayo became the supervising minister, NEPZA had undertaken the functions of OGFZA, which by law, has the oversight responsibility over free zones involved in oil and gas activities in Nigeria. The industry operators, in their separate interviews, NEPZA was not attracting enough foreign investments into the country through the EFZs but was hijacked by few companies that were scared of competition and insistent on creating monopoly. Mr. Frank Obi, a freight forwarding operator said: “Even now that government has done the correct thing, NEPZA is reluctant to embracing the reforms initiated by the minister. “NEPZA left some companies to parade themselves as free zone stakeholders to frustrate foreign investments in the free zones and create monopoly. “So, the handoverto OGFZA is timely especially now Nigeria is in need of foreign investments due to persisting COVID-19 pandemic and the fallen oil price. Therefore, the government’s initiative is laudable in the sense that it would usher in transparent operation of free zones in Nigeria. It will boost more investments and end the era of monopoly in the free zones. “It was obvious that NEPZA didn’t carry out well, its role as a free zone manager. It did not encourage new investments and the existing foreign investors felt frustrated.