Pictures are about time. And it is about time to reflect on a picture – or pictures – of the BOS of Lagos in his first flush as first steward. He was noted for a pose, his hand raised with a flourish and pointing at something in the distance. He was on inspection tours around the state, standing on platforms or climbing up some stairs, viewing projects in motion and areas of need. He needed to point to say a thing about what he wanted to do or inquire about. But a cynical mob mocked. They saw it as an extravagance of a finger. A showy and inept dreamer. Photo ops but not upstanding.  They pointed to a city of potholes, and suffocated traffic. He pleaded for time. The sky was sully and downpours plagued the streets. The social media raged, the tribe tagged by Soyinka as millipedes. He maintained a stoic retreat from the trills and ululations. He bided his time. “The most powerful warriors are patience and time,” wrote Tolstoy in his War and Peace. “Time,” noted President Richard Nixon in his memoirs, “is a great healer.” The sky returned to its benign blue, and earth thirsted for the machines of infrastructure. Road after road roared with work. Complaints changed from paralysis to a city bustling with road repairs and restoration. It was like the Jews who sought freedom and, when they breathed free air, envied their past bondage. In times of freedom, men seek bondage, wrote poet Unamuno. In times of bondage, men seek liberty. Within months, a mockery turned into an accolade. One of those pictures featured in a photo gallery to mark Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s first term in office. No one can say today, even among the cynic, that he pointed in vain. It is like the words of author Zig Ziglar, “Don’t judge me by my past. I don’t live there anymore.” The BOS was saying by that picture that he wanted to live there in the past. He was proud of pointing, or dreaming. He is happy that desire has now transformed into performance. He was not just pointing, he was pointing the state forward. He pointed from dream, to do. It was a moment as granary. Today with that picture, and others in the gallery of 93 pictures, he can invoke the words of Prophet Isaiah that “for your shame, you shall have double.” That was what the photo gallery, under a white tent on a blazing day of sunshine manifested to the world. The Governor and his deputy, the articulate Obafemi Hamzat, performed the tour guide, Hamzat doing the talking as the governor stood apart with a few interjections and elucidations. It was obvious the duo were in sync with the work of governance and his deputy was steeped in vision and direction of the government. The photos were encyclopaedic, covering education, infrastructure, health, water work, etc. The pictures came in different incarnations and points of view. Some of them came from aerial shots. The photo of the work in progress on the 10-lane Lagos-Badagry Express way gave the look of machines whirring, and there were vistas of disheveled glory of patchwork, smooth roads, piles of mud, et al, indicating furious bees of activities. We also saw from the air the bright sight of silos, highlighting the agricultural work, as well as sites of training buildings. A particularly telling view was of the ruins of Abule-Ado, the aftermath of a fire disaster that upended a community, ruined homes, lives, livelihoods with searing tales of human tragedies. That was the man-made horror before nature spelt COVID-19. The picture, of dark, scalding debris of blocks and wood, looked like mural, more like a painting than a picture, a testament to the realism of the photographer. The picture also showed the government was not going to say it was all rosy in the year. Also from the top was the picture of the inauguration day. Not of the governor but the carpet. It poured on May 29, 2019, and the carpet recorded it in amazing colours like a rainbow: red, blue, yellow, green. Rain drew whimsical lines on the colours like embroidery. A few others were from the sides. Unforgettable was the foundation work going on the rail project, telling in detail how a bridge withstands the coming and going of heavy duty cargo. I told myself, it was a weight of glory. Another side picture was a moment of boyish rapture when The BOS exchanged a handshake with a boy as, the Governor relates, the boy yelled his name from a distance while the governor was undertaking an inspection. The governor broke out of protocol to meet the ecstatic kid. He abided by the mantra of Spanish philosopher Spinoza, “to do good cheerfully.” Many shots were direct. One was at the beginning, when the duo received their certificate of return and had a photo-op with the Jagaban. Next was a picture on inauguration day, where the governor was flanked by his family, six in all, with the first lady’s hand in the air. “They are my bodyguards,” quipped Gov. Sanwo-Olu, referring to his family. My favorite picture was of the governor in a joyous moment with some pupils. The picture, probably snapped in colour, comes across in black and white, with a classic clarity of a legacy photo. The direct shot was of the vehicle successive governors have ridden on inauguration day. It is 42 years old, its engine revving healthy and body gleaming. It is a classic. A testimony of how things can endure, like institutions and property of state.  The vision of the “men on the moon,” the COVID-19 workers dressed in protective gear to sort out the refuse from one of the isolation centres. Technology showed up, like the virtual commissioning of Oyingbo Terminal.  In photo exhibitions of this sort, we expect some accompanying write-ups to indicate contexts and caveats, even when there is a tour guide. Photo works such as the Nazi Museum in Berlin or the Newseum in Washington are examples. Music maestro Tuface, one of the guests, ended the day with humour when we looked at a picture shot from under. A crowd huddled together on a bridge was looking down at the BOS commissioning a project. “That was a crowd of 2019 BC, Before Covid.” The 93rd picture will segue into the first of the second. The first picture of the second term, that is. Like Oscar Wilde’s character in his novel, The Portrait of Dorian Gray, the events of the next year will also go on record. By reporting himself in a photo gallery, he is also challenging himself.