Ondo State Accountant General, Mr Laolu Akindolie, might soon be sacked for being allegedly loyal to the Deputy Governor, Hon Agboola Ajayi. Hon Ajayi has fallen out with the Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu and is being expected to defect to the opposition People’s Democratic Party. Alleged loyalty of the Accountant General was raised by the Ondo Southern Solidary Front (OSSF) in a letter to Governor Akeredolu. The OSSF warned Akeredolu of plot by Akindolie to destabilise activities of his administration. A statement issued in Akure on Tuesday and signed by its Publicity Secretary, Mr. Adeoye Johnson, accused the Accountant General of acting the script of Hon Ajayi. The statement accused the Accountant General of refusing to pay less than N200 million of OSOPADEC fund but could afford to pay the Deputy Governor’s firm, ITDC, the sum of 700 million. According to the statement, “We know very well that Mr. Governor will not believe what we are saying because the Accountant General is a friend of a trusted ally of the Governor. “But we want to state clearly that the affinity of the Accountant General and the deputy Governor is such a strong one that dated back to the days of the twilight of the immediate past Government when the deputy governor was responsible for the abandonment of duties by the Accountant General when Mimiko needed him most. “We are warning that as we approach the party primary and the election, we have credible evidence that the duo of Akindolie and Ajayi have perfected plans to frustrate certain MDAs by starving them of funds. All such MDAs with potential meaningful impact on the State are now victims of the duo’s machinations. “This is clear in the manner the AG has deliberately starved OSOPADEC of funds so that the people of the Riverine areas will be perpetually unhappy with the Governor. The motive is to demarket and make the governor so unpopular that he won’t have any support base in the two riverine local Government areas of the state. “This is the real reason the Accountant General can deliberately deny our teaming students their legitimate bursary. Monday’s picketing of the Office of the State Accountant-General is a big embarrassment.” Mr. Akindolie or Hon Ajayi could not be reached for comments.