By Ogochukwu Anioke, Abakaliki Many houses have been burnt while properties worth millions were destroyed in Amuzu Igbeagu Community in Izzi Local Government Area over disagreement arising from leadership and land tussle in the area. Though details of what happened were still sketchy at the time of filling this report, one of the victims, Mr Scholastica Onyiyechi, lamented all her certificates and other vital documents were destroyed when miscreants hired by one of the factions set her father’s house ablaze. Another victim of the incident, who spoke on condition of anonimity for fear of more reprisals, accused one Mr Maurice Nkwuda, husband of the Coordinator of Igbeagu Development Centre of masterminding the crisis. The source traced the genesis of the whole incident to 2016 when some members of the community led by Nkwuda plotted to hand over a mineral rich land in the community to a prospective miner. But the community resisted his attempts to take over the land. The source further revealed around that period, the community’s Executives’ tenure ended and backed by Nkwuda, they refused to hand over or conduct another election. “They wanted to remain in power and use their power to force the community to hand over the land to them and their preferred mining company. “This led to a court case which lingered till March this year when the court gave judgement against them and ordered the to hand over to a new elected leadership but they still refused to hand over,” the source said. The source said the the villagers wrote to the state government, which ordered them to hand over the newly elected leadership. The source noted that having lost the leadership of the village, which is the only way for the ousted group to gain control of the land, the group resorted to importation of gunmen to attack and intimidate the villagers. “They hired gunmen who are at the border with Cross River State to attack us and burn down our houses”, the source said. “They first came two days ago(Wednesday) and started shooting into the air. People ran away and they packed people’s properties and destroyed damaged some buildings” “The Community complained to Commissioner for Border Peace and Internal Security who called for a meeting and sent Police there. “But yesterday(Thursday) night after the Police left, they came back and burnt down many houses and properties”. However, The Nation could not independently verify the allegations against Nkwuda. He refused to speak on the issue when contacted by The Nation. “I am very busy. I will call you later when I am done”, he said on phone to our reporter after which he cut the call.  “Afterwards he refused to pick several calls placed to his phone. He also did not respond to text messages sent to him. “He was yet to call back as he promised at the time of this report.” His wife and Coordinator of Igbeagu Development Centre, Mrs Roseline Nkwuda, did not take calls placed to her phone line.  Police spokesman, Loveth Odah, confirmed the incident, adding that Mrs. Nkwuda denied the involvement of her husband in the attacks. She said the information available to the Police is that the crisis is as a result of a tussle for village head of the community. “Yesterday (Thursday), I had to contact the Cordinator of the Development Centre. It was alleged that her husband was working with the former village head of the community” “She denied that her husband is involved in the attack. She promised to come to the station on Monday” Odah said the Police have sent a patrol team to the area to restore calm and normalcy. “The matter has been transferred to the State Criminal Investigation Department (CID) Abakaliki and we have commenced investigation,” she added.