Rape and sexual assault have gone rife in Nigeria with many ladies becoming victims. Because of stigma and blame culture among Nigerians,many rape survivors prefer not to speak out. The following centres offer free medical, legal and counselling services to rape and sexual assault survivors while paying utmost attention to confidentiality. 1. MIRABEL CENTRE:The Mirabel Centre opened on July 1, 2013 and was founded by Itoro Eze-Anaba. It is the first rape crisis centre in Nigeria. It is a Sexual Assault Referral Centre (SARC) that provides holistic and high quality medical and psycho-social services to survivors of sexual assault and rape. Address: Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, (LASUTH), Ikeja, Lagos. Phone Number:07013491769, 01-2957816, 08187243468 2 PROJECT ALERT:Project Alert is a non-governmental women’s rights organisation set up in January 1999 to promote and protect the rights of women and young girls. The headquarters of Project Alert is in Lagos while Abuja has a branch office. Project Alert seeks to influence society by actively advocating for zero tolerance for all forms of violence against women and young girls. Addresses Lagos: 21, Akinsanya Street Off Isheri Road, Taiwo Bus stop Ojodu – Berger, Lagos.
Abuja: 26 Bamenda Street, Off Abidjan Street, Wuse Zone 3, Abuja. Phone Number: +2348052004698, +2348180091072 3. STAND TO END RAPE: Stand to End Rape Initiative is a youth-led Not-for-Profit organisation founded by Ms Ayodeji Osowobi. The organisation is involved in advocating against sexual violence, providing prevention mechanisms and supporting survivors with psycho-social services. The organisation advocates for rape survivors who can’t speak about their ordeal due to stigmatization, by enlightening our community on the need to end rape and victim blaming. The organisation uses various platforms to educate people and also engages in interactive sessions via social media. Address: 1B Godson Ilodianya Close, Off Ayo Babatunde Crescent, Akiogun road, Lekki. Phone Number: +2348095967000. 4. WOMEN AT RISK INTERNATIONAL FOUNDATION:(WARIF) is a non-profit organization founded in 2016 by Dr. Kemi DaSilva-Ibru MD; MPH in response to the high incidence of sexual assault, rape and human trafficking occurring amongst young girls and women across Nigeria. The Foundation was established to raise awareness and address the prevalence of this problem through the “WARIF Approach”- a unique holistic method of tackling Gender Based Violence through the development and implementation of a series of initiatives, targeting both the intervention/treatment of these affected women, as well as providing preventive measures in education and community service to reduce the high incidence.