Governor of Osun State, Mr Adegboyega Oyetola has said the state will soon release the maiden edition of sexual offenders register. Oyetola who condemned the menace of rape also reiterated that the State has zero-tolerance for anything capable of undermining the human sanctity, dignity and right to life. The governor made the disclosure Wednesday in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Ismail Omipidan made available to newsmen in Osogbo. Oyetola stressed that his administration is committed to the fight against rape, sexual assault and other gender-based violence. He described rape and other forms of sexual assault and gender-based violence as a crime against God and humanity, disclosed that the State would soon release its maiden edition of Sex and Gender-Based Offender’s Register. He said the Register would among others help to blacklist offenders and forestall recurrence. The Governor averred that the state government was determined to deploy the full weight of the law against perpetrators of rape and all other crimes against women and children, adding that legislation against the ‘heinous acts’ would be strengthened by the government through its support to the legislature. “Rape and sexual violence against women and children are assuming an unacceptable prevalence rate in the nation. As a responsible government, we roundly condemn this barbarous act in its entirety. Indeed, we have zero tolerance for them. Rape attracts life imprisonment while an attempt to commit the offence will earn the offender upon conviction 14 years imprisonment. “As part of our zero-tolerance resolve, the State is compiling the maiden edition of Sex and Gender-Based Offender’s Register. This Register will among others help to blacklist offenders and forestall a recurrence”, he said. Oyetola appealed to parents, guardians and teachers to counsel their male children, wards and pupils on crimes against women and children just as he advocated massive sensitisation and enlightenment programmes that would help to fight against rape and sexual violence. 