Oyo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has accused Governor Seyi Makinde of hijacking projects and programmes initiated by his predecessor, former governor Abiola Ajimobi. APC spokesman Abdul Azeez Olatunde said in a statement that Governor Makinde, instead of creating isolation centres for COVID-19 pandemic, converted the Abiola Ajimobi Maternity and Paediatric Centre, Olodo, Ibadan to Infectious Disease Research and Treatment Centre, without acknowledging the Ajimobi administration that built the medical facility. The opposition party also identified the inaugurated Mobile Police Squadron Station at Ago-Are as another project hijacked by the governor. It said that it was Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi III, who requested for the Mobile Police Squadron Station to be located in Oyo town. The statement said: “Alaafin visited President Buhari on February 2, 2019 with a letter requesting for the location of Mobile Police Squadron Station in Oyo town. The response from Aso Villa with Ref No Apo 13/Vol/69/04 dated December 2, 2019, copied to the Police Service Commission to act on the request after getting approval advice from the Office of the Inspector General of Police on October 10, 2019 via letter with reference number IGP/stc/ALJ// vol13/37. “The Police Service Commission conveyed approval to His Imperial Majesty, Oba Adeyemi, the Alaafin of Oyo, on February 2, 2020 acting on the internal memo of January 13, 2020 from the AIG in charge of Mobile Police to the Inspector General of Police. “Meanwhile, in line with the police service protocol, police wireless message from the Office of AIG, Mobile Police, Federal Headquarters, Abuja was sent to Oyo State Commissioner of Police, directing him to, as a matter of urgency, liaise with the squadron commander and the executive governor of Oyo State to assess the promised take-off site and the promised 30 acres of land by Oyo town, the location earmarked for establishment of the Mobile Police Squadron Station.” Contrary to the directive of the Police Service Commission, APC said the Mobile Police Squadron Station was inaugurated at Ago-Are in Atisbo Local Government, by the governor on May 27, 2020 as one of the projects marking his one year in office. APC challenged Makinde to come out with the letters of request and documentation to back up his claim that his government requested for the Mobile Police Squadron Station to be cited at Ago-Are. It advised that “this case of squadron mobile police should be appropriately relocated to its rightful place (Oyo town) in the interest of peace, harmonious living and development.”