Bayelsa State Police Command has said operatives of the Inspector General of Police Intelligence Response Team in collaboration with the command, have arrested six suspected ringleaders of a notorious kidnap syndicate. The spokesman for the command, Asinim Butswat, in a statement on Monday gave the names of the suspects as Longjohn Franklin, Goodluck Ikiyou, Chilowe Augustine, Thankgod Manacssh, Ogeneima Omoni and Chimaobi Nmeribe. He said the suspects’ activities cut across Rivers, Bayelsa and Delta states. Giving the profile of the suspects, Butswat said Franklin, alias General Soft, aged 24, is from Abalamabie community, Bonny Local Government Area, Rivers State. He said the suspect was an ex-convict and the head of the kidnappers’ camp in the creeks. The spokesman also said Franklin engaged in sea piracy and illegal oil refining. For Ikiyou, aged 30, Butswat said the suspect comes from Azuzuama community, Southern Ijaw LGA, Bayelsa State. He said Chilowe Augustine is a teenager from Edeoha community, Ahoada East LGA of Rivers. According the spokesman, Thankgod Manacssh, alias Axe man, from Opobo town in Opobo-Nkoro LGA of Rivers State is the second in command of the deadly Icelanders confraternity. He said a female member of the deadly gang, Ogeneima Omoni, aged 24, is from Ogbokuma community Abua/Odual LGA, Rivers. Butswat said Omoni was the cook for the syndicate in their den. He said Chimaobi Nmeribe, aged 47, is an indigene of Umuahia-South LGA of Abia State. He said the suspects had made useful statements helping the police on the trail of the fleeing members of the syndicate. He mentioned Innocent Awelo Luke, Anthony Awelo Luke, one Makiava and one Ndubuisi, a dismissed officer of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps as the fleeing gang members. Butswat said exhibits recovered were two Toyota vehicles, pictorial and video evidence of ‘General Soft’ and Chilowe Augustine displaying ransom collected from a kidnapped victim. He said effort was still ongoing to arrest the members of the syndicate on the run.