Rock in your casket Shuiabu Amodu for this is the second time a damning judgment would be passed on the Super Eagles by coaches who should lead the team aright. But like the adage goes, you don’t give what you don’t have. The late Amodu told us that the domestic league was populated by average players who had to be taught the rudiments of the game each time they were invited to the Super Eagles. Nigerians went for his jugular, wondering how he could have made such a statement. The late Amodu could understand how the players trained in their different clubs. Amodu has passed, but his scathing remarks ring so true of what German tactician, Gernot Rohr, has again said about the team – this time with our armada of stars in Europe. What goes around comes around. Interesting times for football now that a coach has told his employers to stop dreaming about lifting the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations diadem. Rohr has stated categorically that he cannot guarantee the Eagles winning the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations (perhaps he forgot that there are plans to shift the competition to 2020). Rohr posited further that Nigeria isn’t the best African country in soccer, going by FIFA rankings. He also couldn’t pick top rated stars in the Eagles who are match winners, unlike what Mohammed Salah, Mahrez, Sadio Mane et al do for their countries. What Rohr didn’t say is that it is his duty to fish out these kind of stars for Nigeria to deploy in big tournaments. If he cannot do the job, he could take a walk off now. We still have the time to headhunt a manager who would do our biddings, which are not beyond us, going by the Clemens Westerhof era. I wish Amodu was alive. In fact, Amodu stood by his conviction, knowing that the buck stops on his table. Unfortunately, Rohr has done a recant on his interview with the BBC, where he enumerated reasons why the task of lifting the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations amounted to attempting to climb a slippery pole. I wonder how he expects maximum respect from players he described as average and not being the best in Africa. Dear Rohr, isn’t football all about shocking results for deserving countries that play with committed players? So, how does Rohr hope to actualise the targets of winning AFCON and playing at the World Cup at the knockout stage? “This is a special job because this is my team, I built it with my staff,” the former Niger and Gabon coach said Monday on local television. “It’s a very young team, but the mission is not finished yet, so we want to continue. We all have to make sacrifices and I will be the first.  Let’s qualify for (the Nations Cup) and then we want to win it. We have a good team, we’re now number three in Africa. When I arrived (in 2016), we were number 13. We have worked together for the past four years and I hope we can progress,” he said. Nothing excites this writer better than watching young Nigerians grow through the ranks of the beautiful game here. Although we have wasted several generations of players discovered from the grassroots, it appears we are rediscovering some and playing them during the big games involving Super Eagles, a trend which is in tandem with FIFA’s goals in inaugurating several age-grade competitions. Nigeria needs to catch up with the rest of the world in fielding players who evolved from the country’s age-grade teams. Rohr distinguished himself at the last Africa Cup of nations, when he dropped an off-form Kelechi Iheanacho for a younger and fitter Osimhen. It has paid off today going by the Osimhen’s rave reviews in Europe. The difference between what has transpired in this Rohr era is that we can now plan for the future. Such plans include rebranding the Eagles to attract foreign scouts for subsequent transfer windows. If the players give their best during matches in Africa and Europe, especially against the big European sides, then Nigeria’s ranking would soar, giving room for those who distinguish themselves to benefit with improved contracts or outright change of clubs at staggering transfer figures. Rohr should forget about his assistants’ interests in certain players and look at the bigger picture of making the Eagles the best team in Africa by the year 2022, prelude to the World Cup in Qatar. So Rohr and his boys have acquitted themselves in previous friendly matches, making it imperative on others to be willing to accept games against Nigeria anywhere in the world. Nigeria has no business playing against minnows in the continent, with due respect to such countries, given our players’ exploits in Europe and in the Diaspora. Our players’ peers ply their trade in Europe and they should be seen to oscillate within that orbit. The NFF should as much as possible accept the grade A game which are for points’ acquisition in FIFA’s monthly ranking, while the grade B game can be used to test our others players, particularly the home-based players. The grade B games must be played in Nigerian cities to reawaken interest in the game. These grade B games can open a new vista for the local boys who shine in them; the local boys have been forsaken for long and this has affected the quality of the leagues. Growing up in Benin City, I saw Bendel Insurance play against teams which were in the country for friendly matches and it raised the morale of the boys then who were excited to play international matches. The corporate world here would be willing to contribute to the brand’s growth if NFF can drag the big games to the country. These firms get to the target audience faster through such big events. Such games should be held in the country to give Nigerians an opportunity to watch their heroes. Playing matches at home will open a new vista for sports sponsorship since the firms’ bigwigs will appreciate the marketing windows available to them to connect with the fans, who they could covert to their customers. Growing the eagles brand should include participating in the process of getting our players to play for big clubs. It is heartening to note that Victor Osimhen denied signing for Napoli in the Serie A and their harrowing incidents of racism. Rohr and indeed NFF chieftains should dialogue with our players whose future is hinged on the next transfer window. The biggest story for old Trafford on Odion Ighalo is that he wants to return to the Super Eagles. If Ighalo was still a Nigerian international, the process of extending his loan deal would have been much easier. Big European clubs reckon with internationals. According to Ighalo: “I am still in contact with Gernot Rohr and Amaju Pinnick, and they congratulated me on my loan deal.” “I am still thinking about returning to the national team, but right now I want to concentrate on my club career. I left the national team because of the distance between Nigeria and China, but now that I am in Manchester and just like life and in my career, you never can tell”, he told Brila FM. It would be easier for Ighalo to make the three-man cut if he continues scoring goals for Manchester United. Senegal’s Sadio Mane and Egypt’s Mohammed Salah would rate higher than any Nigerian player in the Africa Footballer of Year award because of the superiority of their clubs to where our players are. Weekly, we watch Mane and Salah score goals with relish for the Reds in the EPL and UEFA Champions League competition until the Reds’ exit. The Eagles are the biggest brand to market if they are excelling in competitions. We need to build this team on solid foundations, but this appears far-fetched for Rohr, given the potentials available at the 774 local government areas. We will forever be rebuilding the Eagles, if our foreign coaches live outside the country. Eagles need nurseries where players to replace the injured and ageing ones are taught the basic skills of the game, through clinics and competitions. No country measures her growth in soccer by listing 22 foreign-based players with one home-based goalkeeper. It raises the poser over the quality of the youth developmental programmes and what the federation is doing with its grassroots programmes. 