 NIGERIANS are awaiting the relaxation of the inter-state lockdown, which the COVID-19 Presidential Task Force (PTF) said would start next Sunday. Commuting, whether intra- or inter-state, has taken a heavy bashing, since the nation joined the global list of the COVID-19- infested states on February 27, when an Italian expatriate tested positive to become Nigeria’s coronavirus index case. To prevent and contain the second level of the pandemic, known as community transmission, from ravaging the nation, the Federal Government imposed an inter-state lockdown regime on the country, while state and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) took a cue, and imposed various regime of regulations in their domains to control intra-state movements, after a four-week nationwide lockdown. As movement was unlocked, transport operators were directed to operate at about 60 percent of capacity. This is as the governments directed that each park must install running water with soap where passengers and drivers and their conductors can wash their hands regularly, provide alcohol-based sanitisers, while the use of face masks is compulsory for all drivers and passengers in addition to strict compliance with physical (social) distance. The operators were also urged to eschew profiteering from the situation, with government officials physically going round various parks to ensure strict compliance. However, various steps to ensure continuous compliance to the sustenance of the old fare regimes seemed to have failed. Checks by our correspondent have shown that transport operators across all states have thrown caution to the winds, as they harp on the crunching economic realities to impose arbitrary fare regimes on commuters and inter-state travellers. Despite the ban on inter-state travels, travellers move in and out of their states at will. For instance, a trip to Lagos to Ibadan, which before the COVID-19 era was N1,200 has jumped to N2,500 while a journey from Ibadan to Ile-Ife that was N700 by bus is  N2,000. A trip from Lagos to Osogbo is N3,500. On the Southsouth flank,  a journey of Lagos to Warri, which was N4,500 is N15,000 while going from Lagos to Calabar by bus costs between N20,000 and N25,000. A trip from Lagos to Abuja has also been affected, moving from N10,000 to between N20,000 and N25,000. Inter-state drivers hinged the arbitrary fares on the bribes they offer at checkpoints on the various routes across the country. An inter-state operator David Suenu, said she travelled always. According to him, when his vehicle broke down at Ilesha and travelled by bus, he paid N25,000 from Lagos to Ilesha to fix it. A textile dealer, Mrs. Yemi Olayide, said she paid more on logistics, to supply her customers goods. Though she admitted to a drop in sales compared to the same period last year, she said transportation formed about 60 percent of her running cost, as she  paid more on goods’delivery because of the restrictions. Intra-state travels are not faring better. Commuters in Lagos, for instance, have been at the receiving end from operators’ arbitrary fare regimes across several routes monitored by our correspondent. For instance, commuters living on the Ikorodu axis of the city have had to cope with a new price regime from Primero Transport Services, the government’s licenced Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) operator, which has jerked its fare window to between N300 and N500 for rides up to Fadeyi and Lagos Island. These rose from N150 to N300. On the same route, the red and the smaller buses demand between N800 and N1,000 from Ikorodu to Oshodi, and N1,500 from Ikorodu to Lagos Island. A trip to Sango-Ota, a border town to Lagos goes for N1,000, while a journey from Oshodi to Egbeda is N800, from N200. Ijaiye to Oshodi is N800, while Oshodi to Agege, which was N100/N200 has jumped to N500 for the 12/18 sitter yellow buses. A journey from Mowe to Oshodi ranges from N500 and N800, while Berger to Ikeja, which was N100 is N300. Fares in all inner city routes, which were N50 have moved to N100, with tricycle operators carrying two passengers. Motor cycle (Okada) operators who were restricted by the government slamed between N100 and N200 fare on passengers. Operators hinged the arbitrary fares which have been in place since April, on bridging the costs and ensuring they do not run at a loss. A driver, Desmond, who plies Agege to Oshodi, said the operators had thought the government would give them a cushion, but despite the absence of this, the  colleagues have continued to pay the same union charges, buy fuel, settle security operators who still collect their tips, yet they were only allowed to carry 60 percent passengers. A source in the Lagos State Ministry of Transportation said the government was aware that many of the operators had been imposing arbitrary fare regime on commuters. The source, who preferred not to be named, said the government had given only the BRT operators  the nod to carry the maximum capacity without carrying standing. He said the government would soon roll out more buses to assuage the suffering of commuters. Commuters’greatest worry is how to sustain the new fare regime in a shrinking, COVID-19 bashed economy. With the fear of lay-offs, salary cuts and mounting economic instability, Nigerians said the government should do something to bring transport fares down across the country. 