 Chairman/Chief Executive Officer (CEO), CLEDD Nigeria Limited, a maritime sector logistics operator, Chief Charles Ukoette, has commended the Federal and Akwa Ibom State governments for driving the Ibom Deep Water Port (IDWP). This followed the Federal Government’s approval last Tuesday for the procurement phase of the project. Ukoette  said the implementation of the pilot phase of the joint venture  under a public private partnership (PPP) has indicated the government’s readiness to embrace transformation in the sector by driving the expansion of ports, boosting of maritime and a decongestion of the nation’s ports. Presenting the Full Business Case Compliance Certificate (FBCCC) on Ibom Deep Water Port to the Minister for Transportation Mr. Rotimi Ameachi, the Director-General, Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC) Mr. Chidi Izuwah, said the project planned to be a major national and economic gateway, would provide more container handling capacity.  He added that the proposed project would enable it handle petroleum products imports, crude oil, natural gas, vehicles and bulk trade in natural resources, among others. But Ukoette said the Ibom Deep Water Port is strategic to Nigeria’s oil fields, such as Akwa Ibom. He noted that with its establishment as confirmed by a government white paper, it would involve the development of Green Field Deep Seaport as well as a Free Trade Zone (FTZ). This, he stressed, would not only create massive employment but also boost Akwa Ibom and the nation’s earnings by impacting a post- COVID-19 global economy  within the sub-Saharan region. As the project is set to undergo its development procurement process, Ukoette noted that the development would reduce congestion at various ports in Nigeria, especially in the Lagos maritime zone; and also serve in curbing undue delays of ships entering the nation’s existing ports. The Ibom Deep Water Port (IDWP)  to be operated by the Federal Government, Akwa Ibom State Government and private investors will serve as leeway to the regional economy within Gulf of Guinea catchment. It will also provide vital port capacity for the region. The port infrastructure as proposed is for critical maritime essentials of cargo landing, provision of nautical services and Free Trade Zone operations.