The Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria (MDCN) has warned doctors and dentists undergoing internship across the country to desist from participating in industrial actions. It warned it could lead to them repeating postings without remuneration. The council said the guidance became necessary because of recent developments in the health sector. The Nigerian Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) on May 30 issued a 14-day ultimatum to the Federal Government to meet it demands or risk an indefinite strike. The Registrar of the MDCN, Dr. T.A.B Sanusi, in a statement on Wednesday in Abuja, said: “Medical and dental practitioners on the Provisional Register who are employed as House Officers (Interns), Heads of health institutions where Internship Training for medical or dental graduates are conducted and the General Public are invited to note the provisions of the Medical and Dental Practitioners Act in sections 1(2c), 8, 11, 12; the Code of Medical Ethics in Nigeria (2008 Ed); and Guidelines on Registration. “Provisional Registration is for the purpose of enabling young doctors undertake internship training in an approved hospital under the supervision of registered specialists. It is expected that on employment, interns should complete their postings within 12 calendar months. “During the internship, doctors and dentists are required to undertake 12 weeks’ uninterrupted postings in each of Medicine, Surgery, Obstetrics and Gynaecology, and Paediatrics and other relevant specialties for dentistry. “Any interruption for any reason, including embarking on strike actions, during any of the postings, will not be condoned and should be reported immediately to the Chief Medical Director, Medical Director or Medical Superintendent of the internship training Institution.” It added: “Section 2d paragraph (iii) of Guidelines on Registration (2003 ed.) prescribes that ‘A supervising doctor who fails in his duties in this regard is liable to proceedings being commenced against him at the Medical and Dental Practitioners Disciplinary Tribunal if his misdeed in the matter is brought to the notice of Council.’ “Embarking on strike actions by interns will lead to repeating of the posting(s) afresh without remuneration. Interns are therefore advised to avoid participation in activities like industrial actions that could lead to interruption in their postings.” The MDCN regulates medical and dental practice in Nigeria including clinical laboratory practice by members of the professions.