 SIR: Outside government there is no more fertile field for the practice of politics than a university. From the small family unit to the parliament itself, people combine and recombine in a bewildering, changing kaleidoscope of groupings in order to achieve their aims. This is allowed in all human societies including the academia. But when the gathering or re-gathering involves the exchange of money in a cavalier manner in order to bring about a shortcut to an otherwise orderly process that demands transparency and due process, it is called corruption. There is no gainsaying the fact that leaders of the ivory tower (hitherto known for astute integrity and high moral proclivity) are invited by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to serve as returning officers for major national  elections because the university as a distinguished community of scholars, teachers and researchers is trusted by the larger society to conduct profound and sublime assignments. But if the process of appointment of a vice chancellor for any university is perceived to be marred by irregularities and ‘the highest bidder becoming the winner’, what then is the hope for the wider Nigerian polity? On May 27, the print media was greeted by the advertisement of “Vacancy for the position of vice chancellor” for the University of Calabar. The university which started in 1975 as a campus of the University of Nigeria and became autonomous in 1979, has had quite some prominent vice chancellors from inception till date. Many erudite scholars and administrators, notably, Professor Emmanuel Ayandele, Professor Kelvin Ettah, to mention just a few, led at different times. Nothing was heard or known about irregularities and exchange of money or gratification before their emergence as vice chancellors. But in the last two dispensations of the university administration, it was alleged that, ‘cash and carry’ and movement of ‘Ghana-must-go’ bags played a significant role in the appointment and sustenance of the administrations. No one knows how much would be involved in 2020. Nonetheless, there are swirling rumours about huge amounts of money being moved around. Is the position of vice chancellor for the University of Calabar for sale? The world is watching as to how the process of appointing a new vice chancellor for the university would be this time around. It is sincerely hoped that the process will be fair, credible and the playing field made level to ensure that the best candidate that can provide “administrative leadership to a well-informed and articulate local academic community” would supervene. Let the ‘best’ candidate who satisfies the requirements for the exalted position of vice chancellor be appointed to run the affairs of the University of Calabar. For the process to be transparent and acceptable to all the aspirants, it must be insulated from the primordial pastimes and sentiments that marred the two immediate past exercises. 