 THERE were about 80 rape cases reported in Anambra State since the Covid-19 lockdown, the state director of Child Welfare Services in the Ministry of Women’s Affairs, Mrs Nkechi Anazodo, has said. Anazodo was speaking on Monday at Isuaniocha in Awka North council of the state during the flag-off of a child protection sensitisation campaign supported by the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF). She said the situation necessitated the 10-day statewide campaign by UNICEF and the Ministry in  the 21 local government areas of the state. She said other organisations involved in the campaign were the National Population Commission (NPC) and National Orientation Agency (NOA). “Sexual violence,” she said, “has become the order of the day, especially during this period of lockdown. “Even old men now rape children of 12 years and below. The problem we have is that people don’t report. Last week, a case was brought to us of a 70-year-old man that raped a four-year-old child. “Before the lockdown, we had only 32 cases of rape in the Ministry, but the figure recorded within the last few months is over 80. “It is unfortunate that some men have left their wives to be having sexual relationship with children less than five years. “The most worrisome is that some fathers raped their daughters more during the lockdown. In many cases, fathers who rape their daughters threaten to kill them if they report. The problem is that many people don’t report these cases because they feel that the victim might be stigmatised. “That is why we are going round the 21 local government areas of the state to create awareness on this problem.” “The state government has created a place called ‘task sexual assault centre’ at the Engwu-Ukwu General Hospital purposely for treating rape victims.” In Warri, Delta State, police yesterday arraigned the founder of Victory Revival Fasting and Prayer Ministry, Bishop Elijah Orhonigbe, for allegedly raping a 19-year-old girl in his church hall. It was gathered that the incident occurred on May 20 during a deliverance session. The teen was said to have been drugged by the suspect. Commander Mohammed Garba said an examination of the victim showed evidence of rape. Bishop Orhonigbe denied raping the teenager, who said that after raping her, the cleric asked her to come again. Commissioner of Police Mohammed Hafiz Inuwa confirmed the incident. Ogun State governor’s wife Mrs. Bamidele Abiodun yesterday led a peaceful protest against rising rape cases and gender-based violence against women in the country. She urged government to fight the menace, declaring her commitment to ensuring that rape survivors are not stigmatised or discriminated against. The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) yesterday spoke out against rape, with students marching round markets and other parts of Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. NANS President Comrade Daniel Akpan led the marchers comprising students of various tertiary institutions in the country. The protesters gathered at the Governor’s Office, where they were received by the commissioner for Youth and Sports, Seun Fakorede. The recent gang-rape and killing of Vera Omozuwa, a student of University of Benin, and Barakat Bello of Institute for Agriculture, Research and Training, Ibadan, triggered the protests.      