A new clerk of the national Assembly may be picked on Monday at the meeting of the leadership of the Federal legislature. The leading candidates, being the most senior management members are the Permanent Secretary Estate/Works/Procurement Olatunde Amos Ojo from Osun State and Permanent Secretary (Legal Matters) Bala Mohammed Yabani from Yobe State. It was learnt that the National Assembly Service Commission (NASC) is opposed to tenure elongation for the Clerk Mohammed Sani-Omolori. Omolori, who was due for retirement in February, has been holding on to a resolution of the 8th National Assembly which increased retirement exit to either 65 years or 40 years in service. NASC is insisting that a resolution of the 8th National Assembly was not binding in law and should not have been hurriedly put in gazette by the management on May 28th, 2019. The commission is sticking to the conditions of service in Public Service with the applicable retirement age of 60 years and 35 years in service. With the position of the commission, the tenure elongation for Omolori and 150 others have been foreclosed. The President of the Senate, Dr. Ahmad Lawan, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila and other leaders of the National Assembly are expected to take a decision today. A source in NASC said: “There is really no room for tenure elongation and the commission has sent a memorandum to the leadership of the National Assembly on this. “The Clerk to the National Assembly, Mohammed Sani-Omolori joined the public service in February 1985 as Legal Officer for the Ajaokuta Steel Company Limited. He later joined the service to the National Electric Power Authority, Lagos as Legal officer from January 1990 to January 1991. He transferred his service to the National Assembly as Principal Legal Officer in February 1991. “After spending the mandatory 35 years in service, there is no basis for clinging to tenure elongation based on a resolution of the 8th National Assembly. “As a commission, we are out to ensure fairness and equity. Omolori has paid his dues and he has served well but he must respect the conditions of service upon which he transferred his service to the National Assembly in 1991. “We are actually looking beyond Omolori, we are shopping for a new Clerk to the National Assembly.” Although the odds favour Amos from Osun State, some forces are opposed to his candidature by alleging that he is a civil servant with rich experience but not a lawyer and not versed in legislative management. Those for Amos have however have cited the case of a former Clerk to the National Assembly, Salisu Maikasuwa who was not from the Legal Corps of the National Assembly but used his administrative skill to manage the system better. They claimed that a Clerk to the National Assembly only requires sound administrative skill which the Osun candidate has in abundance.