The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) has upgraded its data portal to provide a more efficient, user-friendly experience for subscribers. The new features on the data portal included data products, subscription management and payment gateway integration among others. The data portal, X-DataPortal was first introduced in 2013. It is an online application that serves as a repository for real time, delayed, end of day, and historical data for financial instruments listed on the NSE. Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), Mr. Oscar Onyema said the upgrade of the X-DataPortal was in line with the desire of the NSE to continue to provide an exchange that is easily accessible leveraging digital technology. According to him, the newly enhanced X-DataPortal has been equipped with market-focused features that will complement the NSE website and other NSE portals in response to stakeholders’ increased demand for easy access to data. “Given the importance of market data in investment decisions, we remain resolute in our commitment to provide capital market participants with more channels to access relevant market information required for making investment decisions,” Onyema said. He pointed out that the portal is a consolidated, streamlined platform for market participants to access affordable, quality and timely data. Divisional Head, Trading Business, Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), Mr. Jude Chiemeka, said the NSE recognises that data fuels every aspect of the trading process. “We are, therefore, pleased to introduce the improved X-DataPortal that will serve as a principal source for brokers, fund managers, research analysts, other professionals and non-professional participants like students and investors to get quality real-time and reference data reports for analysis, research and reporting purposes,” Chiemeka said. He said the Exchange believes that the customer-centric approach it has adopted will deliver a superior customer experience in engaging with the capital market. The X-DataPortal provides users with additional features, such as seamless purchase of market data; easy access to customised data; instant notifications; and real-time prices. Existing users of the portal will also be migrated to the new portal and can log in with existing credentials.