The Financial Reporting Council of Nigeria (FRC) has issued new reporting guidance to enable companies respond to prudential considerations in different sectors of the economy. In a report on engagement with sectoral regulators, the FRC explained that it has has been engaging with all Sector Regulators, for the purpose of developing Sectoral Guidelines of Corporate Governance on specific requirements relevant to each sector which are not covered under Nigerian Code of Corporate Governance 2018 (NCCG 2018). It stated: “We refer to Paragraph D of the Introduction section of Nigerian Code of Corporate Governance 2018 (NCCG 2018 or the Code) on Monitoring the Implementation of NCCG 2018, which provides that, “The implementation of this Code will be monitored by the FRC through the sectoral regulators and registered exchanges who are empowered to impose appropriate sanctions based on the specific deviation noted and the company in question”. Continuing, it said the process is ultimately important because all existing sectoral codes of Corporate Governance are to be withdrawn, and Sectoral Guidelines of Corporate Governance will be issued to address sector specific matters or requirements on Corporate Governance. To this end, NCCG 2018 as the National Code, would be the only Code of Corporate Governance in Nigeria. “At the current time, the Council’s expectation is that the Sectoral Guidelines would be released once the engagement with Sectoral Regulators is completed. Additional information in this regard will be provided subsequently,” it said.
On Reporting Template, it referred to Paragraph 1(2) of the Regulation on the Adoption and Compliance with the Code, and issued pursuant to Section 73 of the Financial Reporting Council of Nigeria Act of 2011, which provides that, all public companies (whether a listed company or not. Also, all private companies that are holding companies of public companies or other regulated entities; all concessioned or privatised companies; and all regulated private companies being private companies that file returns to any regulatory authority other than the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) and the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC), shall report on the application of the Code in their annual reports for financial years ending after January 1, 2020 in the form and manner prescribed by the FRC. The FRC equally set up a Web Portal Committee (WPC) comprised of stakeholders, which contributed to the development of an online portal for electronic submissions of reports on compliance with the NCCG 2018. Members of the WPC also worked with the FRC and others to develop a reporting template to simplify and harmonize Code compliance reporting by reporting entities. Reporting entities are expected to access, complete, and submit the reporting template online. The online portal is still at the stage of development and a link to the portal will be made available in a subsequent communication. Until the web portal is completely developed, companies are expected to download the reporting template from the FRC’s website at www.financialreportingcouncil.gov.ng, complete it and submit a copy of the completed report to: (1) their sector regulators; (2) the FRC at fookediran@financialreportingcouncil.gov.ng; and, for listed companies, the stock exchanges on which they are listed. Additionally, a completed copy of the reporting template should be hosted on the investors’ portal on the company’s website for a minimum of five (5) years, alongside the company’s communication policy, annual reports, and other relevant information as indicated in Section 27.4 of the Code. On reporting in the annual report, Paragraph1(2) of the Regulation on the Adoption and Compliance with the Code states that reporting entities are to report on their application of the Code in their annual reports. Please note that the completion and submission of the reporting template described above will be deemed to satisfy this requirement for reporting on the application of the Code, as well as the requirements indicated in the Code. However, reporting entities are required to include in the Governance Report included in their annual reports, an abridged version or summary of the following matters included in the Code.