Diasporans engagement in the development of any state, country can not be over emphasised. And one of the good qualities of a leader is to instill in his people hope for success and a belief in themselves. President OSO NSU Ngwa Nigeria and 52nd Inaugural Lecturer of ABIA State University, Professor Ogbonna Onuoha said: “Positive leaders empower people to accomplish their goals”. Governor Ikpeazu’s strategic approaches to governance especially Abians in Diaspora is indeed commendable . His unwavering support is indeed second to none. We can’t forget in a hurry the challenge Abians in South Africa experienced last year due to Xenophobia. Some lost their jobs, homes shattered, families disorganized, contact lost, lives began afresh from zero. It took our ever responsive Governor just Picosecond to assist the returnees immediately Dr Mrs Ngozi Ogbonna Erondu, the Special Adviser on Diaspora Matters ,contacted him. He provided job opportunities, cash and relief materials to the returnees which gave them a shoulder of hope to start again. Today, Diasporans can boast of a modernized office space with a conference room in the government house, courtesy of the people’s oriented Governor. A proverb says: “If your actions inspire others to dream more, learn more, do more and become more, you are a leader.”
Governor IKPEAZU’s show of eminent leadership has rekindled the philanthropic heart of many. Abians felt some hands of the Diasporans during this pandemic, through donated food palliatives, medical materials, cash and social awareness. The Governor, who always feel at home with the Diasporans, gave the just concluded online interactive meeting a surprise when he showed up even before the meeting commenced . He went ahead to disclose in details things Abia State Government has done to make sure the citizens are safe ranging from the first class guidelines on lockdown, radio classroom teaching to keep the pupils and students busy and payment of teachers salary, development of an educational application. He also dwelt on sharing of palliatives to the religious bodies, non indigenes in the state, students and the less privileged. The Diasporan- friendly governor also opened window for the Abians in diaspora to join a committee in e-learning so as to share experiences. Bill Taylor, in article Do You Pass the Leadership Test? said: “ The true mark of a leader is the willingness to stick with a bold course of action — an unconventional business strategy, a unique product-development roadmap, a controversial marketing campaign — even as the rest of the world wonders why you’re not marching in step with the status quo.” In other words, real leaders are happy to zig while others zag. They understand that in an era of hyper-competition and non-stop disruption, the only way to stand out from the crowd is to stand for something special.” Governor Ikpeazu is indeed special to Abia Diaspora.