Rape is classified as a criminal offence anywhere in the world. The death of 22-year-old Uwa Omozuwa, an undergraduate who was allegedly raped and attacked inside a church premises, death of Bello Barakat in Ibadan and many other rising cases of rape sparked outrage with many Nigerians taking a stand against rape and sexual violence. Similarly, numerous reported cases have shown that children and minors are also victims of rape. Many attributed lack of existing laws to serve as deterrents, poor law enforcement, decline in our moral standards and poor state of the education as responsible for rising cases of rape. Over the years, some Nigerian celebrities have been enmeshed in different rape allegations and have been subject of public derision. Many of the accusers have called them out on social media. Below are some top personalities in Nigeria accused of rape: *Dbanj – Dapo Oyebanjo  A talent/model scout, Benjamin Ese, alleged that Dbanj raped his friend two years ago. His accusations came after the singer joined the campaign against sexual violence and demanded justice for rape victims in a post on his Instagram page. Not disclosing the friend’s name, Ese wrote that his friend had attended a party in Lagos and was sighted by Dbanj, who allegedly wanted her. He went on to reveal how she was allegedly raped by the musician. He said Dbanj offered the friend in question money in exchange for sex, and she refused. According to him, the incident happened in a hotel in Victoria Island. He said Dbanj collected the spare key of the girl’s hotel room from the receptionist and allegedly raped her there. Although he did not mention the name of his friend, he said she decided to keep quiet after the incident because of the stigma. Dbanj was yet to respond to the allegation at the time of this report. *Brymo – Ọlawale Ọlọfọrọ  A twitter user identified as @Biligquis in a tweet on April 29 shared a screenshot of narration by the alleged victim. The alleged victim claims to a huge fan of Brymo and had gone on a visit to the singer’s house with her friend. But on getting there, the “Ara” crooner allegedly couldn’t let her go as he was horny and one thing led to the other. The singer also allegedly threatened to sleep with the victim’s friend. However, Brymo’s manager, Gift Adene of KFN said: “Brymo is not going to comment on that issue, I am his manager and we wouldn’t want to comment on this issue, as they will hear from our lawyer soon.” Asked if the singer’s silence means he was guilty, the manager said: “I don’t know. What the media or anybody wants to call it like I said, we are going to go legal on the issue”. However, Brymo finally responded days later. He said the allegations against him were false. He called on his accusers to come forward. *Kogi Commissioner of Water Resources, Abdulmumini Danga  A woman, identified as Elizabeth Oyeniyi, also accused Abdulmumini Danga, Kogi Commissioner of Water resources, of raping her. In a viral video, Oyeniyi said the commissioner abducted her over a Facebook post against him. She further accused the commissioner of making her record a video to recant her Facebook claims. Governor Yahaya Bello however ordered an investigation into the matter. Commissioner for Information, Kingsley Fanwo said the governor ordered the investigation so the truth can be uncovered. *MC Galaxy – Innocent Udeme Udofot  In July 2019, actress Simbee Davis accused pop singer Mc Galaxy of raping her over 9 years ago. Her disclosure came at the heels of Timi Dakolo’s rape allegation against Pastor Biodun Fatoyinbo last year. She broke her silence on Instagram where she narrated how the singer molested her at knifepoint and then “made sure she took drugs to avoid pregnancy.” She alleged MC Galaxy carried out the act at an apartment in Mount Zion road in Calabar, Cross River state, between 2009 and 2010. Mc Galaxy was also in the news following a nudity scandal with Etinosa Idemudia, actress and filmmaker. *Biodun Fatoyinbo Vs Busola Dakolo  Busola, married to popular musician Timi Dakolo, in June 2019 accused Pastor Fatoyinbo of raping her twice. The allegations went viral on social media with some saying it had triggered Nigeria’s #MeToo moment. Mrs. Dakolo told YNaija that she was only 16 when Fatoyinbo came to her family residence in Ilorin and raped her, deflowering her in the process. The mother of three said the first encounter happened on a morning when Fatoyinbo knocked on the door of her family home in Ilorin. The family had been a long-time member of COZA. The allegation also forced the pastor to go on “leave of absence from the pulpit” for weeks because it was the “right thing to do”. He, however, denied any wrongdoing. Busola however in September 2019 sued the founder of COZA to court for intentionally inflicting and causing her continuous emotional distress. In a reaction to the lawsuit, Fatoyinbo filed a counter-claim stating that the accusations from Busola should be dismissed because it was frivolous and statute-barred. Mrs Dakolo’s allegation came six years after Mr Fatoyinbo faced allegations of sexual misconduct and adultery from two women, including Ese Walters. The two other women did not accuse Mr Fatoyinbo of raping them, and they also largely avoided confronting him unlike Mrs Dakolo. In what seem like an update after almost a year since the police began its investigations, Busola in a statement said the police “handed over its report to the Ministry of Justice in Abuja for onward prosecution of Biodun Fatoyinbo.” *Peruzzi – Okoh Tobechukwu  Peruzzi, who is signed on to Davido’s DMW, has responded to a rape allegation leveled against him by a lady identified as Princess. Princess, who tweeted from the handle @Jayamah22, alleged that the singer raped her in 2012, despite dating her friend at the time. She narrated that she went with her friend to the singer’s house and ended up sleeping there, which allegedly led to her being raped. Princess admitted she was young and naive but added that it was no excuse for him (Peruzzi) to take advantage of her. Perruzzi however denied the allegations on Twitter. He tweeted: “MY NAME IS OKOH TOBECHUKWU, I HAVE NEVER AND WILL NEVER BE A RAPIST.” Peruzzi, who is not a stranger to controversies, was accused by a UK-based singer, Daffy Blanco, of rape earlier in the year. Blanco said she did not press charges against Peruzzi because of DMW lawyer whom she identified as Bobo.