The governor of Kaduna State, Malam Nasir el-Rufai, has announced that any parent who enrolls any child into the Almajiri system will after prosecution be fined up to N200,000 per child, or jailed up to two years, or both. Similarly, Islamic teachers who accept pupils into Almajiri school or are caught operating such schools will be jailed for not less than two years. Despite Malam el-Rufai’s penchant for the dramatic, there is no doubt that his latest warning reflects the extent of his frustration and many Nigerians’ with an age-old culture that is overdue for change, in line with the demands of modern living in a knowledge-driven universe. One thing that is hard to deny el-Rufai since he became governor is the breadth and depth of his commitment to democratising education in the state. It is, therefore, not surprising that he has not dissembled his feelings about the firmness of his commitment to ending centuries-old Almajiri system that many Nigerians and friends of Nigeria abroad have identified as a drag on the country’s development. Since the announcement by the Northern Governors Forum of its decision to stop a cultural practice that has been acknowledged by many of those that could have been referred to as major stakeholders in the continuance of Almajiri since the country’s independence, most known cultural organisations in the north, where the practice of Almajiri is prevalent, have openly supported efforts of northern governors to end the system. For example, the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) has thrown its weight behind the decision of the governors, by publicly announcing that the ACF would support policies to rehabilitate victims of a system that has denied access to secular education to millions of children who should be in school. Similarly, the Northern Elders Forum (NEF) has hailed northern governors for their efforts to change the system: “This is a fantastic development. Our Northern leaders were supposed to enroll them before now…. For the initiative of the government of Kaduna State to succeed, it must be applied across all states, and should involve genuine and inclusive engagement with powerful religious groups that defend this practice.” Doubtless, a consensus has grown across the country that the Almajiri system has outlived its usefulness, especially since most states in the north have been repatriating victims of the system to their states of origin to start a new life, even during uncertainties of the pandemic when such boys should, first, have been protected from infections, and transferred to their parents later. It is uplifting that el-Rufai’s warning to parents and clerics that sanctions are  awaiting anyone who initiates new Almajiri boys is backed by solid promise to rehabilitate all Almajiri boys into the state’s public education system: “The ultimate goal of the Kaduna State government is to transform the Almajiri children from a state of hopelessness to hope and confidence…We will, therefore, continue to take delivery of every Almajiri pupil indigenous to Kaduna State for rehabilitation, treatment and enrollment into formal school nearest to where their parents live…We will continue to do this until we clear Kaduna State of the menace of the Almajiri system, which is not education but the abuse of the privilege and future of a child.” We have no doubt that the governor will walk his talk on the pledges. He created the first free and compulsory public education system in northern Nigeria in 2015 and introduced the first free meals in school to improve nutrition, concentration, and retention in the state. However, we urge the governor to cooperate with the state’s legislature on creating a law to back his decision. There is also the need to carry along religious leaders in the state. Legislation alone might not be able to take away such an age-long practice. Given the general support for el-Rufai’s solution to the Almajiri problem in the north, we urge Nigerians from other regions to encourage the dismantling by northern governors of a cultural system that has excluded millions of innocent children from advantages of modern citizenship enjoyed by their counterparts in other parts of the Islamic world.