Ijaw leaders of Delta and Bayelsa riverside communities have raised the alarm over outbreak of cholera, which have led to the death of no fewer than five persons. They traced the deaths to a cholera epidemic that resulted from drinking polluted water and eating fishes that apparently died from the pollution after being washed ashore. The leaders of over 10 communities under the auspices of Committee of Affected Communities of coastal communities, in a meeting with The Nation at the weekend, asked the Federal Government to investigate and sanction the polluters as well as help ameliorate the hardship they suffer. High Chief Augustine O Seibi (JP), who led the affected communities leaders, said: “It may surprise you to learn that a number of deaths have occurred in several communities as a result of this pollution. “In Sokoh community, for example, we lost three persons; Johnson Pabebe (M) Adoere Epreyofie (F) and Pa Ogbuma Ingologolo (M). Ekeremor Federated Communities also lost people: Ekerenwei Igenisuode and his wife Yeikonne. “They all died of cholera, which resulted from the polluted water that we are drinking after the dead fish and that is why we need a cottage hospital, and government intervention to allay the hunger and hardship our people are facing.” He said the communities have sufficient reasons to accuse oil companies were responsible, noting “it is indeed their explorative activities like in most oil spill cases that could contaminate the waters occasioning the wanton death of fishes and other aquatic organisms. These are further driven by the tidal flow to be deposited at the shores of communities and other uninhabited environments. “We wish to reiterate the fact that all communities are directly and indirectly affected and are rendered impotent, without any means of a resurrection. These communities include Sokoh, Ekeremor Federated Communities, Omiegbene, Majorgbene, Seitoru, Fish Town, Aghoro (I and II) and Ekeremor among others.” While lamenting the incidents have led to hunger, they appealed to government to urgently provide relief materials and basic amenities to alleviate the suffering of the people.” Seibi noted the people can no longer farm, fish or hunt just as economic activities have collapsed having been worsened by COVID-19.  