 PRESIDENT Booksellers Association of Nigeria and Managing Director, CSS Bookshops Limited Mr. Dare M. Oluwatuyi has frowned at the poor representation of the book sector in the recently inaugurated Post-Covid-19 Committee for the creative industry by Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed. He said the association is not happy that in drawing up the list of the committee members, the books sector of the creative industry, and notably the booksellers segment was not properly represented. “We also want to heavily underscore the fact that the book industry may even be worse hit than the entertainment industry,” he said, noting that one of the effects of COVID-19 pandemic is the shutdown of schools, which also meant the closure of book industry. “COVID-19 pandemic effect on the book industry today is the fact that schools (the prime patrons of books in the country) are closed down? The simple implication of this is that the book industry has literally also been closed down,” he added. Oluwatuyi in a statement titled Booksellers position on the inauguration of the Post COVID-19 Committee for the Creative Industry stated that a little more need to be done to help booksellers in Nigeria cope with the travails induced on the sector in particular by the current crisis and going forward. Decrying the composition of the committee, he said: “When the committee was expanded, all the thirteen entertainment industry (Nollywood) associations had a representative each. In contrast, only Mr. Bala Hassan was picked as a lone representative of the publishing industry to represent the book sector, notwithstanding the fact that the book trade encapsulates group segments like the Booksellers Association of Nigeria (BAN), Nigerian Publishers Association (NPA), Chartered Institute of Practicing Printers of Nigeria (CIPPON), Association of Nigeria Authors (ANA) and Nigerian Library Association (NLA).” He noted that while not attempting to query the parameters presumably used in arriving at the decisions reached in the choice of new members for the committee, government should begin to do more to give the book the right pride of place in her policies.  According to him, in Nigeria’s history, long before the emergence of Nollywood, there have been booksellers (pioneered by CSS Bookshops Limited that was established in 1869), and then authors, publishers, printers and librarians. “Again, different administrations have made the point about the dwindling reading culture in the country and its negative effect on the educational and social fabric of the nation. But, how will the reading culture be improved when the book industry does not receive the right support from the government? Again, over the years, the book industry has suffered untold hardship at the hands of book pirates almost without let,” he stressed. He therefore urged federal government to provide more slots for the book industry in the Post-Covid-19 Committee for Creative Industry as the starting point for even broader engagement with the sector.