If delisted political parties take their litigation to upturn being deregistered by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) forward to the appellate levels as threatened, they would be duly exercising their right under our country’s laws. But trust Hardball, it is a phantom voyage unlikely to lead anywhere. For the second time within a month, the Abuja division of the Federal High Court ruled last week that INEC was within constitutional remit in deregistering 74 non-performing political parties in February, this year. Justice Anwuli Chikere gave this verdict on 11th June in a suit filed by 32 delisted political parties. Earlier, in a verdict delivered 18th May, Justice Taiwo O. Taiwo had dismissed a petition by the National Unity Party (NUP) against its deregistration by INEC along with 73 others. INEC had delisted the 74 parties on 6th February for non-performance. Justice Chikere later in February issued an order restraining the electoral body from acting on the notice as per the 32 parties pending the determination of their suit. In her verdict last week, however, she ruled that Section 225A of the 1999 Constitution as Amended gave INEC power to deregister parties that fail to comply with statutory requirements. The judge held that the parties failed to state seats they’ve won or show certificates of return they’ve been issued by the commission in elections contested since the constitutional provisions came into effect, adding that where a provision of law is unambiguous, it ought to be given its simple interpretation; hence Section 225A of the Constitution being clear and unambiguous should be interpreted in support of deregistration. She vacated her February injunction and dismissed the parties’ suit in its entirety. Justice Taiwo, in his earlier verdict, had ruled that the reasons given by INEC for delisting the parties were valid, in conformity with law, sacrosanct and not affected by the fact of anticipated council elections by some states which dates were not fixed, certain or even ascertainable. Now, it’s being reported that the 32 ex-parties have vowed to appeal the trial court’s decision up to the Supreme Court, if necessary. The Punch last week quoted National Chairman of the United Patriots, Chukwudi Ezeobika, saying the applicants had instructed their counsel to appeal the verdict, and had resolved to take the case up to the Supreme Court if the decision of the Court of Appeal turns out not favourable to them. “The purpose is to ensure party democracy. We will oppose one-party democracy in Nigeria. We want the apex court to make a pronouncement on this issue,” he stated. But, sir, party democracy does not consist in pretenders clogging the electoral space, heavily encumbering INEC’s logistics and the cost of polls. Parties should deepen the competitive value of elections, not complicate the process. That is the apparent intent of Section 225A the appellate courts will yet take a view on.