The COVID-19 pandemic and the slump in oil price have inflicted substantial revenue losses on both the Federal and State Governments thus exposing Nigeria’s failure to walk the economic diversification talk. However, the crisis has presented another opportunity for Nigeria to vigorously pursue diversification. But sadly, the state governors may have failed to rise to the occasion. Their lack of decisive, focused and coordinated response to both shocks, experts say, is hampering efforts to put the economy on the path of sustainable recovery post-COVID-19, writes Assistant Editor CHIKODI OKEREOCHA. A window of opportunity has once again opened for Nigeria to build a well-diversified, inclusive and globally competitive economy. Despite inflicting incalculable economic and financial damages on the global economy, including Nigeria, the double shock of the Covid-19 pandemic and the crash in the oil price are seen as a fresh impetus for Nigeria to look inwards and reverse the economy’s dependence on revenue from oil and gas via diversification. Will Nigeria seize the opportunity presented by the crisis to rev the engine of economic diversification? Will the Federal and State Governments, working with the private sector and development institutions articulate the necessary fiscal and monetary policy responses to the crisis? Will they muster the political will to rise to the challenge and turn to other high growth sectors such as agriculture and manufacturing? More importantly, what are the plans by the Federal and State Governments to halt the economy’s impending slide into a second recession in four years and hopefully, position Africa’s largest and most populous economy for inclusive and sustainable recovery post-COVID-19? Will they fail again to match words with action with regards to diversification the same way they did during and after the 2016/2017 economic recession? While these are some of the questions agitating the minds of development experts and other critical stakeholders as Nigeria grapples with the devastating impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and the slump in oil price, the perceived lack of a proactive approach from most of the 36 state governor to repositioning their respective state economies for sustainable recovery post-COVID-19 has become a cause for serious concern. At a time fiscal and monetary authorities across the world, particularly those in oil-dependent economies like Nigeria, are being urged to intensify efforts at identifying big, bold and decisive actions to deal with the economic fallout from the coronavirus outbreak and the fall in oil price, the state governors in Nigeria appear to have gone AWOL. Despite also being at the receiving end of the financial woes caused by a shrinking allocation from the Federation Account, Nigerians are yet to see any decisive response or proactive approach from most of the governors to weather the storm, let alone articulate any plans to harness the bountiful natural resources in their domains to diversify their economies and by extension, the national economy. Indeed, since February 27 when the rampaging COVID-19 pandemic entered Nigeria’s shores, compounded by the unprecedented crash in oil price, disbursements to the three tiers of government by the Federation Account and Allocation Committee (FAAC) have been on a steady decline. For instance, Policy Partner and West Africa Tax Leader for PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) Nigeria, Taiwo Oyedele, pointed out that the country’s projected N888.5 billion monthly FAAC disbursement declined to N716.3 billion in January and N647.4 billion in February 2020. The multinational professional services company’s tax expert, who spoke at PwC Nigeria’s Webinar with the theme, “COVID-19: Economic Implication and Policy Responses” held on April 8, 2020, added that the figure is expected to decline below N400 billion over the next 3-6 months. According to Oyedele, Nigeria has pre-existing fiscal challenges only compounded by the Covid-19 pandemic. He listed some of them to include very low tax to Gross Domestic Product (GDP) ratio of less than six per cent, high debt service to revenue ratio, and low level of tax compliance, among others. He also stated that although the budget showed huge deficits and low revenue expectation, states have even bigger budget deficits caused by very low Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) across the country; large informal sector and multiple taxations that makes tax collection difficult; poor accountability that dampens tax morale hence the high level of evasion The PwC tax leader also said the huge fiscal gap at the state level will be compounded by the implementation of the N30, 000 new minimum wage and the COVID-19 pandemic, adding that the local governments are also as fiscally challenged if not worse.  Finance Minister Mrs. Zainab Ahmed brought the reality of the decline in disbursements to the three tiers of government caused by heavy revenue losses and its implications nearer home. She said, for instance, that states expecting to share N3.3 trillion this year will not have more than N2.1 trillion. Similarly, local governments, which were projected to share N2.5 trillion, will not get more than N1.5 trillion from the Federation Account. Also, the Federal Government’s share, which should have been N4.8 trillion will now be N2.4 trillion, which is 50 per cent of the expected accruals. The consequences of reduced inflow are obvious and scary. For instance, the minister, who spoke at a recent event in Abuja, to discussed Nigeria’s response to the fall in oil prices and the COVID-19 pandemic, said many states may be unable to meet their statutory obligations, including payment of workers’ salaries. It is easy to see why the crisis is profound and far-reaching. Nigeria relies on the export of crude oil as its primary source of revenue. Oil currently accounts for more than 50 per cent of government revenue and about 85 per cent of foreign exchange earnings. But the price of crude oil has crashed, throwing the country into fiscal confusion. The dramatic dip in oil price came as demand for oil reduced significantly as a result of the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. China, the epicentre of the deadly bug, is the world’s second-largest consumer of oil. Its demand for oil alone has reduced by 20 per cent. The spread of the virus dampened demand from China and other European refiners. However, the crash in oil price is not entirely caused by the pandemic. Crude oil has been trading below Nigeria’s budget benchmark of $57 per barrel in the international market due to drastic cut in global oil consumption, compounded by the on-going price war between Saudi Arabia and Russia. Collapsing fiscal buffers Oil revenue is also the major driver of accretion to the foreign reserves and the Excess Crude Account (ECA). However, both fiscal buffers have depleted. For instance, the external reserves dropped from $38.59 billion on December 31, 2019, to $35.26 billion as of March 30, 2020. This represents an 8.6 per cent decrease, according to statistics from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). Also, the balance in the ECA, which stood at $325 million as at the end of 2019, has depleted to as low as $71.8 million as of March 2, 2020. Already, the obvious implications of the low accretion to these fiscal buffers have started manifesting in the form of weakening of investors’ confidence and generation of speculative pressures on the currency. Other possible implications include likely depreciation of the naira exchange rate, heightened inflationary pressures on the back of currency weakening, increase in production and operating costs for businesses, and weakening of purchasing power with adverse implications for the welfare of the citizens. For Nigeria, it was disaster forewarned. The belief is that the double shock of the crash in oil price and the movement restrictions and other containment measures to stop the spread of the pandemic would not have been this devastating if successive administration had made good their promises to diversify the economy. But as luck may have it, the current crisis has handed Nigeria another opportunity to address her age-long vulnerability to global oil price via diversification. However, while the Federal Government has taken steps to reset the economy post-COVID-19, the state governors have failed to match or complement the efforts of the government at the centre. Why have the governors failed to deploy additional measures to shield their respective economies from the current headwinds? For the Registrar/CEO, The Institute of Business Development, Dr. Paul Ikele, the governors’ lack of seriousness in taking decisive and coordinated action to nurse their respective economies to recovery stemmed from the lack of cohesion amongst them. “They (governors) don’t relate with each other; there is also no cohesion between the States and the Federal Government, Ikele told The Nation, adding that the absence of a bold and focused state-level response to shielding the national and state economies from the impacts of the crisis was also traceable to corruption and in-fighting among the governors. The Institute’s boss was emphatic that the current crisis is a call for Nigeria to look inwards and take advantage of her rich human and natural resources to reset her economy. “We have the human capital and resources. Let us retool our skillset to see where we have a comparative and competitive advantage. Our mono-economy is no longer sustainable,” he said. Dr. Ikele while pointing out that there are alternatives to oil, insisted that the time has come for Nigeria to return to the good old days when manufacturing, agriculture and agro-allied industries were the economy’s mainstays. He recalled, for instance, that before the discovery of crude oil, palm oil, cocoa, textiles and groundnuts, among others, were major export products. A Senior Lecturer in Strategy, Finance and Risk Management, Lagos Business School, Dr. Franklin Nnaemeka Ngwu, also lamented the “unserious disposition of most of our governors,” describing it as “discouraging.” He said, for instance, that in a well-governed environment, an informed and skilled team of experts should have been set up by each state governor to strategize and plan on how to effectively manage the COVID 19 crisis. “We should have seen and read properly thought and detailed COVID 19 policy paper of every state in Nigeria. Expectedly, the policy paper should contain a good understanding of COVID 19 and robust examinations of the health and socio-economic impacts on our respective states based on identified scenarios,” Ngwu said. The university lecturer also pointed out that while the COVID-19 pandemic is primarily a health challenge, it is important to appreciate the fact that its socio-economic impacts might be higher than the health consequences,” he said. Dr. Ngwu, who is also Member, Expert Network, World Economic Forum, said even with two governors testing positive for coronavirus, other governors are still behaving as if the COVID 19 crisis is a Federal Government problem. “It’s as if they (governors) are oblivious of what to do. All their actions so far have been very reactive with no detailed examination of the health and socio-economic implications to their states,” he urged. Fed Govt leads the charge The Federal Government is at the forefront of the efforts to mitigate the devastating impact of the double assault on the economy by the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic and the crash in crude oil piece, having rolled out a number of fiscal and monetary policy interventions. Crisis reinforces the need for diversification According to experts, oil & gas jobs account for less than one per cent of total employment and the young population can no longer be absorbed by the sector. They, therefore, noted that apart from the need to insulate the economy from the risk of being vulnerable to a single commodity, job creation is another core reason why Nigeria must genuinely pursue In this regard, the real sector has been identified as one of the priority sectors that Nigeria should target for diversification, apparently because of its job creation potential and dominant transmission link to the overall economy. While the Federal Government appears determined to ward off another round of recession and also reposition the economy post-COVIOD-19, experts say that its efforts will continue to lack steam unless the state governors demonstrate enough commitment to the course.