 AS part of the efforts geared towards repositioning the Nigerian economy, the Federal Government has concluded plans to engage indigenous firms and the organised private sector to help commercialise the country’s research and development results. The Minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu disclosed this at the weekend in Abuja, while playing host to the board of Intellectual Property (IP) First Group, an outstanding key players in the various fields of intellectual property in Nigeria. Onu advised researchers, innovators and scientists to ensure they patent and protect their research outputs, stressing that investors prefer patented research results. He pointed out that intellectual property is the best criteria to measure the creativity and inventiveness of a nation, adding that Nigerians must be encouraged to protect their intellectual properties by getting them patented. He said, “For Nigeria to create wealth, jobs and sufficiently defeat poverty, the nation needs to vigorously pursue a knowledge-based and innovation driven economy. Since inception of the Buhari’s administration, Nigeria has made meaningful progress in achieving a knowledge-based and innovation driven economy by encouraging patent of research innovations. “The progress made in the issuance of patents has been remarkable.  In 2016, the number of patents in Nigeria rose from 5 to 16 and by the end of 2017 it rose to 50 and still counting.” The Minister commended the IP First Group on its efforts in the formulation of a National Intellectual Property Policy and Strategy for Nigeria and the establishment of an Industrial Property (IP) Commission. Earlier, the Chairman of IP First Group, Dr. Umar Buba Bindir, expressed that the major aim of the NGO was to ensure Nigeria has a strong intellectual property policy, that will protect and patent research innovations indigenously developed in the country. Bindir regretted that absence of policy and Industrial Property Commission has significantly weakened Nigerian intellectual property system and constitutes a drain in Nigeria’s foreign exchange earnings. “The NGO is resolved to ensure that all elements of Intellectual Property are well documented and coordinated nationwide. That Intellectual Property protection is a catalyst for national development and industrialisation.” 