Itel Mobile, has released two new phones under its power series, the itel P36 and P36 PRO LTE. According to the Marketing Communications Manager (West Africa), itel Mobile, Oke Umurhohwo, the new series features a lot of upgrades, such as long-lasting battery performance with a 72-hour battery life and internet connectivity upgrades. “The series is enabled by a 5000mAh battery; the series comes with a 5V, 2A, 10W fast charge feature. This means 10 minutes charging gives the user 1 hour for phone calls. To get the series to full charge, it takes just 3 hours and 25 minutes- two times up from the 7 hours, 50 minutes obtainable on the regular 5000mAh battery. And the battery can last 72 hours,” he said. Speaking on the brand keenness on satisfying consumers, Umurhohwo said the introduction of itel P36 and P36 Pro LTE affirms itel Mobile’s sustained push towards innovative and stylish smartphone offerings at a budget-friendly price. He noted that the itel P36 Pro LTE is fitted with 4G LTE, a first of its kind on the series, “It has a premium offering that delivers superfast internet connection without buffers. It is also 8 times faster than the itel P33 Plus launched last year. The series amazing speed ensures fast uploads, downloads, and smooth play of HD videos. “The series has an impressive 6.5” HD+ Waterproof Fullscreen display and 8.6mm slim body design set-up. Also, itel has equipped the series with the i-Cast feature to project the smartphone screen on itel TV for bigger viewing experience. “itel P36 and P36 Pro LTE sport dual security – face unlock &a multi-functional fingerprint sensor to protect and guarantee privacy for users. With itel P36 series, itel sets a new innovation and growth record in her quest to rank among the top-three mobile brands globally, he said. The introduction of the itel P36 series aligns with the expansion drive of the brand, from mobile products to consumer electronics. There is itel TV comprising S and A series,and itel smartphone accessories – power banks, smart fitness bands, and Bluetooth earphones which have been introduced to provide more budget-friendly options in these categories Meanwhile, the smartphone recently signed Afro-pop star, Olamide Adedeji as brand ambassador in Nigeria, for the purpose of improving engagements with consumers as both brands share similar values of serving the mass markets. While itel Mobile is a leader in the smartphone mass market in Nigeria offering reliable and affordable smartphones, Olamide on the other hand makes popular music for the streets, rolling out frequent hits they can relate with.  