The killing of University of Benin (UNIBEN) student Vera Uwaila Omosuwa continues to generate anger and condemnation across the country. The 22-year-old was reportedly gang-raped last week at a Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) auditorium in Benin, the Edo State capital, and later died from a head injury in hospital. The Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, has deployed a team of forensic investigators to the state to unravel the death. It was gathered that Omosuwa, a first-year student, had gone to read in the church when she was attacked by her assailants who reportedly forced their way into the church, raped and struck Omosuwa in the head with a fire extinguisher. Force spokesman DCP Frank Mba, on Monday said in a statement the police chief promised that the perpetrators would be arrested and brought to book. “As part of deliberate and concerted efforts by the Nigeria Police High Command to unravel the circumstances surrounding the brutal attack and unfortunate death of Miss Vera Uwaila Omosuwa in Benin, the Inspector-General of Police has deployed additional investigation aids and forensic support to Edo State Police Command to complement and expedite action in the ongoing investigations into the unfortunate incident. “The IGP, while condemning the attack, commiserates with the family, friends and colleagues of the deceased. He calls for calm and assures that the Force will surely bring the perpetrators of the callous act to book in the shortest possible time,” the statement read. UNIBEN’s Vice-Chancellor,  Prof. Lilian Salami, in an online statement by the university’s spokesperson, Dr. Benedicta Ehanire, said the incident was condemnable and should not be condoned by any society. The vice-chancellor, while commiserating with the bereaved family, prayed God to grant her soul, peaceful rest. Governor Godwin Obaseki, in an online statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Communication Strategy, Crusoe Osagie, has ordered a thorough investigation of the circumstances that led to the death. Obaseki asked the police  and other security agencies to fish out the culprits and bring them to justice. Niger Delta Students’ Union Government (NDSUG) has condemned Omosuwa’s rape and murder.  The Senate President of NDSUG, Jimmy Success, in a statement in Port Harcourt called on the school management and the security agencies to swiftly investigate the tragedy and bring the perpetrators to justice. Success said, “It is with great grief in our hearts that we announce the death of a young and promising student in one of the institutions under our jurisdiction. “We demand justice for this innocent girl and hope that the perpetrators will be brought to book. I call on the state government and all security outfits to swiftly investigate this issue and bring to book the perpetrators of this wicked act”. The Medical Women  Association of Nigeria (MWAN), Edo Chapter, also urged the authorities to fish out  the culprits and punish them. Dr Adesuwa Urhoghide-Edigin, President of MWAN in the state, in a statement yesterday, described the incident as “a devilish act of unkind beings.” Edo Commissioner of Social Development and Gender Issues, Mrs Maria Edeko, who spoke yesterday to some youths protesting against the attack, said the state would ensure justice for the victim. Also, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Edo State chapter, urged the police to ensure justice for the murdered undergraduate. The party’s publicity secretary,  Chris Nehikhare, condemned the sad incident. “The leadership and members of Edo PDP are saddened to hear of the brutal rape and murder of a young girl with a very promising and bright future, Miss Vera Uwaila Omosuwa,” he said. “The incidents are becoming too frequent and action from all is required to check the brigandry. Criminality assumed a new colouration, when cult killings and wars became the new normal. “We call on the security agencies to act with despatch and bring the perpetrators of the heinous crime to book.” Edo PDP also offered deepest condolences to the members of the family of Omosuwa, while assuring them that justice would be served.  The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) of Edo Command, Chidi Nwabuzor, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), vowed that the command would ensure justice for the gang-raped and murdered undergraduate. Nwabuzor said: “On Wednesday, May 27, 2020, the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) in charge of Ikpoba Hill Divisional Headquarters, Benin City received a complaint from Elder Johnson Omosuwa of No. 3, Michael Avenue, Ohovbe Quarters, Ikpoba Hill, Benin City that his daughter, Vera Uwaila Omosuwa, aged 23 years, was attacked and wounded by unknown hoodlums, while she was studying inside the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) at Amadasun Street, Ohovbe, Ikpoba Hill, Benin City. “Immediately, the DPO mobilised police operatives to the crime scene, in company with the victim’s father, Elder Johnson Omosuwa. At the scene, the police met the victim in her pool of  blood and photographs of the scene were taken. Policemen also recovered a fire extinguisher cylinder, which the hoodlums used in inflicting injuries on the victim and the fingerprints on it were lifted during a preliminary investigation, while the victim was rushed to Enoma Hospital, Ogbeson Quarters, Ikpoba Hill, Benin City for treatment. “On May 28, 2020, the management of Enoma Hospital referred her to the University of Benin Teaching Hospital (UBTH), Benin City for further treatment. Unfortunately, the family of  Miss Vera Uwaila Omosuwa broke the news to the DPO, Ikpoba Hill Division that she gave up the ghost in the night of Saturday May 30, 2020 at UBTH, Benin City. “The Commissioner of Police, Edo State Command has ordered for the transfer of the case from Ikpoba Hill Division to the State Criminal Investigation Department (CID), Benin City for a discreet investigation. The command will leave no stone unturned, until the perpetrators of the dastardly act are apprehended.” Edo police command also called on members of the public to come up with any useful information that could lead to the arrest of the hoodlums, while urging them to remain calm. The command commiserated with members of the family of Elder Omosuwa on the death of the innocent undergraduate and prayed to God to give them the fortitude to bear the loss. The authorities of UNIBEN also received with shock, the news of the rape and subsequent murder of Omosuwa. UNIBEN’s Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Lilian Salami, in an online statement by the university’s Spokesperson, Dr. Benedicta Ehanire, described the dastardly incident as condemnable and should not be condoned by any society. She stated that the current pandemic was already hard on everyone and that compounding it with inflicting additional pain on any family was a wicked act. The vice-chancellor, while commiserating with the bereaved family on the loss of their dear daughter, prayed God to grant her soul, peaceful rest. Salami also called on students of the institution and indeed all young people to be wary of the company they keep and the places that they visit. The vice-chancellor revealed that a delegation had been sent by the university’s authorities  to commiserate with the bereaved family. Edo Governor, Godwin Obaseki, in an online statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Communication Strategy, Crusoe Osagie, ordered thorough investigation into the circumstances that led to the death. Obaseki mandated the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) and other security agencies to fish out the culprits who perpetuated the dastardly act and bring them to justice. Osagie said: “The governor is deeply saddened by the news of the death of Miss Vera Uwaila Omosuwa. We have been in consultation with the Edo State Command of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) and have mandated thorough investigation of the matter to ensure that those who are responsible for the heinous crime are brought to justice. “Edo State government will ensure that the full weight of the law runs its course and the Violence Against Persons (VAP) Law and other such laws related to rape and sexual abuse are exploited to get justice for the deceased.” The innocent female student died of the injuries she sustained after she was gang-raped, beaten and hit with fire extinguisher in the church that she was worshipping and where she went to read, before the unfortunate incident. The church’s security officer went to pick the key to the church’s main auditorium from its keeper, but he was told that someone was already in the church, only to find the young woman unconscious, in critical condition and in a pool of blood, with the blood-stained fire extinguisher placed near her. As at the time of the discovery, the undergraduate still moved her hand and she was rushed to the nearby Enoma Hospital, Ogbeson Quarters, Ikpoba Hill, Benin for treatment, but later referred to UBTH, where she faintly explained what happened to her at the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of the federal hospital, before she passed on.