 The N-Power scheme of the federal government entered another phase last week with the commencement of enrolment of third batch beneficiaries. The new initiative is targeted at absorbing 400, 000 graduates and non-graduates into the employment program designed to create jobs for the army of unemployed youths. The Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, said the third batch of the scheme followed wide consultations and far-reaching reforms in the program to achieve greater efficiency. Apparently to give further fillip to these reforms, the ministry has set exit dates for batches A and B that were hitherto enrolled in the program. The N-Power program is a federal government scheme to provide jobs for Nigerian youths. Primarily designed to expose youths to appropriate work experience and develop life-long skills in order to become solution providers in their communities, the program is targeted at reducing youth unemployment in the country. The strategy is to provide the youths with a structure for large scale and relevant work skills acquisition and development. At the conclusion of the program, beneficiaries are expected to have acquired necessary skills and competences in selected areas to make them gainful and useful members of the society. By the new timeline, Batch A will now exit on June 30, while Batch B will be passing out by July 31. The exit dates for the two batches are symbolic given that one of the challenges that had stood against the efficiency of the program was the tardiness in disengaging those previously admitted to give room for new intakes. It is instructive that the N-Power graduate scheme is billed to last for two years while the non-graduate program is for one year. But this rule has been observed in the breach as beneficiaries overstay meant no new enrolments have been enlisted for nearly two years now. This has been a serious challenge for a program designed to constantly respond to the dynamics of youth labour force. This point is further illustrated when it is recognized that Batch A which commenced in 2016 with 200,000 youths and was supposed to wind up by December 2018 is still on. We are now at the end of June. If this batch exits at the end of this month going by the timeline set by the minister, they would have overstayed their welcome by one year and a half. That is one of the nagging issues the minister, Hajiya Sadiya Farouq intends to address by the new exit date for Batch A and having Batch B comply with the extant regulations for winding up. Batch B which started in August 2018, with 300, 000 youths is still on course as the exit date set by the ministry is in tandem with the original terminal date for that arm of the program. Had the minister not taken the decision to exit the two batches, it would have been nigh impossible to talk of the current enrolment. By the measure, the ministry has underscored the point that non observance of the rules of disengagement had been a hindrance to the scheme. Given the terms for engagement of prospective beneficiaries, it is good a thing that strict compliance with the exit dates of the batches is now being enforced. This will translate to an increase in the number of beneficiaries of the program in the face of burgeoning youth unemployment. But the disengagement comes with its own challenges. There are issues with what becomes of their fate after being disengaged? This poser is further reinforced by the reality that some of them may have gotten used to the stipends they are paid and may suffer subsequent dislocation and hardship if they do not have immediate alternative. This is more so, in view of the serious unemployment problems that have emerged since the advent of the corona virus pandemic. The prospects of the pandemic compounding the unemployment situation cannot be underestimated. About a fortnight ago, the World Food Program of the United Nations warned that COVID-19 may lead to the loss of 13 million jobs in Nigeria. That was before the Vice President Osinbajo-led Economic Sustainability Plan Committee came out with the chilling figure that the pandemic has caused a 33.6 percent astronomic rise in unemployment indicating that 39.4 Nigerians will be out of employment by the end of 2020 if proactive steps are not taken to arrest the situation. There are therefore fears that the disengagement of the two previous batches will blow up the unemployment pool despite the fact that it is in keeping with the rules of their engagement. The minister seems not unmindful of this reality. She seemed to have anticipated this challenge when she said “We have commenced the transitioning of beneficiaries from batches A and B into government entrepreneurship schemes and engaging private sector bodies to absorb some of the beneficiaries after the completion of psychometric assessment to determine competency and placement into various opportunities”. That is the way to go and it should be pursued with greater vigour. Admittedly, it may not be easy to get immediate employment for all the beneficiaries. But if they really acquired the necessary skills for entrepreneurship and job creation, any gaps created by way of direct employment can be compensated by their ability to create jobs for themselves. And the success of the program will be measured more by the ability of participants to create jobs for themselves given emerging realities in the labour market. But that is not the only challenge facing the program. There have been reports of ghost workers fleecing the scheme, abscondment of beneficiaries and outright connivance with official in their places of primary assignment. Though some government functionaries had made spirited attempts to deny some of these infractions, the current minister is said not to be taking things for granted as steps are being taken to block all ghost enrollees in the ongoing program. The objective is to save for the government all the monies that would have been lost in fictitious claims. This should be pursued with greater momentum. There are also issues with regular payment of the allowances of participants as some of them have not been paid for some months. The ministry admits this but said the federal government’s payment platform is responsible for the delays. It claims the issue is not peculiar to N-Power enrollees but equally affects all federal government employees. Whatever the case, concerted efforts must be geared up to eliminate all obstacles to the regular payment of these allowances. No doubt, the N-Power scheme has a lot of vision given its target to create jobs for youths through entrepreneurial and job skills acquisition. We live in country with a plethora of institutions of higher learning churning out graduates in large numbers without commensurate job opportunities. Ironically, as the number of the unemployed expands in geometric progression, available jobs trickle in an arithmetic order. That portends serious repercussions for youths’ restiveness which no right thinking government can afford to ignore. Its consequences could be very dire for any government. The N-Power scheme must therefore be seen to be addressing this challenge. It must be seen to be staving off the larger repercussions of burgeoning youth unemployment in the country. What we require now are proactive measures to redress extant challenges while at the same time re-jigging the program for greater efficiency. The raging pandemic has thrown up new challenges within the employment matrix. It has also come with new ways of doing old things. That is where the entrepreneurial skills and job creation ideals come in handy. The minister must therefore forge ahead to extricate the scheme from all suffocating hiccups. That way, the program will be better positioned to serve the goals behind its establishment. 