 SIR:The Nigerian barrack is an essential fragment of our society, home to numerous dead, in-service, retired and many to come peacekeepers of the nation. Nigerian Armed Forces: Army, Airforce and Navy have hundreds of barracks throughout the country each containing hundreds of homes, millions of Nigerian homes. To the outside world, barrack life may seem all glorious, daffodils and rainbow, however, the barrack feature homes full of several unrecounted agony, fear, uncertainty and degradations. No one will tell you this; every day a soldier dies in service. Almost every day, a particular home is in agony over the loss of their loved ones. The barrack is such an interconnected community, it is the only true place where the sense of being one’s brother’s keeper exists. Everyone is your comrade; a dead soldier is either your friend, colleague or family. Due to various crisis and insurgency in the country, many soldiers have died. To civilian folks, they are mere soldiers. But these are fathers, mothers, sons and daughters of some people. They have people at home who spent hours worrying of the dangers to come. Truly, danger always come: bullets, war-trauma and other life-threatening but unforeseen circumstances. Believe me, it is not only bullet and bomb that kill the soldier. In barrack, fathers miss the growing up of their kids, people die from war-psychic and body injuries. “But that’s the sacrifice signed for”; no one seems to be complaining of this. However, rather than being appreciated for their worth, stagnant income and poor living conditions are their lots. Unlike civilian folks who have time and luxury to expand their financial status, our soldiers only have proper chance at increment once every five years when promotion comes, without mentioning the sacrifice and risk involved. In a cycling motion, their earnings are mostly used for cheap clothing and feeding. The APC-led federal government has been making efforts in renovating blocks and school buildings in the barracks; this however does not translate into spacious accommodation. How should they live? A soldier provided with two rooms accommodation in his entire career – father, mother, and typically three children in two rooms. Lack of quality education is another degradational force in Nigeria barracks. Most barrack schools, especially, Army barracks in the North are identified with poor resources as well as lack of quality teachers. There are even some barrack schools in the north that practice two sessions school; morning session for senior students starts at 8:30 am and ends 1:00 pm and afternoon juniors set commences 1:00pm and ends 5:00pm. In such hasty and compressed conditions, what do we expect the children to learn? Equipped with poor educational and vocational standards, how could the barrack children meet with the high requirement of our society? Only few lucky ones could challengingly advance to college and be more than their fathers, the rest with limited options could only enlist into the same service. This has continued to hamper the growth and development of barrack youths over generations. Thus far, the government has failed to establish mechanisms to help soldiers in easing post-war trauma and happily reunite with their families. It is saddening that some lucky survivor-soldiers go home with pains and agonies of war, exhibiting abnormalities and suppressing pains with hard drugs. The government should incorporate standard health facilities that will address this; any soldier that spends at least six months in battlefield should be evaluated and treated if need be. Governments, organisations and public-spirited individuals are enjoined to intervene in the educational and vocational improvement of barracks children; it is their most viable chance at fulfilled life, help them to be better than their parents in service. 