  Suddenly everybody is in a Minneapolis state of mind. As the light went out briefly in the White House penultimate week and as its unhinged occupant reportedly fled to the bunker, you get the sense that it is Mayday in America. The country of the Mayflower Fathers is fast unspooling leaving in its wake a bitterly contested sclerotic hulk. It has been a defining moment for God’s own country. America has been shaken to its foundation. It is like living through a nightmare. As the embers of anger and raw revulsion turn their iconic cities into smouldering ruins, Americans would be wondering what has hit them. There have been race-related riots before, but nothing like this in its intensity of passion, scope and uncoordinated fury. Toussaint-Louverture , aka the Black Spartacus, great descendant of African slaves, will be chuckling in his grave. Shortly before he was abducted with his entire family and taken to France, Toussaint had admonished his French interlocutors not to substitute the aristocracy of class which they had vanquished in France with an aristocracy of race. Interdicted, humiliated and summarily dismissed as a serving general of the French Army, Toussant cried out: “Without a doubt, I owe this treatment to my colour. But my colour, my colour, has it ever prevented me from serving my country with diligence and devotion?” His pleas fell on deaf ears. Disgraced, separated from his family and his proud tunic of a serving French Army general yanked off and replaced with prison uniform, Toussaint succumbed to a cruel and horrific death in a lonely cell in Fort de Joux on the morning of 7 April 1803. His repeated complaints of cold and insanitary conditions were dismissed as the mischievous mumbling of an old Negro. The certifying medical officer, in a Kafkaesque turn of phrase, noted that he was “truly dead”. There is no mistaking the apocalyptic resonance of this with contemporary events in America. The racist notion that Black people have no threshold of pains and are generally inured to physical brutalization has just played out in Minneapolis. There was something atavistic about the chilling, slow-motion execution of George Floyd by a sadistic cop. But while French feet could be held against fire over certain egalitarian ideals of the French Revolution, the founders of America were hard men who had no qualms about the aristocracy of race and the manifest destiny which led their forebears to create civilization anew on the plains of America and away from the ashes of feudal Europe. Yet despite this ingrained notion of racial superiority, the American founding fathers were also radical intellectuals and visionaries who held the belief that all people are created equal, despite some inherent genetic liabilities. A Thomas Jefferson for example, whose views about Negro ability was infamously dim, was also known to have acquired a harem of Black slaves whom he impregnated at will and with equal opportunity relish. There is no country or human society that is completely free of discrimination based on race, tribe, caste, class or religion. But in a society founded on the visionary ethos of democracy and human equality, the contradiction between radical precept and actual practice, the gap between telos and reality and between ideal and actuality are to be bridged by continuous struggle and unyielding human exertion. In fairness to the Americans, that struggle has taken up most of the last three centuries and has witnessed a momentous civil war, horrific massacres of native Americans, emancipation of African-Americans from slavery, race riots, civil rights campaigns, protest marches for the rights of all American to vote and be voted for, affirmative action in colleges, the rise of extreme and murderous right-wing clans and a countervailing upsurge in a radical Black prelacy and the election of an American president of African extraction. As it is the case with most struggles, nothing can be vouchsafed or forsworn. The progress cannot be linear or straightforward. While there has been a general rolling back of the frontiers of oppression and naked injustice, the spectre of deeply entrenched discrimination, structured racism and institutionalized bigotry remains. The psyche and psychology of an average American cop, irrespective of race, remain predatory, persecutory and adversarial instead of being friendly and placatory. As a result of racial profiling, preconceived notions of criminality and deeply entrenched prejudice, an average Black person before the law is an endangered species. About sixty per-cent of the vast multi-racial American underclass spawned by a hostile and discriminatory economic climate and with virtually no hope of bettering their condition in life are Black people. With such structured social discrimination and political disempowerment, many analysts have concluded that African-Americans have merely exchanged actual slavery for a more subtle and sophisticated‘ form of enslavement by the American state. These are the underlying conditions or comorbidities that have brought America to the gates of hell. With an economic crisis on hand and with the fatalities of the Covid-19 disproportionately weighted among the Black populace and with a divisive and polarizing president stoking the fire of inequities from every conceivable angle of possible combustion, Americans never realized how close they were to the tipping point until a rogue cop delivered the perfect storm that fateful Monday. Things will never be the same again in America no matter what happens in the November election. If the monstrous bible-wielding charlatan who does not attend church services is returned, it will hasten the contradictions and the resolution of the crisis by sending America on a terminal tailspin. But if the American people find the collective strength to rise above the bigotry and racism that has disfigured the nation, then the process of healing a fractured country will commence. In viewing the future reconstruction of this troubled land, it is useful to point at some landmines ahead. For those who read historical signals, there is something eerily prognostic about the crowds that have been massing in major American cities in the last fortnight and the solidarity they have received from many world capitals. Let us look more closely. Neither wholly Black nor White; neither predominantly male nor female; neither old nor young; neither rich nor poor and neither driven by religious passion nor secular boredom, it is a trans-category crowd with a unified consciousness of evil and injustice. It is the pan-America crowd at its most dangerous and devastating. It will be foolish to imagine that it will just peter out like that. On the other hand, it is not yet a revolutionary mob. It has no obvious leader or discernible leadership cadre. Beyond its revulsion with racism and institutionalized injustice, it has no coherent agenda or identifiable programme of radical political reform. It is driven by unstructured anger and is not interested in storming any Winter Palace or torching The Bastille. It complains but it is still very much a compliant mob. But all that may change in the coming months if the economic and political crisis worsens. In order to plot this choreography of eventual chaos, it is useful to remember that despite the deplorable conduct of Mr Trump and his attempts to further polarize the nation for electoral profiteering, the problem of America politics transcends party and colour lines. Despite the fact that the Democratic Party is generally regarded as the party of the coloured people because of its left of centre politics and pro-poor posturing, actual effects of policies may not bear that out. For example, the grim and fearsome state rollback and the prosperity it often unleashes in a developed economy like America may, on the overall aggregate, benefit more people in the society despite its inherent inequity and entrenched discrimination. The fate of the visionary Obama Healthcare Policy is instructive. In a curious twist of fortune, Barack Obama is often fingered by many African-Americans as not doing much for their actual condition beyond his soulful, stirring rhetoric and exhortations. As they say in Nigeria: “ na grammar we go chop?” The fact remains that had Obama been a pure and autochthonous African-American, his chances of being elected would have suffered considerably. Even at that and despite the fact that he could “pass”, Obama had to stitch together a brilliant rainbow coalition which bore him aloft to the White House. Once in office, Obama found himself a nonplussed hostage of a deeply entrenched system of racial privileges so rigged against reform that it can only be changed by an electoral revolution. It is an engrossing irony that the Democratic Party, the party of change and liberal reform, is the classic example of group resistance to change and reform and a telling reminder of how far revolution is away from American politics. Once a Presidential aspirant of the party begins to tout some radical reforms, he is immediately consigned to the lunatic fringe of the party where he will eventually expire. The plight of Bernie Saunders bears revisiting. Twice in recent Democratic Party presidential primaries, the party presumptive nominees simply had to wait for the maverick billionaire to expend himself on his radical reforms before pouncing on the poor man. Like its British forebear, American politics rely on incremental, conservative advances rather than radical, revolutionary leaps. But as the crowds massing in American main cities attest to, even incremental, conservative reforms can evaporate and disappear in a stalled momentum leading to anarchy and chaos. This is the perilous conjuncture America has arrived at. It is not due to the absence of visionary men and women but the presence of an overpowering structure wedded to a vision of the past. No nation can continue to be wedded to a vision of the past without the present imploding. America needs to be prised apart from some inglorious and unedifying aspects of its past. The surging crowds will help in creating the right atmosphere and enabling environment. But the change will not come from the street. We need to be reminded that whenever the radical and egalitarian energies released by protests in America run afoul of the political allergies of the ultra-conservative White supremacist group that claims to own the nation, it always responds with assassinations. Nothing in the behaviour of some of Mr Trump’s core supporters suggests that this is about to change. That is the real problem with America. But there is nothing in the recent and remote history of human society to suggest that such murderous villainy can last forever. There may be light at the end of this dark American tunnel——eventually.   It was a most blissful morning in Lagos eerily reminiscent of halcyon days when you woke up in the village to be greeted by the wonderful smell of moin-moin and akara in the vicinity. If you are a  master in this gastronomic matter, you could tell which stage of readiness for consumption the delicacy had reached by merely putting your nostrils to work: from the faintly undercooked to the delicately cooked and on to the grossly overcooked which was usually reserved for the impertinent interloper. After the midnight rains which clattered on the roof and whined on endlessly, a wondrous calm had descended on the nation. Hopefully the rains would have washed away the last vestiges of the dreadful coronavirus which had turned the live of everybody into a dreadful misery in the last three months or so. The traumatic impact of this plague is such that nobody would be in a hurry to forget. But Coro virus or no Coro virus, nothing could have bettered the calm tranquillity of this early June morning as yours sincerely curled up in bed watching America unravel on television with sleepy-eyed disbelief. The serenity of the beautiful morning was eventually shattered when Okon barged in resplendently attired in resource control costumes replete with colonial bowler hat and carved walking stick to match. Snooper was bowled over. “And where is his Excellency heading out to so early in the morning?” snooper asked with affected reverence. “Ha oga morning sir. I wan quickly reach dem place dem dey call Online make man sign dem comdomless register for dem 12 2/3 Ibadan man. Dem say dem place dey between Mile 12 and Majidun”, the crazy fellow responded with pomp and swagger. “Ah yes. You turn right at Mile Twelve to connect with Alapere”, snooper noted, hoping to send the chap on a false trail to terminal perdition. But the fellow picked the scent of ambush. “Ah oga, Okon no be fool o. You wan make dem Alapere police finis man? Those one dem be like dem Obudu red ants. Dem dey fight anything and dem dey bite anything”, Okon noted with a cynical snort sending one to convulsive laughing. “Okon, but you said you were going to Ibadan to sign the register last week?” snooper inquired. “Ha oga, dat one na Ogbonge wahala. Dem border police come arrest Okon for dem Ojodu Berger say man don reach Ogun State. Dem useless police just stay near dem Motor Park and dem dey collect passenger money say dem don cross border. Naim I come jump inside ditch and I come tell dem say I don reach Lagos again,” Okon sniggered. It was at this point that Mama Igosun crashed in eyeing Okon with malice even as she attempted to remove his hat with her walking stick. “Akanbi, gudu morin o jare (Good morning, please) I know say dis boy na rascal and na proper asinde( madman) I no know whether him be ogbologbo jaguda. He good make you dey on him case before him come bring army robbers make dem come do sababi (evil) to you ooo.” The old woman chanted breathlessly. “Ha mama, what has Okon done again ooo?”, snooper asked in a very conciliatory tone. “Are you see. Since I come Lagos, all my knickers and dem corsets dey disappear one by one”, the old woman lamented. “Ha Iya, I know knickers but what is corsets?” your sincerely asked in genuine ignorance. “Ha, you sabi knickers but you no sabi corsets, abi? So if you wan pieces all dem Lagos women how you dey do am? Corset na komu. Abi you no sabi komu? Se o mo komu?” the ancient woman screamed in vernacular .( Komu is Yoruba word for brassiere) “Ah o yes, I know bra, I know brassiere”, snooper hastily assented with a touch of coy embarrassment, before the whole thing descended into village vulgarity. “All dat one na yeye grammar. Bra ko, bra ni.  All dem corset I buy dem from Lennards, Leventis, Kingsway, Chellerams, Enike Zard, Patterson, Bhojsons and dem I. Mudah dem done steal dem for  high wire”, the old woman wailed. “Mama Okon may look like thief but he will never do that”, snooper pleaded. Sensing a lull in the hostilities, the mad boy, as accident-prone as ever, put his heavy boot in. “Ha oga na dat one na wetin dem Fela dey call Hot Pants or pata gbogbona”, the crazy boy sniggered as he eyed mama Igosun with mock pity. “Shut up. I know say you be thief. Na Akanbi him head no dey well. I dey hear you and dem Ibo boy well well for night becos you think say I don sleep.  I give you seven days. If you no return dem stuff thunder go pieces you before dem eight days. If he no happen no be Akanbi Olukoso born me”, the old woman cursed and swept out.