 THE health sector holds immense potential to create wealth, if an enabling environment is put in place for it to thrive, Polaris Bank Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Tokunbo Abiru. He said this during a webinar hosted by the bank on: ‘Managing healthcare business during & Post-COVID-19’. He said: “Despite these unfortunate realities, with the right policies and legislation, the health sector has the potential to create wealth for the country. This will include exploring ways to make medical services affordable by providing a well-defined and incentivised insurance framework to cover the formal and informal sectors. He further noted that Nigeria’s large population offers a huge demand potential for turning the health sector into a money-spinner for the country. “If the right legislation is in place, medical tourism can be a thing of the past while providers of capital would have the comfort to bridge funding gap thus getting the sector to work optimally.” The quality assurance adviser of Medical Credit Fund, Dr. Abiodun Oyenuga,who spoke on the ‘Overview of the pandemic and its impact on healthcare business’, noted: “There is a decrease in the ability to afford healthcare as a result of the business shutdown; loss of income and loss of jobs, among several drawbacks. He however urged financial institutions to provide more credits; and  a renewed focus by the government in reviving healthcare as these would improve patient satisfaction as well as profit. On coverage expansion,  access to primary health care, the Chief Technology Officer of MeCure, Adil Shaikh, explained that telemedicine provides patients the opportunity to access online consultation, prescription and delivery of prescribed drugs from certified pharmacies across Nigeria. Shaikh noted, however, that telemedicine comes with challenges, especially for providers of medical services who wish to explore the field; ranging from technology infrastructure, user education and general awareness and connectivity issues on the part of the consumer. He identified three major areas financial institutions could help to bridge the gap including: leveraging reach to generate awareness, innovating on digital payments, and partnerships with health institutions. Managing Director Medbury Medical Services,Itunu Akinware, advocated effective collaborations within the health sector drawing from the saying, “You shouldn’t let a good crisis go to waste”. She emphasised that ‘now that a lot of light has been shone on the health sector and we can see the gaps in infrastructure, processes, and systems, this is the time for all of us to work together and ensure that we can improve healthcare in Nigeria”. Akinware added: “We have developed a three-pronged strategy: to increase or maintain revenue; reduce or re-align cost and manage cash.” Divisional Head, Medical & Technology, Hygeia HMO, Omoshola Yusuf, who spoke on how the increasing cost of care is being moderated by the HMO scheme  urged Nigerians,  employers, as well as individuals, to embrace the scheme. Directorate Head, Lagos Business, Polaris Bank, Segun Opeke, spoke on the product offering of the bank to the health sector. “The Polaris Healthcare Loan has two variants: what can be available as overdraft facility for working capital purposes; purchase of consumables; discounting of invoices, etc. Interest is very competitive while Loan amount is subject to the applicant’s capacity,” she said.