The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo State has described the first year of Governor Seyi Makinde’s administration as a failure. It said Makinde has failed to relieve the state from reliance on federal allocation within one year as promised during his campaign. But the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state insisted that the governor was rebuilding what the opposition destroyed in eight years. In a statement by its Publicity Secretary Dr Azeez Olatunde yesterday, APC  faulted the claimed achievements of the present administration, saying it deliberately chose not to acknowledge his predecessor Abiola Ajimobi for setting the work in motion before he left office last year. The statement emphasized that Makinde’s administration is celebrating payment of salaries as if his predecessor did not do the same for three consecutive years of his tenure until economic recession crept in. On education, the APC scored Makinde low, saying it claimed to have completed 307 projects but which were undertaken by the previous administration. It wondered how the new administration could complete projects in a sector it claimed Ajimobi left in a sorry state. The party singled out Makinde’s alleged failure on security, stressing that it failed to build on Ajimobi’s high achievement in the sector. It added that rather than acknowledge Ajimobi’s efforts in health, it gladly converted the health centre which the former governor built in Olodo, Ibadan to the infectious disease and research centre and changed its name from Abiola Ajimobi Maternity and Pediatric Centre in order to erase the vision of his predecessor. Besides, APC said Makinde did not acknowledge the four fully equipped ambulances donated to his administration by the Federal Government. The APC also criticized Makinde for taking N39.5 billion loan in one year after he had told the world that Ajimobi plunged the state into huge loans without nothing to show for it. It also declared Makinde a failure in agriculture, accusing him of doing nothing meaningful in the sector in one year in spite of securing a N7.5 billion loan to rebuild two farm settlements. But reacting, the state’s chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said it did not expect any applause from the opposition. In a reply statement by its Publicity Secretary Mr Akeem Olatunji, the party accused the APC of downplaying Makinde’s achievements. It said there was no need dignifying Oyo APC with replies anymore, adding that the opposition’s strategy to revive its dead image and public acceptance by the people made it resort to unabated attacks on Governor Makinde for imaginary reasons. Olatunji described the opposition as a group of desperate people still licking its wounds from statewide rejection stressing that even after satan was sent out of heaven to earth according to the holy books, he (satan) is still busy deceiving human beings in order to win their souls to hell fire. The PDP thanked the people of the state for keeping faith and having undeterred trust in the Governor Makinde’s administration, stressing that it will focus on the development and progress of the state.    