 NO fewer than 81 people were killed in Tuesday’s Boko Haram attack on Borno State communities, Governor Babagana Zulum was told on Wednesday. The governor who was on a condolence visit, also heard that the village head of Faduma Kolomaiya and six others were abducted by the marauding insurgents. Thirteen people were injured while 400 cattle were rustled. Faduma Kolomaiya is in Gubio Local government Area in the northern part of the state. It is 96 kilometeres from Maiduguri, the state capital. In Katsina State in the Northwest, bandits killed no fewer than 18 people in attacks launched on Kadisau in Faskari local government area. The Police said 26 persons were injured by the bandits who were said to be about 200. They also attempted to steal foodstuff from the residents of the sleepy community. President Muhamadu Buhari immediately ordered troops top go after the criminals of the “barbaric attacks.” Governor Zulum, described the situation as “babaric and unfortunate.” Zulum evacuated five injured persons in the village for treatment and urged the military to undertake a massive onslaught against the terrorists in the shore of Lake Chad. He said: “Last year, about same number of people were killed in Gajiram like it happened again here. This is barbaric. It is very unfortunate. The only solution to end these killings is by dislodging the insurgents in the shores of Lake Chad. Doing so will require collaborative regional efforts.” A survivor, who did not give his name, told Zulum that the insurgents struck at the village at about 10am on Tuesday. He said: “The insurgents in gun trucks and armored tanks came around 10am on Tuesday.  They operated for about six hours and left around 4pm.  They gathered us and said they wanted to deliver a religious sermon to us. “Thereafter, they asked us to submit whatever arm we had. Some villagers gave up their dane guns, bows and arrows. The insurgents pretended as if they were on religious mission but suddenly started shooting at will. “Even children and women were not spared; many were shot at close range. Many started running. At the end, many persons were killed. We have buried 49 bodies here while another 32 were taken away by families from the villages around us “The insurgents abducted seven persons, including our village head. They stole 400 cattle.” A member of the House of Representatives, Usman Zannah, however, said the insurgents also attached Ban Ngudorum on Tuesday. He claimed that 96 persons were killed in the tow attacks. According to him, the insurgents  faced resistance from the villagers, a development that “ made  them to  regroup and invade the villages in a reprisal that  resulted  in the mass killings.” Katsina State Police Command which confirmed the attack on Kadisau, said 14 of the victims died on the spot and four in the hospital. Police Spokesman Gambo Isah, said:  “The bandits began shooting the residents, killing 14 people on the spot. They also injured 26 others who were taken to the hospital for medical treatment. “This (yesterday) morning, I spoke with the Area Commander in Funtua who told me that additional four persons died in the hospital, bringing the number of those who died from the attack to 18. “What is happening now is like the bandits want to ridicule us. We are there doing our best.” He urged the people to provide security agents with credible information about the plans, movements and activities of the bandits. “Our emergency line is 08156977777. Tell us what is happening in your area or what is going to happen,” Isah said. The military has for the umpteenth time vowed to flush out the remnants of Boko Haram Terrorists (BHTs) and Islamic State West Africa Province (ISWAP) in the Northeast. Reacting to the incidents the army said a contingent of military personnel had been drafted to the general area to track, arrest or kill the culprits. “We have also mandated the Theatre Command, Operation LAFIYA DOLE, to enhance security, dominate the area and reassure the affected communities of the  Nigerian Army’s commitment to protect the population,”  Army Spokesman, Col. Sagir Musa, said in a statement on Wednesday. It added:  “The Nigerian Army equally notes with great concern, banditry incidents in some parts of the north western region of the county across Katsina, Sokoto and Zamfara states. “It has come to our knowledge that some  bandits are shifting base and venting their anger on hapless citizens because of the ongoing operations in Katsina State. “While we sympathise with fellow Nigerians and the good people of Borno, Katsina, Sokoto and Zamfara states in particular, on these unfortunate incidents; we would like to assure all of our unrelenting effort in engaging with communities to rid our society of any and all remnants of these criminal elements,” The Sokoto State Government has stopped the movement of commercial motorcycles 6pm to 6am in four local government areas. This is as a result of  banditry. Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal listed the councils as Sabon Birni, Isa, Rabah and Goronyo.