Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) pensioners have again appealed to the Governor Godwin Emefiele to effect an upward review of their pension “before we die”. They said their pension has been due for a review for five years. “We don’t want the payment of the enhanced pension to be delayed beyond this month,” they said in a May 26 letter to Emefiele, which is a sequel to their April 20 letter for which they are yet to get a response. The pensioners, through their spokesman, Chief Chimezie Ahaneku, urged the CBN governor to act quickly. They recalled that an agreement reached during a high-level CBN management/pensioners meeting held on March 9, 2017. A subsequent meeting was held on August 20, 2019, on the same subject. “We were assured that the process of the general pension review was seriously progressing and would be completed in no distant time. “In furtherance of that process, a general headcount of the 5,000 CBN pensioners was carried out in January this year to determine those still alive and would be eligible for the payment,” the pensioners said. They had hoped that the enhanced pension would be paid by March 2020. “To our greatest surprise and dismay, up to now, even after this month’s (May) pension has been paid, we are yet to receive it. “This is a clear contravention of Section 173 (3) of the 1999 Nigeria Constitution, which stipulates: ‘Pensions shall be reviewed every five years or together with any Federal Civil Service salary review, whichever is earlier.’ “The last pension review in the CBN was with effect from July 1, 2010, while another pension review would have taken effect from July 1, 2015 – almost five years ago. “The longer this pension review is unduly delayed, the more pensioners die one after the other without receiving the long-awaited pension increase. “The unfortunate thing about it is that the moment a pensioner dies his/her pension payment is automatically stopped. Within the last five weeks, we have lost three pensioners. Nobody knows who would be next. “As elderly and among the most vulnerable people in the society, we had since March expected the CBN to have paid us a palliative at this critical time of COVID-19 and the resultant general lockdown. “Since the bank management is not thinking along that line and since our strong expectation of receiving the enhanced pension in May has been dashed, we hereby very respectfully implore you to kindly direct that action be urgently expedited in ensuring the conclusion of the review process to enable us to receive the enhanced pension together with the accrued arrears before the end of June 2020. “The urgency of this matter is clearly borne out of our desire to receive the anticipated pension increase while we are still alive,” the pensioners said.  