Osun State Governor Adegboyega Oyetola has described his deceased Deputy Chief of Staff (DCoS), the late Mikhail Jare Adebisi, as a courageous person who stood out in terms of loyalty, consistency and dedication to duty. He also described him as one of his most loyal and dedicated workers, who, despite his health challenges, took his job seriously. Oyetola spoke on Monday while hosting executive council (exco) members led by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Prince Wole Oyebamiji, who visited him to brief him on what transpired at the 3rd Day Fidau prayer for the deceased; as well as members of the House of Assembly, led by the Speaker, Timothy Owoeye, who had visited to condole with the governor. The governor, who said it would be difficult to find a replacement for his late aide, added: “We would have flown out Adebisi for treatment, but for the COVID-19 pandemic. Despite the health challenges, he never joked with his job. When he was leaving for Lagos, he said, ‘pray for me sir’ and I became frightened. “He was one of the most loyal and dedicated workers around me. He was a man of courage, a good example of what loyalty and dedication are all about. You can rely on him any time, any day. “Jare took initiatives and did assignment even before telling him. “He equally stood out in terms of consistency and dedication. He did not like to be pitied even despite his health challenge. But for the pandemic, he would have been flown out again for treatment. “It will be difficult to find a replacement for him. “Even on sick bed, he was coordinating his work. We all will miss him.” Osun State on Monday suspended its weekly exco meeting in honour of Adebisi, whose three-day Fidau Prayer was held. A renowned Islamic scholar, Sheikh Muhydeen Ajani Bello, extolled the positive impact the deceased made on earth before his demise. Bello said: “The name of the deceased will forever be remembered in the book of life.” He hoped that his indelible landmarks would earn him eternal rest in paradise, noting that the good deeds of the late DCoS, as attested to and affirmed by the people who passed comments on his departure, were testimonies to the fact that the late Adebisi lived a worthy life of fruitful accomplishments. 