The COVID-19 pandemic has devastated the world in more ways than anybody or institution can enumerate. The most tragic is the huge loss of lives. For a very novel virus, the world is practically holding its breath to find not only a cure but a vaccine as a preventive measure for global health. While the race for diagnostic and therapeutic measures  engage world scientists and other health workers, humanity continues with daily struggles with other terminal, accidental and regular ailments. That COVID-19 has a global impact must not obliterate the fact that humanity has always battled with other diseases, that, if not well handled, will definitely end fatally just like the COVID-19 infections. Health workers must be educated and guided enough to realise that COVID-19 is not a miracle virus that came to clear all other illnesses known to man. Other forms of infections are still afflicting people, young and old. We therefore find it extremely worrisome that many families are in agony having lost their relatives to illnesses unconnected with COVID-19 because some hospital workers are refusing to either admit or treat patients brought to their hospitals, usually on the assumption that they are COVID-19 patients. There are even reports that some pregnant women in labour are being discriminated against on the assumption that they might be carrying the virus and there might be danger in getting in contact with their body fluids. For the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, who equally doubles as Chairman of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19, Boss Mustapha, to admit that there had been reports of a spike in deaths because hospitals were turning back non-COVID-19 patients shows that media reports to that effect are not mere rumours. Individual testimonies of relatives are as heartbreaking as they should worry all tiers of government in Nigeria. The increased loss of lives that might eventually surpass the virus deaths is a tragedy that could be prevented. Health workers in a developing country like Nigeria must be kept abreast of information such that they are better informed about the pandemic and not be paranoid over the infection in relation to other diseases or health conditions. The grave implication of the rejection of non COVID-19 patients is that people who get sick might decide to sit back at home, self-medicate, consult quacks, rely on spiritual healing, resort to non-clinically approved herbal concoctions or many other non-therapeutic means of treatment that might eventually not be effective, or end up killing them. These we consider totally unacceptable in a 21st century world with a plethora of modern internet-based information flow and even online consultation services. The situation says much about the healthcare sector in the country. We feel that the health workers might not all be negligent or careless about their patients. There are challenges with access to necessary personal protective equipment (PPEs) and other necessary equipment that could help them in their daily duties. For instance, accepting patients that need ventilators or other breathing assistance when you lack the equipment to help can be a challenge. The greatest resource of any nation is its citizens. There can be no better priority for any government than the welfare of its citizens anchored on good healthcare and education. Those in authority must see this pandemic period as an eye-opener to the magnitude of damage that is possible to the human resource in a country that neglects the health sector. It must be realised that when it is about health issues, we are all potential casualties. In an era of global closure of borders, those in governments that usually travel abroad to get treatment might not be able to do so should they fall ill. “A stitch in time”, they say, “saves nine”. It is time for a more committed interest and funding of the nation’s health sector.