The chairman of the caretaker committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on Thursday took over the administration of the party with a promise to do justice and be fair to all. Governor Mai Mala Buni who drove into the party secretariat with other members of his 13-man caretaker committee immediately after the emergency National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting, also promised to carry every member including the leaders along. The gates of the secretariat that were locked by policemen earlier, were flung open when the new caretaker committee members arrived. Addressing newsmen on arrival at the Secretariat, Buni said: “Party will carry all members along  especially the leaders of the APC. Many of them have paid their dues to the party, so we will carry them along. “After being two time national Secretary of the party, I can say I know the party very well, I want to assure every APC member that we will do justice to every one because we have a capable team “I am a team player and am here to manage a crisis and if you do not manage crisis, crisis will manage you, so without justice there will be no peace, so am ready to do justice to every APC member. “NEC is the highest organ of the party except the convention, and NEC can function for convention in-between, so any decision taken by NEC is the final decision”. He said NEC had directed that all suits filed in court by members should be withdrawn. The chairman held a brief meeting with members of his 13-man caretaker committee. He was accompanied by governors of Kebbi, Kano, Ekiti, Kogi, Kwara, Plateau and Kaduna States. The Senate President and Gombe State governor had earlier arrived. The Forum of APC State chairmen of the party and the Forum of Non-National Working Committee of the National Executive Committee (NNWC) commended the intervention of the NEC in resolving the crisis. Spokesperson of the Forum of APC State Chairmen and Zamafara State chair , Malam Lawal Liman, said: ” NEC has finally taken a good decision. I am sure all NEC members are happy with the decision. Whoever has this party at heart will be happy about decision. We have seen so many turbulences.” The Forum of Non-NWC members dissolved the Hon. Nelson Alapa led executive of the Forum. The acting publicity secretary of the caretaker committee of the forum, Hon. Muhammad Sani Ibrahim, told reporters in Abuja that, “the forum was dissolved for leadership failure, ineffectiveness, uncooperative attitude, lack of transparency and accountability in stewardship, financial misappropriation and party unfaithfulness”. A 3-man caretaker committee was appointed to run the affairs. The committee has Hon. Abubakar Fakai as acting chairman, Hon. David Okumagba, acting secretary and Hon. Muhammed Sani Ibrahim will serve as the acting publicity secretary.