 NIGERIA’s 200,000 daily test capacity for COVID-19 is grossly underutilized because many Nigerians are not coming out to be tested, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) said on Monday. The NCDC Director-General Dr. Chikwe Ihekwazu told the House of Representatives Public Accounts Committee that only 100,000 tests are being conducted daily. He urged the lawmakers to assist in educating Nigerians on the need to go for test so as to ascertain the extent of the infection in the country. Nigeria currently has 30 molecular laboratories for tests. Minister of Health Dr. Osagie Ehanire said at the ministerial briefing also in Abuja yesterday that the “aggressive tracking and testing” led to the increase of laboratories from five to 30 with the intention to take it to at least one in each of the 36 states, to reduce turn around twice.” Dr. Ihekwazu also said that the some state government were not collaborating with the Agency in the testing process. He said since the beginning of the pandemic, the Federal Government had made available to the Agency N5.620 billion for its activities, out of which, about N1.2 billion has been expended by the Agency. The NCDC boss said reports making the round that the Agency spent over N1 billion on SMS are false as the Agency had not spent a single kobo on messages adding that the sms being dished out were free from the telecom providers. Represented by the Permanent Secretary, General Services in the Office of the SGF, Olusegun Adeyemi Adekunle, PTF Chairman said the Coronavirus was still a very dangerous disease which is spreading fast and killing people. He said: “As at January this year, there were only about 7000 cases in just two countries. Today, infection rate stands at over seven million across over 200 countries globally. That is to suggest the fast rate of the spread. “We need your support to be able to do what has to be done. A lot of legislative work is needed. The next pandemic must not catch us unaware. We must prepare for it. We are working with ICPC and civil society groups because accountability is key in whatever we are doing”. The SGF has earlier told the Committee saddled with the statutory responsibility of probing how public funds are expended that so far, the Federal Government had released about N22.163 billion to the Task Force for its activities. Out of the money, he said only N164.929 million had been spent while the balance is still in the PTF account with the Central Bank of Nigeria awaiting the completion of procurement process by the various agencies involved in the fight against the pandemic. He however said that the PTF was not in a position to disclose how much has been received as donations from both foreign and local partners, stressing that only the Accountant General of the Federation is in a position to disclose that since he has the records. He said the PTF was established only to provide leadership for the fight against COVID-19. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mustapha Sulieman, told the Committee that out of its budget of N500 million in the PTF budget, about N250 million was released to it, out of which N164 million was spent on the evacuation of Nigerians from  abroad. He denied reports that Nigerians evacuated from abroad were made to pay for their accommodation, adding that what they were required to pay for was their flight tickets, while the government  took care of their accommodation. He said even though there was an earlier circular from the Nigerian Mission requesting those to be evacuated to pay for their accommodation,  the circular was later withdrawn while the government made efforts to pay to the accommodation. National Coordinator of the Task Force, Dr. Sani Aliyu said a total budget of N35 billion was approved for the fight against COVID-19, out of which N22 billion had been released and currently in the custody of the Accountant General of the Federation. He explained that the PTF is waiting for all the agencies involved in the Covid 19 fight to bring their procurement plans which will be approved by the PTF before the Accountant General is authorised to effect payment. Dr. Aliyu said the PTF is only a sign off agency saying “apart from providing leadership, the PTF only cross check submissions from the MDAs and gives directives to the Accountant  General to effect payment”. Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee, Rep. Oluwole Oke said: “The Accountant General should cause appearance before this committee unfailingly on Monday, June 15 or face arrest. If he fails to appear, we will be forced to issue a warrant for his arrest”.