Decentralized despotism. The evocative, richly suggestive phrase is not my coinage. Rather, it is that of the renowned Ugandan political scientist, Professor Mahmood Mamdani. In his book, ‘Citizen and Subject’, he uses the term as a conceptual handle to depict the authoritarian reality and legacy of ‘Indirect Rule’ as an administrative mechanism of British colonialism in Africa. Purporting to rule through pre-existing or manufactured indigenous, traditional governance systems, the colonial power actually abolished the checks and balances inherent in traditional authority structures, inflated the powers of the traditional rulers and, as one author puts it, “created new powers for the chiefs who abdicated their traditional roles, thus a democratic traditional system became an autocratic one”. The authoritarian colonial state was thus the precursor and progenitor of the despotic and tyrannical post-colonial state and the resultant democratic travails of Africa is partly a function of this legacy. In this piece, I use the term decentralized despotism with regard to the deformities and dysfunctions of federal practice in contemporary Nigeria. Federalism is generically designed to decentralize powers, responsibilities and resource allocation and utilization in such a way that constitutional authority and governmental functions are shared among levels of government roughly coterminous with the plural composition of a culturally federal society. This is to deepen democratic governance and functional autonomy at sub-national levels of administration. Popular discourse and critique of federal practice in Nigeria has largely focused on the excessive centralization of power in the centre, the over-concentration of responsibilities in the federal executive and monopoly of resources of legally allocated resources by the federal government. Yet, the political and administrative reality is that governance gets more despotic, tyrannical and non-accountable, the lower you go down the hierarchy of governance structures in Nigeria. Thus, the often excoriated, excessively centralized federal government in Nigeria actually has greater legislative, judicial and sometimes even bureaucratic restraints on the exercise of its admittedly expansive powers than the state and local governments. In reality, the least accountable, transparent and responsive level of government, and thus ironically and surreptitiously, most powerful are the Local Government Councils. Contrary to the constitutional provision that they should be democratic and fiscally autonomous, they are mere puppets in the hands of state governors. In the characteristically pungent words of Chief Bola Ige in the Second Republic, local governments in Nigeria remain neither local nor government. But herein is the source of the ample powers and room for maneuver of local councils. Once Local Government authorities meekly accept the often substantial deductions from their statutory fiscal allocations from the Federation Account by state governors, as they have no choice but to do, they are left pretty free to utilize the not insubstantial crumbs that come to them much as they please with scant accountability and responsibility. Hence the veritable emperors and worshipful majesties of Nigeria’s extant federal system are the state governors. They have the local governments in their grip. They are hardly incommoded by the necessary restraining influence that professional and competent civil service bureaucracies can offer. State Executive Councils mostly tend to be pliant and are often incapacitated to make qualitative and critical input to governance at that level.  Castrated and impotent legislatures tend to be rubber stamp assemblies for governors while state judiciaries are compelled to function with an eye on the governor’s body language since they are dependent on funding from the executive. This unprecedented concentration of power in the executive at the state level is a perfect recipe for governance disaster as the iron law of the corruptive and inebriating influence of absolute power in the hands of fallible mortals can be no exception here. Thus, for instance, in the often erratic, illogical and utterly irrational responses of some state governors to the raging Coronavirus pandemic, we see how the inevitably poor decisions arising from unaccountable and unrestrained power can be no less an existential threat to citizens than the virus. It is ostensibly to redress this unsavory situation that President Muhammadu Buhari recently issued his Executive Order 10 to compel state governors to comply with Section 121 (3) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) which recognizes the financial autonomy of the state legislature and judiciary. The 8th National Assembly had effected this amendment to the Constitution, a provision which had since been signed into law by President Buhari. Yet, the governors who had rendered this requirement of the constitution nugatory for over a year by simply ignoring it are vehemently protesting that the Executive Order 10 violates sections of the Constitution that guarantee the federal autonomy of state governments. If state governors brazenly disregard the Constitution’s guarantee of the principle of Separation of powers among the three arms of government in their states, do they have the moral right to question the President’s assumption of allegedly extra-constitutional powers to ensure constitutional compliance? That the governors have the temerity to contest the legality of Executive Order 10, while not denying that they have left the amended Section 121 (3) of the Constitution unimplemented, shows their hubristic insensitivity to public opinion. No rational reasons can be averred for their unwillingness to respect the financial autonomy of the two other arms of government in accordance with the Constitution. The only signal it sends is that they are reluctant to subject themselves to the restraints which operational checks and balances arising from the more effective practice of the principle of Separation of Powers will ensure and compel. This is unacceptable. Even then, it cannot be denied that the governors have a point. Nigeria’s democratic and constitutional evolution since 1999 has moved commendably far away from the imperious and suffocating federal centre we had under the Chief Olusegun Obasanjo imperial presidency. No longer do we have a presidency that withholds statutory allocations of states at will or engineers the Gestapo style removal of state governors by captured state legislatures. We must not support any measure, no matter how well motivated, that gives even the slightest hint of a possible regression to that misbegotten era. The cure for constitutional impunity on the part of the governors cannot be purportedly corrective presidential impunity. The Presidential Implementation Committee empowered by the Executive Order to enforce compliance by state governors with the provisions of the Constitution that guarantee financial autonomy to state legislatures and executives has dangerous portents. In particular, the powers conferred on the Accountant General of the Federation as well as the Attorney-General and Minister of Justice to deduct state statutory allocations from the Federation Account from source and transmit same to state legislatures and judiciaries directly is open to abuse. An unscrupulous future presidency can exploit this provision to instigate and empower state legislatures and judiciaries to undermine perceived ‘recalcitrant’ state governors. The financial autonomy of the state legislatures and judiciaries must derive from the requisite constitutional provisions as well as adherence to the authority of state budgetary appropriation laws rather than potentially malicious presidential benevolence. It is curious that state legislatures and judiciaries have made no effort to seek judicial remedy for state governors’ non-implementation of Section 121 (3) of the 1999 Constitution as amended. The state legislatures as well as critical stakeholders in the judiciary and legal profession must ensure compliance with the Constitution in this regard by state governors through the courts. Nothing also stops the Attorney-General of the Federation as the Chief Law Officer of the country from seeking authoritative judicial pronouncement on the matter at the apex court. In any case, there is nothing that suggests that granting financial autonomy to the state legislature and judiciary will not only provide the opportunity for the two arms of government to join the executive in frivolous, wasteful and corrupt expenditure of public resources. At the centre, we have seen how the National Assembly has simply seized on its financial autonomy to become a huge drainpipe on scarce national resources. In the final analysis, there is no alternative to the emergence of a public that has zero tolerance for corruption and wastage in governance as well as a reinvigorated civil society that is mobilized and willing to fight for adherence to the highest standards of accountability, transparency and ethical rectitude by public officers. The far reaching decentralization of powers, responsibilities and resources that advocates of restructuring rightly clamor for will result in no more than decentralized despotism if the people are not empowered at this level to hold their governing authorities in check.