The Management of the National Hospital Abuja (NHA), has described an online publication alleging its Chief Medical Director (CMD) of the hospital, Dr. Jaf Momoh, called the bluff of the Board of the hospital and refused to leave office, as distraction and falsehood. It said its relationship with the Board and the Workers’ union was cordial and respectful. The Hospital’s Spokesman, Dr. Adetayo Haastrup, said at Abuja that the CMD was appointed by the Presidency on merit. “The online write up against the hospital, by extension, that the Chief Medical Director is calling the bluff of the Board, is not true. There is no tension in National Hospital. The Union is working amicably with understanding with the Management of the hospital. “It is unfortunate that some journalists will not investigate properly the source of stories, and without balancing their stories, will start putting up junk journalism. “Specifically talking about the appointment of the Chief Medical Director of the hospital, there are Supervising Authorities that such issues can be confirmed from. There is the office of the Honourable Minister of Health, Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), including the Board of the hospital. “In those publications, the sources were not stated. There are Authorities that are responsible for the CMD’s appointment but the peddlers of those unfounded stories did not go to them to find out. They are like a faceless group of people trying to cause confusion and sending negative information about the National Hospital. “Presently, we are focusing on effective service delivery.  National Hospital, apart from giving services to the general public, is also an Isolation Centre and we have discharged more than 50 COVID-19 patients, and more are receiving treatment. “Their story is just trying to divert our attention which is not necessary. People should really find out the fact of their story before putting it online. We should not allow junk journal journalism in our nation and our Society especially at this time. “The relationship between the Board of the National Hospital and the Management is very cordial,” he said.   