The nation, no doubt, has lost its heart and the absence of family values is now responsible for the teeming disconnected youths plying the streets It is not easy living in this country; it’s so hard that you sometimes don’t know which you would rather prefer: to keep on sighing or pack your things together and join those who voluntarily took their exit from this world via an internet site. The internet exit happened some years ago at the instance of some mentally and financially unbalanced wreck who asked equally deluded, cyber-crazy people to join him in cyber travel with their portmanteaux (and money) at a meeting point where he promptly fed them poison after relieving them of their money. He told them he would take care of their luggage. They did travel to space all right, but not the one they had in mind. I think I’ve reported this before too, but never mind; for you, I’ll repeat any story. It is also not easy living in the same country with scientists, worse still, card-carrying ideologue-scientists. Most of them, you will agree with me, are mad. But then, so are most artists. The difference lies mostly in the degree of madness each displays. Whereas your mad artist is often mad to himself because he indulges in things like starvation, self-immolation, self-destruction, self-deception (usually over a girl) and so on while creating eternal truths of beauty; your mad scientist, on the other hand, kills. He timorously (that’s just it, he would never show much emotion over his science) invents and mixes solutions and other stuff that blow up in people’s faces and then says ‘Oops, sorry’. Wanton killings are going on in every part of Nigeria, but the worst part is that nobody quite knows why, perhaps the group of killers has elected to kill for the sake of admiring their own handiwork. This ‘motiveless malice’ (thanks, Mr. Shakespeare) smacks of a purposelessness that can only be explained as being due to ‘sponsorship’, which of course, everyone has guessed at. The problem, however, is not so much that evil reigns; it is that evil finds somewhere from which to reign. Rather lost for something to write on last week, I visited the internet for some inspiration where I came across the story of the wife of a former PM berating stay-at-home-mums (SAHM) for being uninspiring to their children and raising ‘unambitious’ children because children from such homes, according to the former first lady, only look out for some rich fellow to marry. I got the impression that the lady wished to tell such mums to look at her and emulate her, a well-adjusted lawyer and mum who had put the act of juggling home and career down to an art. Well, I thought, as I read the report, there was first the mixing of issues in a not very logical way. It is a known fact that it is not only children of SAHMs who look for rich people (either sex) to marry; anyone from any family type can do that. Secondly, really, not everyone can afford the kind of child care unit filled with attendants the speaker probably had while the family was in office. But, I digress. What I want to bring out from that story is the problem of dissociation that can make someone feel so distant from his land as to seriously commit himself to bombing parts of  it or sponsor someone to bomb it for some personal gain. That disconnect, I believe, is actually hinged on the problem of the Nigerian family no longer being able to define itself. When I was growing up, the family unit was well and admirably defined. It consisted of a father, mother and any number of biological or non-biological children, even if the latter only came in from the streets. They all mixed together as one because there was plenty of love to go round, particularly as the mother was always at hand. Fewer women worked then, perhaps that accounted for why everyone was happy. Not only could the mother be roused from her mid-morning forty winks to bandage a finger or reattach an arm or a leg (I exaggerate, I know), but she gave her family and other neighbourhood children a firm ground to stand, and play, on. She was the heart of the family; her being intact meant that the family was intact. Not working did not really mean that the mother did nothing. Often, she ran a shop situated close to home where she could make a trade and also keep a wary eye on the brood in her charge. Our favourite shop when I was young was run by a non-working mother who would have to be called in the middle of attending to her family to attend to someone in need of a purchase. No one minded that one’s box of matches sometimes had water on it: it was all in the spirit of neighbouliness since everyone’s heart was really in its right place. Her presence at home meant that her children could sleep well and grow well, in that order. It also meant that the children did not have to grow up with anxieties about homework and exams and invigilation schedules at age three. The eighties and nineties saw women shooting out of their houses, like uncaged rabbits, to go foraging around for work. Then, the children were left scratching their heads, wondering where their cook, nurse and general dogsbodies had gone and if things would ever be the same again. Half of them ended up in pre-nursery and nursery and post-nursery where they began early to collect their backpacks of post-modernist angst, anxieties, neuroses and the complimentary psychiatrists who sometimes double as teachers or sect leaders. And, you should see the kind of faith these children have in their leaders. They faithfully learn all they are taught, dutifully become scientists, dutifully do all they are told and willingly become bombers. Many mothers, children or youths have left home in search of self-fulfilment. The job comes first, the social life second and the home a distant third. This is the reality in Nigeria today. So, the result of mothers or children or youths not staying at home is that vacancies now exist in their hearts, often filled by outsiders such as sect leaders or money handlers. This is why many youths swear by their teachers or leaders’ words. Whoever provides the anchor gets their loyalty. In this battle of controlling the heart of many youths today across the country, the family has lost out because the unit can no longer function as it used to. An armed robber was said to have bitten off the ears of his mother while he hung to be shot because he believed that her failure to get a firm hold on him was responsible for his loss of direction. I have no idea whether she was a working mother or not, but she must have been too preoccupied with something or other to pay her son much attention. A children’s rhyme says something to the effect that for want of a shoe, the horse was lost; for want of a horse, the rider was lost; for want of a rider, the war was lost; for want of a war, the nation was lost. Similarly, we can say that for the need of a job, the mother was lost; for want of a mother, the children were lost; for want of the children, the home was lost; for want of homes, the nation was lost. The nation, no doubt, has lost its heart and the absence of family values is now responsible for the teeming disconnected youths plying the streets. They have nothing to anchor their emotions on or to ground their fears in. Really, the nation has to find its heart again.