I was a graduate student in Halifax Canada in 1967 during the heydays of black protest against discrimination and all kinds of injustice in the US and shall I say also in Canada. I was therefore a witness to history and went through the mental torture of suddenly being made to realize there was something wrong in being black. I grew up in post-Independence Nigeria where we felt all things were possible if one worked hard to suddenly found oneself in a society where to be black meant to be ugly and unacceptable which  I found  jarring at my humanity. I was in total sympathy with my black colleagues who wanted to do something about the humiliation black peoples suffered in the hands of white peoples. I was very active in the African Students Union of my university quickly rising to the position of President of the association. I remember having chats with blacks in Halifax and asking them why they were not in the university to which they always retorted that they “ain’t got no business  there” which was a pity because there was a sizable population of blacks there mostly from all over Africa and the West Indies. By the time I left the university after my Ph.D. in 1970, its gates were then opened to black Haligonians. People like Rocky Jones, a black power advocate was already admitted to the law school on basis of “affirmative action” Rocky Jones modelled himself after  young black activists like Rap Brown, Stockley Carmichael, Huey Newton and Eldridge Cleaver, the writer of the fantastic book titled “Soul on Ice” which became a must read by students in those halcyon days. Some us daring black students used to go to Rocky Jones’ house to be harangued by “brothers” and “sisters” coming in from the United States to solicit our support for the black struggle in the United States. Our engagement was not as overt or as violent as those of black students in Montreal who in 1968 stormed and damaged university computer centre in Sir George Williams University which is now part of Concordia University in Montreal Canada. The situation of black students and presumably blacks generally changed for the better after the tumultuous 1960s which witnessed the murder of Martin Luther King junior and Robert Kennedy, the former Attorney General of the United States and brother to President Kennedy the slain United States President  and the most sympathetic politician to the black cause in the United States . There is a tendency to give Martin Luther King  and his non-violent marches all the credit for black advancement in the US  without acknowledging the role of the young black leaders who offered a violent option for black advancement for the whites to choose which  one they were prepared to live with . There is no doubt that there has been some movement in the right direction. There have been many black mayors, congressmen and some senators. Blacks have been appointed to the Supreme Court and a few of them have risen to cabinet positions in both Republican and Democratic presidential administrations. To climax it all, Barack Obama became president from 2008 to 2016.  There has been noticeable improvement in lives of some distinguished and highly qualified people. The question is to what extent has this affected the lives and fortune of black humanity in the USA. The answer is that it has not affected black humanity as a whole. After Obama’s presidency, his successor has done everything possible to rubbish his legacy. In fact no less a person than the former President Jimmy Carter has observed that  white Americans voted for the racist Donald J. Trump as a reaction to their suddenly realizing their country had been run by a Blackman for eight years . It must also be stated that while president Trump got the majority of the votes in the warped system of their Electoral College, he was beaten by Mrs Hilary Clinton by almost four million votes. If America were truly a democracy, Mrs Clinton should have been the president since 2016. Since coming to office as president, Trump who began life as a Democrat has moved with wherever the political wind blows to and has finally found home among the racist crowd in white America amongst those who want him to make “America great again” which is a euphemism for making “America white again”. At a time when America needs moral leadership, they have not found one in the White House. In fact, Trump has made racism acceptable in high circles of political and intellectual leadership in America. He does not find anything wrong in Swastika flag-waving Americans beating up other Americans and driving their vehicles into rival demonstrators thereby killing women and men who are asserting their rights to voice out their democratic opinion. He has been tweeting that when “ looting begins shooting starts” in reaction to demonstrators protesting the murder in public glare of an unarmed George Floyd, a black American already handcuffed but who the police snuffed out his life by slamming him on the ground and kneeling on his neck until he died when he could no longer breathe. The offense of this man was that he allegedly offered a counterfeit $20 bill to purchase something in a grocery shop. This happened in Minneapolis, Minnesota. His death was a signal for the explosion for pent up emotions against the police and those who sent them .This followed in recent times, wanton killing of blacks in the USA. In July 2014, Eric Gardner was choked to death by policemen in New York. In August 2014, Michael Brown was killed in Ferguson Missouri; the same happened in Baltimore Maryland when Freddie Gray was also murdered by police. Other blacks like Philando Castile, Alton Sterling and Delrawn Small followed. Recently, Ahmad Arbery was murdered by off-duty policemen of father and son in Georgia while jogging because they thought he was involved in house-breaking .This litany of blacks being wasted goes back to the period of slavery when blacks could be shot as part of shooting practice. Apparently the American police still think they have a license to kill. Most of those dying in the on-going coronavirus pandemic are blacks who have no health insurance or who have lost their jobs. This is the America where the police has become boogeymen to black peoples who are permanently made to live in fear for their lives, yet when America goes into one of its wars of pacification as global policeman, these poor blacks are the first to be conscripted because serving in military and its wars provide blacks avenue for advancement. Of course when they are demobilized, they are picked up or shot by the police for small infraction of the law. George Floyd was killed for using fake $20 which he may have been given innocently in normal business transactions. Instead of President Trump offering soothing words to the families of those killed by the police, he was boasting and calling on the Pentagon to deploy lethal weapons in the streets of America and also saying he will unleash ferocious and wild dogs on the demonstrators. The saddest part of this story is that he may yet win re-election in November when he runs on the slogan of guaranteeing “Law and Order” coded words for putting the blacks in their place. Thank God the governor of New York State Andrew Cuomo has bravely spoken in favour of the demonstrations while deprecating the violence and looting by people on the lunatic fringe of the demonstrators. There have been solidarity demonstrations in Toronto, Canada and some cities in Europe in spite of the restraining factor of the coronavirus. How I wish our young people in our country and the rest of Africa showed solidarity with suffering black humanity in the USA. When Sir Abubakar Tafawa Balewa made his inaugural speech on October 7, 1960 in the United Nations in New York, one of the things he said was that Nigeria would support the rights of all black people wherever they were in the world. We have now unfortunately arrived at an unenviable place in our nation’s political and economic trajectory where our voice is muffled because we have mismanaged all our opportunities and now where our voice should be heard clearly we are cringing before our international creditors who manipulate the levers that pull strings in the Breton Woods institutions of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund to which we owe money or hope to borrow from. If African countries cannot protest  against the humiliation suffered by our people and protect  them, should we not be able to hide under the African Union and at least express our sorrow  about the plight of our people who continue to be treated as if black lives do not matter?