 Thousand of inhabitants of Amasiri Community in Afikpo North Local Government Area of Ebonyi state have been sacked by flood following hours of heavy rains in the area. The flood, which sacked more than 2,500 residents, also destroyed properties alongside farmlands and livestock. It was gathered that properties belonging to the victims were still trapped inside as resident scampered to safety. An eyewitness and a resident of the community, Mr. Ogbonnaya Mbe, revealed some youths in the community mobilised and assisted victims to ensure the flood did not destroy most of their documents and other valuables. Mbe stated the youths also assisted in scooping water from the houses of the victims while others watched helplessly as the flood continued to surge into the building. It was gathered that apart from the houses, the flooding also destroyed shops and markets in the community. Mbe disclosed that apart from the houses and other building housing churches and religious centers, more farmlands stretching more that 2 kilometers were submerged by flood. He added that most of the displaced persons are now taking refuge with other family members who were not affected. Mbe attributed the flooding to lack of drainage system in the community, the numerous mining activities going on in the place and the hilly nature of the area as the flood runs down from the hills and cause damage to the houses in the area. He said that though no life was lost, the people are going through pains and hardship as their household appliances, lifestocks and farmlands were completely destroyed by the flooding.  He urged the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) and State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) to come to the rescue of the victims. Mbe expressed worries the flooding had become a regular occurrence adding that many residents of the community have abandoned their houses to erect structures at other places and called for a lasting solution to the flooding. When contacted, Coordinator, Amasiri Development Center, Mrs. Ngozi Chika Ezeugo, said that the development centre has taken count of all the properties, households, farmlands and livestock destroyed by the flood and has also written to the State Emergency Management Agency SEMA for assistance to the affacted peesons. She expressed the confidence that the state government would in no distance time profer lasting solution to the problem and urged the people to remain calm. Meanwhile, the Caretaker Chairman of Afikpo North local government area, Amauche Otunta has visited some of the affected villages and farmlands in Amasiri for on spot assessment of the damage caused by the flooding. The flood which wrecked havocs on residential buildings and other property is said to be one of the worst in recent times. The flood victims appreciated the Council Boss for her magnanimity. Pics 1&2: A woman wades through the flood to reach her house in Amasiri, Afikpo north local government area. Pic 3: The flood running through houses Pics 4 to 8: Council Chairman of Afikpo North LGA, Amauche Otunta distributing relief materials to residents of Amasiri Community affected by the flood. Pics 9 to 14: Farmlands destroyed by the flood.