   The Nigeria government on Monday summoned the Chargè d’ Affaires of the High Commission of Ghana to Nigeria, Ms Iva Denoo, over the demolition of Nigerian Embassy quarters in Accra. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, disclosed this on his twitter account. Onyeama stated that Ghana has been asked to provide urgent explanation on the attack. He tweeted: “Summoned the Chargè d’ Affaires of the High Commission of #Ghana to Nigeria, Ms Iva Denoo to demand urgent explanation on the recent attacks on a residential building in our diplomatic premises and reinforcement of security around diplomatic premises and staff.” The Federal Government Government at the weekend condemned in strong terms the demolition of the Nigerian High Commissioner Residence in Accra, Ghana. The action, the government, said is in clear violation of the extant provisions of the 1963 Vienna Convention on inviolability of diplomatic premises. Some armed men had invaded the Nigerian High Commission in Accra, Ghana, on Friday, destroying some apartments under construction. The affected buildings were reportedly being constructed to house staff and visitors. A Ghanaian businessman had accused the Commission of encroaching on his land. He was said to have visited the place last week, presenting evidence he is the real owner of the land. However, he reportedly returned to the site on Friday in the company of armed men who supervised the demolition. Officials of the commission reportedly contacted the police but efforts were not made to prevent the demolition. Reacting on the issue, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Geoffrey Onyeama condemned the act. Onyeama in a tweet however said the country was already engaging the Ghanaian government on the issue. The Minister stated: “We strongly condemn two outrageous criminal attacks in Accra, Ghana, on a residential building in our diplomatic premises by unknown persons in which a bulldozer was used to demolish the building. “We are engaging the Ghanaian Government and demand urgent action to find the perpetrators and provide adequate protection for Nigerians and their property in Ghana.” In an official statement, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs described the action as violation of the 1963 Vienna convention of diplomatic premises. The statement signed by Mr. Ferdinand Nwonye, Spokesperson Ministry of Foreign Affairs also noted that an official protest has been lodged with the Ghananian government. The statement reads: “The attention of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has be drawn, by the Nigeria High Commission, Accra, Ghana, to the fact that some unidentified persons purportedly on the instruction of the Ghana Urban Development Agency, willfully carried out the demolition of a building belonging to the Nigeria High Commission and located within the premises of the High Commissioner’s Residence in Accra, without prior notification nor approval by the Nigerian High Commission. “This action is in clear violation of the extant provisions of the 1963 Vienna Convention on inviolability of diplomatic premises. “Accordingly, the Nigeria High Commission has submitted a strongly worded letter of protest to the host Foreign Ministry, unequivocally registering the displeasure of the Nigerian Government and calling on the competent Ghanaian authorities to take urgent steps to apprehend the perpetrators and provide appropriate security for the High Commission’s premises and staff. “The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is engaging robustly with the Ghanaian Government with a view to seeking immediate redress.”