 It is curious that office space caused a conflict between the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) and the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM), involving Minister of Communications and Digital Economy Isa Pantami and NIDCOM chairman Abike Dabiri-Erewa. Dabiri-Erewa alleged that, on Pantami’s orders, NIDCOM’s workers were evicted from their office at NCC’s complex located at Mbora District, Abuja, which NCC gave the agency. “Within two days, he drove us with guns,” Dabiri-Erewa said on an NTA Network programme, The Diaspora. “When I went to the office, there were guns, armed men had taken over the place; I thought it was a joke.” Office equipment, workstations and files belonging to staff of NIDCOM remained locked up at NCC’s building, about four months after the forced eviction, she said. According to NIDCOM, the drama began with a notice of eviction via a text message on February 9, which gave a one-week ultimatum. Two days later, NIDCOM’s workers were prevented from using their fifth-floor office.  “That place is still there, a whole floor is still vacant,” said Dabiri-Erewa. Pantami responded that he “never sent any gunmen since the building is not directly under him, but NCC.” But the minister’s response is strange because NCC is supposed to be under him.  A statement by NCC’s Director of Public Affairs, Dr Henry Nkemadu, didn’t help matters. He said Pantami “was never involved in the offer of the office space, nor in the withdrawal of the offer for same office space.  The minister should not, therefore, be brought into the issue.” According to him, “the withdrawal of the offer of the office space, which was unconditionally given, in the first instance, to NIDCOM, was informed by exigencies and change in priorities within the NCC, which led to the taking back of the office space earlier allocated with intention of finding a suitable replacement for NIDCOM.” It is not clear what caused NCC to review the initial arrangement. However, if there were good reasons for taking back the office space, this could have been done smoothly, and without controversy. But what about Dabiri-Erewa’s claim that the office space in question is still vacant? What are the facts, and what are the falsities, in this matter? The mess exposes a lack of integration and cooperation in the Federal Government under President Muhammadu Buhari. Indeed, it suggests that the organisations involved are working at cross purposes. This clash does not reflect an understanding of the idea of government as collective effort. Curiously, NIDCOM is without office space where it can operate from without harassment, more than a year after the Senate confirmed Dabiri-Erewa’s appointment as its Chairman/CEO.  The agency’s eviction from the office space at NCC’s complex means that it is currently without an official base. This is counterproductive. The eviction of NIDCOM’s workers trivialises the agency’s role in “ensuring the engagement of the Nigerians in the Diaspora in the policies, projects, and participation in the development of Nigeria.”  How can the agency work effectively without office space, and work-related items and materials locked up? ”I have complained officially but we let it be. He wants the place; let him take it…So after COVID-19, we are hoping that we can get a space and move in,” Dabiri-Erewa said, highlighting the agency’s lack of base. It is bad that this happened; it shouldn’t have. Dabiri-Erewa’s complaint means that the Presidency should be aware of the clash. Apart from intervening to resolve the problem, the Federal Government should ensure that NIDCOM has office space that it cannot be evicted from. In the final analysis, the Federal Government should work with cohesion. This would not have happened in a cohesive government.