In compliance with the Federal Government easing of the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of COVID-19, Kano State Government has released guidelines and established protocols on how to manage access to markets, places of worship and locations of economic activity to limit the risk of transmission. Commissioner for Information, Malam Muhammad Garba, said in a statement that after due consultations with key public health professionals and critical review of the situation in Kano, markets, places of worship and movement of persons are now allowed on Sundays, Wednesdays and Fridays from 6:00am to 6:00pm. He said Governor Umar Ganduje has summoned an emergency meeting with various leaders on how to ensure strict observance of safety and prevention protocols in markets, places of worship and business places. The statement further emphasised that it is necessary for such places to ensure compliance with safety rules that include mandatory use of face masks; provision of hand washing facilities/sanitisers; and extensive temperature checks in those places. The commissioner pointed out that while these restrictions have been lifted, interstate movements except for goods, agricultural produce and essential services is still in force. He said as schools will remain closed, the statement urges students to avail themselves the opportunity of radio and televised lessons being sponsored by the state government. The commissioner further explained that Governor Ganduje attributed the success being recorded in terms of reduced number of infectious to measures being taken by the government and health authorities and more importantly to fervent prayers by the ulama and the people in the people in the state. And calls for more of such prayers until the disease is completely wipe out. Garba also commended the people in the state for their patience and understanding in the face of the restriction order. Also, the immediate-past chairman of Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Kano branch, Bishop Ransom Bello,who spoke to The Nation, said the decision by Ganduje to allow Muslims and Christians to worship on Fridays and Sundays was a welcome development. According to him: “About a week ago, the Governor of Kano state, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje called us; and he said he was going to ease the lockdown so that we can be having our services on Sunday, and also Muslims will be going to Mosques on Friday to pray because he has the belief that one of the major solutions to this COVID-19 pandemic is prayer. I do also believe that prayer can work. “So, that is why we are here in the church praying and appealing to God to intervene. As you can see for yourself, we have been absolutely complying with the COVID-19 protocols. “The setting of the congregation complies with physical distancing. Worshippers are wearing their face masks. Out there, we have water, soap and sanitizers for all Worshippers and visitors. We are complying with all these protocols because I personally believe that prevention is better than cure. “I agree that Fridays and Sundays should be free for Muslims and Christians to worship their God. What we need to do as a people is to help ourselves. Government has been doing a lot. We need to strictly comply with the COVID-19 protocols for our good health and that of the members of our families. “Here in the church, we teach the congregation, we preach to the congregation, we appeal and advise the congregation to comply with the COVID-19 protocols.”