The Chairman of the pro-Godwin Obaseki camp in the Edo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Anselm Ojezua, has called for calm among members of the governing party and supporters of the Edo governor, following his “unjust” disqualification. He claimed that Obaseki had performed creditably and would be re-elected for a second term on September 19 and inaugurated on November 12. Ojezua, who spoke to reporters in Benin after the announcement in Abuja of the Edo governor’s disqualification by members of APC’s screening committee, stated that the result did not come as a surprise, stressing that Obaseki had alluded to the fact that he would not get justice from the exercise. He pleaded with the supporters of APC in Edo State to remain calm, noting that the leadership of the party would meet on June 13 (today) to properly respond to the report of the committee that screened candidates for the June 22 governorship primary election. The factional chairman said: “I want to plead with leaders and members of APC in Edo State to remain calm. The validity of the screening committee has not been established. “A proper response to the report is yet to come, as the leadership of the party in the state will meet tomorrow (today) and at the end of the meeting, give an appropriate response.” Reacting to Edo governor’s chances of re-election, following his decision not to appeal the screening result, the pro-Obaseki chairman of APC in Edo said: “They did not say he would not contest the election, but that he would not contest on the platform of the APC. “By tomorrow (today), we will meet and be in a position to make a proper statement on what the future holds for the party (APC) in Edo State.” A frontline governorship aspirant of APC in Edo State, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, on Friday evening lauded members of the screening committee for a thorough job, stating that it was time to bond together and close ranks. Ize-Iyamu, through the Director of Communication and Media of his campaign organisation, Prince John Mayaki, noted that working as a united family, APC’s eventual governorship candidate would emerge victorious on September 19 and take over from Obaseki on November 12. He said: “I wish to send my deepest gratitude to all the members of our great party, the APC, for a joyful cooperation that led to a seamless but thorough screening exercise. “The progress made today (yesterday) by completing the exercise reveals the true spirit and character of our party, premised on a bold insistence on fairness, accountability, and transparency. “On my own part, having passed the screening tests, I want to state my consistent readiness to take the will of the party as the ultimate, regarding its laws and principles as the supreme guide for the execution of our affairs and assignments. “I urge all the members of our party, whose indefatigable commitment, loyalty and cooperation have led to the success we experienced in recent times, to remain focused and committed to our general ambition as a party, and in the same vein pursuant of our personal political dreams, in the light of our progressive philosophy. “As we prepare for the primary election and the main poll itself, it is time we bind together and close ranks, remembering that the greatest goal is the progress of Edo State, the moving forward of our great homeland and the betterment of life for all of its people.” It was speculated yesterday evening in Benin that Obaseki would defect to the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), but his media aides could not be reached for confirmation at press time.