Candidates applying for teaching jobs in various public schools in Oyo State are to take the mandatory Computer Based Test (CBT) from Tuesday 11th. The examination is scheduled to run Tuesday through Saturday from 7am till 6pm. The government on Thursday announced the readiness of the State’s Teaching Service Commission (TESCOM) to conduct the examination, warning that those who were unable to upload their credentials on TESCOM’s portal before Tuesday should not bother to write the test. The Chairman, Oyo TESCOM, Mr. Akinade Alamu made the disclosures while responding to questions during a programme on an Ibadan based radio station. He assures that the results of the examination will be communicated to the applicants through their registered email addresses and through SMS. Alamu said “The examination will be starting on Tuesday, 11th August, 2020 and will run through the week till Saturday, they will be starting daily from 7am till 6pm and the results will be communicated to the applicants through the email they put in their registration and through SMS. “No applicant’s complaints will be attended to at the CBT centers, if anybody have complaints, let them come to the TESCOM office; we wish them the best in the examination.” Alamu hailed the State administration’s resolve to conduct computer-based examination for all candidates applying for teaching appointment in the State, as according to him, the move has portrayed the government as being open in all its governance processes. Reacting to the issue of private school owners demanding a quarter of school fees for periods students were at home due to Covid-19 pandemic, the TESCOM Chairman said the private schools ought to have consulted with parents and other stakeholders before deciding on such. He enjoined the private school owners concerned to see the effects of COVID-19 as that which affected them and parents as well, urging them to desist from charging the students without appreciating the consequence of the current situation on the financial strength of individual home.