Here is the concluding part of the interview with Richie Adewusi, former publicist of the late reggae musician, Majek Fashek, published last Saturday. The relationship of the duo lasted for six years until they parted ways in January 1993. Excerpts: What are your other memories of him? I remember Majek would always appear on stage with his bell and the handcuffs. Once, there was an incident with the guy that was supposed to offer him security and unlock the handcuffs. It became a real problem when we had to look for the key. After that incident, I took over handling of the key. Thus I was always with him whenever he went on stage and backstage. You said Majek dabbled in the occult, when did you first notice this? Majek had been playing big concerts and earning big money, and I was giving him the money – most of which were in cash – but I didn’t know what he was doing with the money. I told him he needed to buy a new car because he was using a Peugeot 504 and he said they would kill him. Coming to this issue of occult or no occult, Majek lived a life of fear, fear of his family, and fear of constant war over him between his mother and his wife, and he was very scared. He refused to buy a new car. He travelled to US to sign the deal with Interscope Records in 1992, and I told him not to go to there and stay because if he did, there were three gods in the entertainment industry that might ruin him. I told him the gods were homosexuality, occultism and drugs. I told him never to stay in that country and warned him that, ‘Once one of the three gods gets you, you are hooked.’ I explained to him that Fela, Sunny Ade and others never lived in the US or UK, because the system was organised to stunt his growth. I told him they would never allow him rise above the genre of music they were projecting. Unfortunately for Majek, they saw him as the new Bob Marley. He came back and we did a few concerts and at a point, I told him that he needed to move because neighbours had started complaining about him. He needed to live in a large compound, so, I started looking for accommodation for him. At that period, he had to travel for a show and before he came back, I found a place in Olowoira around Berger axis. The place was owned by Chief Femi Ojo. Chief Femi Ojo was an auctioneer and he loved Majek so much. When I went to take Majek from the airport, he came out greeting me with some hand sign, and I asked him what it meant. He was showing me the mark of satan and wearing the Christian cross upside down around his neck, which was satanic. I asked him what was wrong with him while taking him to see his new place. At the new residence, some of the band-boys he travelled with, said, ‘Yeah, Majek, we can start here,’ and I wondered what they wanted to start there. Majek had gone to visit the church of satan and that was his real turning point. Anyone saying he joined an occult to become famous or before releasing the Prisoner of Conscience, deals in blatant lies. Majek used to drive his band-boys away for coming in with cigarette, let alone Indian hemp, but after his visit to the US, he smoked in bid to show that he was tough. Chief Ojo had agreed to sell the property to him at N300,000 but after I discovered their excitement about starting the church of satan, I vowed to scuttle the sale. That was between September and October 1992, and he was billed to return to the US on November 3 to sign the Interscope record deal.  His scheduled trip coincided with the date of my traditional wedding in Ekiti but I had to ensure that he embarked on the trip. I had to make sure he got to the airport and was checked in. My wedding was in Ekiti but I was with Majek in Lagos till past six pm. I didn’t get to my own traditional wedding until few minutes to 10pm. After the wedding, we had two shows and Majek returned. Two defining events occurred at that period: Shell Petroleum contracted Majek to perform at its end of the year party in Warri, and I confronted him over his refusal to buy a car. I asked him what he was doing with his money and he said that he was building a house for his mum. On our way to Warri, a day before the show, we stopped over and I saw him coming out with his mother and the keyboardist told me that the house his mother emerged from was her family house, and not built by Majek. I was quite upset. I decided to find out what he did with his money and take what was signed as my due percentage. So, for the Shell show in Port Harcourt, I requested that all payment be made in the name of my company, and they agreed to pay us 60 percent upfront and the remaining 40% as bankdraft, which they said we could collect on arrival. Before the show, I showed him the 60 per cent advance, and explained to him the terms of payment but he insisted that he couldn’t play a show without receiving the full money. Shell had arrived to fly us to Port Harcourt while the band was billed to travel by a luxury bus but Majek insisted he wouldn’t perform without collecting the bank draft. Eventually, he missed the flight although I travelled to Port Harcourt earlier, on a commercial flight. I became worried when the technical group arrived to set up instruments for the stage in Majek’s absence. He didn’t arrive until midnight and the band arrived Port Harcourt around 4am in a hummer bus (E20). I asked what happened and he said that he told them to cancel the luxurious bus and collected the money back. Meanwhile, the whole booking for that day was wasted and they were not happy about it. So he kept asking for money and I told him that the bankdraft was with me. I showed it to him but he kept asking for physical cash thus I became more determined to collect my dues. He kept complaining and I became very upset. Majek performed at the show, ending with Send Down the Rain. He left the stage, entered the car, and went straight to the hotel. For the return trip to Lagos, we all had to travel in the bus by road and I did not say a word to him but he kept making jokes. Normally, when we travelled, he drove me to my house or I parked in front of his house and drive home after the trip but for this trip, I didn’t allow him drive me home. It was Christmas, and I told him that I would drop the bank draft at the bank, and it would be accessible in three days. But the next day, he appeared, and I repeated the same thing to him. Having just gotten married, I travelled with my wife to the East to visit my mum. But we returned to Lagos in January to meet my apartment door ajar. I noticed things weren’t where they were supposed to be. I met with my landlord and asked what happened and he said that it was Majek who came with some boys, claiming I had his money. I told my landlord what happened and he said, in that case, I should arrest him but I declined. I was still trying to calm my wife when Majek eventually showed up; he said it was the band boys that broke down my door but I refused to arrest him. I told Majek that if we go to the bank and we see the manager, and he confirmed that the money was in my account, we were done with each other. At the bank, the manager showed Majek that the money was there thus affirming my claims. I left him with the manager, and went to the counter to withdraw the whole sum for the 40 percent and drove home. I took away my 25 percent and gave the balance to my landlord to give to Majek. I also left an instruction with my landlord, that, before he gives Majek the money, he must return my international passport. My passport was with him for our proposed trip to the US. Looking back now, I’m sorry I acted that way, but back then, I didn’t find his actions funny. So, it wasn’t a single thing but that was what led to me to part ways with him. After leaving Majek in January 1993, did you sever ties with him completely? Did he try to reach you afterward? After I left Majek, I had three other encounters with him before his death. On each of the encounters, he was visibly deteriorating, and I was always getting calls from people, asking me what we could do to save him or that I shouldn’t allow him go like that. The first person to reach me was Stella Monye. Monye reached me in November 1999 on my way out of the country as a member of a UNFPA research team. She came to me and said, ‘Richie you need to do something.’ She insisted that I speak to him, lamenting all that he was doing, like unzipping his fly on stage, grabbing women’s buttocks and all that. I agreed and Monye sent his address at Maryland estate to me. I drove to his house even though my flight was around 11pm. I almost missed my flight while on the visit. I had to get someone to get my luggage and get on queue, for checking in, when I left Majek’s. Majek narrated what had transpired after we parted ways in January 1993. Of course, by that time, he had started doing drugs and his own narrative about drug was that his American liaisons planted someone on him that was feeding him drugs. But I warned him earlier hence it was also his fault anyway. Two things happened: Majek did not respect his contract with Interscope because he was supposed to do a world tour with Tracy Chapman as an opening act but he went back to Interscope at the pressure of his band boys, who wanted to get a share of the contract, and I warned him not to because Interscope signed you as a solo artiste and not as a band of Prisoner of Conscience, and the band got disbanded. He had always wanted to play at Montego Bay in Jamaica, so, instead of going on world tour with Tracy Chapman, he went to play at Montego Bay and secretly signed a recording contract with Tuff Gong, Bob Marley’s record label, which conflicted with his contract with Interscope. The next time we met was shortly around my 50th birthday in Ogba, in 2009. My younger brother had seen him in the company of Black Rice, one of the members of the Jastix in Olowoira, Berger, and he told me that I needed to talk to him. The late Ogbonna Amadi located the address somewhere behind Excellence Hotel and I went to see him. I met him at the bar. He was still good spirited and he kept blabbing. I was in tears when I saw what he had become. I told him, ‘This is between you and God. You are the only one that can get yourself out of this, and I believe you can do it.” He played some of his new songs and kept insisting I should talk to people to get him to sell the songs but I told him I was more concerned about his well being, and I promised to see him. But I travelled out of the country and by the time I came back, he had travelled. My third and last encounter with him was at the insistence of late Ogbonna Amadi, who said I needed to do something for him. Amadi got the number of Hadjia somebody and I spoke to Majek. I arranged for him to be brought to Ado Ekiti for my wife’s 50th birthday, and a lot of our friends came but Majek came very late after the party had ended. He stayed with me for one week. Are you still in touch with Majek’s family and plans for his burial? Well, I will start from your last question, which is, I just wish and seriously, I just wish they get themselves together and not embarrass Majek, even in death. I do not like what has happened or what is going on, and I do not want any sensationalism but I am really afraid about how some of these things are being handled. Yes, I am in touch with the family. When I heard of Majek’s death, of course, I was devastated because what bound us was heavy. When I received news of his demise, I was devastated because when Kimono died last year, nobody expected it. I decided to write this new book to just profile these people because I have been silent about these people. When the incident happened, Femi Akintunde Johnson wanted me to talk about it but I declined and I said when I am ready, I will tell my story and now that he’s dead, he can’t respond to the things I will be writing but of course most of these things, people know. Majek said most of these things but people never listened. In an interview with Charly Boy on Zoom Time, Majek said, ‘Charly, you know I would not lie, I did some spiritual things but I didn’t obey the rules and that was the key to everything.’ Majek went into spirituality and occultism at that height of the church of satan but Majek was wired not to obey rules. You have a group that is bound by strict adherence to rules and you now have someone who doesn’t obey rules joining such a group. So, the people saying he read seven books of Moses or something have little or no idea of what Majek went through. What happened to him was beyond their wildest comprehension, and his challenge was that he wasn’t disciplined enough to follow the rules, to follow the contract with the record label and that was his biggest flaw and major issue.