Electronic or e-commerce platform, Konga has rolled out a nationwide discount offering various Samsung Consumer Electronics products, including television sets, washing machines and refrigerators; with shoppers also enjoying the opportunity of grabbing a free 32-inch TV when they purchase a Samsung TV. Equally important, the promotion, exclusive to Konga, has seen a surge from interested shoppers, many of whom are eager to grab the mouth-watering offers. Tagged Konga Direct From Samsung, the offer is available at http://bit.ly/directfromsamsung Specifically, the exclusive deal is borne out of the need to offer loyal customers of the foremost composite e-Commerce brand a chance to shop genuine Samsung Electronics products at heavily discounted prices unmatched in the marketplace. In addition, Konga has committed to swift delivery of the items, with many customers enjoying same-day delivery of their orders. Equally important, Konga has elevated the promotion with the ‘Buy 1 Samsung TV & get 1 free’ offer. Specifically, the offer enables shoppers to claim a free 32-inch Samsung TV along with purchases of specific units of Samsung TVs, such as the 49-inch Smart LED; as well as the 55-inch, 65-inch and 75-inch QLED Ultra-HD Flat Smart 4k TV sets – an incentive that has seen bargain-hungry shoppers scrambling to get their hands on the products on offer.\ Head of Marketing at Konga, Ajibola Olayiwola, said the offer is extremely limited, noting that smart shoppers have begun taking advantage of it. ‘‘The Konga Direct from Samsung offer is another special deal exclusive to Konga and targeted at rewarding our loyal customers. On offer are Samsung Consumer Electronics products which we are giving away at mouth-watering discounts. These include washing machines, refrigerators and TV sets direct from Samsung. ‘‘Already, we have seen an uptick in orders from interested shoppers. Some shoppers have even placed bulk orders. Furthermore, orders are being treated on first-come, first-served basis as this offer is only valid while stock lasts. It is, therefore, expected that more persons will rush to take advantage in the coming days,’’ he said. Konga has also rolled out a special offer on Samsung mobile phones. As is the case with the Samsung Consumer Electronics products, the offer on the Samsung mobile phones is exclusive to Konga and available on a first-come, first-served basis, with highly limited units going away at specially discounted prices. 