IN the upscale area of Lekki, Lagos, comes a new delightful mix of recreational, retail and residential edifice. This affordable premium lifestyle experience on Freedom Road, sits a luxury eight-floor edifice on a 10,000 square meter. It is a full blend mixed development, with  serviced apartments, retail, grocery, departmental stores, entertainment, hotel and co-working space. But the Chief Executive Officer (CEO)/co-Founder Purple, Olayide Agboola, said this wouldn’t have been possible without support from local investors who believed their dream. He said his organisation embarked on the Lekki Mall project after their success story with Maryland Purple Mall. He said: ‘’The successes of Maryland Mall showcase that domestic investment fuelled by the indefatigable spirit of Nigerian entrepreneurs is key to driving national economic growth. We are proud to be supporting the retail and entertainment industry and creating lifestyle experiences for Lagosians on that axis.’’ He said the shopping hotspot is the leading neighbourhood retail and entertainment centre in Lagos and plays host to a mix of local and international brands, including Shoprite, Genesis Deluxe Cinemas, Stanbic IBTC Bank, and Uber. Others are Workstation, Medplus, Miniso, PEP Store amongst retail, hospitality and entertainment brands. He said though the mixed development would be delivered in the first quarter of next year, it has already achieved 65 per cent occupancy with the price for a space from N35million. On the financing, he said it is self-financing, and equity with domestic financial institutions. He urged the public to be part of history as, according to him, it is a good place to live and work. Agboola said they embarked on the Lekki project after the success of their Maryland Mall, a redevelopment of the Maryland Business Plaza sitting on a 7,700-square meter piece of land, located on the ever-busy Ikorodu Road, Lagos. He said the construction of the iconic mall began in September 2014 and was open two years later. He said: “The mall contains  three floors with a mezzanine, about 50 stores and hoists on its external façade the largest outdoor screen in sub Saharan Africa spanning 550 square meters, a unique feature that sets it apart from any other retail centres in Nigeria.” He expressed pride on the achievements of the mixed-use centre till date and the discipline, focus and resilience of the partners, occupants and everyday customers at the centre, appreciating the value created over the years. ‘’We are leveraging the success of this flagship project to grow our footprints in retail, entertainment and lifestyle by delivering similar assets,’’ he said. He said since it opened to customers in 2016, the Maryland Mall has welcomed over six million visitors boasting about 97 per cent occupancy from top domestic and international retailers. The mall contains three floors with a mezzanine, about 50 stores and hoists on its external façade the largest outdoor screen in sub-Saharan Africa spanning 550 square meters, a unique feature that sets it apart from any other retail centres in Nigeria,” he added. On the uniqueness of the residential segment of the Purple Lekki, he said the premium and standard units are conceived with the modern professional in mind, available in one bedroom, two bedroom, three bedrooms and studio room variants. He said they are furnished to fit the peculiarities and taste of the upper middle market and provides a peaceful, cozy space for occupiers and visitors.  Furthermore, he said the apartments feature key value-adding items like 24-hour security, shared communal area, laundry, open plan kitchens, pool bar, gym, play areas, facility management and backup power. He said: “Just like Purple Maryland, Purple Lekki is more than just a fancy multi-use building. It will also serve as a neighbourhood hub, aggregating visitors from the Lekki axis and beyond. We have included indoor and outdoor advertising opportunities which allows brand communicate with their audience.’’