 Honourable Osaro Obazee is a fine refined politician whose entrance into Edo politics has injected hope  and excitement in the common man on the streets. He has steadily established himself as a staunch member of the All Progressives Congress, APC, and former governorship aspirant who has made indelible footprints in the social and economic development of Edo state. Osaro Obazee was one of the three aspirants cleared by the APC Screening Committee to participate in the party’s primary but later announced  his decision to step down in  the race. He then went on to endorse the candidacy of Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu for the September 19 2020, election. A man known for keeping to any promise made pledged his support, alongside that of his followers, to the former Secretary to the State Government who is widely predicted to emerge the next governor of Edo State The Former Oredo Local Government Area chairman has a firm root base in the politics of Edo State with his diehard supporters who believe Obazee remains a faithful, steadfast and committed party man who will put in anything for the cause of the party. He is reputed to be a dogged political team player who was the candidate of the APC for Oredo East House of Assembly in the March 9 2019 election.  As the September 19 governorship election draws near, observers have watched Obazee seize the opportunity, to drum up support for Pastor Ize Iyamu because he is optimistic that there would be a lot of human capital and infrastructural development across the state under his APC administration if voted into office. With his moral and financial contribution in the campaign for the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) which he has taken to the doorsteps of the electorate, it is obvious that the twelve wards in Oredo local government area will be delivered to the APC. There is no doubt that a vote for the ruling party will guarantee a new lease of life for the people of Edo state who are desiring a change from a non performing government in the last three years and eight months. Obazee in his characteristic manner of grassroots politicking has continued to appeal and spread the message  to the masses to collectively vote for the APC so that they will enjoy the dividends of democracy. The clarion call now as the ballot day approaches, is for all to join Obazee in his campaign for a change of baton in Edo State on September 19, 2020. 