There was low turnout of worshippers in Ekiti on Sunday following the reopening of churches for the first time in about five months over closure due to COVID-19 pandemic. The low turnout may be as a result of the government’s directives debarring people below ages 12 and those above 65 from attendance. The Nation correspondent, who visited several churches in Ado-Ekiti and Ikere-Ekiti, observed worshippers complied with the COVID-19 safety protocols. Some churches had inscriptions on the entrance door welcoming worshippers and stating the need to comply with the protocols. Ushers were seen at the entrance using an inferred thermometer to check temperature of worshippers before access to premises of the churches. Worshippers without facemask were denied entry and turned back while those with facemask were allowed to wash their hands with liquid soap and apply sanitizer on their hands before entering. Worshippers below 12 and those above 65 were sent back. Some of the churches visited include: Emmanuel Cathedral, Okesa, Ado-Ekiti; Christ Apostolic Church (Chapel of Glory) Basiri Ado-Ekiti; Redeemed Christian Church of God, Province 7, Ado-Ekiti and GOFAMINT, Ikere District. Two people were allowed to seat on a long wooden chair. The priests on the altar also maintained social distancing. Similarly, the protocols were followed by the Redeemed Christian Church of God, (RCCG) Province 7, Ado-Ekiti. A small registration sheet indicating name, age, address, sex, and telephone number were handed out to be returned to the protocol officers. At Gospel Faith Mission International (GOFAMINT), Ikere District, there was compliance with the protocols. The 600-capacity church had only 120 worshippers for the single service held in compliance with COVID-19 protocols. The District Pastor of the Gospel Faith Mission International (GOFAMINT), Ikere District, Pastor Olumide Akinrotohun, called on worshippers to put their trust in God and never relent in prayers until COVID-19 becomes a thing of the past.    