The Oyo Command of the Nigeria Police Force on Sunday announced the prime suspect arrested for series of killings in Akinyele area of the state has escaped from its custody. The suspect, Sunday Shodipe, 19, was arrested and paraded alongside two others at the Commands Headquarters, Eleyele Ibadan on July 17 and charged to court. He was later remanded in police custody where he was said to have escaped on August 11. Confirming the development in a statement on behalf of the Commissioner of Police Joe Enwonwu, the Commands Public Relations Officer, Olugbenga Fadeyi, urged members of the public to be on the lookout for the suspect and contact men and officers of the Command for useful information that can lead to his re-arrest. He urged youths and mobs who get angry upon the arrest of suspected criminals to desist from unleashing jungle justice but hand over such to the police. The statement reads in part: “The Commissioner of Police, Oyo State Command, CP. Joe Nwachukwu Enwonwu, psc wishes to state that, the prime suspect in the serial killings at Akinyele Local Government Area, Moniya Ibadan of Oyo State, one Sunday Shodipe, ‘m’, 19 years who was arrested and paraded along with two others at the Oyo State Police Command on 17th July, 2020 and later charged to court but remanded in Police custody escaped from lawful custody on 11/08/2020. “Consequent upon this, the CP wishes to implore the general public to be on the lookout, arrest and immediately inform the Officers and men of the Command when sighted for immediate handing over for further action. “He further seizes this opportunity to appeal to any member of the public with credible information as to the whereabouts of the assailant not to hesitate in passing same to the Oyo State Police Command to assist in the apprehension of the offender who is now at large. “The CP wishes to unequivocally state that, the Command is committed to the protection of lives and properties of the good people of Oyo State. “He therefore assures that adequate security measures have been emplaced to enable all and sundry transact their lawful businesses in an atmosphere of peace and tranquillity, move from one place to another without any fear or molestation from any individual or groups as he sternly warns criminal elements to steer clear of Oyo State. “He further advises angry youths/mobs from taking laws into their hands by carrying out jungle justice when suspected criminals are arrested, but such suspect(s) should be handed over to the Police.” The latest killing in the area was of a middle-aged Olufunmilayo, who was hacked to death in her house around Ori-oke Olorunkole, Akinyele. No fewer than six persons, including women and children, have been reportedly killed in the area.