What is Agboola Ajayi, deputy governor of Ondo State, up to as the Sunshine State prepares for the governorship poll? The embattled politician has traversed three political parties in less than three months. Nobody is pursuing him. He is pursuing a motive, in exercise of his fundamental human rright.Another motivation may be the continuous adulation of praise singers who may have tied their livelihood to the prospect of his aspiration. Ajayi’s supporters have defended his action, particularly as he runs from pillar to post. After all, he is not an ideologue, like most politicians who do not subscribe to any idea or belief, except the desperate ambition to rule. The deputy governor dumped the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) for Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on June 21. Progressing into a curious defence mechanism, he said he left the ruling party to protest political emasculation by Governor Rotimi Akeredolu (SAN). He had defected to the APC from the PDP four years ago. When he retraced his steps, he spent 48 days in PDP. But, he could adduce the same reason for leaving PDP. Now, he is a chieftain of the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP). He may not bother about what the party stands for. His main plan is to use the platform for his governorship ambition. If ZLP does not give him the ticket, he will definitely move to another party. His role models in this type of voyage are many. While some eventually realised their ambitions through that pattern of tedious labours, others have sad tales to tell. The implication of Ajayi’s permutation is that the contest for the Alagbaka House is a three-horse race. No fewer than 15 political parties are in the race. But, eyes will now be on Akeredolu(APC), Eyitayo Jegede(PDP) and Ajayi(ZLP). Majority of mushroom parties are pretenders. They held their primaries inside the sitting rooms of their chairmen. On poll day, their candidates would be like spectators. Ahead of the poll, they will be scrambling to endorse either Akeredolu or Jegede. Ajayi cannot the main issue in the election. Nevertheless, he has so much at stake; his ego which has been deflated, the ambition which he has pursued with obvious despair, the public perception of a blind ambition, his vast political investments that may not yield returns, his current position that is being threatened by impeachment, his fanatical followership that is shrinking, and his political future which may likely be determined by his fortune or misfortune at the October 10 election. Many have flayed the deputy governor for impatience. It is because he was perceived as a natural successor to Governor Rotimi (SAN) before the parting of ways. The heir apparent disappointed the king by not bidding his time. Thus, he is being decried for a shortfall in political wisdom and foresight. Why has Ajayi failed to learn from history? Was there nothing to learn from his distant predecessor, Chief Akin Omoboriowo? Some APC chieftains also ask: Why not wait till 2024 when power will shift to Ondo South Senatorial District? It appears these critics however, lack an understanding of politics, the motivation for power, the capacity of a politician to calculate and sometimes, miscalculate, and with justification. They juxtapose politics with morality, oblivious of the fact that the two concepts exist in clear-cut antithetical relationship. Since power is not serve a la carte, politicians cannot but embark on a risky journey. According to Appadorai, the game involves stiff competition and political antagonism. Ajayi’s supporters see him as a popular and courageous actor. To them, he is, politically, an achiever, although some critics may also disagree with the parameters. He has been a council chairman. Like his former mentor, Olusola Oke(SAN), he was a member of the House of Representatives. In 2016, he became the beneficiary of the deputy governorship zoning to his native Ondo South. Until recently, Ajayi was not a spare tyre in the Akeredolu administration. He wielded enormous authority as de facto governor. He understood the grammar of politics. He is also an aggressive grassroots operator. He was a powerful and influential deputy; an apple of Akeredolu’s eyes. The mismanagement of opportunities often lands promising politicians in trouble. Power and money may draw a wool across the eyes of pompous gladiators. In their bravado, they fail to pull the break. When they are in power, they hardly think about the transcience of their temporal lordship. They jettison the ethics of moderation, which according to Plato, advocates that a sensible balance should be maintained in all human pursuits. In the last three and half years, Akeredolu had created much problems for himself by his lack of conciliatory behaviour. Therefore, many leading lights in the chapter were up in arms against him. The deputy governor saw a window of opportunity to stage a coup. Ajayi may have unwittingly underrated the residual strength of his highly stubborn and politically naive boss in that period of storm and stress, and the formidable structure that threw him up and sustained him, despite the gang-up of ‘Unity Forum’ crusaders, who opposed Akeredolu’s second term bid. After challenging his boss to a duel, the deputy governor unsettled the political machinery. Some stalwarts who were jealous of him as the closest person to his boss also discovered a chance to deepen the sudden gulf. They started jostling for the number two position. The deputy governor’s rebellion attracted instant sanction. Initially, he was isolated. His seat in the cult of loyalty became vacant. Later, Ajayi was derobed as no official duty was assigned to him, thereby becoming a nominal deputy. To a larger section of the party, his time in the government was up. He was labelled a traitor. Reality dawned on Ajayi that he cannot realise his  ambition for the driver’s seat in the ruling party. As the APC became hot, he jumped ship. His next point of call, the PDP was hotter. His awesome financial muscle, his overtures to the Abuja tax collectors and the skeletal defection of his APC supporters to the main opposition party could not earn the total trust of PDP delegates at the primary. He was defeated by Jegede, a consistent party stalwart. But, Ajayi made a point. He fought with all arsenals at his disposal. The battle was critical to his continued relevance in the political arena. Some PDP leaders became jittery. They cried out that the delegates’ list was being manipulated to his favour. Fear also gripped Jegede and his camp. Although he could not floor the legal luminary at the tension-soaked shadow poll, he dwarfed other paper weight aspirants. If Ajayi had defected six months earlier, perhaps, the story would have been different. Curiously, having lost his bid for the PDP flag, he was seized by nostalgia. He suddenly realised the import of being a number two indigene of Ondo State. He had occupied the position since 2016 and the leverage it has given to him. Ajayi bidded for the second fiddle in the PDP, reminiscent of 2016; the same position he would have kept till 2024 in APC without any internal opposition. But, ‘Lawyer Jegede,’ as he fondly called by his Akure kinsmen, was sceptical. He restricted the pressures mounted by some PDP leaders outside the state. It was not without a good reason. If Ajayi could be disloyal to Akeredolu, who reposed much confidence in him, can he expect any loyalty from the same man? Can a leopard change its skin? Despite the pressures by PDP governors, Jegede “taku.” He insisted that another chieftain from the South should pair with him. The governorship ambition being an elixir, Ajayi is now planning to slug it out with Akeredolu and Jegede on the platform of the ZLP. A running mate may be donated to him by the ZLP leader, Dr Olusegun Mimiko, a former governor who could not wholeheartedly support the 2016 governorship aspiration of Jegede, his former Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice. Ajayi has rationalised his latest move. He said he heeded the call by the “majority” of people to give hope to the hopeless and provide credible and purposeful leadership. The PDP was taken aback. It accused him of abusing the privilege accorded to him during his brief stay in the party. Also, his defection has polarised the ZLP. It is doubtful if the cracks can be mended before the election. Some ZLP supporters, led by the controversial House of Representatives member from Akoko axis, Olubunmi Tunji-Ojo, have declared support for Akeredolu. It is possible that Ajayi may dramatically split APC and PDP votes in few local governments. Again, observers said it is debatable. But, will the split give him victory at the poll? It is too early to conclude. Twenty four hours, as it is said, is a long time in politics. The optimism does not invalidate certain realities on ground. How formidable is ZLP, which has now become a borrowed platform? Where are its structures across the 18 councils? There is no single ZLP poster in town yet. Above all, what Ajayi will do differently is unknown. The masses are not aware of his manifestos and plans for the state. Will Ajayi/Mimiko camp still become a movement in Ondo State? Were APC and PDP primaries not mock governorship polls for Ajayi? What was his score card? Can he spring a surprise on the platform of a mushroom party on poll day?