  When Oyinlomo Quadre started playing tennis at four, she knew she wanted to become the best in the sport and within a few years, she started conquering in major tournaments. As a junior player, she took her dominance beyond the shore of Nigeria to West Africa; she was undefeated before she moved to senior. But her romance with tennis started while watching her senior sister conquering others on court. “I started playing tennis through my family; my siblings were professional tennis players and they motivated me to love the sport. Growing up, I was very clingy towards my sister Aminat, who is older than me by nine years. I loved following her to the courts, watching her play, running around and I picked up the interest quite early so I also started to play at the age of four. From watching my siblings, I wanted to do everything like them and everyone around me could see the passion I had for the game. So Abel Ubiebi, who was then my siblings coach, spoke to my dad and that’s how it all started,” she said. She could but emphasized the significant role her parents played in her decision to embrace tennis. “My parents played the most important role in my career, anyone who has watched me play, knows that I am a very independent person on court and that’s all thanks to my parents. They supported me financially in every way that they can, and most especially emotionally, they made tennis an enjoyable sport for me; they never give me so much pressure, they just want me to always give my best no matter the situation,” Quadre added. Aside her parents, Quadre reeled out the support she got from well-meaning individuals and corporate bodies that aided her career. “It has been very difficult for me as a Nigerian and as African, because tennis is an expensive and challenging sport. Growing up, I have had support from my club (Lagos Lawn Tennis Club), my sponsor (Late Chris Enahoro) and my family, so that I could play more tournaments abroad because in Nigeria we don’t exactly get enough tournaments or support. “Also combining school and tennis was difficult in Nigeria until I got to the ITF Center in Morocco, in which I study online and train. Recently I have also struggled with visas of different countries which have also contributed to my hardships as an African athlete,” she lamented. For Quadre, tennis has paved the way for her in life. “I have gained so much from playing tennis; I have gained a second family in Morocco. I have cried, I have laughed, I have enjoyed victories, I have become self-reliant but most especially I have learnt a lot both on and off the court. Let’s just say “Tennis is my yesterday, my today and is going to be my tomorrow.” “I can’t dump tennis for any other sport, I am combining school and tennis at the moment but I don’t think I can make any decision to dump any of them anytime soon. It’s always going to be me, my tennis and my school against the world. I might do other sports in my spare time but tennis will always be first and that is because I never forget why I play tennis, I look around me, I see players like me, everyone is working hard for what they love most, when I come home I see how people are struggling to achieve their goals, I get messages daily from my family and I remind myself that these are the reasons why I play tennis,” she enthused. With a foresight to become the first female Nigeria to win a Grand Slam, Quadre said: “My goal in tennis is to be a tennis player with the most Grand Slam titles and I think I can achieve it someday.” She would always remain grateful to the late Chris Enahoro, who supported her dream as well as Coach Abel Ubiebi, who helped to sharpen her skills early in life. “I look up to my siblings because I have seen how much work they put in on court, in their studies and they continue to inspire me on a daily basis while locally Blessing Samuel is another inspiration for me because of her attitude on and off court which always impresses me. Internationally I look up to the Williams sisters for their fierceness and sacrifices made for the sport; Simona Halep for her tenacity on court and Roger Federer for his calmness on court,” Quadre explained. She however, lamented the poor welfare for Nigerian athletes which she said have discouraged a lot of athletes to give up on sports. “For Nigeria to excel in sports like other countries, there is need to be support from the sports federations because after playing a lot of tournaments in Nigeria last year, I noticed that other athletes during the African Games in Morocco bothered less about welfare and this has made me to conclude that Nigeria has to remember that “athletes welfare should always be the priority,” she added. Despite being inspired by the Williams sisters, Quadre is ready to halt the record set by Serena. “I have zero regrets playing tennis. It is something that I love doing and I have to make sacrifices if I want to succeed. My first dream is to break Serena Williams’s Grand slam record and to have a foundation in Nigeria set up for young athletes.” Recalling her best moment in the sport, she said: “My best moments in tennis have to be last year when I won all five national tournaments consecutively without dropping a set, winning the Grade 3 in April and boosting my junior ranking. I made the Top 100 and played in the quarter-finals of the Lagos Tennis Open. In the next two years I see myself in the top 300 WTA, going to college and pushing myself to the limits to keep both lives going.”