 The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Ali Pantami yesterday lamented the failure of information technology (IT) projects in public institutions, asserting that the development was largely due to lack of appropriate digital governance structures at individual organisation level or government-wide. Dr Pantami said to address the challenge President Muhammadu Buhari last year directed that Digital Transformation Technical Working Group (DT-TWGs) be established in public institutions across the country as e-government champions. Panama spoke while inaugurating the Chairmen of the DT-TWGs at the Digital Centre of the Public Service Institute (PSI), in Abuja. He said the DT-TWGs would also be part of the digital governance structure for the implementation of Nigeria e-governance Master Plan and the National Digital Economic Policy and Strategy. Out-lining the assignment before the group, Dr Pantami said: “The DT-TWG will be required to ensure all ICT and digital technologies related polices and regulations are adhered to by their organisations in a manner that enables national development. “Service and Soft Infrastructure are critical to achieving appropriate deployment of Government Digital Services (GDS) and to strengthen public confidence in the use of digital technologies and services. DT-TWGs are to support the Federal Government to develop citizens friendly digital mechanisms in support of service innovations and digital transformation for digital Nigeria”. Dr Pantami said for the goals of digital transformation to be achieved in government institutions, it had become imperative to build capabilities to enable the DT-TWGs carry out their assignments effectively. He said: “There are three key capabilities that must be built to enable DT-TWGs members to take on digital transformation tasks. They are transformation management, innovation and technical capabilities. We would ensure that these capabilities are built for you to deliver your responsibilities. This will definitely take priority and will not be subjected to lip service.” The Minister who also launched the Nigeria Government Enterprises Architecture (NGEA) portal for effective management of these groups, commended the leadership of the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) for leading the digital transformation of the country. The Director General of NITDA, Malam Kashifu Abdullahi, in his remarks, said in the digital economy era, government must envisage how digital technologies and processes can be translated into a scalable architecture prepared for short, medium and long term strategies. This is to reduce the complexity associated with digital transformation and accelerate the achievement of expected values from the deployment of IT systems, digital technologies and innovations, he added.