 You trained as an engineer. What is the motivation for going into politics? As an engineer, I believe in building a solid foundation so that the structure on it would not collapse. That is the idea I brought into politics. I believe that in politics, once you have a solid foundation, it will be difficult for the structure to collapse. If I build a solid foundation for my people via infrastructural facilities and they are able to access water, their children are able to go to school in conducive environments, they will definitely be happy to vote for candidates of their choice. That is why I am trying to build solid structures all around me. For instance, we are the least developed local government area in the Ikeja axis. When I was a local government councilor in 1997, I championed the cause of the local government. I said my local government is part of Ikeja but it was so neglected that they were not even coming here to collect revenue. But, I cried out that my people must get the dividends of democracy. That was how we were able to gather some things for my people before I left the councillorship position. I was the first and the last councilor for my community, because after my tenure, the issue of local council development area came up. You seem to have a preference for politics at the local level… It is how I was brought up. I grew up in this axis, so I know what their needs are. I am not an urban person. I grew up among the people. I knew for instance that the kind of schools they had was not compliant with the current millennium, so I rehabilitated schools. I installed boards on which teachers could use biro and not necessarily chalk. I installed fans and tiled the floors and people were happy to go to public schools even more than private schools. I realised also that there was the issue of flooding in the community, so I started constructing drainages to channel the waters to the canal. You know that drainages cost a lot and we have more than 26 communities in my axis. But, we had to do it, because we were the least developed local government area and government’s presence was not being felt. After the drainages, I started doing road rehabilitation. There are about 26 communities in my axis. I also started patching the roads in Erinoso and other areas. In some areas considered as dark spots because they said some bad boys were operating there under the cover of darkness, I provided electricity for them. Does that mean you have no plan to play politics above the local government level? Among the projects I have executed is the multi-purpose shopping complex in Ogba. It ought to have been commissioned on March 29, to coincide with Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s birthday. Unfortunately, the Coronavirus pandemic broke out. Now the plan is to do a small commissioning. It is going to be named Habibat Magaji Shopping Complex. It has more than 100 shops with modern facilities. If you see it, you would wonder if a local government can build that kind of structure. You cannot compare it with the Tejuosho Shopping Complex. There is light for 24 hours because we installed a 320 KVA generator. There are lifts for human beings and cargo, excavator, among other things. It is world class. Even in the edifice where we are now, when we came on board there were only bungalows all around. Then I asked myself what we could do with the vast land that we have here. So, we started building the edifice that you are seeing now. That is the kind of legacy I like to be known for. So, when I finish my term as local government chairman by the grace of God, I am planning to represent Ikeja Federal Constituency in the House of Reps. That is my next political ambition. Local governments are known to complain about paucity of funds, but here you are rolling out the list of projects you have executed. How did you generate money for them? There will always be paucity of funds. But, when I came on board, I identified my priorities. Like I told you earlier, I am a grassroots person. I belong to the rural community. I prepared before I came on board because I had been in the system for almost seven years. Within three months that I came in, we did the groundbreaking of this gigantic structure and moved on from there. It cost us about N280 million. Before I came in, I had already saved N100 million. It was election period, but I kept the money. Some people were saying that we had N100 million in our account, but I was not spending it. So, when we came in, we called the contractor and he said the project would cost N280 million. We paid 40 per cent of the money and he started work.  So, there will always be paucity of funds in local government, but if you have your priorities and focus on them, you can achieve whatever you want to do. Local governments do complain that state governments are shortchanging them. Is the case different with Lagos? The case is different in Lagos. Even before the NFIU of a thing, local governments in Lagos State had been granted financial autonomy. Nobody touches our money. Whenever there is an issue, we discuss with ourselves and resolve it; it is not that the state will just take our money. It does not happen in Lagos State. You pride yourself as a principled individual. Does that have to do with your upbringing? When I was in school, I ventured into some positions that kind of groomed me. I belonged to the press club. I finished from the Federal Polytechnic Ilaro. So, with that I had been managing people. Anyone who knows me will tell you that I don’t like to spend money recklessly. Before money is released, I would have paid my people’s salaries, because I always reserve a little. determined to see that I got education. As a child, I realised how much they were struggling to see me through school and all that remain in my memory. That is why I am not a flamboyant person. I don’t go to clubs or engage in socializing. All I know is Oke-Ira community.  How is your family life? I have a beautiful wife with children. We are living cordially and we are always together.  How did you meet your wife? We met when I was a councilor in Ikeja. We met and started relating. Things were a little bit rough then. I used to go to her shop and she would give me food and other things. To the glory of God, we got married and we are blessed with good children.  The issue of rape is a very serious problem in the country now. What do you think is responsible for it and how can we get out of it? To buttress what you have just said, we even had an issue in our local government. We pursued it in court and the culprit was jailed. Even the state commended our local government for pursuing the case to a logical conclusion. I cannot say what the cause is. Why would any sane individual rape a child? What would he gain from it? It is madness, pure and simple. If I have my way, any man that is caught doing a thing like that, his manhood would be chopped off. If you kill him, you are doing him a favour. Just cut off his manhood and leave him to become a reference point for others who are similarly inclined. What kind of madness is that? There are mature women everywhere, but you see a 20-year-old man raping a three-month-old baby. Would you say it is because of poverty? It is madness! They are mad people and should be treated as such. Some people believe that they are doing it for money rituals… Well, I would not know. I am an ardent Christian. I don’t know whether there is anything like money rituals. People are just deceiving themselves. When you hold on to God, He will direct your affairs.  