Shareholders of Notore Chemical Industries Plc have authorised the Board of Directors of the company to raise up to N30 billion in new capital to strengthen the balance sheet of the agro-allied company. Shareholders authorised the board to raise additional capital through a public offering, rights issue or other methods as the board may deem fit. Besides, the company may issue debt or equity through issuance of shares, convertible or non-convertible securities, loan notes, bonds and any other instruments. At their Annual General Meeting (AGM) in Lagos, shareholders also mandated the board to apply any outstanding convertible loan, shareholder loan or loan facility due to any person from the company towards the payment for any shares subscribed for by such person under the capital raise. According to the resolutions, where the directors deem fit, the rights issue or any other capital raise may be underwritten on such terms and conditions as the directors may approve while in the event that the company raises the additional capital by way of a rights issue, any shares not taken up by the existing shareholders within the stipulated period, will be determined and offered to interested shareholders of the company. Where the rights issue is underwritten, the shareholders will also waive their pre-emptive rights to enable the underwriter to take up any unsubscribed shares. In order to create headroom for the new capital raising, shareholders increased the authorised share capital of the company from N1 billion of 2.0 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each to N2 billion of 4.0 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each by the creation of additional 2.0 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each. The Memorandum of Association of the company would now be amended to reflect the new authorised share capital of N2 billion, divided into 4.0 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each. Notore had grown its top-line by 89.4 per cent to N8.18 billion in the first three months of its current business year as the agro-allied company begun to reap benefits of its production capacity development. Notore has expressed optimism on its business outlook noting that there are opportunities for better performance as the domestic fertilizer market is yet to reach its full potential. According to the company, the fertilizer market in Nigeria during the period under review was robust as Notore sold all the urea that it produced during the period in both domestic and international fertilizer market. 