  RAHEEM Sterling has tested negative for coronavirus  but has been included in Gareth Southgate’s England squad for the upcoming matches against Iceland and Denmark. The Manchester City winger is currently on holiday and had attended the birthday party of Jamaican sprint legend Usain Bolt, who is currently self-isolating as a precaution having tested positive despite displaying no symptoms. Sterling will take another test upon his return to the UK .   THE FIFA Foundation and UPL Ltd  yesterday  announced a new collaboration agreement that will see the two organisations join forces to promote and raise awareness about sustainable development in agriculture and education in society through football. As part of the new memorandum of understanding (MoU), the FIFA Foundation and UPL will work together to use football as a platform to raise awareness about several key social and environmental issues, including the positive impact that sustainable development, environmental protection, educating young people and leading a healthy and active lifestyle can make within society.   FANS will be allowed to attend the UEFA Super Cup match between Bayern Munich and Sevilla in Budapest on Sept. 24,  the European football’s governing body confirmed yesterday. All games in the recent UEFA Champions League and Europa League final stage mini-tournaments have been played behind closed doors. But UEFA’s executive committee ruled that up to 30 percent of the 67,215 capacity Puskas Arena in the Hungarian capital can be taken up by fans.   HARRY Maguire has been found guilty of aggravated assault, resisting arrest and attempted bribery by a three-member misdemeanours court convening on the Greek island of Syros. The £190,000-a-week Manchester United and England defender had denied all charges and said he would appeal. Maguire was given a prison sentence of 21 months and 10 days that was suspended on account of the charges being misdemeanours and the court’s acknowledgement of his clear criminal record..