The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Anambra State, has said former Governor of the State, Dr Chukwuemeka Ezeife,is on his own on the issue of zoning the party’s ticket to the South Senatorial zone. The party said it had in a long time made it known that it was not in support of zoning in 2021 governorship in the State. Before now, the elder statesman Ezeife, had issued a communique with his group in the state, championing the zoning formula for the 2021 election. The former Governor, with other Chieftains, including Prince Nicholas Ukachukwu, Chuma Nzeribe among others, said that the position should be zoned to the Anambra South Senatorial District. However, the Chairman of the party in the State, Sir Ndubuisi Nwobu, in a press conference Wednesday, at the party’s secretariat in Awka, said Ezeife and others were on their own. He said the party had long made its stand clear that it would not support the zoning of the governorship position to any zone, as according to him, it negated the constitutional rights of aspirants. According to him, the issue of zoning is the exclusive preserve of the party in the state not for people to gather themselves and say so without the party making input. “They said that for themselves, and may I also tell you that it is the constitutional right of the people to contest, so you cannot use zoning to shut some people out of their legitimate rights.” “Our party is adequately positioned to reclaim power in Anambra. It is our appeal that all hands should be on deck to achieve this feat.” Nwobu declared that those who had indicated interest to run for governor in 2021 under the party’s platform were people with proven track “records of excellence and academic attainments.” He said, “We wish to assure each and every one of them that we, working in synergy with our national leadership. “We will conduct a very transparent, free and fair party primary, from the processes to the final determination of a candidate for our great party. “Our destination come 2021 is Agu-Awka government house,” he said