The Chairman, National Campaign Council of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Rivers Governor Nyesom Wike, has accused the All Progressives Congress (APC) of scheming for the cancellation of the Edo governorship election. He alleged that the APC was not ready for the poll and resorted to underhand tactics to compel the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to stop the election midway. The governor alleged that intelligence report showed that as part of the plan, the APC intended to cause and sustain violence that could stop the poll and cause constitutional crisis. He claimed that the plan was to create a scenario that would lead to the expiration of Obaseki’s tenure before the conduct of a fresh election. Wike urged the police and other security agents to use the poll as a template to redeem their image. The Media Campaign Council of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the September 19 governorship election has accused Governor Nyesom Wike of talking better than he campaigns and governs. It described as inane, puerile and negligible, the claims by Wike, who is also the chairman of the National Campaign Council of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for Edo governorship election that APC planned to postpone and rig the poll. The campaign council, through its Chairman, John Mayaki, yesterday in an online statement said that the Rivers governor, like his counterpart in Edo State, Governor Godwin Obaseki, should focus on the allegation of violation of human rights levelled against him. It said: “I don’t know if Wike manufactures the tales himself or if he has a team of lazy children’s books’ writers, who manufacture the claims. We are torn between answering him seriously or stepping down to match his humour. “Let him (Wike) provide proof for anything he said. He cannot. How does the party (APC) that is not in power plan to oust the police in Edo State? He meant to accuse us, but ended up insulting the Nigeria Police Force, which needs to address the disrespectful and sickening way he spoke about it. This is not the first time the Rivers governor has demonstrated pedestrian restraint in his words.”