 As part of the Federal Government’s strategy to re-position the gas sub-sector, the Ministry of Petroleum Resources has begun the implementation of initiatives to foster efficiency and attract investment in the value chain. It is as embedded in the Gas Policy and aligns with the ministry’s nine priority projects to be delivered between 2019 and 2023. These encompass clusters for gas resources, the growth of the Liquefied Petroleum Gas/Compressed Natural Gas/Liquefied Natural Gas (LPG/CNG/LNG) market, development of infrastructure and promotion of natural gas usage. In January, the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, inaugurated the National Gas Expansion Programme (NGEP) committee as a mechanism to boost domestic utilisation of natural gas in the short and medium-term. As part of the programme, the Autogas and Natural Gas Vehicles (NGVs) sub-committee was constituted to drive the adoption of autogas/NGVs as an alternative fuel in Nigeria. According to the ministry, the establishment of the NGEP is due to the government’s bid to key into the global shift from crude oil to gas. It is designed to make 2020 count as Nigeria’s “Year of Gas” and to ensure that the nation’s abundant gas resources are adequately deployed.  Members of the NGEP committee met with some oil and gas industry stakeholders in Abuja. The committee chairman, Dr Mohammed Ibrahim, believes an increased CNG/LNG utilisation will provide the enabling environment for investors in the Gas Based Industry (GBI). This, according to him, will aid the process of diversifying the economy while addressing the gaps in power generation to create wealth, even as he noted that CNG/LNG can be employed to power passenger cars and city buses. Ibrahim said the committee met with major petrol stations in Abuja to discuss modalities for the inclusion of CNG dispensing facilities in the outlets, a proposal the marketers expressed interest in. Chief of Staff to Chief Sylva, Moses Olamide, an engineer, said the planned introduction of CNG as an alternative fuel would reduce the cost of transportation. Technical Adviser (TA) on Gas Business and Policy Implementation to the minister of state, Mr Justice Derefaka, said the NGEP is collaborating with the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) for the co-location of autogas and NGV in NNPC Retail stations. He informed the gathering that the NGEP, through the ministry, in partnership with NNPC, will issue an Expression of Interest (EoI) form this month to bonafide parties to participate in a competitive bid/award process (auction) for autogas and NGVs supply. Derefaka said the auction is an opportunity for domestic developers, their technology providers and original equipment manufacturers (OEMS) to participate in a unique initiative geared towards deepening natural gas usage. He said successful bidders will be granted a Permit to Situate Station (PtSS), underpinned by a lease agreement with the Federal Government acting through the NNPC Retail. According to Derefaka, approximately 46 NNPC Retail stations across the 36 states are available on an “as is, where is” basis through the auction. “The purpose of inviting this EoI is to encourage the applicant to co-locate and set up autogas/NGVs refuelling stations and enable scaling up of the gas utilisation potential in the transport sector by replacing costly and environmentally unfriendly diesel and petrol, which are almost 100 per cent imported,” he said. Meanwhile, Technical Adviser on downstream to the minister of state, Dr Abner Ishaku, reiterated the Federal Government’s resolve to provide alternate energy. Ishaku, who doubles as the National Program Manager in charge of CNG in the NGEP, spoke during a tour of NIPCO Gas Plc processing and refueling stations in Abuja. He praised the company’s management for its commitment to providing quality services in petroleum product storage and handling and for venturing into the upstream sector. 