 RUSSIA Brian Idowu’s main priority as the season kicks off today in Russia will be to reclaim his shirt at Lokomotiv Moscow. They finished second last season. And would kick off their campaign this term  away to Rubin Kazan. Idowu  was sparingly used last season  starting  five in 12 matches he was involved  and it would be interesting to see his readiness  this term. Elsewhere, Sylvester Igboun is now a full-fledged Dinamo Moscow player after his switch from Ufa became permanent early this week. Igboun played 20 games in the league and was on the score-sheet twice while on loan at the club last season.   SCOTLAND Leon Balogun put up a scintillating performance for Glasgow Rangers in their narrow away victory at Aberdeen last weekend and he was even named among the Scottish Premier League Team of the Week on his debut for his new club. The Super Eagles defender played for Wigan Athletic last season on loan from Brighton. He would expectedly file out with compatriot, Joe Aribo, against St. Mirren tomorrow. Meanwhile, Efe Ambrose is still in his second season with Livingston after the disappointment of not being in action at all for Derby County three seasons ago in the English Championship.   SWEDEN Experienced 31-year-old  John Chibuike and relatively unknown attacker, Nsima Peter are both with Falkenberg as they prepare for their tie tomorrow against Malmo complete with 24-year-old Nigerian, Bonke Innocent. Chibuike, a striker has played nine league games but he is yet to hit target this term. Nsima has featured 10 times with a goal to his credit. The 29-year-old Moses Ogbu with nine games and three goals under his belt in the league for Mjallby this term should be in the party again as they face AIK Stockholm while two Nigerians: Alhaji Gero(Helsingborg) and Ishaq Abdulrazak (IFK Norrkoping) size each other up  in another tough fixture. Household name in the Scandinavian, Kennedy Igboananike with Sirius are at home to Varbergs BolS who have a Nigerian, Monday Samuel on their payroll. 31-year-old Igboananike has been on the fringes of Sirius with only three games this season.   NORWAY Molde with their Nigerian striker, Leke James closed the gap on league leaders  Bodo/Glimt to three points when they thrashed IK Start with Nigerian duo Afeez Aremu and Adeleke Akinyemi 5-0 in a mid-week tie but they have played a game more than Bodo/Glimt. They will be relying on James who already scored six goals from 10 games this season when they file out against Brann tomorrow  in another league tie. Bodo/Glimt  who are on top of the Eliteserien after 12 matchdays with 34 points , have in their book a young Nigerian attacker, Victor Boniface who has two goals from 12 games. Izunna Uzorchukwu’s Aalesund are at the bottom of the league table having only garnered six points from possible 36. They have a game against fellow strugglers, Viking tomorrow . The 30-year-old midfielder has featured nine times with two yellow cards for Aalesund. 