PZ Wilmar, a joint venture between PZ Cussons International, UK and Wilmar International Ltd, Singapore has restated its commitment to helping to develop the economy of the country by building a sustainable future for palm oil in the country. In a statement to announce the signing of popular Nollywood actress, Ufuoma McDermott, Chef and Food blogger, Ifeyinwa Mogekwu, also known as Ify’s Kitchen, as ambassadors, for its premium master brand, Mamador, it said it will continue to help build the economy. Its Marketing Manager, Chioma Mbanugo, said the partnership with the two personalities was borne out of the brands commitment to further promote tasty cooking and healthy nutrition, as well as the brand’s desire to foster family bonding and togetherness in the country. “As a masterbrand, Mamador exists to inspire tasty nutrition for everyone, every day of the week.”  We believe tasty meals have the magic to foster family togetherness by involving, bonding over meals and connecting with family members through new dishes, sharing recipes, cooking together and enjoying good food. “Ufuoma and Ifeyinwa have proved to be strong and passionate women, with admirable talents and principles, whose positive lifestyles inspire many, each and every day. Ifeyinwa as a chef inspires many, not just on how to enjoy tasty meals but also how to prepare them. Ufuoma inspires many careers moms, as she manages the work-life balance to bond with her family and sustain an excellent family unit. For this and many other attributes, Mamador is happy to be associated with them” An excited Ufuoma during the signing, said: “I am pleased with the opportunity to partner with the Mamador Brand.Mamador is a brand my family and I are already used to and enjoy, so it is quite an honour to now represent the brand, this means a lot to me and I look forward to promoting family togetherness through making, sharing and enjoying tasty and nutritious meals with Mamador.” Ifeyinwa who expressed delight about the partnership, said a good and healthy nutrition plays an important role in the overall health and wellbeing of families. This truth, the Mamador brand has advocated over the years and I am glad to be part of its advancement. “I am known to showcase and promote the making of tasty and nutritious meals and I am super excited as to the endless possibilities of working with a brand such as Mamador who understands the role tasty and nutritious meals play in bring families together and people generally,” she said.