Inspector General of Police Mohammed Adamu has ordered more men to re-arrest the prime suspect in Ibadan serial killings, Sunday Shodipe. Force spokesman Frank Mba, in a statement yesterday, said this  would complement the efforts of Oyo State Police Command. Mba said the additional men comprised crack detectives from the Intelligence Response Team (IRT) and Special Tactical Squad (STS) of Force Intelligence Bureau in Abuja. He added: “The Oyo State Commissioner of Police, Nwachukwu Enwonwu, has also been directed to speed up investigations into the escape. All persons indicted in the escape are to be identified and prosecuted.” Students of tertiary institutions yesterday protested Shodipe’s escape from police custody. Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ), led by its Chairman, Demola Babalola, decried the escape in a protest. The students, under the aegis of National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), stormed the command headquarters at Eleyele, to protest Shodipe’s escape. The suspect, accused of killing about three persons, escaped from Mokola Police Station last week. The command said it would re-arrest him. General Secretary of  Students’ Union Government (SUG) at  Federal College of Animal Health and Production in Moor Plantation Tope Adewolu said a murder suspect should not escape easily from custody. He said the students want Shodipe re-arrested and prosecuted. “We are here to show our grievances at the incessant rape and killings in Akinyele. We were happy when the criminal was arrested and paraded. We also learnt he was kept in police custody because of COVID-19. “We are, however, shocked to hear that the criminal escaped few days ago. After his escape, we heard of another murder in the same Akinyele. How can they claim that a 19-year old criminal escaped from their custody?” Adewolu, who said Enwonwu promised the suspect would be re-arrested in 14 days, said the students would be back if the police failed to re-arrest the suspect. But police spokesman Olugbenga Fadeyi denied his boss promised two weeks, saying the commissioner did not give a time frame but assured residents the command would re-arrest Shodipe. Fadeyi said a man was arrested in Moniya and taken to the Criminal Investigations Department (CID) Unit to verify if he was Shodipe. He said the man was arrested because he looked like Shodipe. On the two policemen arrested and tried by police procedure, Fadeyi said Enwonwu would announce the action he had taken on their case. State House of Assembly has directed its Committee on Security and Strategy to meet with Enwonwu to probe Shodipe’s escape. Ayo Fatokun (Akinyele I) explained that Mrs. Funmilayo was killed a day after Shodipe’s escape, a development which threw the council into fear. The House urged Enwonwu to ensure Shodipe’s re-arrest and prosecution.