A week after the students of Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto (UDUS) were thrown into mourning, following the death of a female student, Motunrayo Zainab Abdulrauf, the death of a lecturer, Dr. Muhammad Awwal Musa, sent them back into mourning last Thursday. Until her death, Zainab was a 200-Level student of Computer Science and Mathematics and assistant course representative of her class. Musa was a lecturer in the Department of Human Anatomy, College of Health Sciences, and member of Anatomical Society of Nigeria (ASN). Abdullahi Adam, a 300-Level Computer Science student, who is Zainab’s brother, said she had just recovered from malaria fever before giving up the ghost around 4am on August 5, in their parents’ home in Abuja. “The news was very shocking to me as Zainab was with our parents in Abuja. She had malaria but had recovered from that. It was yesterday that my dad called me that she was complaining of body pain. I felt very sad when I heard about her demise around 4am and I’m still feeling the sadness because I will miss her a lot,” he said. Friends remember Zainab’s kindness Zainab’s friends find it difficult to get over her loss because of her gentility and kindness. Adam described the deceased as a religious and loving person.  He said she also helped him a lot. “If sometimes I felt hungry while in school, she was the only lady I could tell to cook for me as a senior brother. She was always ready to carry out any vocation I assigned her when we were together. There are many unforgettable memories which I cannot explain as a brother and sister,” he said. Ayodele Ilias, a 200-Level student of Mathematics also described the late Zainab as kind and generous. “Zainab was my school friend. She was kind, generous, friendly and nice to people around her. We used to sit together in the lecture hall while in school. I felt so bad when I heard the bad news,” Ilias said. Abdulrasheed Abdulquadri Eleru, a 300-Level student of Adult Education, shared how Zainab stood by him in a difficult situation. “She did one thing for me that I can’t forget in my life. Last year, when I was in UG2, we were reading in the same class at the Faculty of Law. I lost my examination card some minutes to the exam.  Wallahi Tallahi, she tried her best to help me find my lost examination card. I pray that Al-Jannat will be her final abode,” Abdulrasheed said. Students will not forget their role model teacher Musa will be remembered by his students for his love and support and exemplary living. Yusuf Usman, 200 level student of College of Health Science, described Musa  as a role model. “Dr. Muhammad was a role model, a well-respected and respectful individual and religious person. He was so humble during his life time. “Among the unforgettable memories I had with Dr. Musa was that, once in class, he told us that he would prefer students call him ‘Malam Musa’ to ‘Doctor Musa’.  Some days later, a colleague and I met him at the faculty’s entrance, the first word my colleague uttered was ‘Malam Musa’, and to my surprise, he answered and greeted us,” he said. Imrana Buhari,  a 300-Level student of Human Medicine, remembers Musa’s classes. He said: “I was shocked when I heard about his demise, and was thinking of the day I too will answer the call.  I met him, not less than a year ago and I loved his company with his students. The hours we spent in class, receiving his lectures were more of advice, guidance and counselling. “The late Dr. Muhammad Musa was a very humble and kind hearted man. I can never forget the day we met at UDUTH mosque, we both greeted each other and I can’t even tell who greeted who first, between him and I. To my surprise, he extended a hand shake towards me and we both shook hands.” Another student of the College of Health Science, Issa Mustapha Tosin, also described the late Musa as his humble friend and lecturer who never wore the dresses of pride while on earth but always made himself available to this colleagues. “Dr Muhammad Awwal Musa was my humble friend and lecturer. Even though he preferred being called ‘Mallam Musa’, he was a kind, dedicated and compassionate man who was always ready to make himself available to support any of his colleagues, friends and students.” Mustapha mourned the demise of his lecturer, commiserated his family, colleagues and friends, and also prayed for him to meet his Lord. “I felt devastated to receive the sad news of the demise of my friend. With his loving and kind attitude, he won the hearts of many of us. I commiserate with his family, friends, colleagues, Department of Human Anatomy, CHS, Sokoto, the Anatomical Society of Nigeria(ASN), and the entire UDUMSA over this great irreparable loss. May Allah grant us the fortitude to bear this loss. Mustapha added: “I pray that May Almighty Allah forgives his sins and grants him the highest place in Aljannah Firdaus.”