The governor of Abia State, Okezie Ikpeazu, on Saturday in Aba, the commercial nerve centre of the state, organised a special thanksgiving ceremony in appreciation to God for his recovery from COVID-19 infection. The event was held at the Eastern Nigeria Union Conference headquarters of the Seventh-Day Adventist Church located in Osisioma Local Government Area of the state. Ikpeazu, while narrating his ordeal during the Covid-19 infection, stressed that but for God, he would have been dead. The Abia governor, who thanked God for his miraculous recovery, expressed gratitude to men of God for their prayers and support through the period of his ill-health and used the forum to announce that he has forgiven all those who wished him dead. The governor, who reiterated that Abia remains one of the most politically stable states in the federation, thanked the Deputy Governor and other principal officers of his government for holding forth while he was away. While announcing donation of eight million naira for kidney transplant of one of the patients at the Zenith Clinic Hospital, Abuja, where he was treated, he appreciated Dr. Olatose and a team of Doctors who attended to him. Also speaking, the Akwa-Ibom State Governor, Mr. Emmanuel Udom, and Enugu State Governor, represented by the SSG, Mr. Uchenna Otuanya, thanked God for sparing the life of their Abia State counterpart. They urged the governor to be courageous and prayerful and not be deterred by facebook attacks by opponents. In a vote of thanks, the Speaker, Abia State House of Assembly, Chinedum Orji, thanked God for the life of the governor. Orji appreciated the people that graced the event and urged the governor to remain focused on the governance of the state. Earlier in his sermon, entitled ‘Oh Taste and See’, the President, Eastern Nigeria Union Conference of the Seventh-Day Adventist Church, Pastor Bassey Udoh, said God is ever present in trials and always proved himself a powerful and active God, who never abandons those who trust in Him. According to him, the essence of the thanksgiving is for the governor to praise God for his manifest healing powers and blessings and called on all to trust God no matter the challenge.