Members of the Unity Forum of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ondo State have officially dissolved the body and blended into the campaign team of Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu. The Unity Forum headed by a former Deputy Governor, Alhaji Ali Olanusi, was formed following the inability of stakeholders in the Ondo APC to resolve its differences after the election of Governor Akeredolu in 2016 and the conduct of the party congresses. It had vowed to ensure Akeredolu does not return for a second term in office but internal wrangling within the forum and the crisis of consensus aspirants caused division within its ranks. The dissolution of the forum followed steps taken by Governor Akeredolu to ensure the party goes into the electoral battle a united party. At an enlarged APC stakeholders meeting in Akure, leaders of the party especially governorship aspirants in the Unity Forum agreed to work for the victory Akeredolu. Alhaji Olanusi who was present at the meeting said he was on board the campaign train of Governor Akeredolu It was the first time Olanusi would be in a solidarity meeting with Akeredolu in the past three years. Governor Akeredolu in his speech urged all leaders and members of the Ondo APC to work for the success of party. Akeredolu hailed the resolve of all party leaders to work as one indivisible party with one united purpose and sole mission to winning to elections to remain in government in the state. He cautioned that the new spirit within the party must not for any reason dwindle but continue to soar high. The Ondo Governor said the October 10 governorship election must be used to justify the popularity, strength and acceptability of APC in the state. He listed scorecard of his administration which he said cut across infrastructural deliveries, facilitation of various industrial hubs, reconstruction and remodeling of schools, reawakening of abandoned projects by the immediate past administration, giving premium to healthcare delivery, employment of citizens and giving priority to welfare of workers’ and pensioners in the state. State Chairman of the Party, Engineer Ade Adetimehin, expressed joy that the Ondo APC under his leadership would now be one party with one structure and common purpose for its members, without the existence of any form of groupings. Those present were running mate to Akeredolu, Hon Lucky Ayedatiwa; two past Deputy Governors in the state, Alhaji Ali Olanusi and Alhaji Lasisi Oluboyo; former National Vice Chairman of APC in South-West , Chief Pius Akinyelure; Governorship Aspirants in the just concluded APC primary in the state; present and past legislators at all levels; federal, state and local governments appointees with party officials at state , local governments, wards and units levels the Unity Forum of the All Progressives Congress in Ondo State have officially dissolved the body and blended into the campaign team of Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu.