The imbroglio between Nigeria Postal Service (NIPOST) and the Federal Inland Revenue Services (FIRS) over jurisdiction in respect of stamp duty collection worsened on Tuesday. Director Communication and Liaison FIRS, Abdullahi Ismaila Ahmad, in a statement vowed the FIRS is determined to ensure all monies collected by NIPOST into its alleged illegally operated Stamp Duties Account are fully remitted into the Federation Account. He also said but FIRS would make sure that any kobo not accounted for in that account is legally recovered. But Chairman of the Nigeria Postal Service, Maimuna Abubakar, in a series of tweets on Sunday, lamented FIRS has stolen the mandate of NIPOST.
The NIPOST chairman said the FIRS, which is the agency responsible for assessing, collecting and accounting for tax accruing to the Federal Government, had begun printing stamps. She alleged FIRS did not only steal NIPOST’s stamps but also its ideas. Abubakar tweeted: “I am worried for NIPOST, having sleepless nights because of NIPOST. We need the general public to come to our aid; FIRS stole our mandate. “FIRS are now selling stamps instead of buying from us. What is happening; are we expected to keep quiet and let FIRS kill and bury NIPOST? “We need to get our mandate. NIPOST is the sole custodian of national stamps; another agency printing and selling stamps is against the law of the land.” But, FIRS in a series of tweets on Tuesday, countered NIPOST and faulted claims of Maimuna Abubakar. It said: “To be sure, NIPOST is a government parastatal established by Decree 41 of 1992 with the function to develop, promote and provide adequate and efficiently co-ordinated postal services at reasonable rates. “This function is clearly contrary to the claim by NIPOST over the administration of stamp duties in Nigeria. “On the other hand, the FIRS is the sole agency charged with the responsibility of assessing, collecting, and accounting for all tax types including Stamp Duties.” There has been contention between FIRS and NIPOST over which agency is the custodian of stamp duty following the implementation of the Stamp Duty Act.