The ongoing recapitalisation in the industry is necessitated by assets and liabilities’ mismatch by insurance firms, Commissioner for Insurance, National Insurance Commission, Mr. Sunday Thomas, has said. Presenting a paper  entitled: ‘’Recapitalisation & Stability in the insurance industry – Role of the regulator’’ at the Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria (CIIN) seminar in Lagos, he said the recapitalisation was crucial to avoid collapse. The commissioner stated that the identified needs made it expedient to increase the paid up share capital of insurance and reinsurance firms from N2 billion, N3 billion, N5 billion and N10 billion to N8 billion, N10 billion, N18 billion and N20 billion for life, non-life, composite and reinsurance companies. He said the principles of capital adequacy and solvency entail an objective and consistent “valuation of assets”. He added that the required  assets had to be valued objectively. He noted that capital adequacy and solvency regimes were necessary to address assets and liabilities’match. He said during the review, the commission observed that the symptoms and causes of  some ailing insurers with consequence of failure could be attributable to risks arising from macro-economic environment like high inflation and interest rates; foreign exchange rate – N120 – N153 in 2007 and N306 – N360 last year with effect on the value of insured assets over the years. He said: “There were investment and financial risks, poor risk analysis, impairment of certain investments; effect of International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) on fair value assessment, mismatched assets and liabilities, insufficient liquidity; effect of risks from governance and risk management structure which had to do with underpricing, inadequate premium, under-provisioning and reserving, poor record keeping – paucity of data and inadequate IT infrastructure, poor corporate governance and ineffective risk management practices. “We also had the issue of quality of human capital like inadequate human capital for underwriting, claims and investment management, insufficient actuarial services – inability to recruit and retain quality personnel, inadequate training and manpower development; emergence of insurance holding companies and conglomerates; and Issues of group risks – contagion, transparency, autonomy and arbitrage, which are rarely reflected in consolidated financial statements.” He stressed that the commission is committed to sustainable growth to enhance the stability of the industry.