Financial institutions will need to increase lending by at least $135 billion to meet demand by Africa’s small and medium-size (SMEs) enterprises, still struggling for financing, a United States based international   research firm, Maverick Research has said. Its Managing Director, to Micah, spoke during ‘IGNITE’, a first Virtual Small Business Growth Festival sponsored by the Global Startup Ecosystem. The online conference was organized by Scale-up Africa. According to him, the overall financing gap was huge and   new strategies were required to help them grow and expand their businesses. He reiterated that supporting entrepreneurship was key to economic growth and that creating opportunities for small businesses, which often struggle to secure growth capital, was critical. He maintained that Africa is full of promising small businesses which with the right support, could build innovative companies, create much-needed jobs, and solve some of the region most pressing problems. He  noted  that Africa  has  a growing youth  population, with  increasing  need for the services, jobs and economic growth  that  should  be provided by locally based SMEs. He added, however, that the SMEs were accepted drivers of economic growth and long-term sustainability, yet they face an array of challenges, including access to finance which remains the single biggest hindrance to both the establishment of new enterprises and the growth of existing ones. The Chief Executive, Global Startup Ecosystem (GSE), Einstein Ntim said 11 billion people are forecast to get into the unemployment market in the next four years, adding that Jobs, livelihoods and the well-being of workers, families and businesses have continued to take a hit from the COVID-19 pandemic; with micro, small and medium enterprises, in particular, suffering the dire economic consequences. Against this backdrop, he called increased skills acquisition it was time for a coordinated effort to empower youths to sustain jobs as technology create disruptions across sectors of the economy.