The people of Ndokwa in Delta State have called on the Federal Government to grant its host communities 20 per cent shares in its planned lease of marginal oil and gas fields. In a communiqué following a news conference, by Ambrose Abanum, in Kwale, headquarters of Ndokwa West Local Government, at the weekend, representatives of the communities said this condition, among others, should be fulfilled to sustain the peace in Ndokwa. Under the aegis of ‘Ani Osa Ndokwa’ Clan president-generals and coalition of associate groups, the people decried the alleged disregard of Ndokwa by governments in Nigeria. Ndokwa, they noted, hosts the largest Non-Associated Gas (NAG) reserve in West Africa, with over 10 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. According to the coalition, the Federal Government should “establish a standard template for MoUs with host communities; update the measuring scale for determining the accurate quantum of oil and gas production from Ndokwa; and complete Okpai – Kwale TCN Line and substations…’’ It warned those provoking Ndokwa to desist from opening another ‘’theatre of conflict’’. Saying Ndokwa youths might be forced into restiveness if they continued to be denied the gains of hosting so much resource, the coalition regretted that the Federal Government had taken for granted the people’s peaceful disposition. “The government that undermines our people by preferring to take provocative and anti-peaceful actions should not forbid us to respond to its provocations. “We have remained peaceful … following continuing neglect of our people,” the communiqué said, lamenting the destruction of Ndokwa eco-system, which forced many into seeking hazardous livelihoods. Going forward, the coalition listed, among others, that the people needed infrastructure, capital and human resources development, loan incentives for small & medium scale businesses, artisanal refineries, as well as a federal tertiary institution.  It said defaulting oil & gas companies, including Agip OML 60, should pay compensations and penalties for gas flares, non-renewal of MoUs as well as failure to pay ground rents to host communities. Lending its voice to the probe of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), the groups sought justice for the people of Niger Delta. No more, they said, should the commission be a sinking hole for over-inflated contracts or non-existing projects. But the coalition urged the Federal Government to appoint Ndokwa as NDDC chairman or managing director; and build a road from Asaba through Oko-Abala-Utchi-Okpai-Aboh-Abalagada-Patani. Signatories to the communiqué include group president general of Ndokwa clans, first vice president general and general secretary. Others are principal representatives of Ndokwa Youth Congress, Ndokwa Nation Development Forum. Ndokwa Renaissance Network, and Ukwuani Bu Ani Eze Group. The coalition, led by Abanum, has refused a request by the Dr. Ogeleyan Tabowei-led Caretaker Committee of Ndokwa Neku Union (NNU) for recognition. Rather, the coalition referred the committee to a July 7 meeting where an accord was reached in conformity with the constitution of NNU, the apex body of Ndokwa people. At the conference, the Abanum-led coalition and associate groups refused to endorse the committee. The groups said they stood on legality, noting that the union’s constitution had no room for a caretaker committee. According to the leaders, rejection of the committee’s request emphasised neutrality of the president-generals.