The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and All Progressives Congress (APC) have clashed over the 2016 suspension of Ojuromi of Uromi in Edo Central Senatorial District HRH Anselm Aidenojiei II. PDP Campaign Council in Edo Chief Dan Orbih accused former Governor Adams Oshiomhole of being responsible for the suspension. But chairman of the Media Campaign Council of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Prince John Mayaki blamed Governor Godwin Obaseki for the suspension. Orbih, who is also the National Vice Chairman, Southsouth, of the PDP, spoke while inaugurating an electronic billboard to watch Governor Godwin Obaseki’s campaign jingles on Monday night at Ring Road, Benin. The billboard was inaugurated ahead of commencement of Obaseki’s re-election ward-to-ward campaigns in Edo South Senatorial District. But Mayaki declared Obaseki was mastermind of the monarch’s suspension, accusing the Governor of consistently sanctioning the traditional ruler, who he alleged of backing the PDP in 2016. Orbih said: “Oshiomhole was Governor of Edo State when the Uromi monarch was suspended but the person that lifted the suspension was the current governor (Obaseki). “While in office as governor, Oshiomhole did a lot of things, but today, he is regretting them. That is why you see him going about Edo State, kneeling down and begging people for forgiveness. “Oshiomhole should go with Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu (APC’s governorship candidate in Edo State) to the Onogie of Uromi’s palace, kneel down and beg him for forgiveness. “Do Edo people want to go back to the era where people were suspended for no just reason? It is time politicians behaved as honourable people. “If you take decisions, you should be able to stand by them. You do not take decisions that you will regret after. That is a lesson to persons who are aspiring to government’s positions, to learn to take their time, before taking sudden decisions.” Mayaki however, said: “Reference to the 2016 saga involving the respected Ojuromi of Uromi is uncalled for and disgraceful, especially as Obaseki was the person who recommended and forcibly fought for the dethronement of the monarch, over alleged involvement with the PDP during the heat of the 2016 campaigns. “They (Obaseki and Orbih) resorted to a vile and ignoble political campaign strategy to divide and turn the people of Edo State against one another, using a combination of desperate rhetoric, promotion of falsehood and poor revisionism of recent and past events to misrepresent reality and cast themselves as innocent victims, when in actual fact, they are the aggressors and mischief-plotters, which they had been for years. “Obaseki and Orbih have been rendered sleepless by the united stance of Edo people to end Edo governor’s unfortunate reign on September 19. “Hence, their desperate adoption of depraved tactics to engender confusion and chaos by dividing the people along ethnic and religious lines, with targeted falsehoods.” He said: “Why did it take Obaseki one year after assuming office before restoring the Uromi’s monarch into his position if he was indeed sincere and not approving of his initial suspension and deposition? “It is simply deceitful and fraudulent for Edo governor to attempt to distance himself from a decision he recommended, because he is now desperate for votes.”