 THE Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr. Yekini Nabena, has said the electorate have decided for the party’s governorship candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu. Nabena, in a statement on Sunday in Abuja, said: “The APC is deeply humbled by the massive turnout and support the good people of Edo State extended to the party’s National Campaign Council during last Saturday’s campaign launch of our governorship candidate, Pastor Ize-Iyamu and running mate Gani Audu ahead of the September 19 governorship poll. “The electorate have sent a message on the governance direction of the state – a progressive one which puts the people’s welfare and interests first. As a party, we don’t take this overwhelming support for granted. “The party thanks the Oba of Benin, Oba Ewuare II, for the warm reception and hospitality His Royal Highness extended to our party leaders during the courtesy visit to the palace. We pray the Almighty God continues to grant the revered Oba of Benin the wisdom to guide the good people of Edo State on the right and progressive path. “President Muhammadu Buhari in endorsing the APC governorship candidate, Pastor Ize-Iyamu, urged the APC leadership to prosecute and win the governorship election using legal and constitutional means by avoiding the pitfalls that affected the party’s victories in Rivers, Zamfara and Bayelsa states during and after the 2019 general election. This we intend to achieve with the new and positive party disposition under the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led APC Caretaker Committee. “We congratulate the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led APC Caretaker Committee for successfully bringing together party ranks as a repositioned, united and happy family in total support of the APC governorship candidate. Going forward, the task before us is to collectively showcase our evident people-focused development records to the good people of Edo State.” “As articulated in Pastor Ize-Iyamu’s six-point ‘SIMPLE agenda’ that stands for Security, Infrastructural Development, Manpower Development, Public Private Partnership, Leadership and Employment Creation, the APC campaign will be issue-based and devoid of the do-or-die rhetoric and scare tactics the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is deploying ahead of the September 19 governorship election. “We stand with the good people of Edo State that votes must count and the will of the electorate must prevail.” 