 The Federal Polytechnic Bida chapter of the Academic Staff Union of Polytechnic (ASUP) has called on President Muhammadu Buhari and the Education Minister, Mallam Adamu Adamu to declare the office of the Rector vacant. In a statement signed by the Chairman, ASUP-BD Comrade Abubakar Ndasabe, the union stated that the desire of the Rector, Dr. Abubakar Dzukogi, to stay on, despite having retired, ran contrary to the provision of 1999 Constitution section 169, 160 (1) and 318 (1). The union noted that having submitted his letter of voluntary retirement, the Federal Government should take steps to fill the seat rather than returning him. “It will please you to know that the Rector has voluntarily retired from the service of the polytechnic on 10th of June, 2020 through a letter addressed to the school Registrar titled: “Application for voluntary retirement as staff of the Federal Polytechnic, Bida. “However, the Rector still wants to continue to stay in office as a sole administrator. This runs contrary to the provision of Polytechnic Act 2019 as amended. Having voluntarily retired from the service of the polytechnic, the Rector’s continuous desire to stay runs contrary to the provision of 1999 Constitution section 169, 160 (1) and 318 (1) of the Constitution. “We use this medium, therefore, to call on appointing authorities to declare the office of the Rector of Federal Polytechnic, Bida vacant and put in place machinery for the appointment of new Rector as enshrined in the Polytechnic Act 2019 as amended”, the ASUP-BD Chairman said. The union decried incessant strikes that had bedevilled the tenure of the Rector, claiming the standard of the institution had fallen since his assumption of office. “Within this period of his tenure, we have witnessed more than 30 strikes over staff welfare; some of which did not last 24 hours before coming up with deceitful solutions. “He has resorted to blackmail, illegal queries, suspensions and use of thugs against staffers all in a bid to box the union up so that he can continuously thrive in his malicious and nepotistic eldorado. “ Speaking further, Comrade Abubakar Ndasabe noted that the recent projects he claimed to have started in the institution were TETfund projects. “There is no single project in the polytechnic that can be pointed at as IGR sponsored or financed since his assumption of office as Rector and yet he cannot pay staff allowances and claims.” The union then urged the President and Minister to, as a matter of urgency, begin the process appointing another Rector, adding that “it will save the institution and the students who can no longer take pride in the Bida standard.” Efforts to get the Rector to speak on  ASUP’s stand over his voluntary retirement and return for a second tenure were futile as none of the information officers picked their calls or replied to messages. However, a source confirmed that the Rector had submitted his letter for voluntary retirement. 