Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi and Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami have assured that Nigeria is not ceding its sovereignty to any lending nation. According to the duo, the clause in the agreement signed between China and Nigeria was a standard clause that appears in every agreement in lending transactions. They noted the clause was just a form of assurance the borrowing country will not default in the repayment of the loan. The duo made the clarification when they appeared on a television programme in Abuja on Tuesday. Amaechi, while debunking the notion that Nigeria’s sovereignty has been signed off to China in obtaining the loans, said: “Nobody has signed out anything. A sovereign nation is a sovereign nation, nobody can re-colonise us. “We must learn to pay our debts and we are paying and once you are paying, nobody will come and take any of your assets.” Amaechi also exonerated Goodluck Jonathan’s administration from the clause in the agreement, stating the clause was a standard clause. “We will not blame President Goodluck Jonathan’s government for taking the loan because like I said, it is a standard clause in every loan agreement. That clause enables the lending country to go to arbitration. “It creates an avenue for them to be able to retrieve their funds in the case of a default. “If therefore there’s an asset that has been mortgaged, they must be able to get to that asset. If you don’t waive that immunity, they cannot. It’s a standard clause in every international loan agreement. “If the National Assembly says we have signed out the sovereignty of our country, so why did they approve? Didn’t they see it before approving?” Speaking on types of immunity and the perceived misconception by the National Assembly, Malami said: “If you talk of immunity within the context of diplomatic immunity which has the implication of the independence of a state and its institutions in its own right, there is no concession whatsoever made by Nigeria as it relates to diplomatic immunity that has to do with its independent existence as a nation, neither was any concession made as related to the institutional diplomatic immunity of Nigerian institutions. “But when you talk of immunity within the context of commercial sense that is where I think we need to clarify issues with particular reference to the loans and commercial transactions among nations. “Concessions relating to immunity for the purpose of provision of the commercial guarantee are a normal, traditional ritual. “Nations enter into respective interstate agreements and in the course of so doing, surrendering their jurisdictional immunity. “It is on account of that for an example that you see Nigeria signing an agreement with other institutions or nations and agreeing to a choice of territorial jurisdiction for the purpose of determining disputes when they arise. “So that is how eventually you see Nigeria submitting to the jurisdiction for determination of a trade dispute in UK, in Paris and in other international fora or jurisdiction even when Nigeria as a nation has diplomatic immunity.” The AGF further explained the clause is a mere commitment that allows an advancing state (the lender) the powers to claim back an asset for the purpose of repayment of a loan and is in no way connected to the sovereignty of a country.