Otjiwarango in Namibia has become popular with tourists visiting the country.  The city offers the opportunity to not only see hundreds of crocodiles, but also dine on crocodile meal and buy souvenirs from the skin. Namibia is wildlife heaven with a large population of rare animal species. Wildlife animals are virtually everywhere. Humans co-exist with these animals. There are no threats to wipe them out of existence. Also, if one was lucky to wander further north on the harsh, rugged, scorch-earth countryside of Damaraland, about 478 kilometres from Windhoek, the country’s capital, wild elephants in search of food are common sights to behold. For a country with a landmass of 825,419 square kilometres,  a human population of 20 million is more like a drop in the ocean. But what the country lacks in the human population, it makes up  in a high population of wildlife. Driving along the inter-city  roads, it is not uncommon to see families of baboons by the roadside; so also springboks and kudus as they elegantly dart across the major roads heading for one savannah forest (or wildlife farm) or the other. But even for an exotic destination, a visit to a crocodile habitat is something to look forward to. Otjiwarango , the home of the crocodile farm and restaurant is about 255 kilometres from Windhoek. The journey was smooth and the road was good with the pleasant countryside. Most of the land along the road is carved out into wildlife farms. The Otjiwarango Crocodile Farm was founded in 2005 to breed and conserve crocodiles. It is professionally well managed with a five-star rating. The farm is a hit with tourists and virtually busy round the clock. A visiting group has to wait for turns before being taken to the crocodile area to watch them. The farm is divided into the merchandise section where tourists could buy things like crocodile skin handbags, belts and other souvenirs made of the crocodile skin.  It also has a gallery that captures the history of the farm. There is also a live crocodile area before the restaurant. There are strict safety rules. The main crocodile pit has a metal gallery where tourists could stand and view the crocodile in their habitat. Walking to the topmost point on the left is the breeding area where young crocodiles are bred for meals. It is from this group the crocodile meals served at the restaurant are prepared. At the top of the metal, the gallery is where tourists stay to see the crocodiles. They are huge and almost semi-mobile. However, the group goes there every Saturday to observe the feeding.  The crocodiles feed only once in a week at the farm-Saturdays’ afternoon. They are fed with whole chickens. Even before the commencement of the feeding, the smell of the raw meat has caught the attention of the animals and they start steering impatiently crawling to the foot of the metal gallery.    The attendant throws the dead chickens from a huge plastic container.   They trash and position themselves at vantage areas. The chickens are caught mid-air with their powerful teeth even before landing on the floor.  It is a sight to behold.  With the feeding period completed, they head back for the water and shades. The next stage is the hatchery where the crocodile eggs are hatched. Averagely, a crocodile lays about 50 to 60 eggs at a time. At the hatchery are also tiny harmless crocodiles that would grow to become giants, intimidating water animals we see.  An average crocodile can live for about 70 years. Venison in Namibia is never a problem for tourists with exotic tastes. One could dine on springbok, kudu, warthog, zebra, and other exotic species.  However, crocodile meat is still up the ladder.  The meal is well prepared. Initially one is not sure of what to expect. However, the taste is more of fish but not as tender. It is nice to cross the crocodile meat from the bucket list of venison to taste. Generally, the Otjiwarango Crocodile Farm is professionally run and is obviously a multi-million dollar business. The fact that a steady stream of guests and one had to book in advance is a testament to its thrill for tourists on a tour of Namibia.