Immediate past People’s Democratic Party (PDP) House of Representatives members from Ekiti have told Senator Biodun Olujimi(Ekiti South) to desist from sponsoring attacks on its National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus. They also insisted there will be no sharing of the PDP local government and State Executive Committees with any dissident group. They maintained: “Those who plotted political coup should be ready to bear the consequences.” The former National Assembly members, who include Segun Adekola, Kehinde Agboola, Ayodele Oladimeji and Thadeus Aina, said: “Olujimi must perish the idea that she represents everybody and stop being an ingrate to our benefactor while she goes about hobnobbing with the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti State. “We condemn her actions in entirety and we wish to state that whoever that is thinking about bringing our leader and benefactor, former Governor Ayodele Fayose to the negotiating table with Olujimi should perish that idea. “Fayose remains our leader and it is a known fact that it was through him that we, including Olujimi climbed the political ladder to the level that we are today. “If she feels after using the ladder of Fayose to climb to where she is, what she must do is to destroy the ladder, we are not part of her rebellion and this is being placed on record.” On the outstanding congresses of the PDP in Ekiti, the former NASS members said: “In Ekiti PDP, there is no tradition of sharing party positions and it won’t start now. “Even in 2012 when contest for the state chairmanship was so close that it ended with 318 votes for the winner as against 310 by the other group, the group that won the chairmanship went on to take all the State exco positions. “Two years after, PDP returned to power with landslide victory in the governorship election. “Therefore, Olujimi begging around for sharing of positions will not work. She should rather retrace her steps, show remorse and apologise for her rebellion.” They urged the party’s National Working Committee to conduct the outstanding local government and state congresses without further delay, saying even “if it is tomorrow or next year that the party chooses to conduct the remaining congresses we are ready.” 