Nigerian Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) Director-General Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu has expressed confidence in the ability of Nigerians in tackling the novel Coronavirus pandemic ravaging the world. He was also optimistic that the lessons drawn from the scourge would further strengthen the country’s healthcare system. Ihekweazu spoke through the Programme Coordinator, Anti-Microbial Resistance/Infection, Prevention and Control, Dr. Tochi Okwor, during a two-day COVID-19 Infection, Prevention and Control (IPC) Project organised by the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA), Anambra State chapter and supported by the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC). He underscored the seriousness government attached to the infection of health care workers, including the introduction of healthcare workers’ safety strategy targetted at building their confidence while carrying out their responsibilities. Regretting the number of casualties recorded among doctors and other health workers in the state, the NCDC boss maintained that the commitment of the citizenry in tackling the pandemic was of great importance in the fight. He said: “It’s unfortunate and heartbreaking the infections that occurred among health workers and the number of doctors, who have died in the state. “It becomes more tragic when a death of a health worker is recorded. It dampens the moral of other colleagues. “The question is, are we going to live with the pandemic as weak people who don’t have what it takes to deal with it or live with it in a way that keeps the virus very uncomfortable and forces it away from us? I do believe we have what it takes to deal with it. “The message on the pandemic must be communicated in a way that allows Nigerians to trust the system. They need to realise that they hold the solution in their own hands. A Nigerian working along the street without facemask has not been properly communicated. “More importantly, as trainers, we’ll begin to galvanise other health workers to do more to ensure we work safer and come out less damaged as well as ensure that the lessons we learnt from the pandemic will strengthen our health system.” The NMA Chairman, Dr. Jide Onyekwelu, said the training was informed by the disturbing statistics of high infectious rates among frontline health workers, saying that 25 doctors undergoing the exercise would be training no fewer than 125 doctors across the five zones of the state.