 Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo (SAN) and Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu have launched an e-library of the state’s laws. They unveiled the electronic resource during a two-day virtual conference organised by legal technologies firm, LawPavilion Business Solutions Ltd, in collaboration with Telnet Group. They said the e-library will enhance acess to the laws and ensure speedy administration of justice in the state. Osinbajo, who delivered the keynote address, expressed delight at the country’s willingness to rapidly adopt technology, as exemplified by the Supreme Court’s approval of virtual court sittings. According to him, technology has aided democratisation of law and justice in the country. He called for purpose-built solutions for the administration of justice by legal and technology firms. The Vice President further pledged the Federal Government’s commitment to support tech companies and Nigerians to adapt to the new global realities powered by artificial intelligence (AI) and sophisticated technology solutions. Other participants included the Chief Justice of the Federation, Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad and Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) President, Paul Usoro (SAN), who both delivered goodwill massages. They described the event as a timely conference because of the  important role technology now occupies in the provision of legal services and administration of justice. Sanwo-Olu, who was represented by Lagos State Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice Moyo Onigbanjo (SAN), said working in collaboration with the state’s Law Reform Commission, the e-library platform will make Lagos’ Laws easily accessible and relevant. “The Annotated e-laws of Lagos State on the platform will also highlight how the courts and populace interact with the laws, leveraging on machine learning and artificial intelligence. This approach will ensure that new laws and decisions of court are data-driven, with its finger on the pulse of the general citizenry,” he said. Another highlight of the conference was the unveiling of the LawRights App, a solution from the stables of LawPavilion, for the use of the general public to know and understand their constitutional rights, have access to lawyers and law firms from within the app and where necessary, initiate the process of adjudication where rights have been abused  or trampled upon. CJN Muhammad said the apex court’s adoption of court management software in recent years, demonstrated a marked departure from the analogue system of adjudication. He reiterated the support of the Judiciary in adopting new technologies that accelerate justice delivery. For NBA President, access to justice and upholding rule of law will remain a mirage if people are ignorant of their rights under the law or are deprived of access to regulatory bodies and government agencies that can ensure that such rights are not trampled on. Usoro described the LawRights App as a ground-breaking solution in the administration of justice and legal services industries.  Chief Executive Officer  of Paradigm Initiatives Mr. Gbenga Sesan, emphasised the need to use technology to accelerate access to justice, especially as the country adjusts to the realities of the coronavirus pandemic. He cited examples of interaction with law enforcement agencies which ended in abuse of the human rights and dignity of the affected victims. Sesan advocated for a rapid adoption of a law that enshrines the digital rights of citizens and pointed out that Nigeria could become a leader among other African countries in this regard. For Supreme Court Justice, Olukayode Ariwoola,  the judiciary has demonstrated and continues to demonstrate willingness to adopt technologies and adapt court processes, in a bid to ensure swift, unhampered justice delivery. Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) Dr Babatunde Ajibade observed that while there isn’t yet a national consensus on the adoption of technology, “there needs to be more thinking about how technology can be harnessed to facilitate the delivery of justice, with the corresponding financial and human resources investments required.” He pointed out that there are still significant pockets of technologically-challenged members of the Bar and the Bench. In terms of whether the legal service and judiciary are walking the talk when it comes to using technology to enhance and improve delivery of services, Telnet Group’s Managing Director Folorunsho Aliu, was optimistic. He said Nigeria is on a journey to getting better in how technology is used and harnessed for justice and economic growth. Mr. Sesan Sobowale of Union Bank’s Legal Department and his First Bank of Nigeria counterpart, Mr.  Raymond Mgbeokwere shared insights on the deployment of bespoke LawPavilion Case Management Solution for Legal Departments, to automate the administration and coordination of their legal teams. Similarly, a former Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice in Oyo Sate,  Mr. Seun Abimbola, shared insights of his experience in running a government department. Abimbola suggested that bespoke legal technologies solutions were the way forward to meet competing demands of legal departments or law offices, particularly during the pandemic period. Speaking on whether the legal ecosystem is an evolution or a revolution, the publisher of ESQ Magazine, Lere Fashola, said the eco-system is both an evolution, considering how far the legal services industry has come and also a revolution, because COVID-19 has altered how people interact and do businesses. This, he added, has necessitated the adoption of virtual court hearings and progressive use of several technology platform to provide services to clients. The event featured discussions and panel sessions, including a session displaying e-filing and court management processes and solutions, aimed at accelerating case management of the entire court system from end to end. The Conference also showcased  new and existing solutions within the legal services industry and in the areas of digital transformation.