Standards are significant and sacrosanct.  The role of the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) is noteworthy as the coronavirus continues its worldwide attack. In June, as efforts to contain the COVID-19 pandemic continued across the world, SON announced that it was harmonising the production of ventilators across the country to ensure that they conform to international standards. SON Director-General Osita Aboloma said, following the unveiling of a locally manufactured ventilator by Federal Polytechnic, Ilaro, Ogun State:  “In our efforts to address the ongoing pandemic, we have diligently assigned officers to inspect the ventilators and alcohol-based hand sanitisers under production. “We have one common standard for each product. We want to ensure that what we are producing meets the standard and once it does, we will certify it. We will also continue to monitor activities so that they do not rest on their oars in producing quality goods.” According to him, “SON is ready to partner with all technical institutions, especially those involved in the production of life-saving equipment and materials at this time. “This is so that their products will meet minimum requirements of the relevant Nigerian Industrial Standards (NIS), and undergo certification under the Mandatory Conformity Assessment Programme (MANCAP).” Rector of the polytechnic Olusegun Aluko said “the materials for manufacturing the ventilator were sourced locally,” adding that local production “will make it more accessible and cheaper compared with imported ones which are scarce, costly and would take longer to deliver.” The rector explained that a team of engineers at the polytechnic designed a functional ventilator with less than one million naira.  “It took us one week through trial and error… If we can produce this within one week, with all the research, that means in a matter of two days we should be able to produce one,” he said. It is noteworthy that Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University, Bauchi State, has also developed a ventilator. The University of Lagos, University of Benin and University of Ilorin have also produced hand sanitisers in response to the coronavirus pandemic; and Abia State University, Uturu, developed a COVID-19 tracking system. Local production of standard ventilators, air purifiers and hand sanitiser machines is expected to save the country’s foreign exchange spent on importation of such items in the fight against COVID-19.  It will also improve the country’s image. In May, the U.S. Ambassador to Nigeria, Mary Leonard, told journalists that President Muhammadu Buhari had requested ventilators from American President Donald Trump. “We already have a very robust U.S. government financial and tactical response to COVID, the two presidents talked in particular about what other equipment needs we might be able to address,” she said. “In particular there is a talk about ventilators, and so there is a national security council and USAID group back in Washington that is working on fulfilling that request.” Minister of Health Osagie Ehanire had admitted that the country did not have enough ventilators, which triggered public alarm amid the coronavirus crisis.  A ventilator pumps air in and out of the lungs, and is required to assist patients who are unable to breathe, or breathing insufficiently. It is attached to a tube inserted in the patient’s airway to deliver air into the lungs. COVID-19 affects the respiratory system, and the number of patients needing breathing assistance may increase, thereby increasing the necessity for the machine. “For ventilators, we can say we don’t have enough,” Ehanire had told journalists at a national briefing of the Presidential Task Force in Abuja. “What we have done beyond taking inventory of the ventilators in government hospitals, we have gone far to take inventory of what is in private hospitals and they are ready to make them available to us. ”We have an arrangement that makes it possible that if you need more ventilators in Abuja we can send them from Lagos. “If Lagos needs more ventilators, we can bring them from Enugu or anywhere so that we can be able to meet our needs as they are.” Against this background, it is obvious that local production of ventilators will help greatly. But such machines, and other items produced locally in response to the coronavirus crisis, need to meet set standards, which is where SON comes in.  According to Aboloma, SON has also been providing technical quality assurance support to local manufacturers producing Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) used in the fight against COVID-19. Importantly, SON introduced the Mandatory Conformity Assessment Programme (MANCAP) in 2006 “to ensure that all manufactured products conform to the relevant Nigerian Industrial Standards (NIS) prior to sales in the markets or export.” MANCAP is meant to “protect genuine manufacturers against unhealthy practices such as production of sub-standard products, faking and counterfeiting as well as unfair competition in trade. It provides consumers with confidence that products manufactured in the country are fit, safe and meet the intended use. It also ensures that the environment is free from unnecessary wastes and pollution. Products that are qualified under the scheme are issued with MANCAP certificates and NIS logos with unique identification numbers.” Significantly, in June SON governing council approved 168 new standards “for publication and dissemination to various sectors of the economy…in furtherance of the federal government’s economic diversification policy.” It also endorsed the first-ever Nigerian National Standardisation Strategy (NNSS) 2020 – 2022, developed by SON under Aboloma, to identify crucial areas to focus on, based on national needs assessment. The NNSS identified 658 standardisation projects in key areas highlighted in the Federal Government’s Economic Recovery Growth Plan (ERGP), the Nigerian Industrial Revolution Plan (NIRP) and related national strategic plans. The SON chief executive listed the newly approved 168 Nigerian Industrial Standards, including 64 for Electrical/Electronic products; 53 for Chemical Technology; 47 for Food and Agricultural products; three for Civil/Building Technology products as well as the reviewed standard for Hotel and Serviced Accommodation Management System and Rating – Requirements and Guidance for Use. The challenge of ensuring that only products which meet necessary quality standards are on the market in the country puts a burden of performance on SON.