It is to right an original wrong while, unwittingly, drawing attention to a constitutional anomaly on the separation of powers The letter penned from the hand of the attorney-general of the federation and minister of justice, Abubakar Malami, would not have been necessary if the necessary thing had been done in Edo State in 2019. It is one of the discredits of this democracy that we allow matters to wallow into disaster before we wake up our constitutional impulses. The letter requested the inspector General of police to give protection to the 17 lawmakers who had opposed the governor, Godwin Obaseki and his new-fangled loyalists of the People’s Democratic Party. Here is an excerpt: “My office is in receipt of a letter dated 3rd August, 2020 from Messrs West Idahosa & Co. requesting for the intervention of my office on behalf of its clients who are members-elect of the Edo State House of Assembly, but who were excluded or prevented from being inaugurated till date since the House was inaugurated on 17th June, 2019.” He therefore asked the IGP to “kindly provide adequate security measures,” not only for the inauguration of the 17, but also for the “subsequent sittings of the Edo State House of Assembly.” The original sin was that seven out of 24 members voted into the House were sworn in as legislators, which was not only a numerical anomaly but a constitutional subversion. It was not that the other members were maimed or decided to spurn their mandates. The members shut out of the venue had complied with their pre-inauguration requirements, including the declaration of assets and liabilities in accordance with the 5th schedule of the 1999 constitution. There was even the story of one of the lawmakers who attended in a pair of shorts, giving a sartorial desperation to the inauguration legend. The governor has issued a letter of proclamation in stealth and the clerk of the House of Assembly colluded with the executive and the conniving lawmakers at an odd hour to make the Edo House of Assembly a law makers’ assembly of deficit numbers. It also meant a democracy in deficit. Since then, the minority lawmakers had been working not only as majority; they also became a parody of legitimacy. They “elected” their speaker, deputy speaker and other officers. They signed off on the governor’s budget and quite a number of the executive decisions and financial actions. What it meant in effect was about 40 percent of the lawmakers representing 100 percent of the Edo State people. This is not democracy but a localised form of oligarchy, in which a few foisted their rule on a majority. The governor hailed what is turned a fait accompli into a constitutional legitimacy. That is a military logic. This is the sort of system akin to what the world witnessed in medieval Europe and even some kingdoms on the African continent. This numerical corruption began in the Obasanjo era when in Plateau State a fraction of lawmakers were drafted to oust a governor from office through a technical impeachment. The crisis came to a head recently when the 14 members shut out in 2019 decided to hold their own session and impeach the speaker of the few and elected their own speaker. It also happened after three of the governor’s original loyalists joined the 14, and they have now formed an overwhelming majority. The three included the deputy speaker who was impeached by the minority house endorsed by the governor. This precipitated a crisis of two legislatures in one, and that is why Edo State roiled over whether it was the governor who followed the law or whether he is a renegade of the law. Or whether renegade lawmakers were in charge. The 17 members raised a spectre in Governor’s Obaseki’s imagination of an impeachment threat. He decided to make the Assembly complex an emergency construction site by commissioning the renovation of the roof. This is a travesty. The argument in support of him was that his predecessor, Adams Oshiomhole, did the same when he jousted with the lawmakers. That may well be true. But it does not justify it. Such an argument should have condemned the Adams act and, with the same moral repugnance, taken exception to Obaseki’s gangster act. It was in this context that Malami’s letter must be seen. He wrote the request to right an original sin. He should have done this from the onset, and not have waited to be seen as a partisan rescue. But it does not detract from its constitutional imperative. The crisis has also highlighted a big flaw in our prosecution of the doctrine of the separation of powers. Why would a legislature wait for an executive letter of proclamation to get inaugurated? It makes a major leg of the governing tripod dependent and, therefore, fragile. A democracy is what it is more because of the legislature than either the executive or the judiciary. The executive is the will and vision of one man. The judiciary is the interpretation of what the lawmakers decide as laws. Major executive actions require the endorsement of the lawmakers. When the lawmakers become an oligarchic cast, it turns the whole practice of democracy into ridicule.  We therefore want the constitutional review process currently under way to look into this aspect of the lopsidedness. If the lawmakers can make their own rules, the executive should not be in a position to decide what members belong or do not belong to the law chamber. In effect, it gives one man the power to nullify a people’s mandate. The lawmakers should act as an independent House from the first day. We, therefore, see Malami’s letter as a corrective. The legislature cannot be legitimate until the will of all Edo State people, rather than a truncated version, prevails.