The Federal High Court in Abuja has been urged to restrain Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu from further parading himself as the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the governorship election scheduled for October 10. The request is part of the reliefs contained in a suit filed by an aggrieved member of the APC and a governorship aspirant, Nathaniel Adojutelegan, who equally wants the court to void the outcome of the party’s governorship primary held on July 20, which Akeredolu purportedly won. Adojutelegan, in the suit marked: FHC/ABJ/CS/886/2020, also urged the court to order the APC to conduct a fresh primary election and bar Akeredolu from participating in the fresh one to be ordered by the court. The plaintiff, in the suit, with the APC, Akeredolu and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as defendants, argued that the primary was held in violation of the Electoral Act, APC’s constitution, the party’s electoral guidelines, among other provisions. due delegates’ congresses ought to be conducted at the wards making up the constituency in question, in this case wards in the entire Ondo State, to democratically choose by secret ballot, the delegates for the governorship primary. “I know as a fact that the list of delegates for the election ought to be made available to aspirants within a reasonable time and well before the primary election. “The 1st defendant failed to comply with these guidelines or constitutional provisions enshrined in the 1st defendant’s constitution. “Being aggrieved by the result of the primary, I petitioned by way of an appeal against it to the 1st defendant’s appeals committee on July 22 and appeared before the committee in Abuja on July 24 to present my petition/appeal. I have not heard from the committee since then. “I know that to allow the outcome of the election to stand is to allow the 2nd defendant to gain from his wrongdoings. The plaintiff is also seeing among others, “an order of perpetual injunction restraining the 2nd defendant from putting himself out or parading himself as candidate of the 1st defendant for the office of Governor of Ondo State in the coming general election for the seat of Governor of Ondo State slated for October 10 or any other date.” Adojutelegan wants “an order of perpetual injunction restraining the 1st and 3rd defendants, their agents, privies, servants and assigns or any person howsoever from recognising and or continuing to recognise the 2nd defendant as the 1st defendant’s candidate for the office of Governor of Ondo State in the coming general election for the seat of governor of Ondo State slated for October 10 or any other date or granting to him any right in relation thereto.”