 INDIGENES of Ukwa West Local Government of Abia State on Monday marched on the streets to protest relocation of Aba cattle market to their community. The protesters, led by leaders of Asa Development Union (ADU), the apex socio-cultural body of Ukwa West indigenes, counted their losses to cattle and herders. Marching from Obehie/Akwete/Azumini/Ukanafun highway to Enugu/Aba/Port Harcourt road, they caused a gridlock. Some protesters urged Governor Okezie Ikpeazu to relocate the market to his Umuobiakwa community in Obingwa Local Government where there was enough land for such business. At the land at Obehie-Asa, where the cattle settlement/market is located, herds of cattle were observed with few herders around. The union said herders had done enough havoc on their community, alleged rapists, kidnappers, bandits and destroyers of farm crops. President-General of ADU Onwubiko Dike and Secretary-General I.K Ajuzieogu said the protest was to reiterate that Ukwa people would not give their land for cattle business. Onwubiko said: “…herders are all over Ukwa West, especially Owaza and Obiakpu communities, perpetrating heinous crimes. These scenarios have been reported at the police headquarters in Obehie-Asa. “Ukwa land should not be mortgaged for nasty, obnoxious, irrational, repugnant and unconscionable political interests. Cattle market at Obehie is a political narcissism of the most bizarre order. We reject this cold and callous political impunity. “The rage of ADU is against the dying conscience of whoever is playing this politics to enslave and suffer innocent Ukwa people. The government should look elsewhere for cattle market as Ukwa land cannot accommodate the asphyxiating and anathematising living conditions associated with such projects.” Governor Okezie Ikpeazu has approved the constitution of a committee to implement the relocation of Aba abattoir, which shares the same site with the cattle market. The committee is expected to be inaugurated today. Secretary to the State Government (SSG) Chris Ezem said the terms of reference would be given to members at the inauguration. 