A Senatorial aspirant under the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC) for Cross River North Senatorial District, Hon. Fidelis Ebi Egoro said his election will break the jinx and create in-road for the party to fully take over the political landscape of the state. Egoro who was a former deputy chairman of the People’s Democratic Party ( PDP) in the state said the recent reconciliation of the two factions in the state brokered by Governor Mai Mala Buni led Caretaker Committee has further repositioned the party to take over the state in no distance time. Speaking with newsmen after submitting his nomination and expression of interest forms at the National Secretariat of the party, the Senatorial aspirant said the October 31 legislative by-election will be the launchpad for the party to take over the state from the ruling PDP. According to Egoro, “Cross River State is not a monolithic political entity. We lost the state during the last election due to internal wrangling but now with the peace brokered by the National Caretaker Committee, we are set to take over the state. This forthcoming Senatorial election is for APC. The party is taking over the state.” The Senatorial hopeful and onetime Commissioner in three Ministries in the state said he was not intimidated by the other four other aspirants jostling for the party’s ticket. “It is true, we have four other aspirants but I am sure of victory come September 5 party primary and go ahead to win the Senate seat. I will bring my experience as a one-time Commissioner in three Ministries, council chairman and a deputy state chairman in PDP to bear in the discharge of my legislative assignment. “I am bringing in a fresh perspective anchored on God, the principle of honesty, integrity, and equitable representation,” the aspirant maintained. On the mode of primary for the September 5 party election, Egoro said he would prefer the adoption and usage of direct primary for the emergency of the party flag bearer to the October 31, 2020, Senatorial election. According to him, “Direct primary gives an opportunity to every member to participate in determining who carried the party ticket. This format is less to manipulation and all-inclusive.” He said his preference for the direct primary is based on the availability of party membership register in the state. “I know for a fact that everyone in my ward is on the party register, we have membership register in Cross River, I don’t know of other states.”