 PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari is committed to reversing Nigeria’s status as a net importer of refined petroleum products, Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, has said. The minister spoke on Wednesday after inspecting the first hydro-skimming private modular refinery being built by a businessman, Dr. Azibapu Eruani in Yenagoa, the Bayelsa State capital. The refinery, which is about 75 per cent completed, has the capacity to refine 12,000 barrels of crude oil per day. In a statement by the company’s spokesperson Austin Ebipade, the minister noted that Azikel hydro-skimming refinery is a massive visionary and pragmatic quest to facilitate Federal Government’s objectives of attaining self-sufficiency in the production of refined products, such as petrol, diesel, aviation fuel and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG). According to the minister, the Azikel private refinery is important to Nigerians and the country’s search for economic prosperity. He said: “The Azikel Refinery is set to actualise the ‘export’ of refined products from Bayelsa State to other states in the Nigerian federation, with daily production of 1.5 million litres of petrol, one million litres of diesel, 500,000 litres of kerosene and aviation fuel, thereby reversing of the stigma of Nigeria, the world’s fifth largest producer of crude oil, being a net importer of refined products.” The minister noted that the people-focused dream of President Buhari to industrialise the Niger Delta region, boost infrastructural development and facilitate employment creation was being actualised by the Azikel Refinery through the additional workforce and encouragement of hundreds of youths to acquire vocational skills needed to fill paid and self-employment slots being rapidly created by the refinery. The minister hailed the Nigerian Content Development Monitoring Board (NCDMB) for assisting in developing the project. He also praised the participation of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Nigerian Agip Oil Company (NAOC), Total Nigeria and Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria (SPDC) for the supply of feedstock for the Azikel refinery. President of Azikel Petroleum, Dr. Azibapu Godbless Eruani, said the company praised President Buhari for granting the company the licence. He promised to “work assiduously towards actualising the Buhari administration’s objective of industrialising the nation, creating positive economic multipliers, including jobs for the youth and other Nigerians”. Eruani added: “The Azikel Refinery is only a subsidiary that genuinely mirrors the patriotism and innovations of the Azikel Group.”   