The National Pension Commission (PENCOM) is set to review the Pension Reform Act (PRA 2014), six years after the last review. This is coming as the Commission identifies some challenges encountered in the implementation of certain sections of the 2014 Act. The Commission is calling for input from its social partners, pension industry operators, financial regulators and other relevant stakeholders. The Acting Director-General, PENCOM, Mrs. Aisha Dahir-Umar in a statement yesterday, said: “In 2014, which was 10 years after the implementation of the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) in Nigeria, the National Assembly repealed the Pension Reform Act of 2004 and enacted the Pension Reform Act (PRA 2014) in order to address implementation challenges and introduce improvements to the Contributory Pension Scheme. However, some challenges were subsequently encountered in the implementation of certain Sections of the 2014 Act. Furthermore, within the last three years, there have been persistent clamour for amendment from individuals and interest groups as well as several legislative attempts on the amendment of some Sections of the PRA 2014. “In the light of these developments, therefore, the National Pension Commission, as a regulator of the Pension Industry, has decided to initiate the process of the review of the PRA 2014 in order to address the identified challenges and public clamour. This is with a view to reposition the CPS and consolidate the gains of the pension reform for the benefit of Nigerians. “Accordingly, and consistent with its guiding philosophy of consultation and the imperative of ensuring the conduct of a comprehensive and constructive review exercise, the Commission has reached out to seek the input of its social partners, pension industry operators, financial regulators and other relevant stakeholders. We are confident that the input received from stakeholders would immensely benefit the exercise and result to a workable and acceptable Pension Legislation.” The Commission has however not released the sections to be affected in the review process.