 The Federal High Court in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, has convicted three persons accused of hijackng an Equatorial Guinean flagged vessel MV ELOBEY VI, off the country’s coast on March 21. Delivering judgment, Justice Mohammed Sani convicted Binaebi Johnson, Daniel Lemmar and Ghane Gordon on counts 1 and 2 and they were ordered to pay a fine of N20 million each under the new Antipiracy Act 2019. The Nigerian Navy had arrested nine persons — Binaebi Johnson, Daniel Lemmar, Ghane Gordon, Hassan Hakeem, Gregory Smith, Ofem Uket, John Mark, Chidi Amadi and Eze Amadi — suspected to be members of the kidnapping syndicate. They were said to have demanded a $2 million ransom of which $200,000 was eventually paid. During the proceedings in the court, Binaebi Johnson, Daniel Lemmar and Ghane Gordon pleaded guilty to counts 1 and 2 and not guilty to counts 3 to 5while the others pleaded not guilty. The prosecution counsel, Labaran Magaji, who spoke to reporters outside the court, said the judgment was a landmark victory for the antipiracy law. “They were charged under Section 16 (4) of the antipiracy law and once the charge was read to them, they pleaded guilty and the prosecution actually applied to the court to summarily convict them to pay a fine of N20 million each and only three of the defendants were actually sentenced,” Magaji said. The conviction is the first since the signing into law of the SPOMO Act in June, last year by President Muhammadu Buhari.  Director-General, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Bashir Jamoh, hailed the conviction,, describing it as as a signal that Nigeria is on the right path in the war against piracy and other crimes on the waterways. Jamoh said NIMASA as an interested party would continue to work with other agencies of government, the international community, and other stakeholders to achieve improved security in the Gulf of Guinea. The DG stated: “This will serve as a deterrent to other criminal elements who are still engaged in the nefarious activities on our waterways. On our part as an agency, we will not relent on our efforts to ensure a safe and secure maritime domain in line with our mandate. “The Suppression of Piracy and Other Maritime Crimes (SPOMO) Act 2019 has come to stay and it is victory for Nigeria as a whole as we are determined more than ever before to take our rightful place in the comity of maritime nations.” 