After a break of almost five months, the UEFA Champions League is set to resume on Friday, August 7th. At this stage of the competition, punters on Betway, one of the biggest betting houses, must be on top of their game. It will be challenging to predict which team will win a particular game based on the new playing conditions. The remaining fixtures will be held in a mini-tournament format after the remaining round of 16 matches is completed. The pending second-leg matches in the Round of 16 will see Manchester City face Real Madrid at the Santiago Bernabeu in Madrid, Spain. Manchester City won 2-1 in the first leg. In the other match, Juventus will take on Lyon at the Allianz Stadium in Turin, Italy. Lyon won the first encounter with a goal scored by Lucas Tousart. Messi’s Barcelona will battle it out with Napoli for a spot in the quarter-finals at the Camp Nou in Barcelona, Spain. The encounter in Italy ended in a 1-1 draw with Barca scoring a crucial away goal. Bayern Munich will face Lampard’s Chelsea at the Allianz Arena in Munich, Germany. The Bavarians are favorites to proceed after winning the first leg 3-0 at the Stamford Bridge. The round of 16 matches will be interesting for bettors on Betway to bet on as all the teams have what it takes to beat their opponents. When the round of 16 matches is completed, all eyes will be on Lisbon, Portugal, where the quarter-finals will be held. Here, teams will take part in a historic mini-tournament, which will end on August 23rd. In the new format, quarter-finals and semi-finals will be single-leg ties. Estadio do Sport Lisboa e Benfica and Estadio Jose Alvalade will host the remaining matches. The final will be staged at the Estadio do Sport Lisboa e Benfica. In the new regulations applicable to this mini-tournament, clubs are allowed to register up to three new players in their “List A.” This new development does not override the limitation to the number of players a team can have in their “list A.” Clubs must remove a player from the list to make room for the new player. However, teams will not be allowed to add players that were not registered by the club by February 3rd this year. They can only register players that were eligible to play for them at the domestic level. Teams will be permitted to make at most five substitutions in a game. However, the substitutions can only be made at three points during the game. The three instances will not include changes made during half-time, the period between normal playing time and the extra time and half-time during the extra time. In case a game goes to extra time, each team will be allowed one additional substitution. The coaches will also have a greater pool of players to choose from during the finals. Teams will be allowed 23 players on the match sheet instead of the usual 18. Round of 16 matches will be completed between the 7th and 8th of August while the quarter-finals will be from 12th -15th August. The semi-finals are scheduled to take place between 18th and 19th August, and the final is planned for August 23rd.