A pro-democracy group, the Civil Society for Peace, Justice and Development (CSPJD) on Friday said the country needs peace and not revolution, accusing some opposition politicians of sponsoring RevolutionNow protests to distract government and destablise the country. The group at a media briefing in Abuja by it’s Convener, Comrade Yusuf Yahuza said it has unearthed the clandestine activities of some opposition politicians, using Revolution Now group to destablise the country and called for decisive action against the sponsors and the protesters in order to stem the tide and put an end to such acts. The group condemned the last Tuesday protests in some states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) by the Revolution Now group, describing the development as worrisome and noted that the protests were not only ill-timed but uncalled for. It also observed that the protests held in flagrant disobedience to the laid down guidelines of congregation, adding that most of the protesters were not in possession of Personal Protective Equipments (PPE) in compliance with the NCDC protocol, thereby exposing more Nigerians to the dreadful virus. The civil group said that after many years of monumental political failures by the sponsors of protests, it was expected of them to be sober and reflective, allowing the government of the day to deliver on its mandate of security, economic empowerment, social development, peace and justice amongst others. The civil group aruged that the protesters cannot claim ignorance of the many good efforts of the government towards making Nigeria work again. Yahuza then said for government to achieve the desired results of all it’s efforts at repositioning the country, groups like Revolution Now and their sponsors should be fished out and punished decisively. Insisting that “Nigeria is not a banana republic and individuals who see it as such must be made to face the relevant section of the law.” The group accused the convener of Revolution Now, Omoyele Sowore and his group of preaching hate through a call for revolution, a concept they lack basic understanding of. CSPJD maintained that “Nigeria need peace now not a revolution.” Yahuza noted that “Sowore and his group have lost it and have resorted to the cheap word ‘revolution’ which we believe they don’t understand. How can you revolt against the government to create a government inside a sovereign government? “It should be on record that the sovereignty and integrity of Nigeria comes first above any other interest and individuals like Sowore and his bandwagon at Revolution Now should stop using the word because they lack understanding of such words as it portends a negatively on them and their followers.”