The greatest achievement of any government is not the mass of infrastructure put in place but peace, security and unity of purpose it brings to bear in the affairs of state or country. This stems from the fact that there cannot be meaningful development without bringing the people together under an umbrella where the need for peace, unity and security are embraced for the bigger picture of development. In the past 24 years since its creation, Bayelsa State – a relatively young state when compared with the older ones – has been bedevilled by one negative political shenanigan or the other. Definitely, the contending forces within the political class have impacted negatively on the development of the state, making it fall short of the dreams of its founding fathers. The government of the first democratically elected governor, the late Chief Diepreye Alamieyeseigha, and those of his successors were largely distracted by unnecessary contending political forces, culminating in instability and stunted development. Today, the state is lagging behind its contemporaries created same time in 1996, much less comparing it with other federating states. The consensus is that this is due to the triple problems of lack of unity, peace and unnecessary political contending factors. This is where the current governor of the state, Senator Douye Diri, comes in as he had waved the olive branch to all critical stakeholders regardless of political divide. In the past, the political culture of successive administrations was characterised by resort to abuse and blaming of predecessors, which brought nothing but avoidable acrimony and politics of vendetta. Having identified this negative trend, Governor Diri put on the wisdom cap of the biblical King Solomon and decided to open a fresh chapter in order to change this narrative through an open door policy founded on unity, peace and prosperity. Diri, who is widely called the Miracle Governor, emerged through divine arrangement that was sealed by the pronouncement of the Supreme Court. So far, he is the only governor in the history of Bayelsa that has neither abused nor blamed his predecessors for anything. He has simply focused on leaving enduring indices of good governance anchored on peace, unity and prosperity. It is interesting to note that even when he won three of his cases at the Supreme Court challenging his governorship victory, he was not carried away. Rather, on each occasion he humbly held thanksgiving services to dedicate his triumph to God and Bayelsans. After the recent July 14 victory at the apex court, Diri said: “This victory is not mine. Bayelsans are the owners of this victory. I call on my opponents and Bayelsans to join hands with my administration to build the state. Bayelsa has lots of potential waiting to be harnessed. There are is much for us as a state and the only way this state can grow is when we free our minds from acrimony, hatred and covetousness.” He further emphasized that “Bayelsa is still one state. Let us realize that power only comes from God. Whatever it is that has angered anyone, let us sheathe the sword in the interest of the state. Let us shun hatred and embrace love, peace and unity. That is only when Bayelsa can move forward.” Also, in line with his policy of inclusive governance, he rose in defence of former Governor Timipre Sylva, now the Minister of State for Petroleum, and that of Simbi Wabote, Executive Secretary of Nigeria Content Development and Monitoring Board, NCDMB, who came under negative media reports recently. While condemning the authors of the publication, Diri described both Sylva and Wabote as illustrious sons of Bayelsa and indeed the Ijaw nation. According to him, “Chief Sylva, having served as governor of Bayelsa, contributed and is still contributing his quota to the development of our state. The best we can do as a state and as a people is to continue to support him. Politics should not be allowed to divide us.” Concerning Wabote, he said: “In my view, Engr Wabote has done very well and continues to break new grounds in implementing Nigeria’s Local Content policy. As a state, we are very proud of the good work Sylva and Wabote are doing in attracting development to the state. And as a state we will continue to create enabling environment to attract positive development to the state.” This is ample evidence demonstrated by Diri to reconstruct and change the Bayelsa narrative in pursuit of politics without bitterness and an all-inclusive governance to enthrone lasting values of peace, unity and prosperity in the state. According to a journalist and political analyst in Yenagoa, Mr Thomas Peretu, it is time we close ranks as a people. Let us shut the door against politics of bitterness, arrogance, retrogression and rancour in Bayelsa State. We are one people bound by history and brotherhood irrespective of political cleavages. It is on this score that I commend Governor Douye Diri for extending his hands of fellowship to our brothers on the other side of the divide.” Peretu’s opinion may seem simplistic, but it represents the views of vast majority of Bayelsans across the political divide. On key programmes of the government, he has quickly identified lack of policy continuity and the abandoned project syndrome as a bane of development in the state. Besides concerted efforts to finish uncompleted projects of his predecessors, he has already kicked off construction of roads and expansion of the roundabout at the Etegwe-Edepie axis of the state capital. The project will culminate in the construction of a flyover in the area in order to comprehensively tackle the traffic nightmare in that axis. On welfare of the people, Diri has demonstrated unparalleled human face and a large dose of the milk of kindness. He has told those who come in contact with him that he is a servant leader of prosperity. With a background in the noble profession of teaching, he did not waste a second in addressing the concerns of primary school teachers when the state chapter of the Nigeria Union of Teachers brought some of their issues to his attention. For instance, since 2014, the morale of teachers had been down due to non-promotion and non-payment of the 18 per cent minimum wage arrears owed the teachers since 2011. Speedily, the governor approved the payment of the arrears owed teachers and accordingly implemented their outstanding promotion since 2014. In same vein, he approved the state’s own share of counterpart funding for all primary healthcare workers across the eight local government areas of the state to boost the morale of primary health workers. Now they can smile home with various welfare packages and allowances due them while the state has equally commenced payment of the new N30,000 minimum wage for civil servants. Besides, retirees who had been suffocated with non-payment of their gratuities for several years are now smiling following the payment of gratuities dating back to 2008. Every month, between N150million and N200million is set aside for payment of gratuities. This singular act has not only endeared the governor to the ordinary people in the state but has also breathed life and hope into those retirees who had lost hope. A retiree, Ebiowo Maclean, who spoke out of excitement, said: “Governor Douye has lived according to the true meaning and expectations of his name, which means “this is what we want that we have been looking for.” He has truly come to liberate the people of Bayelsa. I could not imagine receiving an alert as payment of my gratuity.” Another issue the Diri administration has been contending with is the coronavirus pandemic, which caught up with the government barely one month in office. The governor remains undaunted in confronting the pandemic by assembling competent health and medical personnel to tackle the menace. With the lean resources at his disposal, he is prosecuting the war against COVID-19 in the state without a single intervention fund from the Federal Government. Unlike Lagos, Kano and other states, which the Federal Government doled out up to N15 billion to assist in the fight against the pandemic, Bayelsa is left alone to tackle the scourge. Besides providing wide range of drugs and well as procurement of medical equipment to combat the coronavirus, the government has thrice distributed palliatives to every nook and cranny of the state regardless of political leaning. In addition to that, it has granted tax holiday to individuals and businesses operating in the state to cushion the effects of the pandemic on small and medium scale businesses.  It has written off taxes owed and giving them holiday not to pay tax within a given period while the ravaging disease last. According to a press statement by Chairman of the Bayelsa State Board of Internal Revenue, Dr. Nimibofa Ayawei, “the tax reliefs approved by Governor Douye Diri have demonstrated his show of sensitivity to the impact of coronavirus pandemic on businesses in the state. “Part of the concessions granted by the government was the extension of deadline for filing returns and annual returns to September 30 for companies and institutions operating in Bayelsa State; with a waiver of penalty and interest until August 31 2020 for outstanding Pay-As-You-Earn (PAYE) remittances as well as a waiver of outstanding tax issues up to December 2020.” On general administration and good governance, Diri, who believes in international best practice where cost of governance has become a compact arrangement by cutting down cost of recurrent expenditure, reduced the number of ministries inherited from 32 to only 21. This is a feat that has been applauded by technocrats. He further took the concept of international best practice to another level by signing into law three bills critical to his vision of enthroning a regime of accountability and good governance. The bills are Public Procurement Amendment Bill, Fiscal Responsibility Amendment Bill and the Debt Management Office Bill. These bills are essentially not only to curtail the excesses of public officers over procurement and expenditure of public fund, but also to ensure that Bayelsa State complies with global best practice in the public sector accounting standards. Diri has told whoever cares to listen that he is on a mission to change the development narrative of the state by ensuring he does not play politics with the agenda he has set for the people. Today, even ardent critics and opposition groups concede that he has shown beyond doubt his determination to change the political cum development narratives through his government of consensus, unity and prosperity. In the words of a Yenagoa-based activist, Mr. Apollos Ebie, “Governor Douye Diri has proved some of us wrong over our impression about him. Some of us in the APC were strongly opposed to his election. Today, I’m proud of the positive steps he has so far taken in the governance of the state. He does not witch-hunt his critics as was the practice in the past. He accommodates and listens to constructive criticisms. He smiles over arm-twisting criticisms even when the critics are obviously wrong. That is a rare demonstration of uncommon statesmanship.” Today, it is heart-warming to state the obvious that God in His infinite wisdom brought Diri for the singular purpose of fixing the development needs of Bayelsa.