  The British government through its Prosperity Fund’s Digital Access Programme, has partnered the Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy and the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) to address the issues around right of way (RoW) in the country. In collaboration with the Digital Access Programme,  the first Nigeria Technical Conference on  RoW was held yesterday to aggregate views from stakeholders, to advance  policy and regulatory reforms on RoW and issuance of planning permits for mast and towers. The virtual forum is one of the key deliverable of the UK’s Technical Assistance project on RoW, which was initiated in April 2020 to assess the existing strategy, charging regime and measure that against economic development indicators. Funded and overseen by the Digital Access Programme, Greenfields Law, a leading telecom policy, law and regulation firm in the country had engaged with key stakeholders and proposed effective solutions based on the evidence gathered, while taking into account international best practice. Speaking, the British High Commissioner to Nigeria, Catriona Laing commended the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy and said: “Nigeria has seen great progress in the effort to provide inclusive digital access to millions of its citizens. The COVID19 pandemic has however, made the world rely more heavily on internet connectivity for access to basic necessities – health, education, work, shopping, convenience and other services. As such, substantial digital inequities have been revealed.” “The UK is keen to support the promotion of affordable, inclusive, safe and secure digital access for underserved or excluded populations, and this conference is a significant step to discuss the technical findings of our preliminary study, outcomes, lingering challenges and the way forward. The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Ibrahim Pantami who gave the keynote address thanked the UK government for supporting the Nigeria Digital Economy agenda, adding that  the government had supported the country in the development of the new national broadband plan through the Digital Access Programme. “Nigeria has in the last one year of my time as minister, added 10per cent to the broadband penetration level in the country. RoW reform is the key to unlocking Nigeria’s digital economy for inclusive digital growth and we have worked with the Nigerian Governors Forum to achieve some important results already.  We will continue to champion these reforms on RoW and work on the challenges identified by the technical study.” Reacting to the technical study and the next steps, the Executive Vice Chairman, NCC, Prof Umar Garba Danbatta  thanked the UK Government’s Digital Access Programme for the support in championing reforms on RoW to deepen digital inclusion in Nigeria. Represented by the Executive Commissioner Stakeholder Management (ECSM), Mr. Adeleke Adewolu, the EVC said: “The Technical Assistance on RoW reforms will assist in our quest for deepening broadband penetration in Nigeria. NCC is willing and ready to advance the reforms noted in the technical study and will collaborate with stakeholders to effect it in the short, medium and long term.” Applauding state governments that have announced the reforms on RoW, the UK Government’s Digital Access Programme Adviser and Country Lead, Idongesit Udoh, said: “This project will help accelerate the roll-out of backbone connectivity infrastructure, to underserved communities which is the key to unlocking Nigeria’s digital economy for inclusive, digitally-enabled growth, development and job creation for Nigerians. “The Digital Access Programme is also working on other projects such as cybersecurity essentials upskilling for SMEs around the country and basic digital literacy to promote inclusive economic growth and development.”