 Condemnation has trailed the continuous detention of the Liberation Movement (LM) candidate in the last Bayelsa State governorship election, Mr. Vijah Opuama, by the police. Investigations revealed that Opuama, who was arrested within the premises of the election petition tribunal in Abuja on August 15 by a police team from the office of the Inspector-General of Police (IGP) had spent 13 days in the custody of the police. Opuama was arrested shortly after he arrived to hear the judgment of the tribunal in a case he filed seeking the disqualification of the Bayelsa State Deputy Governor, Lawrence Ewhrujakpo, over alleged document forgery. Though the case was dismissed by the tribunal, the candidate was forced out of his vehicle by the police, who handcuffed him and whisked him away to their office in Abuja. The Vijah Opuama Campaign Alliance  (VOCA) in a statement signed by its Director-General, Tuebi Sapere-Obi, lamented that Opuama was being illegally detained under unfavourable human conditions by the Inspector General of Police Monitoring Unit at Force Headquarters in Abuja. Sapere-Obi accused the police of colluding with the Bayelsa State government to keep Opuama in detention till the expiration of the period allowed by the law to appeal his case against Ewhrujakpo. He said: “Mr. Opuama was arrested on the August 15, 2020 by men of the Inspector-General of Police Monitoring Unit within the premises of the Bayelsa State Governorship Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Abuja following a petition written by the Bayelsa State Government Chief of Staff, Benson Agadaga, while judgment was being delivered in his matter with INEC & 3 Ors. “We wonder why a respectable institution like the Nigeria Police Force will allow itself to be used by politicians to frustrate a law abiding citizen like Opuama by refusing to grant Opuama bail despite several applications and meeting his administrative bail conditions and have equally refused to charge him to court. “We maintain that Opuama has not committed any crime known to law to warrant his continued detention. We call on President Muhammadu Buhari to caution the men of the IGP Monitoring Unit.” Efforts to get the Chief of Staff, Government House, Chief Benson Agadaga, to respond to the allegations proved abortive as he neither answered the calls nor responded to text message to his mobile phone. Also, when contacted, the Police Force Public Relations Officer, Frank Mba, promised to verify the matter and get back with details but was yet to as   at the time of filing the report.