The People’s Democratic Party in Ondo State has outlined reasons why the Zenith Labour Party cannot campaign with projects executed during the administration of former Governor Olusegun Mimiko. Mimiko is the leader of the ZLP which has the Deputy Governor, Agboola Ajayi, has its governorship candidate and he is expected to lead the ZLP campaigns. Projects and programmes under contention are the free mother and child treatment, free delivery for pregnant woman, urban renewal, credit facilities for traders and artisans among others. A spokesman for the Ondo PDP, Kennedy Peretei, who spoke in an interview with our reporter, said the party would lead its campaign with its previous achievements in the state. Peretei stated that Ondo State residents were already yearning for those programmes and policies of the party. According to him, “Before this present administration, treatment for mother and child was free. Pregnant women were delivered for free and given free treatment. People used to come from neighbouring states to enjoy free treatment offered by the PDP administration. But today people now pay through their noses to get treatment for their children. This is what Ondo people are now protesting. There is the issue of urban renewal. Street used to be kept clean. No refuse anywhere but this is what we are seeing now. Infrastructure in the markets was put in place with credit facilities for the traders. The issue before Ondo people is the life abundance they enjoyed before and the poverty they are experiencing now. “We are campaigning with what we have done before and the promise to improve on what we have done before.” When reminded that Mimiko would also campaign with those projects for the ZLP, Peretei said the ZLP was yet to be tested in power and such has nothing to showcase. “He did those things, not under the ZLP. The ZLP has not been tested. He has to bring out the products from ZLP. Those projects were done under the PDP. He performed under the PDP. Even if they said he worked under Labour Party. He was SSG under Agagu and later became a Minister under Obasanjo. Labour Party in Ondo was an offshoot of the PDP. It will be valid for us to lay credit to all these achievements.