Over 12 million car owners and service providers across Nigeria are expected to be part of Carviva, a digital auto care service platform, recently launched in Lagos. The platform creates a hub that saves time, rewards users and allows car owners find as well as book best price deals from a list of well-equipped service providers. The service, according to the Chief Operating Officer, Kolawole Aroyewun, enables car owners to buy fuel, change oil, tyre and carry out general repair works while accessing quick rescue service through the app. Explaining how the app works, Aroyewun said: “It connects car owners to multiple auto care services at the click of a button creating opportunity for choices of services providers by comparing their distance and prices whilst getting top notch services from well trained workforce all at competitive prices with an opportunity of building loyalty points with increasing patronage which is redeemable over a period of time.” Service providers, he stated, are allowed to register and upload their services, outlets and operational contacts on the app for free without monthly rate so that car owners can be exposed to a variety of quality providers. While stating the platform eliminates the poor customer service, price exploitation and poor service associated with road –side mechanics, the COO argued it also rewards “consistent customers by building loyalty points on every service demanded on the app.” He stated there would also be opportunity to choose competitive prices from nearby providers while comparing distance to the location of car owners. The beauty, according to him, is that car owners know in advance prices of services in modern OEM workshops, garages and auto care service centres before booking. Aroyewun stated: “With carviva, at the tap of a button on a smart phone, you can buy fuel, oil and service appointments such as car wash, car diagnostics, lube change, wheels balancing, alignment etc can be booked and paid for on-the-go and from the comfort of homes and offices. “At carviva, we believe that all car owners and car users deserve an enjoyable auto care experience and should not be limited by pricing, their location or because they drive older car models.” To ease access to the app, he said subscribers are simply expected to download, sign up within one minute, request auto care in-app, visit nearby service centre or be visited by mobile mechanics, rate provider after completion and receive loyalty rewards.