The University of Lagos (UNILAG) Governing Council has named Prof. Theophilus Soyombo as Ag. Vice Chancellor to replace Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe who was removed on Wednesday over allegations of misconduct and others. Soyombo’s appointment was announced in a statement by the Registrar and Secretary to Council Oladejo Azeez, who also noted that Ogundipe was lawfully removed by Council. Ogundipe had described his removal as null and void, saying it did not follow the process for removal as contained in Section 17 of the University of Lagos Act. However Azeez noted the Council decided on Soyombo, who is of the Faculty of Social Sciences at the same meeting where Ogundipe was removed. The statement reads: “My attention has been drawn to a document circulating under the hand and signature of the former Vice Chancellor of University of Lagos, Professor Oluwatoyin T. Ogundipe, FAS. The letter purports to deny his removal by the Governing Council of University at its Emergency Meeting of Wednesday, August 12, 2020. “For the avoidance of doubt, I am in my capacity as Registrar and Secretary to Council the only custodian of the minutes of Council and the authorising officer on behalf of Council to issue official statements pertaining to all Council Affairs. “Members of the public are hereby advised to totally disregard the statement attributed to the said former Vice Chancellor. The position remains that he was lawfully removed by the Governing Council at a meeting fully attended by all Council members. “I also wish to use the opportunity to inform members of the public that Council at the said meeting duly appointed Professor Theophilus Omololu Soyombo of the Faculty of Social Sciences, University of Lagos as Vice Chancellor of the University in an Acting Capacity.” Meanwhile, the UNILAG chapter of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) has summoned an emergency Congress for Thursday at the Council Chamber foyer to discuss Ogundipe’s removal. The union condemned Ogundipe’s removal, accusing the Governing Council chairman, Dr. Wale Babalakin of masterminding it. 