An activist and critic, Chief Adesunbo  Onitiri, has decried what he called desecration of democracy by the politicians in the country. He pointed out that what should be the concern of the federal and state governments is how to deliver the dividends of democracy to the people that elected them into office and not to dish out anti-people’s policies. Onitiri said: “It is rather very sad to observe that with over 21years of uninterrupted democratic dispensation, Nigerians are yet to enjoy full dividends of democracy and their living standards are diminishing every day. “Democratic benefits still elude our people and they continue to suffer government policies that are against their interests. “Just recently, this government tried to introduce laws against freedom of the press and social media, in the name of hate speech, went ahead and imposed a N5 million fine on a broadcasting station. This situation calls for concern, thus posing a threat to democracy in the country.” Onitiri suggested that what the government should do now is to provide for the people basic infrastructure that will generate employment opportunities like uninterrupted electricity, good road networks,  healthcare facilities, jobs for an army of unemployed youth and conducive environment for industries to thrive.  “The government must live to its social responsibilities and remedy these  situations,”  he emphasized. He advised the politicians elected into government to always listen to the voice of reason and wisdom. Onitiri recalled that he was one of those that fought with their blood and resources to enthrone the fragile democracy we are enjoying till today with the historic June 12 judgement and support for NADECO. “We will not keep  quiet and allow anti-democratic forces to scuttle the democracy, without raising our voice,” he added. Onitiri  called on the Federal Government to summon all security experts together and fashion out immediate solutions to end the killings and other security challenges in the country. He expressed the view that with the accumulation of huge foreign debts, bad economy, insecurity, coupled with millions of unemployed youths roaming the streets, Nigeria, is fast heading towards a failed state. According to him, enemies of democracy have taken over the political space, looting and wiping off our commonwealth with avarice greed. Therefore, he added, all lovers of democracy of this great country must come together, assist the government to salvage this threatening scenario.