A private sector-led initiative, through the Central Bank of Nigeria’s backward integration policy, to raise the level of local milk production, reduce the huge import bill for milk and create jobs has reached an advanced stage. The initiative, which is being driven by FrieslandCampina WAMCO Plc, has increased raw milk production to 40,000 litres per day and empowered over 7,000 dairy farmers. Experts, however, say addressing insecurity and infrastructure is key to taking the programme to the next level. Assistant Editor CHIKODI OKEREOCHA reports. Things are looking up for the local dairy industry. Ten years after dairy manufacturer FrieslandCampina WAMCO Nigeria Plc pioneered a Dairy Development Programme (DPP) that sought to improve the quantity and quality of local raw milk production, the initiative, The Nation learnt, may have lived up to its promise of creating a sustainable raw milk value-chain. The DDP, a private sector-led initiative that drew sufficient strength from the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN’s) Backward Integration Policy (BIP), has resulted to an increase in raw milk production to 40,000 litres per day and empowered over 7,000 dairy farmers. Also, from its initial concentration in Oyo, Ogun, Osun and Kwara states, the programme has been extended to other parts of the country. For instance, a large DDP project is going on in Bobi Grazing Reserve, a pilot grazing reserve in Maringa Local Government Area of Niger State, Northcentral Nigeria. The Managing Director, FrieslandCampina WAMCO Nigeria Plc. Mr. Ben Langat, who confirmed this to The Nation, last week, said a milk collection centre has been set up there, with plans to engage a third party processor. Langat also said the company, encouraged by the DDP, has surpassed the target of 10 per cent local raw materials sourcing it set for itself in 2016. Hear him: “We have achieved and surpassed the target we set in 2016 on dairy development. “We have even moved beyond just surpassing our target to setting up a complete business line with the peak yoghurt. We have a factory that is producing yoghurt and is going to need a lot of fresh milk.” To keep the factory running, Langat said: “We are training dairy farmers in line with international best practices, improving their livelihood and quality of life, and improving quality of livestock and pasture for better milk yield. “We still need more and that is why we are building more capacity. Perhaps, over the next 12 months, the factory can run at full capacity. We are committed to helping to grow the economy.” Launched in 2010, the DPP is a Private-Public Partnership (PPP) initiative aimed at sustainably developing the local dairy value chain by improving milk quality and increasing milk production via the training of local pastoralists on dairy farming practices, while also supporting the Federal Government’s BIP. BIP is an import substitution strategy that seeks to build capacity in local manufacturing in order to reduce imports, create jobs and drive industrialisation. Since its inception in 2002, manufacturers from diverse sectors have been on the same page with regards to the need to support the policy and leverage it to boost local production capacity. In July 2019, the CBN gave fillip to the policy for the local production of select items including dairy products. The idea was to latch on the BIP to significantly cut the huge capital flight that goes into the importation of milk and other dairy products, rev local production capacity and create employment. Nigeria, according to the apex bank, spends between $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion yearly on the importation of milk and other dairy products. The humongous import bill is as a result of the wide gap between supply and demand for dairy products in Nigeria. It was in a bid to help close the gap and cut the import bill that FrieslandCampina WAMCO, through the DDP, threw its weight behind the CBN’s BIP. And as it turns out, the programme appears to be on the right track 10 years down the line. For instance, apart from it being replicated in other states across the country, the DPP, from Langat’s admission, has delivered on its promise to push immense possibilities into the hands of various stakeholders along the local raw milk value chain, including farmers, transporters, suppliers, Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) etc. His words: “In all our DDP locations, there are lots of SMEs that have sprang up doing different things such as selling feeds and animal nutrition boosters to the farmers; they offer veterinary and consultancy services, even pasture cultivation, fertilisers, herbicides, drugs, etc. Others offer logistics – trucks, farm equipment, tools, etc.” Suppliers are not left out. “At every DDP location, we have a laboratory that requires suppliers of lab equipment, chemicals and disposables. Even the motorcycle riders transporting milk from farmers to the milk collection centres are part of the value chain. “We also have institutional partners – organisations, universities and government ministries. It is an ecosystem that is developing just like in other countries where we have DDP,” he told The Nation, in an interview. Langat also said farmers were giving up their nomadic lifestyle and settling around the DDP locations, where solar powered boreholes, dams and other facilities have been set up. Since it’s an ecosystem where one thing leads to the other, this means that people are engaged in maintaining these facilities. “If you go to small traders around there, they will tell you there is a lot more income that comes their way now. So, you can imagine an economy that never had any income or much income from raw milk before, but now they have regular income that runs into substantial sums every month. Such income stimulates a lot in the economy. “Even in the housing sector, the DDP has provided better living for the farmers; they are now building better houses instead of living in temporary mud structures. Suppliers of housing materials also enjoy the multiplier effect of the DDP,” he said Interestingly, farmers’ wives have also set up cooperatives and established various businesses. The women have more time for themselves now because of having an income source; they don’t have to walk long distances to hawk items or fetch water anymore. Of the 7,000 farmers so far engaged under the programme, 950 are women. And there are plans to engage and empower more women going forward. Narrating the DDP story, Langat said it started in 2010 with the Shonga Farms in Kwara State, where it supported the farms to meet the company’s quality standards for off take of milk from there. It later moved to Oyo State, putting infrastructure in place for its pilot DDP, where the company built milk collection centres in several communities in Oyo. “The first milk collection centre was built in Fashola, Oyo State, in 2011. We started from scratch, Langat recalled, noting: “We have a total of 16 milk collection centres and 10 new ones are being constructed, with one bulking centre in Iseyin, where the raw milk goes into big cooling trucks and moved to Lagos.” More players key in For now, FrieslandCampina WAMCO Plc is the only dairy manufacturer/processor sourcing part of its raw milk locally through the DDP. But, there are indications that more players may have thrown their hats into the local raw milk production ring. The Nation learnt that the Kano State Agro Pastoral Development Project is investing heavily in local milk production and processing. The aim is to fast-track the development of indigenous dairy industry. The Project Coordinator, Ibrahim Garba Muhammad, who confirmed this, said the “continued importation of processed milk and its products is economically harmful to the Nigerian economy”. The Project Communication Specialist, Ameen Yassar, in a statement, explained that the agro project would train herdsmen and vendors on basic hygiene and best practices in milk production and processing to add value to their products. It also said the project would engage, in large and community scale, fodder production that will help herdsmen settle down without migrating seasonally in search of pastures. The Kano State Agro Pastoral Development Project is partnering the Raw Materials Research and Development Council (RMRDC) and other research institutions to revitalise the economy. According to the coordinator, the project is keen to gain from RMRDC’s expertise in the establishment of milk collection centres, as well as in the areas of meat and leather development. Formidable hurdles to cross        As heart-warming as prospects of a revitalised dairy industry propelled by ongoing dairy development projects are, there are challenges. From massive investments required to drive the scheme to issues of insecurity and infrastructure, it is certainly not a venture for the lily-livered. For instance, there is a lot more that needs to be done to improve infrastructure – road networks, power and water supply in rural locations. Also, because of port congestion and poor infrastructure, getting products out of the ports remains a nightmare for investors. There has also not been any significant improvement in electricity supply, a situation that has continued to push up cost of production. “Supporting companies to bring down the cost of doing business is a very essential thing for government to do,” Langat said. He also identified insecurity as another challenge. “Each community comes with its own challenges, like communal clashes over land resources, etc. But the biggest challenge dairy development will face in the North is security in addition to low quality pasture,” he said. According to him, the milk yield per cow is still very low hence, the company is focused on getting it up to the right level. “We have traditional beef cows that produce one to two litres of milk per day. But with artificial insemination and crossbreeding, we can get more than 10 litres per cow over time, and that would be a lot better,” he said. While increasing the milk yield per cow via artificial insemination and crossbreeding is not impossible, industry experts say that more investments are required to achieve the feat. They, therefore, recommend that since one dairy manufacturer/processor may not go it alone, other manufacturers should come on board. According to them, active public, private sector partnership is the way to go to take dairy development to the next level, while the government, on its part, work on creating a friendly policy environment for investors and their investments to blossom.