 Ogun State Government has ordered recognition of the Caretaker Committee of the state branch of the National Union of Local Government Employees (NULGE). This followed a petition to the state government by members of the Caretaker Committee led by Comrade Seyi Ilori, who complained that the former Executive Council led by Comrade Ayuba Olatunji had served out its four- year tenure, but had refused to relinquish power after the expiration of its tenure, which the National Industrial Court had also affirmed. Justice I. S. Galadima of the National Industrial Court, Owerri Division had ruled last year that all NULGE officials at the national and state kevels elected into office in 2014, on the basis of the union’s 2005 Constitution, had duly served out their tenure, and that any elongation of such tenure was illegal. The state Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Akingbolahan Adeniran, who received the petition on behalf of the state government, said: “I have gone through the petition and it is clear the Comrade Ayuba Olatunji-led exco have no right to continue occupying the union’s secretariat again as members of the state exco in view of the judgment in suit No: NICN/OW/36/2018.  “It is my view that the executive members of NULGE, being public officers, are expected to obey lawful orders of courts, as any violation of same will amount to misconduct and their actions are likely to bring the Service into disrepute. As the Chief Law Officer of the state, it is my constitutional duty to ensure that all judgments and orders of the courts are obeyed by all residents of the state.” “It is in the light of the foregoing that I advise that the Head of Service as the Chairman of the Joint Negotiation Council should direct the executive members of NULGE led by Comrade Ayuba Olatunji to obey the court order and vacate the state secretariat to allow the Caretaker Committee take over.” The Chairman of the National Caretaker Committee, Comrade Nankpak Njomiri, hailed the action of the Ogun State Government “for demonstrating the courage to uphold the rule of law and for joining forces with the progressives in NULGE to ensure the sanctity of judgment of our courts. We also express our appreciation to the Zamfara State Government, which recently announced same decision, just as we thank other state governments which had earlier taken this step, which in our view will enhance peace in place of self-help anarchists are vainly pushing us to.”