Suspected cultists reportedly shot a yet-to-be identified man, on his left ear Wednesday evening in Sapele council area of Delta state. It was gathered that the incident happened around 8pm, at a beer parlour along Labour Road in the timber metropolis. The Nation learnt that the victim was immediately rushed to an undisclosed hospital for treatment, after the assailants left. The Delta State Police Command confirmed the incident on Thursday. Its spokesperson, DSP Onome Onovwakpoyeya, said “I have gotten feedback from the DPO. He was shot on the ear, but he is receiving treatment right now. He didn’t die.” Meanwhile, an anti-cult group, Anticult Volunteer Corps (AVC), has berated the Delta State Government for it silence on the incessant cult killings in the state. In a statement signed by its president, Austyne Emu, the group called for the sack of security aides to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, describing their offices as “extremely wasteful,” going by the spate of cult violence that has claimed the lives of persons across council the state. According to the group, government’s inaction in reviewing and implementing laws to suit current social activities by residents of the state, paved the way for the gradual rise in insecurity. “Recently in some areas of Delta State, especially the state capital Asaba, we have observed unnecessary violent cult clashes between Aye/Baggars (cult groups), where too many lives are lost due to inactions of governmental bodies. “Societal values are determined by their abilities to systematically create and review or amend laws governing its people to suite modern lifestyle and see to statutory implementations of such laws in brewing a sane society. “Based on this fact, we will say that Delta State Government and Deltans have drastically devalued all existed mechanisms in tackling security issues and human capacity development, which ought to pave way for immense developments that will guarantee the safety of lives and properties in Delta State. “The Delta State Executive, Judiciary and Legislative arms should as a matter of urgency jointly review the Anti-Terrorism and Anti-Cultism Law” and inject a defined punishment for anyone found guilty for violent cultism and terrorism activities. “Because this is the major, if not the only setback in tackling violent cult related activities in Delta State,” the statement read. AVC further promised to support the State Anti-Cult Unit (SACU), to curb violent cult related activities and other vices in the state. At least 12 persons have reportedly died in rival cult clashes in Udu and Asaba areas of the state in the past two weeks, causing tension among residents of the areas.