 In the midst of the crisis that this COVID-19 pandemic has foisted on the world, there is an opportunity for Nigeria to re-assert its bonafides in the life sciences. It should reclaim its position as the leading center for training and research in tropical diseases. Less than 40 years ago, Nigeria was producing cholera and yellow fever vaccines at the Federal Government Laboratory, Yaba, Lagos. University College Hospital Ibadan, Oyo State was rated as the fifth best in the Commonwealth, and it had a pharmaceutical industry that had a globally-acclaimed standard. A constellation of factors, however, put the brakes on our progress, chief among which was the economic crisis of the 1980’s. Government agencies and institutions lost access to funding, facilities could not be maintained and Nigeria haemorrhaged its experienced and well-trained scientists. Our categorisation as a poor nation made us eligible for donation from different sources. All vaccines, including those we were making, were provided free by foreign governments and private foundations. We lost motivation to sustain our local vaccine laboratories. Since the turn of the century however, changes in statutes allowed for private ownership of universities in Nigeria and this has attracted funding to biomedical research. Nigerian scientists are beginning to contribute to knowledge in the search for cure for diseases again, most especially those that are prevalent in Africa. Prof. Oyewale Tomori attracted funding to virology research as Vice-Chancellor of Redeemers University. His lab played a leading role in the diagnosis of Ebola in 2014. Prof. Christian Happi has continued the tradition by setting up the African Centre of Excellence for Genomics of Infectious Diseases (ACE-GID) in the Ede, Osun State campus of the same University. Happi’s lab sequenced the genome of the COVID-19 virus extracted from patients in Nigeria in record time. The lab also developed a diagnostic kit for COVID-19 that cost about USD3. A good knowledge of the genome of any virus makes development of therapy, diagnostic kits and vaccines possible. We should seize this moment. Fortunately, while the science of immunology has not changed much in the last 150 years, the technology that converts the science to useful therapy and vaccines has improved considerably. Cleaning and sterilisation of equipment for re-use in vaccine labs used to impose considerably cost and risk in the production of vaccine. The innovation of single use equipment has eliminated this, and it should be easier to set up a vaccine lab that meets requisite standards quickly and easily. In addition, the laws regulating outsourcing has evolved over the last 30 years such that an entity can focus on its narrow area of excellence, protect and monetise its intellectual property rights in that narrow area while outsourcing development and manufacturing to other countries. We are seeing this manifest in the United Kingdom with the team at Oxford University researching vaccines for COVID-19. Astra Zeneca, the pharmaceutical company is developing the product, and a factory in India gearing up for large scale production. The Central Bank of Nigeria has  just published guidelines to access a N50 billion grant for research and development of therapies and vaccines for COVID-19 and related infections. That is a good beginning. The initiative, with all its flaws, should ignite activities in the life sciences. While COVID-19 has been the spark, we must seize the moment to fund research into therapy and vaccines for infectious diseases that have been endemic in the country. The most embarrassing among which are Lassa fever and Monkey pox. They are infrequently found in other parts of the world, but we experience outbreaks every year. Meningitis is also quite common and mutating strains of the virus from year to year lead to high fatalities. ACE-GID has the people, and the equipment to research therapies and vaccines for these diseases and we should seize the moment.  Development and manufacturing of vaccines and diagnostics for viral infections is very labour-intensive requiring very high number of middle-level skills in the life sciences. Nigerian universities and polytechnics produce graduates in lab science, biochemistry, microbiology, biology, physiology, anatomy and pharmacology every year. The country will have no problem finding trainable manpower for this industry. The business side of the project will be tricky. We will still be eligible for free supplies of vaccines from United Nations Agencies, at least until 2025. A nascent industry may compete on quality but may face short on cost. Nigerian government will have to insist that any vaccines to be donated to Nigerian must come from its factories. It may require indemnifying against claims from defective products or subsidy on higher cost of producing locally. We have no option if we want to develop a local life sciences industry. Further development in this area will require input of the Intellectual Property Lawyers and Regulatory Affairs Consultants. Any funding for research and development in infectious diseases must provide for their inputs. This is imperative because it is the only way to develop therapies for diseases that afflict Africans disproportionately, and develop a local capacity for managing new diseases that a changing world may foist on us. Nigeria consumes between  $250,400 million worth of vaccines yearly. Potential market for Nigerian-produced vaccines can easily be doubled to almost a billion dollars if we include Central Africa and the ECOWAS region. This is enough to sustain an industry. However, we must confront the vested interests that benefit from donor-funded vaccines imported yearly. That will require all our diplomatic, political and economic heft. 