 A firm, Platform Capital Group, has announced a $50,000 grant in perpetuity to ElectHER, a female-focused political advocacy organisation in Nigeria. Platform Capital Group – a group comprising Platform Capital Investment Partners, Unicorn Group and Diatom Impact – noted that the grant, to be provided yearly, is aimed at improving women’s participation in politics. The grant would fund activities to build the capacity of women, including the establishment of the ElectHER Academy, which would provide online and in-person training to 1,000 women interested in politics. The programmes to be supported would include the pioneer batch of the ElectHER Future Lawmakers Programme, a six-month intensive fellowship and incubator programme aimed at identifying young women and equipping them with the tools, network, and resources they need to become future lawmakers in Nigeria. Commenting on the partnership, Chairman, Platform Capital Group Dr. Akintoye Akindele, said women need to be empowered to boost national development.  He said: “The great work that ElectHER is doing is aligned with our gender equity goals at Platform Capital. Promoting women into leadership and supporting their participation in politics, government and business across all levels of society is key if we want to ensure the Africa of our dreams. Women are the cornerstone of the society and data has proven that empowering a woman has a greater net effect on the community. We must embrace this and continue to uplift women for the development of our continent.” Co-founders of ElectHER, Ibijoke Faborode and Abosede George-Ogan, said they were happy that Platform Capital Group had faith in the advocacy group to invest in its programme. “Women’s political leadership is critical to Nigeria’s socio-economic development, the obvious gaps in our policies and legislations are a reflection of the lack of equal representation that currently prevails in Nigeria. The institutional support from Platform Capital Group will drive the overall growth of ElectHER and help fulfil our vision of raising a new generation of empowered and enabled female political leaders,” they said. In Nigeria, about 51 per cent of women vote during elections but less than seven per cent hold government offices.