With as little as N3000, you can buy a foreign travel insurance policy, the Executive Director, Law Union and Rock Insurance Plc, Mr. Supo Sogelola has said. He made this known at a  public sensitisation on the company’s LUR Travel Insurance in Lagos. He said with the ban on local air travels removed, and international flights expected to be lifted soon, Nigerians should embrace the policy to reduce the risks of intrenational travels. He said the company’s LUR Travel Insurance for local travel policy is  as low as N500 and N1500 per year with benefit of N1million. He said: “Our travel insurance policy is designed to reduce the risk of unexpected event during international travels resulting to medical expenses and hospitalisation abroad, emergency medical evacuation, emergency dental care, repatriation of mortal remains, repatriation of family member travelling with the insured, emergency return home following death of a close relative, travel of one, immediate family member and lot more. “We have a partnership with reliable and experienced reinsurer –Mapfre Asistencia, a global company in travel insurance. We are A- credit paying ability with stable outlook, strong financial stability; seamless service delivery through our ICT infrastructure; and timely response in case of eventuality/loss with empathy. The requirement for travel insurance include Number of beneficiaries; Destination geographical zone; Age/date of birth of the insured; Period of cover; copy of passport data page; copy of flight booking; traveller phone & email; and next of kin phone and email. In the event of a loss, an insured person can be compensated through cheque or bank transfers “For our local travel insurance policy, we have our customer care contact for the insured to contact us and we will attend to him/her. For worldwide travel insurance policy, we have international contact numbers of our partners who will respond to their claim notification immediately. Our claim process will commence and claim payment depend on the response of the customer. We don’t delay in obligation. “Some benefits of LUR Travel Insurance include Loss of Baggage including personal effects like clothes and devices. Change of flight coverage medical up to $50,000 per person while repatriation of death remains draws a complete cover. All these benefits come at a very affordable price, starting from N3500 per person.” He explained further that the policy is available for a family of four on an international trip at just N22, 000. For one person, it’s about N7000. Sogelola added: “As we speak, not many people are involved in travel insurance but it is so important that you cannot over emphasise it. You can have annual policy or trip policy which can be two weeks or for how long you want to be in a country you are travelling to. Most people don’t think about unexpected events, but when it happens it is usually a very difficult and a bad one. If you are setting your foot on a plane to go out of the country, you should have insurance. ‘’In one of the cases that we have witnessed, one of our customers travelled with his wife and two children for a three weeks’ vacation to the United States and five days after they got there, his daughter developed temperature and they thought it was a simple thing. Before they knew it, she was moved to the Intensive Care Unit. Before they knew it, she had spent five days in the hospital and the bill came down to $32000 which was over N11 million as at that time. Fortunately for him, he had LUR Travel Insurance policy in place and the money was fully paid.’’  