Most people know of the significance of taking water often. It is everywhere on almost every news site and blog site about how it is fundamental to take some measure of water every day. Nonetheless, the vast majority don’t realise that the temperature of the water you are taking is likewise significant. Many people are not aware of the fact that drinking cold water can do more harm than good. Below are some health effects of taking cold water too often; According to medical researches, taking cold water decreases heart rate and stimulates the nerve which controls the involuntary functions of the body. This is known as the vagus nerve. The nerve is also an integral part of the nervous system. As the vagus nerve is directly affected by the low temperature of water, the heart rate eventually slows down, that is, as an emergency measure, your heart rate slows down until your body temperature reaches equilibrium once again. This is not too good for the heart as it can lead to other heart-related problems. One of the main reasons to avoid drinking cold water is because it has a serious implication on your digestion. Cold water, as well as some cold beverages, contract the blood vessels and also restrict digestion. The natural process of absorbing nutrients during digestion is hindered when you consume cold water. The reason is your body’s focus is diverted from digestion to regulating the body temperature and the cold water. Your body needs to spend extra energy to regulate the body temperature when you consume anything which has a very low temperature. The extra energy is actually necessary for proper digestion and absorbing the nutrients which is hindered. If you’re familiar with “brain freeze,” which you get because of ingesting ice cream or crushed ice, the same thing is caused by cold water/ ice water. It chills many sensitive nerves in the spine, and they immediately relay messages to your brain, which in turn causes headaches. Constant intake of cold water can lead to constipation. When you drink cold water, the food solidifies and hardens when passing through the body. The intestines also contract which is one of the major causes of constipation. It has been researched that drinking water that’s at room temperature helps the digestive process. Taking cold water after a meal affects the breakdown of fat.  This is because cold temperatures in the body cause fats to harden and congeal, making them more difficult for the body to digest. Even if you drink normal water, ensure that you wait for 30 minutes after a meal before drinking water to get the maximum benefits.