 JUVENTUS have reportedly made contact with Lionel Messi in a bid to try and lure the Argentine to Turin and form a stunning strike partnership with great rival Cristiano Ronaldo. Messi and Ronaldo have battled for the coveted status as the world’s best footballer for more than a decade and had some titanic Clasico tussles during the Portuguese’s time at Real Madrid. Ronaldo left Los Blancos to move to the Old Lady two summers ago, and the Italian champions and new boss Andrea Pirlo now want Messi to join him, according to L’Equipe.  Liverpool forward Sadio Mane is reportedly open to a move to Barcelona, and a reunion with his old Southampton boss Ronald Koeman. Mane has established himself as one of the world’s premier attackers having played a pivotal role in the Reds winning the Champions League and Premier League in the last two seasons. But, according to Spanish outlet Mundo Deportivo, he feels a switch to the Nou Camp would help him win individual honours. Chelsea’s top remaining target is reportedly the versatile West Ham youngster Declan Rice. The Blues have embarked on a remarkable spending spree this summer, splashing out around £48million on German striker Timo Werner, £45million on England left-back Ben Chilwell and £36million on Dutch attacker Hakim Ziyech. Leeds land Rodrigo for record fee Rodrigo, 29, has signed a four-year contract with Marcelo Bielsa’s side, who are back in the Premier League after a 16-year absence. He scored 59 goals in 220 games for Valencia, helping the La Liga club win the Copa del Rey in 2018-19. Leeds’ previous record transfer was former England captain Rio Ferdinand, who cost £18m from West Ham in 2000.  Rodrigo, 29, has signed a four-year contract with Marcelo Bielsa’s side, who are back in the Premier League after a 16-year absence. He scored 59 goals in 220 games for Valencia, helping the La Liga club win the Copa del Rey in 2018-19. Leeds’ previous record transfer was former England captain Rio Ferdinand, who cost £18m from West Ham in 2000.