Where does ICMS feature in the cash value chain? Cash industry in Nigeria is relatively new and therefore ust evolving. The Central Bank Nigeria (CBN) deserves credit for this development, which aligns Nigeria with global best practice in currency operations.What we call the cash industry was part of what used to be called Branch and Currency Operations until it was excised and made a full Department of Currency Operations as part of the strategic and continuous efforts of the CBN to modernise the Nigeria Financial Industry. Before ICMS and other industry operators were licenced, the CBN was the main operator and in that situation was subsidising the banking industry by providing most of the currency distribution and processing for banks at highly reduced costs. By licensing new operators in the cash value chain, the CBN was adapting the Nigerian cash industry to global best practices because in other parts of the world, the distribution, processing, securing and even packing of cash is done by private entities. So, to enable the CBN deploy resources and focus regulatory attention on these important roles was the main reason that ICMS and other operators were licenced to provide those services. By licensing ICMS and the other operators, the CBN has a responsibility to engender a conducive operating environment for the licencees to avoid the past trends where operators in this sector folded up due to poor operating environment and hostile regulatory disposition. The cash industry value chain is made up of retailers that generate a lot of cash, such as petrol stations, markets, gambling  casinos, churches and mosques supermarkets.  And, of course, you have the CIT companies and cash processing companies, banks and then the CBN. What are the issues? Today, part of the challenge we face is persuading the CBN to enforce its guidelines. What that has done is that it has created a situation where certain practices that are against official policies and guidelines and even our country’s laws are continuing unchecked. Some of these practices are the spraying of money at events, as well as hawking of new naira notes openly. I can tell you authoritatively that the volume of cash in circulation worldwide and in Nigeria is not decreasing as many people seem to believe. The reason the CBN initiated the cashless policy was not necessarily so that overnight all the cash in circulation would disappear. The cashless policy was necessary because the volume of cash in circulation and the attraction for cash transactions was growing at an alarming rate and threatening national security in some ways. What do you mean by cash is going nowhere? We belong to an international association which sponsors research into various segments of the payments space, including cash in circulation in various countries and across the world. In the last few years, statistics has shown that in the European Common Market area and Asia, particularly the cash in circulation, has been growing steadily and in places like Africa the growth is even more, on a year-to-year basis. And this is in spite of the rise in digital and card payments. So, people were surprised because simultaneous to this, e-payment was rising, cheque payment was declining and internet payment was also rising.  One explanation for the continuous popularity of cash as a medium of exchange and value storage, is that there is a correlation between crisis/tension and rise in cash volumes. People tend to seek to hold cash in times of uncertainty and crisis and as the world continues to witness one crisis after another in different continents, it is no wonder that the volume of cash in circulation has continued to rise. Most central banks across the world know this and understand the trend very well. So till tomorrow, cash is still the greatest store of value. If gold was available to carry safely  in small pieces, maybe it would be competing with cash. Now with the COVID-19 pandemic one expects this trend to endure into the long term. Statistically, if you look at the CBN reports on cash in circulation, it remains high though the CBN has in recent years taken laudable steps to control the rise. That is because at the end of every transaction chain, whether it is e-payment or  Point of Sale (PoS), there is cash at the end of it. So, the frequency of cash payment may reduce, but the ultimate value of cash remains a constant and this is one of the issues that engages the expert attention of central banks around the world. Even in the United States with all the advances in e-payment and card transactions, significant cash transaction volumes exist. In fact, the second largest cash processing company in the world is based in the USA and has several hundreds of CIT vehicles and cash sorting centres in the USA and Canada. That is America that is easily identified as an almost cashless society. What are you advocating for the CBN to do? The central element of our value proposition is the inherent principle in shared services. This means that if I use the same resources or platform to service multiple clients efficiently, each of the clients spends less and I grow in scale and improve in efficiency continuously. This model is simple and trusted and validated by the success of several companies and industries in many parts of the world. Some banks still operate in violation of the CBN guidelines that allow you to handle cash distribution and processing. What is the level of compliance in the industry? We have more banks in violation of this CBN policy. We are probably servicing about 30 per cent of the available market share. I sympathise with the CBN on this because the capacity constraint  exists among licenced CIT and cash processing companies like ours. And the CBN has a responsibility to maintain an orderly and safe financial system. So, the challenge is for us to ramp up capacity quickly to strengthen the regulator’s hands to enforce compliance with the extant policies and guidelines without endangering the stability of the banking system. The truth is that because the banking industry in Nigeria is highly profitable, a lot of banks don’t care about cost optimisation. Why aren’t the banks conscious of your cost saving service? There are several easy ways that banks make money in Nigeria. But hopefully, with the COVID-19 pandemic and its consequences which  will inevitably impact the revenue profile of banks, I am sure many of them are going to start rethinking their mode of operation. Many of them invest too much in cash management infrastructure – they have tellers, managers, security men, cash sorting machines, huge vaults, bullion vans, escort vehicles, etc and a lot of others. But, that is not the business of a bank. A bank’s business is simply to do banking … collect deposits, lend money, make profit from doing these. So, the banks by continuing to distribute and process cash for themselves are effectively cannibalising the business of licenced CIT and cash processing operators. So, what do you want the regulator to do? To be honest, what the regulator should do is similar to what they do for banks.You know that whenever a ‘Wonder Bank’  or unlicenced finance house starts to operate, the CBN always issues warnings to  members of the public against them and at times, the CBN even works directly with the Nigeria Police and other security agencies to forcefully shut down such premises and arrest the illegal operators. The CBN doesn’t allow the ‘Wonder Bank’ to operate because they have licensed commercial, merchant, mortgage and community banks. So, if the CBN has licensed us as CIT and cash processing companies to operate in the cash management value chain, the same CBN  should protect our business  by forcefully and aggressively enforcing the guidelines. With that, the banks would be forced to work with us and there are several non disruptive options of working with the banks to achieve the goal envisaged by the CBN in enabling the creation of the cash operations sub sector. The problem is that the banks have infrastructure and operations that they are not licensed to undertake. And the licenced CIT and cash operations companies do not have the infrastructure to service the market as desired by the CBN. So, the CBN  ought to mediate the situation by encouraging the banks to surrender the huge CIT and cash processing infrastructure at their disposal in obedience to the dictates of extant policies and guidelines and also in realisation of the need to focus on their core business and reduce the substantial operational expense that goes into the CIT and cash processing infrastructure . This is a very simple and uncomplicated issue in my opinion. When we started this business in 2008, we had a South African Technical Partner called SBV Services. SBV Services is owned by the four biggest banks in South Africa. It was set up in the late 80s or  90s, essentially because the South African economy was at this stage we are then. It was set up in South Africa to provide a shared services platform. So, our prescription is not rocket science. We operated with SBV Services as joint venture partners until two years ago when we bought over their shares and they left Nigeria. So, global best practice is that central banks don’t get involved with the distribution and processing of cash. Central banks only get involved in the issuance of currency and  destruction of unfit notes. Others things like distribution and processing are handled by entities like us.  Another point is that a  bank branch is not supposed to be constructed like a fortress, which is the challenge banks have. That is why it is very expensive to set up bank branches in Nigeria; because if you set up a bank branch, you have to deploy resources to provide several non core CIT and cash operations infrastructure and personnel which are non core to the business of the bank and all these costs are passed on to the customers. What is the medium to long-term vision of ICMS? Our plan is to support the industry growth aspiration of the CBN by solving  the problem of cash distribution and cash processing capacity constraint so that ICMS and other licenced operators in the sector can benefit from a more aggressive enforcement of extant policies and guidelines by the CBN. To this end, we plan to have nine additional cash processing centres across Nigeria in the next  18 months and expand our CIT fleet of armoured vehicles  substantially. Our ultimate goal is to be listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange in the medium to long term and we are working hard and actively on these plans at this time.  We understand the business, we are the only licensed operator that attracted a foreign joint venture partner in this sub sector and the partnership with the foreign company earned us the undisputed knowledge leaders in the Nigeria market and we still have that technical partnership. We see what they are doing in South Africa and the kind of value they are adding to the financial ecosystem in South Africa. That is what we aspire to replicate in Nigeria. That is what is driving our expansion plan. What are the challenges? We have had some poor records in Nigeria. Nigerian banks had set up institutions that didn’t succeed. You probably have heard about a collaboration between Nigerian banks that resulted in a company called the Pioneer Sorting Company Limited. It was set up in the 80s and 90s by some banks. They floated it then under the guidance of the CBN, but it failed. They also set up another one called ATM Consortium.The purpose of the ATM Consortium was to create a shared platform to process industry wide ATM fit notes and perhaps even manage the roll out and maintenance of ATMs on behalf of Nigerian banks. This, again,  failed. So, there is a recognition that a shared services platform is the typically the right model for most industries. Typically, currency operations constitutes between 25 and 40 per cent of the cost of operations for most banks depending upon the efficiency levels and geographic dispersion.