Fast-rising Nigerian musician, Mikeworld is set to drop his new single What You Want. It will be the first song released off his EP project that’s in the pipeline. MikeWorld, born Michael Ikechukwu Isichei, is a fast-rising, Nigerian contemporary RnB Musician. Mike showed great interest in music from a very young age. His passion for music motivated him to be actively involved in major musical activities all through his elementary and secondary school days. He has since developed his talent remarkably and honed his musical skills to a point many industry gatekeepers see him today as of one of the few young acts who will redefine RnB in Africa in the nearest future. He launched officially into the music industry in October 2018 with a single titled Foreign, which was favorably received, and enjoyed a great airplay across all major platforms. In September 2019, MikeWorld released another single and an accompanying video titled Are You Down featuring Akuchi, a fellow Lagos-based rising star. In addition to attracting new audiences across the world, this single further defined Mike’s voice and brand and pushed him closer to claiming his spot in the ever-changing, fierce music landscape. In the bid to achieve this, Mike has embarked on major career development activities and taken major steps towards fortifying himself for the challenges ahead. Some of these activities, including studying at the UK’s leading audio engineering school – Point Blank Music School, London, where he has bagged two Diplomas in Music Production and Mixing & Mastering to his credit. He has also enrolled for a One-on-One grooming program at Nigeria’s largest music school – Tenstrings Music Institute, directly under the tutelage of the institute’s director, Mr. Akapo Emmanuel, leading to an award of Advance Diploma in Music Performance. His new song What You Want shows off yet again the loverboy side of Mikeworld – an exceptional African Prince Charming, “crowned Mr. Cute and Sexy” by many of his female fans. He is currently working on a major project which will see to the release of some of his best and latest works in successive singles and then finally an EP album. This is the project Mike World intends to ride on to announce and entrench his music and brand to the world on a far-reaching scale. Some of the songs to expect on this project will include his recent works such as “What You Want” , “Focus” and “Complications”.