The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has warned that if parties participating in the Edo and Ondo governorship elections do not de-escalate the current tension, the polls may be marred by voter apathy. It said candidates and their campaign councils must tone down their rhetoric and the use of incendiary language aimed at inflaming passion. National Commissioner and Chairman Information and Voter Education Festus Okoye, in a chat with The Nation, noted that “sowing fear and apprehension in the minds of the voters will disengage them from the electoral process. The escalation of violence will lead to low voter turnout.” He said: “Political leaders and actors in Edo and Ondo states have a responsibility to protect the health and safety of the voters and assure them that it is safe to go out and vote on election day.” Okoye added: “The parties, candidates and their supporters must de-escalate the current tension in Edo State. They must tone down their rhetoric and the use of incendiary language aimed at inflaming passion. “Sowing fear and apprehension in the minds of the voters will disengage them from the electoral process. The escalation of violence will lead to low voter turnout. Political leaders and actors in Edo and Ondo states have a responsibility to protect the health and safety of the voters and assure them that it is safe to go out and vote on election day.” The International Press Centre (IPC), Lagos is to conduct a one-day webinar/virtual capacity building session for reporters ahead of the Edo and governorship elections. The webinar, organised by the IPC, under component 4b: support to media of the European Union Support to Democratic Governance in Nigeria (EU-SDGN) project, aims to engage and build the capacity of select journalists and media stakeholders in Edo and Ondo states. IPC Executive Director Mr. Lanre Arogundade said the media capacity building session is aimed at consolidating efforts by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and other electoral stakeholders under the EU-SDGN project to ensure that the media coverage of the elections is professional. “As INEC gears up plans to conduct governorship elections on September 19 and October 10 in Edo and Ondo states, it is imperative that media coverage of the process leading to the elections is professionally done in such a way that the germane issues that will promote greater stakeholders and citizens participation in the elections are brought to the fore of media reportage. “Our preliminary observations have shown rising issues of political conflicts and tension, which have produced news headlines and reports of personality clashes and hostilities around certain political actors in the elections. “The media needs to be careful so as not to become entangled in the twist of events, so that emerging media reports do not create undue tension, which may dissuade the electorate from fully participating in the elections,” he said. The webinar session, which shall feature key stakeholders’ representatives from INEC and other institutional stakeholders shall include special capacity building sessions by media experts.