Former Ondo Governor Dr. Olusegun Mimiko has said he would soon reply attacks on him by Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu. Mimiko said he would speak out during campaigns and revealed why Akeredolu was able to do in one year what he could not do in eight years. Akeredolu had launched attacks on Mimiko for abandoning projects started by late Olusegun Agagu. Akeredolu also tagged the ZLP as a vehicle without engine. But Mimiko, who spoke while receiving Deputy Governor, Hon Agboola Ajayi, at his Ondo town residence, said Akeredolu was not a progressive Governor because he abandoned reproductive health care programme in the state. Mimiko hailed the courage of politicians that have remained with his vision. He said the ZLP was made up of well studded politicians, adding that all structures within the party would be harmonised. The former Ondo Governor said the ZLP was not expecting any surprises from Agboola and other defectors into the party. He described Agboola as a well groomed and seasoned politician who have learnt a lot in politics. His words: “We don’t expect any surprises. We know all the good and bad of Agboola. Never trust a man until you give him power. “Agboola has seen and exercised power. He has a good head and good heart for governance. This is not the time for campaign but I will tell my friend (Akeredolu) why he was able to do what I could not do in eight years. “Any party that does not drive in the direction of removing the burden of looking for money for reproductive health cannot be called a progressive.” Agboola described Mimiko as ‘leader of politicians’ who was able to manage all of them for eight years. He stressed the needs for unity into rescue the state from bad governance. Agboola said he was in the ZLP to change the narrative of Ondo politics and governance for the good of the people. “We are not just in the ZLP to contest. We want to win and take power for the benefit of all us. The whole state has spoken. They are waiting for your (Mimiko) directive.”