 In one of his songs, the late popular musician, Fela Anikulapo Kuti, underscored the importance of water to human existence. According to him, Water no get enemy. Globally, access to clean water is a challenge and Nigeria is not an exception. According to a report by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) on clean water and sanitation, water scarcity affects more than 40 per cent of people, and it is projected to increase. It is projected that at least one in four people will suffer recurring water shortages by 2050. According to a report by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), the challenge posed by inadequate potable water is particularly acute in northern Nigeria, where only 30 per cent of the population has access to safe drinking water and adequate sanitation. This contributes to the high prevalence of waterborne diseases that are threatening the livelihoods of smallholder farmers and contribute to low levels of school enrollment, especially among girls. A visit by The Nation to some communities in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) revealed what members of the communities have to sacrifice due to poor access to potable water. Zhiko, Pasepa, Ijabisa, and Goipe are remote communities located in the Bwari Area Council of the FCT, Abuja. The communities, going by their locations, are difficult to be differentiated because of the absence of boundaries. Besides, as intertwined as they are, they experience different challenges. They are about 40 kilometres away from Dutse Alhaji, a satellite town in the FCT. More so, the poor state of the road makes the journey from one community to the other taxing. The journey to the communities which share a boundary with Niger State lasted for about one hour, 25 minutes, due to several bad portions of the road. Given the experience on the road, it is safe to say, the best means of transportation to the town is motorcycles. While taking a walk around Ijabisa community with the Chief and other members of the community, our reporter observed that a farmer cleaning up his sprayer container preparatory to the disinfection of his crops. The stream where the farmer was washing off the chemical content of his sprayer also serves as a source of drinking water to residents of the community. Residents use the water from the stream to cook, wash, bathe, and to do other household chores. Close to the stream is a borehole that obviously reminds members of the community of what they longed for. It was sunk in 1985, even though it has stopped supplying water. The stream remains their only source of constant water supply, no thanks to the soft nature of the soil in the community that has made several attempts to dig wells fail. “We have contributed money several times to dig well which will make our source of water safer than the stream because it will be controlled but all our attempts failed because the wells always end up collapsing,” a member of the community said. The Chief of Ijabisa Community, Chief Dauda Ijabisa, who works in Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC), Kubwa region under zone four said the challenges posed by lack of access to potable water is huge with regard to the effect it has had on so many marriages and potential marriages. Chief Ijabisa said: “Water is our major problem in this community. It is a major concern and water is important to human existence. Our only source of water is the stream. If we drink the water from the stream, we discovered that our people fall sick with cholera, diarrhoea, toilet infection and malaria. “Our water is in a bad state. Also, the distance from the stream to our houses is quite a distance and the road from the stream is hilly which makes it more stressful for our women who are mostly responsible for fetching the water. They come back home complaining of pains. “At the moment, my children are sick because of the poor state of the water. My mother is in a room right now receiving drip. The illness that we experience as a result of the poor state of our water has prevented so many women in this community from going to the market, stopped men and women from going to the farm. Yet, they have to keep drinking and using water for other things because they are left with little or no option.” He also hinted that the community might be at the risk of contracting the ravaging Coronavirus disease considering their lack of access to water. “We are afraid that we might be more exposed to the virus because, according to medical practitioners and the adverts we hear on the radio, we are supposed to maintain healthy hygiene and wash our hands regularly to prevent contracting or spreading the virus. The truth is that the water available to us is not even clean and enough for us. It already makes our people sick. “So, the outbreak of the virus might just make things worse for us. The stream serves as the place where we wash, where some people defecate as it is easy to just finish defecating and fetch little water from there to clean up instead of entering bushes where one might be exposed to snakes and other things. It also serves as our drinking water, cooking, and bathing.  Alternative water supply In Ijabisa what appears like the presence of civilisation and what gives them hope as far as water is concerned is the borehole that was dug in 1985. The 35-year-old structure is, however, just a decoration and serves as a playground and seating area for children who go to the stream to fetch water. It seems like they have options considering their proximity to another community; Zhiko where there is a borehole. However, the challenge is the distance, particularly during the rainy season. The distance not only discourages them from embarking on a long journey but forced them to stick with the stream. Again, the onset of the rain might appear as a relief to their quest for clean water as they arrange their containers outside whenever it rains. Another challenge to their option for potable water in Zhiko is that the borehole there is solar-powered. The disadvantage of the solar-powered borehole is that they stay without being able to pump water for days because the sun does not rise during the rainy season as expected. It is always cloudy and it rains almost every day which makes them go for days without potable water. In cases where the water is available, the hassle of queuing and hoping it gets to their turn before the water finishes are something they usually have to contend with. Local water vendors popularly called Mai ruwa would have been the alternative source of water for them. Seen as a normal situation in most satellite towns in the FCT where water scarcity remains a challenge, the remote nature of the community makes Mai ruwa business not to be an option to be explored by some of the youth.  Challenges associated with water scarcity On his experience about the water situation in his area, the Chief of Ijabisa said: “Personally, the lack of potable water in this community has affected my marriage. My wife ran away because she was tired of always going to the stream to fetch water. Women nowadays do not like to suffer. They prefer everything to be already made but that is not the case. The women we have now just want to wake up and press remote control or buttons to get whatever they want. “We have had over five cases of wives absconding from their homes. They abandon their husbands and children because of the water challenge. Women don’t like anything that will stress them; they just want everything to be at their beck and call. “Some youths have come to complain to me bitterly about their experiences with women. They usually tell me that women turn down their proposals because they don’t want to end up suffering and fetching water from the stream. “We have had cases where the women say the issue of water was their only source of concern but they sometimes end up agreeing to the marriage proposal with the hope that they would adapt or things will get better. We still wait for the day when there will be a borehole in our community. The people who have approached me about their difficulty in getting life partners because of water are more than five. There are others that I have seen their wives leave them.” Narrating how his wife absconded after 10 years of marriage, Muhammed Musa, a 42-year-old father of six revealed how he found it difficult to get a woman to marry because of the issue of lack of water. “We fetch water from Zhiko wells because there is no borehole or well in our community, Ijabisa. We trek about two kilometres to get what is relatively close to drinking water. “The first woman I wanted to marry is from Pasepa, a community not far from ours but because the lady already knew the peculiarity of our water challenge, she turned down my offer. I later married a lady from Jabi but she later left the marriage on the grounds that the suffering and hassle she goes through as a result of the search for water was too much. She stayed for about 10 years but she said she could not continue any more. “I had to remarry and this time around, I married someone from Gbazango. In order not to experience what happened in my first marriage, I decided to assist my second wife with house chores, especially in the area of fetching water which is the main reason my first wife left me. I go to the stream with a motorcycle to fetch water. I sometimes go to the nearby community to fetch water from their borehole, if the queue there is not too long. “I assist my wife because it is an instruction in the Holy Quran. The Holy Book said husbands should provide for their wives and since water is one of the things she needs, I feel it is my duty to also provide that. I also do it because I don’t want my second wife to leave me. “The community has existed for so long and I feel the closeness to the nation’s capital should attract some level of development. Unfortunately, the government is far away from us as we don’t feel its impact. We only feel their presence during the election and even then, they only come with salt, seasoning, and other cooking ingredients. They make so many promises but end up not fulfilling them as they disappear immediately after they are voted into office. The only help we get is from the non-governmental organisations (NGOs).” Amina Umaru, a 56-year-old woman who is fondly called Mama said she has been married for about 30 years said the stress she goes through daily has made her look older than her age. She said: “I am seriously suffering. Sometimes when I go to the stream, I get tempted to pour the water away because of the hilly nature of the road from the stream to the house. I have to endure the pain. I have to go to the stream seven times to fill our drum and I don’t get help from my husband because he has to be in the farm. Whenever he has extra money to spare, he calls a commercial motorcyclist to help me fetch water from the community nearby. “I wish I married from another community but my husband married me and brought me here. Honestly, it is love that is keeping me. If not for the love I have for my husband, I would have followed the path of some other women who left their marriages. I wish I married someone in the town so that I don’t have to go through this water problem. I would have also loved to wake up in the morning, open the shower and bath or open tap, and have running water in my house instead of going to the stream. “This water challenge makes most of us look older than our age. What can we do? It is our destiny. Life will be a lot better if we can have an effective borehole. Without water, there is no life.”  Attempts at getting potable water Subsequent to several complaints, Chief Ijabisa said he has attempted to get a loan from banks to sink a borehole. “I called some of the men and we decided to rally round and see how we can sink a borehole in the community. I wanted to apply for a loan of N600, 000 which was the estimate we were given then to enable us to sink the borehole. However, most of the banks I approached were reluctant to process the loan facility. “Beyond that, several attempts to dig well to serve us instead of the stream failed because we were told by experts that our soil was too soft. So, the challenge with that is that they have to dig very deep. On the few instances they attempted digging the wells, they collapsed after few weeks.”