Teenage years are the most interesting as well as challenging for many. It is also the time when parents complain about lapses and attitudinal changes, wishing and comparing their children with others. Unfortunately, many parents are either too busy or preoccupied with other things. This interestingly is the subject matter of this book  titled: “ What teens wish their children knew’. She kicks off with the introduction this way: “ Dear Parents, ‘ As the firstborn of my parents , an awful lot of responsibilities ( (those that I am aware  and unaware of) are passed down to me by culture and asca teenager, I tend to feel bewildered and reluctant sometimes, and my parents may not see things the way I see them, which is no fault of theirs at all’. Painting graphic images of the communication gaps between teenage children and their parents , she opined that this usually leads to misunderstanding at different points. Apart from doing an x-ray on the typically and personal challenges, the author tries to proffer solutions to address parent- teen relationship. The crux of the matter here is that every teenager wants parents who understand their point of view. To buttress her point, Osuchukwu makes a comparison of the changing times and the fact that we are in a digital age, which plays a crucial role in the attitudes. choices and mannerisms of today’s teens. Osuchukwu’s style of writing is simple and creative, using natural images and everyday examples to buttress her point. She takes the reader through her world effortlessly, she translates this vividly with descriptions and you are mesmerized by teens and the fact that the world is in their pockets supported by loving parents who want them to excel and rule their world. Arguing and taking a stand with co-workers teenagers on how they love to be mentored and grow , the author’s subtle presentation of the subject matter reminds you of the schools debate setting arguing for and against the topic and convincing the reader with her points. The narrative is compelling and it takes you into the things going on in the minds of the young ones,as the author also reaches out as an advocate to teens as well as a counselor to Parents and helping to bridge the gap. Her words: “My intention is not to criticise the parents but to reach out to them and make clarifications. We know that our parents love us, at the same time it is crucial for them to understand that  the teenage phase is a complicated one, in view of the fact that  we go through a lot of transitioning.” Wishes? Yes, you find a lot of this in the book. It is also is what can be described as the teens roadmap, a guide to a wonderful future. A future where their self-esteem is not damaged, a future full of promises as well as adventure. This certainly serves as a fascinating guide, understanding the perspectives better would definitely reduce the increase in teenage suicide, crime, drug abuse and more. Inspiring ,you would say. It will certainly motivate others to write their own book. For, the author   it is obvious that she has been busy before, during and post  COVID-19. It is a good beginning and  the inspiration will definitely give birth to yet another. 