 KEY leaders of the Islamic State of West African Province (ISWAP) have been killed in multiple airstrikes conducted by the Air Task Force of Operation Lafiya Dole on  Lake Chad island settlements in Borno State. Some prominent terrorists’ leaders including Abu Imraana, ISWAP Naval Commander, as well as Mallam Ibrahim and Mallam Abba, were believed to be among those killed in the attack. According to a statement by the Coordinator, Defence Media Operations, Major-General John Enenche, the missions were conducted following credible  intelligence, which indicated  that some ISWAP leaders and their fighters had relocated to Sabon Tumbun due to the impact of the recent airstrikes at a nearby Island settlement. The statement said, “The Air Task Force (ATF) of Operation Lafiya Dole has taken another major scalp off the Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) elements operating in the Island settlements of the Lake Chad in the northern part of Borno State. “This occurred on 24 August 2020, in massive simultaneous airstrikes executed under the subsidiary Operation Hail Storm at Kirta Wulgo and Sabon Tumbun, 2 settlements on the fringes of the lake, where several key ISWAP leaders and scores of their fighters were killed.“ Also, troops under Operation Sahel Sanity have raided an illegal mining site in Zamfara State, arresting 150 suspected bandits, Brig.-Gen Acting Director, Defence Media Operations Bernard Onyeuko told reporters at the Party Super Camp 4 in Faskari, Katsina State, on Tuesday. The mining site served as a hideout for bandits, Onyeuko said, adding that 20 locally-fabricated dane guns were recovered from the suspects, one of whom was neutralised. He said, “Preliminary investigation reveals that aside sabotaging the nation’s economy, banditry is being financed through these illegal mining activities.” Another fighting patrol team encountered three bandits on motorcycles around Maigalma village in Anka council area of Zamfara State, attempting to attack innocent residents with one of the bandits  neutralised while others escaped and  one AK-47 Rifle, magazine loaded with five rounds of 7.62mm ammunition and two motorcycles were recovered  from the fleeing bandits. A repentant bandit leader named Bornon Kejo reportedly surrendered to the troops, submitting two AK47 rifles in Zurmi council of Zamfara State. Some kidnapped persons were rescued in Katsina, it was learnt.  