Ahead of the October 31, 2020 legislative by-elections into Federal and States Legislative Houses in 8 states, 30 aspirants are jostling for the six Senatorial tickets of the All Progressives Congress (APC) at the party’s September 5, 2020 primary. Twenty four aspirants are equally angling for the party’s tickets for six states House of Assembly election. Investigation by The Nation revealed that the party raked in N219.9 million from the sale of nomination and expression of interest forms for both Senatorial and State Constituency seats. N199.5 million from Senatorial aspirants and N20.4 million realised from aspirants seeking the party’s tickets for the House of the Assembly election. As at the close of submission of nomination forms by aspirants on Monday, Imo North Senatorial district is leading the pack with 11 aspirants while Cross River North Senatorial district and Plateau South Senatorial districts have five aspirants each jostling for the party’s tickets. Bayelsa Central and Bayelsa West Senatorial districts have four aspirants each while Lagos East Senatorial district has only one aspirant. From the array of the 30 aspirants, it was gathered that three are females, with two from Imo North Senatorial district and one from Plateau South Senatorial district. For the State House of Assembly elections, out of the 12 aspirants that procured the nomination and expression of interest forms for Kosofe State Constituency only one aspirant returned his form on Monday. It was gathered that the aspirants in the contest may have reached a consensus to throw up the only aspirant that submitted his form. Five aspirants are to slug it out for the party’s ticket for Ibaji State Constituency of Kogi State while four aspirants are penciled down for Bakura State Constituency, Zamfara State and one aspirant each for Nganzai State Constituency, Bornu State, Bayo State Constituency, Bornu and Obudu State Constituency, Cross River State. Meanwhile, the party’s time-table and schedule of activities for the conduct of the 2020 concurrent legislative by-elections showed that screening of aspirants is being conducted between Tuesday 25th to Wednesday 26th August, 2020. Publication of claims and objections will hold on Friday 28th August; screening appeal is slated for Tuesday 1st September while the party primary in the 12 constituencies will hold on Saturday 5th September, 2020. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) fixed the legislative by-election in 8 States for Saturday October 31, 2020. The electoral body said vacancies have occurred in both Federal and State Legislative Houses as a result of resignation or death of members, affecting 12 constituencies across 8 States of the Federation.