General Yakubu Gowon, Nigeria’s former Head of State, was on his own when, on July 29, 1975, his government was overthrown by some junior officers of Nigeria’s Armed Forces. Gowon was then attending an Organisation of African Unity (OAU) summit in Kampala, Uganda. Gowon had no African country or organisation to fight his cause because the OAU charter then forbade interference in member-states’ internal affairs. But that was then. If Gowon had been overthrown in the African Union (AU) era, the situation might have been different. That he was attending the body’s summit when the coup that overthrew him occurred could have been a further impetus for the other African countries to intervene or rally round him, to save his government. Mind my words; his government and not necessarily Nigeria. The change by African countries from non-interference in member-states’ internal affairs to interference, either on their own volition, or on invitation by a sister country’s leadership that is in trouble, has both its merits and demerits. Ordinarily though, it should be a thing to cheer if the act establishing that principle had been scrupulously followed by the African leaders. Unfortunately, like most principles or concepts that should deliver positive results, the concept of ‘sister helping sister’ in Africa has continued to yield less than proportionate returns. And the reason for this is simple: the concept has been turned upside down, perverted by African leaders who are trying to view sovereignty from a narrow, selfish and even parochial perspective. This was one thing that Prof Bola Akinterinwa, former Director-General of the Nigerian Institute of International Affairs (NIIA) in Lagos, said on Television Continental (TVC) on Thursday, that took the heat off my zone. Many commentators on the Mali crisis which culminated in the forced resignation of the country’s president, Ibrahim Boubacar Keita (IBK), in the early hours of Tuesday, August 18, seemed to be more concerned about soldiers seizing power in that country than anything else. Fine, military rule is an aberration. It is antediluvian, undemocratic and old-fashioned. But the situation in Mali should not just be about that. The country has been witnessing protests fuelled by the former president’s incompetence or high-handedness in resolving the various economic, political and security challenges in that country. To me, many African leaders who are crying wolf over the recent developments in Mali are merely being self-serving. They are, to paraphrase an Igbo proverb, like an old woman who is never at ease when dry bones are mentioned in a proverb. They are only being concerned about the possibility of a similar fate befalling them because they are mostly birds of the same feather. Otherwise, Africa would not be the way it is today, despite the abundant deposits of riches that the continent is endowed with. Their main concern is self-preservation and not necessarily the interest of the average Malian. The point is that sovereignty belongs to the people and not to the government. But African leaders who are asking that the former president should be released from detention and reinstated do not see this to be the case. They think sovereignty is all about them. I am afraid, that their prayers that the former president be reinstated is not likely to be heard because they have asked amiss. For keen and dispassionate watchers of the developments in Mali before the former president’s resignation, they must have known that if the soldiers took over, it was because the situation on ground was sufficiently ripe for it. The people had renewed protests against the harsh socio-economic conditions in that country under President Keita in the last few weeks. Where were these African leaders who are now crying wolf while those protests lasted? Yet, it is not that there are no mechanisms in their protocols to ensure that there is good governance on the continent. The AU, for instance, has the African Peer Review Mechanism (APRM) that was initiated in 2002 but established in 2003. According to Wikipedia, “The African Peer Review Mechanism (APRM) is a mutually agreed instrument voluntarily acceded to by the member -states of the African Union (AU) as a self-monitoring mechanism. It vwas founded in 2003. The mandate of the APRM is to encourage conformity with regards to political, economic and corporate governance values, codes and standards, among African countries and the objectives in socio-economic development as well as to ensure monitoring and evaluation of AU Agenda 2063 and SDGs 203.” Where on the continent do you find any of the values the peer review is supposed to espouse and promote? Where on the continent do we not have corruption, economic crisis, insecurity, bad governance, etc? Just where? Yet it is clear, even from its name that peer review is a good initiative. But, the problem with many of the so-called leaders on the continent, even in their own individual countries, is not about lack of initiatives to do good or to be good. Rather, the problem is the lack of political will to so do. I have always said it; that peer review can only make sense if one good peer reviews another. But in a continent where we have many bad peers in leadership positions, there is no way they can look one another in the face and tell themselves the truth. Nothing good can come from a situation where people who are to review themselves behave like pigs, with both the first born and the last born roughing it out in the mud. This is the only reason why the African leaders could not take any action against Keita even with mass demonstrations against his rule for so long. We should wonder what these African leaders discuss, whenever they meet, whether under the auspices of ECOWAS or AU. The same leaders who did so little to rein in Keita are now threatening fire and brimstone by way of sanctions against Mali if their own is not released. What of the many political opposition figures that he had incarcerated? What of those that had died in the protests against his government? It would seem the Malians are angry with both the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and the AU over their handling of the issue. That probably explains the moral support and encouragement they have been giving the military since they sacked the Keita regime. And this is the way it is going to be whenever these sub-regional or regional institutions try to meddle in the affairs of member-states when they should be seen playing the role of genuine mediators. The perception of the average Malian is that those who are posing as mediators are merely trying to protect one of their own, and, by extension, their own positions. They do not see the intervention as something done in the interest of their country. Mali, lest we forget, has a long history of political stability. So, when such a country begins to have problems with elections, something should tell us that it is a matter of time for something to snap. Keita’s matter was not helped by the severe economic deprivations prevalent in the country, which were also compounded by insecurity and corruption. When these challenges coalesce in a country like Mali, which is one of the poorest countries, the only thing to expect is what has happened there. In the developed countries, the political leaders easily read the handwriting on the wall, and so do not waste time in throwing in the towel when their people say it is time for them to go. We see this everyday. This is aside the fact that they have well established structures to effect changes in leadership through democratic means. But it is not so in many parts of Africa. Here, political leaders so enjoy the office that they keep on returning themselves through flawed electoral processes and thus often end like the proverbial fly that enters the grave with the corpse. Since they have learnt not to leave when the ovation is loudest, they usually end up being disgraced. Keita should have seen his exit coming. Obviously, his loyalty was more to external forces which he thought would rescue him rather than to his people. And indeed, his external friends, particularly ECOWAS,  tried desperately to save him but it is just that their efforts came too late. Yet, a fundamental philosophical base for cooperation under the framework of the AU is the observance of certain minimum values and standards, with regards to human rights, democratic governance and abhorrence of non-constitutional change of government. To what extent were these values respected by the Keita government? And, in a situation where leaders choose to sit tight, even when it is obvious they are no longer wanted, using force to sustain their iron rule, how else do you remove such people who have outlived their usefulness? Malians had been on the streets for so long protesting against Keita, yet he stayed put. Yet his peers did not review him or his activities. Trust is an essential ingredient of cooperation. The point is; the people did not trust Keita even when he began to give concessions, following the ECOWAS intervention. And, instead of people facing the issues, they are busy reminding us of the usual cliche of the worst democratic government being better than the best of military rule. I wonder why this mentality. I wonder why it can’t be the other way round. Let no one take my position on this matter to mean support for military rule. But we would be deluding ourselves that soldiers would not be relevant in a situation where so-called leaders keep behaving irresponsibly, especially in a country like Mali. African leaders’ power cartels can no longer ensure their longevity in office. We are all familiar with the saying that you cannot keep doing the same thing the same way and expect a different result. The earlier African leaders had a change of heart to give good governance, the better for them and the rest of us that they put in quagmire wherever and whenever they permit the kind of developments that reared their ugly heads in Mali.