I have been a student at Coronavirus School in the last few months, not because I wanted to but, because it compelled me. But, despite my misgivings about the tight corner the virus has pushed us all, it has been months of learning that nothing should be taken as settled. It is because of a time like this that a brilliant mind, Robert Breault, once said: “Enjoy the little things in life, for one day you may look back and realise they were the big things”. The significance of these words is one of the lessons of this unpleasant time. The things we considered small and somewhat inconsequential are now longed for. Before the virus reared its ugly head, I could sneeze anywhere and expect “bless you” from those around me. I could cough and expect sympathy or even empathy. It never occurred to me that a man would shout on his daughter and order her to avoid me all because I sneezed in a supermarket. “That guy just sneezed,” he screamed at the daughter to get her to refrain from entering the supermarket. As I passed by the daughter, I laughed. But the message in retrospect is: Never take anything for granted. I have learnt that men will always be men; they will lie, steal and try to hide their secrets in vaults even amid a pandemic. The members of the management of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) paid themselves N85 million to attend a graduation ceremony in the United Kingdom at a time Nigeria was on lockdown and airports shut. Approval for the funds was given in April when countries were on lockdown and there were no flights. Even the pandemic was not enough to make these guys change their ways. Men and women, who are saddled with managing money to battle a pandemic, have seen another avenue to short-change fellow compatriots by inflating figures and outright stealing of money meant for palliatives or diverting the palliatives. Palliatives meant for the poor have been turned to patronage for political lackeys. Politicians have made men and women throng rallies to drum support for their re-election in disobedience to physical distancing and leaders play games with lives by denying the existence of a killer in virus form. And this has taught me to believe less in the political class. I have learnt that if you give men and women the choice to die by virus or by hunger, they will easily choose to die by virus while hoping some special anointing will come to their rescue and make them pass through the shadow of death with no evil befalling them. All you need to believe this is our disobedience of the protocols against the virus. I have reconfirmed that men of God are men first, or how do I explain the discordant tunes from the men of clothe? One man of God will have us believe COVID-19 was caused by 5G technology and that lockdown was to enable installation of the masts for this technology to work. Before his words sink in, a colleague will counter and describe all his words as gibberish. And on the re-opening of churches, one man of God is spitting fire on those who closed the churches in the first place, and some others are saying their churches will remain closed despite the permission from the government to commence services. The drama gets intense when one of them says he is waiting to hear from God before deciding whether or not to open his church. What all these have taught me is that pastors are first men and we should never treat them as God or prayer contractors. I have also learnt that things you think are settled can give way. Or what other lessons are there when men and women lose their jobs, not for incompetence, but just because their employers can no longer pay? I know people who were making a kill from our owambe culture. Who could have ever known that our Saturdays could be complete without weddings, funerals and what have you? The absence of parties has crippled owners of event centres, social diary television programmes and caterers. Many a photographer relied on wait-and-get services at owambes to support their families. They could never have envisaged there would be no parties to gatecrash and make quick cash from. It was just taken for granted. Now, we have all learnt the hard way that nothing is really settled. They only appear so. I have learnt money does not answer all things. Before this weird era, I could buy tickets and fly to different countries of the world once I had their visas. Now we have visas in our passports and money to buy tickets but we cannot fly because of the suspension of flight operations. Who would ever have predicted that the Murtala Mohammed International Airport and other hubs around the world would at one point become scanty? Who would have thought our big men would be denied the opportunity to fly abroad to treat headache and joint pain? Money sure does not answer all things. I never believed a year will come when Hajj and Umrah will not hold; never thought there will be a Sunday without churches being opened; never, ever thought I will be afraid to shake or hug friends; and it never occurred to me that even breathing where there is a crowd will come with apprehension. We took all these for granted as though they were settled. I have learnt they are obviously not. My final take: If I have my way, I will banish Coronavirus to the evil forest, that dreaded place where our forebears reserved for those perceived as bad for the society. On another note, it has been a sobering factor letting us know we are at the Creator’s mercy and He does as He wills with us and we have absolutely no power over His decisions.