Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Tuesday inaugurated and swore-in the newly constituted Governing Council for all the tertiary institutions in the state. The swearing-in ceremony took place at the Lagos House, Alausa, Ikeja. The institutions are Lagos State University (LASU), Ojo, Lagos State Polytechnic (LASPOTECH), Ikorodu, Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education (AOCOED), Ijanikin and Michael Otedola College of Primary Education (MOCPED), Epe. The LASU council is led by Prof Gbolahan Elias SAN, while other members are: Prof Adebayo Ninalowo, Prof Shafiudeen Amuwo, Mrs. Adenike Yomi-Faseun, Dr. Adetugbobo Hakeem, Mr. Sule Tolani, Mrs. Folashade Adesoye, Mr. Karl Tokun Toriola, Mr. Kunle Soname, Dr. Ifeanyi Chukwuma Odili, Mr. Adebayo Akinsanya, Mrs. Mojisola Tolagbe Taiwo, Mrs. Moronke Williams, Mr. Anuoluwapo Esho and Mrs. Foluke Kafayat AbdulRazaq. AOECOED council is headed by Prof Nuru Olasupo and members are Mrs. Riskat Akiode, Mr. Olaolu Mudashiru, and Dr. Wole Ajifowoke. For LASPOTECH, Prof Rasheed Kola Ojikutu is chairman and other members are Dr. Mrs. Awonuga Abiola Olawunmi, Bldr. Saabi Olakunle Alaba, Mr. Habeeb Aileru, Prince Adesegun Ogunlewe, Mrs. Iyabo Kuteyi, Mr. Nurudeen Oluseni Olaleye, and Mrs. Olayinka Babalola While MOCPED has Alhaja Sekinat Yusuf as head of the council with the following as members: Mrs. Victoria Mopelola Perigrino, Mrs. Folashade Agbalajobi, Hon. Toun Adediran, Mr. Johnbull Adebanjo, and Dr. Waliu A. Ipaye. Congratulating all the council members after swearing them in, Sanwo charged them to see their appointment as a call to service for the advancement of tertiary education in the state. Telling them that their appointment comes with a huge responsibility that must be discharged with a high level of integrity, foresight, and dedication. The governor said tertiary education is critical in nurturing components that help to ensure that individuals become innovators and wealth creators “who will contribute greatly to the acceleration of our economy. “It is in the realisation of this that we have selected all of you here, professionals, professors, academicians, technocrats, businessmen, public officers with a high level of integrity and competence who have distinguished themselves in their various area of calling and we have no doubt that we have chosen rightly.” The governor charged the various Governing Councils to take their various institutions to a higher level, promising that the government will give all the assistance they need to take the institutions to a higher level. “We will give all the right encouragement and resources for you to do well; we will ensure you have all it takes to take technology and education to a higher level. “Education is so critical to the future of our children and government is ready to cooperate with you to ensure your graduates are ready for tomorrow; make your institutions the choice of all,” Sanwo-Olu further charged them.