 A Federal High Court in Abuja has ordered Taraba State Governor Darius Ishaku, retired Justice of the Supreme Court, Justice Kumai Bayang Aka’ahs, and 17 others, to appear in court over a suit filed on the communal crises between the Tiv and the Jukun in the state. Justice Ahmed Mohammed gave the order on Wednesday while ruling on an ex parte motion argued by Sebatine Hon (SAN) on behalf of a Tiv group, the Incorporated Trustees Mdzough U Tiv, its President, C. P. Ihiagh Iorbee and four others. The judge ordered the respondents, in the fundamental rights enforcement suit, to appear before the court on August 26, 2020, and show why the court would not grant the interim restraining injunctions the applicants sought in the motion ex parte. He also ordered the service of all processes on suit and hearing notices on all the respondents. Justice Mohammed adjourned till August 26 for the respondents to show cause. Respondents in the case are: Taraba State governor, the Government of Taraba State, the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, the Commission of Enquiry into the Crises between Tiv and their Neighbouring Communities in Taraba States and Other Related Matters Thereto, and its members. The members, listed as the fifth to 12th respondents, are: Justice Kumai Bayang Aka’ahs (Chairman), Justice Emmanuel Garba, Justice Ambrose D. Mammadi (retd), Barr. Danuma D. Rindam, Prof. Rotgak I. Gofwen, Prof. Istifanus Zabadi, Hamidu Audu and Emeka Okoro. Also listed as respondents 13th to 19th are: the Chief of Defence Staff, Chief of Army Staff, Chief of Air Staff, Chief of Naval Staff, Inspector General of Police (IGP), Director General of the Department of Security Services (DSS) and Commandant of Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC). The applicants are praying for an order of interim injunction restraining the Commission of Enquiry and its members “from sitting to conduct/continuing to sit to conduct proceedings or taking any further step pursuant to the instrument constituting them, pending the determination of the motion on notice”. The applicants argued that the composition of the Commission of Enquiry and its name were skewed against the interest of the Tiv and constituted a threat to their fundamental human rights. 