Dozens of #RevolutionNow protesters in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Abuja were arrested by security agents on Wednesday. The protest, it was learnt, was to hold at the Federal Secretariat but was later moved to the Transcorp Junction around Unity Fountain, Abuja. From around 8am, The Nation observed armed security operatives, including the Police, the Military and DSS among others, patrolled the area in a convoy of trucks. At about 9am, some protesters, who turned up around the Unity Fountain, were arrested by security operatives and taken away in their trucks. The protests eventually held at various locations of the FCT, it was gathered. Convener of Concerned Nigerians, Deji Adeyanju, alleged 62 protesters were arrested. “We are back to the Abacha days and this is most unfortunate. We are back to a time again in our national life when the government of the day has criminalized peaceful protests. “Today we witnessed flogging, beating, harassing and arresting of peaceful protesters in the nation’s capital by a joint task force of security agencies. “Many of us begin to wonder if this is what our democracy has come to be. It is most regrettable and unfortunate. But this is the sad and painful reality that we have found ourselves today. Alas this is where we are as a nation,” Adeyanju said. At Berger Junction, another location of the protests, one of the protesters, Pelumi Olajengbesin, a lawyer, said: “Our demand today is that there is need for us to have a conscious political revolution. “There is a need for us to have a change of leadership. There is a need for us to have people who have clear focus, who have passion and the welfare of the interest of the people. This cannot be achieved by the political conglomeration of charlatans in authority. “There is need for us to allow people who are determined and who have the interest of the people to take over leadership and that is why we are saying no to APC, no to PDP and no to all the rascals in political authority. “I want to call on all Nigerians that nobody should feel so comfortable in their bedrooms. Nobody should feel so comfortable in their houses, because this country is not safe, this country is not secure. Nobody is secure. “Even in Nigeria today police and soldiers are not secured. Even today, Generals cannot walk alone on the street. ” I want us to know that if we don’t take our future in our hands, if we don’t take our destiny in our hands, this country would continue to remain like this. “There is no single sector in the Nigerian social system that is working today. If you look at the educational system, it is in shambles, if you look at the economy, it is in a total mess. “This is because we have people who lack focus, who lack direction, who lack sympathy and who are selfish in positions of authority and that is why I myself as a legal practitioner, as someone who believes in the Revolution Now struggle have come out to identify with this cause.”