Nigerian songwriter and music star, Oluwatosin Ajibade (Mr. Eazi) will be featured in the compilation edition of the African Voices Changemakers, airing this weekend. He will share the limelight with another Nigerian, Orondaam Otto, and a South African beauty queen, Zozibini Tunzi in the compilation edition of the popular television magazine programme, sponsored by Globacom. The programme will air on CNN on DSTV Channel 401 on Saturday at 9.00 p.m; Sunday at 4.30 a.m., 7.30 a.m., 12.30 p.m. and 7.30 p.m with a repeat broadcast on the same channel on Monday at 5.30 a.m. Mr. Eazi studied Mechanical Engineering at the Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology, Kumasi, Ghana, before going into music fulltime in 2012. He came up with a rhythm and blues single titled “Pipi Dance”. In his very eventful career, Mr. Eazi has had collaborations with such prominent African artistes as Ghanaian R&B star, Sarkodie; Lil Kesh, and Burna Boy, another Nigerian who is currently bestriding the African music scene. Two of his most successful singles include “Tilapia and “Leg Over”. Also to be showcased is 32-year-old Nigerian, Otto, a Human Anatomy graduate of the University of Port Harcourt, South of Nigeria. Otto is committed to seeing an African continent whose potentials are maximized and one which will be celebrated for the innovations and uniqueness of her people. He has also devoted substantial part of his time to promoting education, especially the inclusion of less-privileged children in formal learning. Otto is a social reformer and development enthusiast and currently leads a team of 40 managers and hundreds of volunteers at Slum2School Africa, a non-governmental organisation which provides equal opportunities for disadvantaged children in every nook and cranny of Nigerian slums. The last guest on the programme, Zozibini Tunzi, is a 26-year-old South African model, who is the current Miss Universe. Zozibini has a National Diploma in public relations management from the Cape Peninsula University of Technology and mentors young girls and women to assume leadership positions in order to extend their frontiers of influence in South Africa’s national life.