Churches in Abeokuta, the Ogun capital, reopened on Sunday with most complying with protocols to check the spread of coronavirus. Automated hand washing units, hand sanitisers and infrared thermometers were deployed by the churches. Many churches also displayed the bold inscription” No Mask No Entry, ” at entrances with officials taking the temperature of worshipers wearing facemasks. Social distancing was observed by worshipers with stickers to show distance spacing. At Living Faith Church Worldwide (Winners Chapel) at Querry road in Abeokuta, three services were held with an impressive turn out of Christian faithful. Security agents as well as members of the State Taskforce on COVID-19 were present in many churches to monitor compliance. Pregnant women and children were not allowed into churches. At St. Leo Catholic Church, Otun Abeokuta Diocese, a cleric, Rev. Fr. Lawrence Ogundipe, said only parishioners with face masks were allowed into the church to observe the holy mass. Ogundipe added that parishioners all had their temperature checked and hands washed before being granted access into the church. He said messages had earlier been sent to parishioners through church platforms to inform them on the COVID-19 protocols and how the services would be conducted. The cleric advised parishioners to adhere to government’s precautionary measures against COVID-19. He also promised that all government guidelines against the spread of the virus would be applied in the services. At the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Jesus Centre Family, Omida area of Abeokuta, there was, however, a low turnout of Christian faithful. The pastor in charge, Lekan Badru, expressed joy at having members back to church after over four months. Badru appealed to members to use the reopening of churches as an opportunity to support the government in seeking divine intervention for an end to the pandemic. He also urged members to comply with all government guidelines in order to flatten the curve of COVID-19.  (NAN)