The Federal University of Technology, Minna (FUTMINNA) has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Geria Technology & Construction Limited, on leasing of land for the construction of 20 blocks of hostels, at the school. The Vice Chancellor, Prof Abdullahi Bala, who signed the MoU for the university, said the agreement was in line with efforts to provide more bed spaces and befitting accommodation for students on campus. He said the project would be under the Build, Operate and Transfer (BOT) agreement. At the FUTMINNA Senate Chamber, venue of the MoU signing, Bala expressed appreciation to the firm for supporting the university in its drive to address the problem of inadequate hostels. He explained that the partnership for the building of the hostels was in tandem with the management’s desire to have over 75 per cent of students resident on campus. He noted that the school would continue to attract investments from the private sector for the construction of more hostels. According to him, investing in students’ accommodation requires a lot of passion and commitment to make such investments work. “The university has a student population of about 23, 000. But we have hostel bed spaces less than 3, 000. So, a vast majority of our students are living off-campus or living within the community. Given that most of them are teenagers and young adults, you can imagine some of the challenges we are facing,” the VC disclosed. Prof. Bala  said FUTMINNA is committed to the terms and conditions of the agreement, urging the company to equally display keen commitment to the project. Managing Director of the construction firm, Alhaji Yusuf Mohammed Yahaya, praised  the university management for finding their firm worthy of the partnership. He assured that the company will not betray the trust reposed in them. Yahaya further reiterated the company’s commitment towards delivering world class students’ hostels within the stipulated period, using quality materials and based on the agreed specifications. “We have a track record of similar projects across many tertiary institutions in the country. We will execute this project with all seriousness, and we are ready to mobilise personnel and materials to site immediately after this signing ceremony,” he said. The new hostels, when completed, would provide an additional 3, 616 bed spaces for the institution.