 KINSMEN of the former Imo State Governor Rochas Okorocha have urged a high court to order a return of his private university to the government. They said it was “immoral” and “unconstitutional” for the former governor, now a Senator, to hand over the university to his foundation rather than the state. They are praying the court to compel the government to reclaim the Eastern Palm University, Ogboko, built by Okorocha administration. According to them, the National Universities Commission (NUC) had approved the institution as the second university to be owned by the state, the 47th state university and 143rd university in Nigeria. They claimed that after building the university, the House of Assembly allotted 90 per cent equity shares to the trustees of the Rochas Foundation and 10 per cent to the government. The Incorporated Trustees of Orluzurumee Youth Assembly and Chief Celestine Uzoanakwe (for himself and on behalf of all the landlords who donated lands for the building of the university) filed the suit. Governor Hope Uzodimma, the Attorney-General, the Assembly, the Incorporated Trustees of Rochas Foundation and Senator Rochas Okorocha are the defendants. The plaintiffs are praying the court to grant an order directing Uzodimma to take over the management, control and running of the university for and on behalf of the people of Imo State. Read Also: Okorocha’s kinsmen support Uzodimma They seek the following reliefs: “A declaration that the act of the fifth defendant, the former governor of Imo State, in his capacity as the then governor of Imo State in assenting to a bill, namely Law No. 3 of 2019, which confers exclusive privilege, right and or benefit to the fourth defendant, Rochas Foundation, which is a foundation promoted and owned by him, is immoral, wrongful and unconstitutional in that the same is not only a breach of trust but also the abuse of office/power of the governor of the state. “An order nullifying Section 3 (3), (4) and (5) of the Imo State Law No 3 of 2019 as same is unconditional, wrongful, immoral to the extent that they purport to confer an exclusive benefit to Rochas Foundation substantially belonging to the fifth defendant who as then executive governor of Imo State promoted same and had substantial interest therein. “An order nullifying and or setting aside all and any instruments and/ or agreements of whatever nature made pursuant to Section 3(4) of Law No 3 of 2019. “An order of court setting aside and or nullifying any and all appointments made pursuant to any instruments and or agreement or memorandum or decision made pursuant to Law No 3 of 2019.”