The Actors Guild of Nigeria, AGN, has partnered with Medicard health management and Ativo Nigeria Ltd, managers of QuickRaiz Funds, to better the lives of members and ailing actors. The AGN president, Emeka Rollas, signed a memorandum of understanding(MOU) with Medicard health management and Ativo Nigeria limited to tackle health issues of its members and raise funds to the tune of N50 million to save ailing members respectively. Speaking on the partnership with Medicard, Emeka Rollas said, “Actors Guild of Nigeria achieved a historic milestone since its existence. We have graciously taken the welfare of our esteemed members high and above measure. We have successfully signed an MOU with Medicard Health Management as the approved official HMO and Health Management Services Provider of the Actors Guild of Nigeria. “I am most delighted to inform you that our members will no longer resort to public begging for their health or medical needs. Every actor or actress in Nigeria henceforth will enjoy a comprehensive HMO cover. With the partnership we have created with Medicard Health Management, all members of the AGN and independent actors and actresses in Nigeria will have access to over 600 Hospitals Nationwide for all their Health and Medical needs (Drugs and Treatment Inclusive). In addition to this, we now have a Group Life Insurance Cover for all our members; with the partnership, we have established with Medicard Nigeria, our members can now access Medical tourism overseas for Kidney Transplant and surgery; Our members can also use their cards to enjoy Discount purchases on Meat and Chicken stores nationwide, Automatic Car Insurance Renewal at zero cost and so much more,” he said. Rollas also noted that the partnership with Medicard will flag off on August 17, 2020. On AGN’s partnership with Ativo, Rollas said, “Today I signed an MOU with Ativo Nigeria Ltd, managers of QuickRaiz Funds to help raise N50 million for actors who are seriously down with various ailments in different hospitals in the country: Ify Onwuneme, Bruno Iwuoha, Ifeanyi Ezeokeke, Tunde Alabi, and Tina Nwachukwu. “We conceived this idea because these persons who are down now would not be able to access the newly signed MOU for HMO due to its terms and conditions so we have to clear this backlog of veteran actors who are seriously down while the healthy ones among us take advantage of the HMO so as not to fall victim in the future. This project which will last for three months shall help ameliorate huge financial demands for healthcare delivery on many of our veterans.” Speaking on the partnership, the MD/CEO of Ativo Nigeria Limited, Bayo Adeokun, said the ultimate objective is to assist AGN members who can’t afford medical bills to raise funds. Adeokun said: “In recent times, we’ve seen many old actors and actresses having health issues, in which they’ are unable to finance their medical bills and with the advent of COVID-19, their condition gets worsened day-by-day. “As a passionate group which cares about the welfare of its members, the National Executives of the Actors Guild of Nigeria took it upon themselves to assist the ailing actors that couldn’t pay their medical bills by partnering us as a professional crowd-funding platform in Nigeria to flag off a N50 million fund to cater for their members, both home and abroad.”