The Joint Health Sector Union (JOHESU), University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital (UITH) said on Tuesday that no fewer than 18 nurses and seven supporting workers (portals) have tested positive for COVID-19 pandemic at the hospital. Also yesterday, Anambra State Commissioner for Health Dr. Vincent Okpala said about 25 health workers had been diagnosed and confirmed to have been infected with the novel Coronavirus pandemic in the state. The total infected cases from Anambra State and the UITH now stand at 50. But, JOHESU said the UITH was yet to have COVID-19 isolation centre, adding that the management had converted one of the wards at the hospital to a centre. UITH JOHESU Chairman Olutunde Oluwawumi spoke to reporters in Ilorin, the state capital, at the sideline of a meeting with members. Oluwawumi, who was corroborated by some of the nurses working at the centre, said many of the nurses working at the centre are not properly kitted. He said: “Presently, we have about 18 nurses that had tested positive to the pandemic and seven sub-staff. We want better protection and adequate personal protective equipment (PPEs). What we are due for should be given to us. We are lacking in a number of things. They are exposing our lives to danger. It is now that they are trying to rectify the issue of PPE. PPEs have not been given. They are just promising us.” In respect of Anambra State, Okpala said the infected health workers include: two doctors, eight nurses, two laboratory technicians, among others. He expressed regrets that those who should be the warriors were falling victims of the virus. Okpala spoke at the opening ceremony of a two-day COVID-19 Infection Prevention and Control Training of Trainers in Agulu, Anaocha Local Government Council Area of the state. The programme was organised by the Nigeria Medical Association (NMA), Anambra chapter, to train 25 members selected from the zones across the state. He said that so far, no fewer than 181 persons had been confirmed positive for COVID-19 in the state. The commissioner urged the public to help the health sector by keeping to the preventive measures against the pandemic and stay safe. The state chairman of NMA, Dr. Nice Onyekwelu, said the training would enable the trainees to understand the basics of COVID-19 disease, epidemiology and transmission.