The Ikebiri Kingdom, comprising three communities, in Southern Ijaw Local Government Area of Bayelsa State, have lamented alleged neglect and marginalisation of their people by the Nigerian Agip Oil Company. The representative of the Kingdom, Mr Femene Ebiegberi Alpheaus, who made the communities’ plight known in a statement at the weekend, claimed though Agip had operated for over 50 years in the kingdom, there were no benefits to cushion the effects of the hazards of the oil exploration. They, therefore, demanded that pipeline and well head surveillance contracts be given to indigenes in the kingdom as well as scholarships for undergraduates and skills acquisition for indigenes of the kingdom. The kingdom equally demanded that monthly payment be given to chiefs, elders, youths, women forum and the executive of community development committees. The people regretted that despite exploring oil for over five decades in the communities, the oil multinational allegedly did not deem it fit to provide potable drinking water for them. They further said there was non-provision of health facilities by the company, noting that other communities with less number of oil wells had health facilities provided for them. They also revealed that the people were not benefitting from the employment and scholarship schemes of the oil company. The oil-producing communities said the company had yet to enter into any form of dialogue with them since 2014, adding that the non-negotiation of a new Memorandum of Understanding was against best international business practices. The kingdom said: “Agip has operated in our domain for 51 years with nothing to show for it. Efforts to initiate a new MOU after the first one between 2014 and 2020 has suffered a dangerous neglect. No potable water, no clinics, no employments, and no scholarships for our people. There is a deliberate delay since 2014. “There are 11 oil wells located in our kingdom. We demand crude flowstation in our kingdom based on our increase in production rate compared to our co-host communities. “I don’t know what we have done to them. We have oil wells. They should recognize us as host communities. There is no scholarship, no employment.”