 IT was clear, ab initio, that the Federal Government was not comfortable with the idea of local, state or regional police, as it were, to complement the activities of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF), despite the glaring inadequacies of the force. I used the word ‘inadequacies’ advisedly. Some people may choose to use incompetence or unprofessional, corrupt, etc. to describe the force. All of these may be true. But then, the police force still boasts some good officers and men who spring surprises despite the challenges bedeviling the force. In fact, these challenges: poor pay, inadequate working tools, lack of motivation and what have you are indeed some of the reasons why many of our policemen cannot perform their functions professionally. Which in turn leads to the need for complementary law enforcement by the other component entities because security is the primary function of any government. Yet, there is nothing novel in having more than a central police. Perhaps President Muhammadu Buhari’s reluctance to approve state or regional police properly so called is the product of his military background. Perhaps it is more than that. Some would even attribute it to hegemonic tendencies in some quarters. But what we know is that our military officers, or should I say our soldiers generally, seem reluctant to make sophisticated weapons available to the police force. Many Nigerians would remember how the military reportedly frowned at the attempts by the Inspector-General of Police in the Second Republic, Mr Sunday Adewusi, to acquire some sophisticated weapons for the police at that time because it was feared that if the police could match the military in terms of weapons, they could abuse such. The possibility of this happening then was high, especially given the sweeping powers the then inspector-general gave to the mobile arm of the police, known then as ‘kill and go’. But the point is that, today, it is not a question of whether the president likes the idea of state police or not; it is an idea whose time has come, and there is no denying that fact. Nigerians have been clamouring for state police as an integral part of what they call ‘true federalism’ (I have always asked if there is ‘false federalism’ to now warrant the need to add ‘true’ to the concept to make it whole or distinguish it from federalism as practiced in other places) for years. But the renewed clamour for it, which led to the reluctant presidential approval for the formation of Amotekun was the product of senseless killings by rampaging herdsmen who were ready to kill in areas where they were resisted or told that other people’s freedom begins where theirs (the herdsmen’s) stops. The unfortunate part of it is that the Nigeria Police initially looked helpless in the face of these gruesome killings by herdsmen, a thing which emboldened them to commit even more grievous harm in the name of cattle rearing. This would appear the last straw that broke the camel’s back. It was also one of the perceived weaknesses of the NPF, which fuelled the calls for regional police. That the police merely looked the other way when many Nigerians expected them to demonstrate their impartiality and professionalism confirmed the widespread impression that they could not act because they took a cue from the president’s body language on the issue. In fairness to them, it took President Buhari so long a time to show concern on these killings. I said in fairness to them (the police) because, in our kind of clime, the saying that ‘he who pays the piper dictates the tune’ holds true. In other climes where institutions are strong, the police do not have to read anybody’s body language before doing their job. Amotekun, and other regional security initiatives that came after it were therefore products of the inadequacies of the Nigeria Police, to fill the vacuum created by the central police force. That the Federal Government alone cannot fund its police is well known. As a matter of fact, it is no longer a secret that many state governments invest heavily in the NPF. Lagos State, which leads the pack, has even had to set up the Lagos State Security Trust Fund to raise funds in order to support the federal police. Billions have been spent by the state government on equipment and welfare of policemen in the state over the years. Without trying to underplay the capacity of the police to sniff out crimes or criminals based on their own training, we cannot also downplay the role of the average Nigerian in assisting them with credible intelligence that had led to the bursting of some criminal gangs over the years. Indeed, the case of the 19 year-old serial killer suspect, Sunday Shodipe, who escaped from police custody recently and was rearrested is still fresh in mind. His rearrest was reportedly facilitated by local hunters. One of the most important reasons for local, state or community police is that people know those in their immediate environments better than central policemen who are likely to be transferred from far places to terrains they are not familiar with. In many instances, these policemen are not even properly taken care of. Sometimes they squat or stay in the open, sleep wherever they can find, etc. How do we expect such policemen to give their best? The local people do not have this problem. Moreover, when crimes are committed, it is easier for the local vigilante or police to pursue the criminals to wherever they are hiding and smoke them out. Take the Niger Delta region, for instance; the locals can manoeuvre faster in the creeks than security agents who will be posted there, with even the possibility of being transferred after a few years, may be by the time they are just getting familiar with the terrain. They therefore have to go elsewhere where they begin the whole process of acculturation all over. The advantages of local, community, state or regional police have often been stated and we need not belabour the imperative for it here. If it is a bad idea, so many countries would not have adopted it. Even in the developed countries with all the technology at their disposal, they have police at the county, state and federal levels. Even some universities have their own policemen. How much more a country like ours where money for contracts for surveillance cameras is embezzled in an important place like the Federal Capital Territory without anyone being prosecuted, thereby leaving our security men to be groping in the dark for crime riddles they could have resolved in no time where such cameras are installed and functional. It is against this background that one is sad by the announcement, last week, to the effect that Amotekun, the southwest regional security  initiative, will be under the control of the Inspector-General of Police. For sure, this was not the intention of those who conceived the idea. Garba Shehu, President Buhari’s Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, kicked off the latest brickbats on the security outfits initiated through the state or regional initiatives when he said on Channels Television’s Sunrise Daily that the operations of security organisations would be guided by the Inspector-General of Police under the community policing programme which the Federal Government has approved N13 billion to kickstart. “Whatever name they go by, Amotekun or whatever, will be streamlined and they will be run in accordance with the structure as defined by the Inspector-General of Police,” Shehu said. He added: “…So you are going to have a single type structure of community policing permitted all across the country and whatever is not in line with this does not have a place in the scheme of things. That is my understanding.” Naturally, the Federal Government would not expect the state governments that took their time to painstakingly establish a security outfit like the Western Nigeria Security Network (WNSC) to take such a comment lightly. At least two of the governors in the region, Rotimi Akeredolu, Ondo State, and Seyi Makinde, his Oyo State counterpart, have rejected the idea of Amotekun being subsumed under the IGP’s control. According to Akeredolu, who is also chairman of the Southwest Governors Forum, “A law set up Amotekun and Amotekun operates under its own law and it’s not going to be subsumed under any set-up. No, we will work together, it is a collaboration, but not that it will be subsumed; that is not the thinking and that is not going to be acceptable.” Makinde, on his part said: “…Amotekun is here to stay with us and it will not be under the control of the federal establishment. It will be under our control. Security of our people is extremely important, because nothing can take place, as far as we are concerned, in an atmosphere of insecurity.” Needless to say that the duo have spoken the minds of not only the remaining governors of the region but also that of the people. It would seem the Federal Government is yet to come to terms with the fact that the country is too big to be under the control of the NPF as presently constituted. We do not need anyone to tell us that the present arrangement is not working. How then do we continue to concentrate power in an office which does not even have a handle on what it is managing right now? The Federal Government is just coming out in its true colours with regard to Amotekun and perhaps other state or regional security initiatives. We thought we had passed this stage that the government seems to be returning us to on this matter, after the initial controversy that trailed its establishment. No sensible government will spend money to set up an outfit like Amotekun only to agree that it be subsumed under the present arrangement that is not working. The Federal Government cannot say it is giving Amotekun with one hand only to withdraw it with another. This is recreating Amotekun, not in the image of its proponents, but in the image of some other persons or interests. It is not going to work.