 PLATEAU State Governor Simon Lalong has stated that the fight against sexual, Gender-based violence and rape must be fought vigorously to ensure justice for the victims while rehabilitating them and to punish the perpetrators to serve as a deterrent to others. Lalong spoke at a webinar on addressing sexual, gender-based violence and rape in Nigeria, organised by Gideon & Funmi Para-Mallam Peace Foundation. The governor regretted that the problem of sexual, gender violence and rape had taken alarming and disgraceful dimensions in Nigeria in recent times which must not be allowed to go on. He said: “One thing we take very seriously as a government is the prosecution of rape and sexual offenders. Following an increase in rape cases in the country, I have directed the Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice to step up vigorous prosecution of offenders no matter their status. Very soon, we shall open a Sexual Offenders Register where the data of convicted offenders shall not only be deposited, but their identity made public so that they are named and shamed. I believe that they are the ones that are entitled to stigmatisation, not their victims.” The Plateau State Peace Agency he said has also been mandated to step up engagements with communities on the dangers of sexual and gender-based violence, particularly during crises. On the role of the Northern Governors Forum (NGF) in tackling the situation, Lalong said: “Under my leadership, the NGF has declared a state of emergency on the increasing rate of sexual and gender-based violence in the country. As part of our resolve, governors are to ensure the domestication of the Violence Against Persons (Prohibition) Act, 2015 in their various states without further delay”. British High Commissioner to Nigeria Catriona Laing said addressing gender violence and rape is a challenge which must be handled holistically with the cooperation of all stakeholders where there is condemnation and intolerance for perpetrators as well as succour for the victims. 