 WHERE did you grow up? I was born and bred in Lagos. I attended secondary school in Benin City but the bulk of my formative years were spent in Lagos. What were you like as a kid? I was a very playful, vibrant, intelligent, vocal and inquisitive child. I took an avid interest in trading and performing at a very young age and I asked a lot of questions. I wanted to know everything! Were your parents strict? Not really. My parents were only strict when they needed to be and they would discipline you if you stepped out of line but, largely, they were very approachable. You studied Medicine at the University of Lagos, what made you become an actor? The love for acting and performing made me become an actor. It was always evident that I loved performing and would constantly be involved in school plays and other social activities. In medical school, I would frequently host school programmes. It was simply me following my passion. What were your parents’ reactions? They were not too surprised. They know their child. They were, and still are very supportive of me and it’s something that I’m forever grateful for. How has acting changed your life? lt has given me the opportunity to do and say things that I would ordinarily never say and do. The chance to be with different people. Acting has made me a lot more observant about people, and their behaviour. Studying people; what makes them tick and how they react to things help my character interpretation. It has also made me a lot more sensitive and empathic towards people in certain situations because when you portray a character, you become that character. You feel their pains and their joys. It’s very humbling. What hurdles did you face when you were starting out? There were so many. First, there’s the struggle to be given a chance to prove yourself and your talent. Then the struggle to be taken seriously seeing that I came from an entirely different background from the arts. Do you feel fulfilled or accomplished? There’s certainly a fulfillment that comes from doing what you love. That being said though, I’m constantly striving to do better; to be better, to challenge myself, to positively influence people’s lives. There’s still so much to do. What is your greatest achievement till date? For me, using my platform to improve the quality of lives by the fusion of health and entertainment. There is so much useful information that can be passed along to people in the process of entertaining them. Film is such a powerful tool to do that. Every time I create content that betters people’s lives is an achievement for me. Can you tell us about the worst moment in your movie career? Nothing particularly comes to mind at the moment. Which world leader has inspired you the most and why? I would say Nelson Mandela. I am still amazed at everything that he went through to fight for what he believed in. The perseverance marvels me till date. Which book would you love to make a film out of one day? I really loved Elechi Amadi’s “The concubine” when I was in school. I read it again recently and I think it would make for a beautiful film. What drives you? I would say passion and ambition drives what I do. If you got the opportunity to remake a classic, which one would you go for? Amaka Igwe’s “Forever”. She was such a fantastic filmmaker. Aside acting, what other interesting things do you do or work on? I am heavily involved in health advocacy. I am constantly teaching and speaking up about things that can help people live better and healthier lives. I believe that knowledge is power and that if people know better, they will do better. Is there a role you have not played but would like to someday? So many, but the one that immediately comes to mind is an uneducated village girl. Which of your roles was the most challenging for you to capture? I generally choose roles that are far removed from the real me. I recently had to play the role of a woman suffering from post-partum depression. It’s a condition that I understand, thanks to my medical training and it was very emotional. It was quite challenging to constantly let the audience in on what the character was feeling because many times, the character herself wasn’t sure of what she was feeling. Which is the most dangerous situation that you have ever been? Having a flat tyre on Eko Bridge at night. What projects would you love to work on in the future? Advocacy projects that educate and entertain are a win for me any day! I have done several and look forward to doing many more. Your style is daring but classy, what feeds your style inspiration? I’d say confidence in who I am and how I choose to express myself. I don’t like to conform to trends. I just wear what I think looks good and I feel comfortable in. Generally speaking, what is style to you? Style is an expression of self through the things that you wear. It is how you feel about yourself and how you want people to see you. What is the fashion item you can’t be caught in? Fishnet stockings Fashion item(s) you can’t do without? Handbags What do you like doing in your spare time? I’m a couch potato. I see a lot of movies in my spare time. Who is your celebrity crush? Richard Mofe Damijo (since the days of ‘Checkmate’.) What is your take on love and marriage? I think that love is the most beautiful thing that two people can share and that marriage is the choice to enter into a lifelong partnership with a person you love. I think that marriage can be beautiful if there is a mutual respect, understanding and communication between partners. How would someone get your special attention? Intelligence, wit and intellect will get my attention any day. Would you date a fan? I think it’s one of those things that you only know the answer to if you actually find yourself in that situation. What’s the most interesting thing you have read or seen this week? I saw a number of Nigerian movies on Netflix this week and they were well executed. ‘The[D1] 4th Republic’, ‘Sylvia’, ‘Elevator baby’. Also, ‘The Old Guard’, starring Charlize Theron. I love it too. What is one message you would give to your fans? Live and let live. Do the things you want to do while you’re still in this world. We are all visitors that will be here for a limited time, so make the time count. What is the weirdest thing a fan has ever done to you? I remember a day a fan walked up to me and started taking selfies with me without saying hi. What is your most embarrassing childhood memory? I’m laughing as I remember. I was about five years old and I hadn’t yet learnt how to tell the time. Someone asked me what the time was and I just stood looking at the clock. I couldn’t have interpreted it but I put on a brave face and kept acting like I knew what I was doing. I didn’t want to admit that I didn’t know. Eventually the person realised that I couldn’t figure it out and came to see the clock for themselves. That, to me, as a child, was quite embarrassing. Have you ever dealt with acting anxiety? Hardly ever! I’m quite relaxed in front of the camera and to me, it’s not even there. I take on the character and do my thing when it’s time to. Who are your role models? My parents. If I can raise my own children half as well as they raised my siblings and I, my work will be done