Walk towards any playground where soccer is being played in the country, what you would easily find are kids or young boys wearing jerseys of their favourite European football stars. The scenarios with young girls is equally exciting, with most of them kicking the ball with both legs. It is a game loved by both sexes. Who says football isn’t a spectacle to behold, even when it isn’t being played properly? Wait a bit for the groups to congregate fully, especially the boys, what you would see would underscore how well two players have distinguished themselves with the beautiful game. You are likely to see up to 10 players either wearing Cristiano Ronaldo’s shirts or that of Lionel Messi. The difference would be that many more would be wearing Ronaldo’s shirts in all the clubs he has played. This writer once witnessed three friends wearing the Ronaldo shirts of the clubs where he played and their views on the player were informed as they knew everything about CR7. Two of them follow the Portuguese anywhere he goes. Interesting. One hopes they embrace their studies in the same way. Hmmmm! Remember Ronaldo has played for Sporting Lisbon, Manchester United, Real Madrid and now Juventus. For Messi, he is a one club man, yet these kids wear different shades of FC Barcelona shirts. What stands out clearly like a sore thumb are their names at the back of such shirts. Will you blame the kids? No. Ronaldo and Messi are their role models. Forget the fact that they are Nigerian kids. A probe by this writer showed that even kids of other nationals follow this Ronaldo or Messi tradition. In all of these scenarios, Ronaldo and indeed Messi are the match sticks that have ignited the beautiful game in over a decade. Messi’s roles for Barcelona and Juventus for Ronaldo are such when they score goals, rather that put the names of their clubs, what the media does is play on words with their names. Such amusing but inspiring headlines as Ronaldo 4-0 Napoli. Other times, you see headlines such as Messi 4-0 Villarreal. However, the ones that thrill the world are headlines where Barcelona and Real Madrid have met and both lads shone like a million stars. How about this: Messi 2-2 Ronaldo. How else can we capture this rivalry than with the way they ended the season for their clubs? Last Friday, Ronaldo scored a brace for Juventus, only for Messi to also score another brace playing for FC Barcelona. This time they played in different leagues which underscores their importance to the two great clubs in Spain and Italy. This writer won’t join the motley crowd of evaluating both players. One would quickly say both players are different in many ways. What informs a comparison rests with the goals which they score and how they perform as pivots of FC Barcelona and Juventus. Playing football comes to Messi naturally – like second nature. But Ronaldo is an epitome of workaholic athlete who makes up for his deficiencies with robust training regime. CR7, as he is also known, pushes himself in training. He spends time before training sessions with his colleagues, perfecting shooting and other intricate skills which elevated his performance to the world class star he is today. Whereas we can trace Messi’s emergence to the 2005 World U-20 Youth Championship in Holland where Argentina beat Nigeria in the finals with his defy touches and wizardry on the ball, Ronaldo came out of the dusty streets in Portugal. He could have been lost in the rough life on the street but for the insistence of key Manchester United players, who, against the practice walked up to Sir Alex Ferguson, pleading that Ronaldo accompanied them back to England. Ferguson broke his tradition and bowed to his key players’ requests and as they say the rest is history because Fergie knows how to develop players to stardom. Had Ferguson stuck to his nature of taking all the decisions on the team’s structure, possibly, Ronaldo could still have shone playing the game, but not to the level where he thrills spectators with his incredible talents and strong physical attributes. Ronaldo’s world acclaim came with playing for Manchester United, easily one of the most successful teams in Europe. The Portuguese won his first World Footballer of the Year diadem in 2008, playing for Manchester United under the watchful eyes of Fergie who brooks no prisoners. The Juventus star has since gone on to win five Ballon D’Or titles and currently the top scorer in the Champions League with 130 goals. A competition many have argued UEFA should christen after him because he has the most Trophies, Goals, home goals, away goals, group stage goals, quarter-final goals, semi-final goals, final goals, free-kicks, penalties, headers, braces, hat-tricks and assists. Incredible, he is just a superhuman. For Messi, taking him out of Argentina with his troubling physical problems was an adventure only coaching academies such as renowned one aptly called La Masia in FC Barcelona. La Masia made equally talented players of yore. Messi’s future was secured by Barcelona ‘s management’s decision to treat him, if they hoped to benefit from the tremendous skills he exhibited with his medical deficiencies. Little wonder Messi laughs off suggestions that he would quit FC Barcelona. who does that? only ingrates and Messi isn’t one. Arda Turan claims Juventus striker is only picked by some as best player ever for ‘political reasons’ as he selects former Barcelona team-mate as the greatest. Turan told beIN Sports Turkey, via Goal: ‘’Messi is present in every moment of football. He can dictate the game in every aspect. There’s nothing bad to say about Ronaldo but he’s a goal-scorer, albeit a very special one. Messi does everything in this game. ‘’He does things you can’t even imagine to do. His intelligence, his vision, his passing are all much different. And every person I have talked to about this agrees with me. Except the people who are close to Ronaldo, his team-mates, who say it’s Ronaldo as they answer politically. Ronaldo is my friend and it’s not my place to question his quality. But I think Messi is better,’’ Turan concluded. Do you agree? Zinedine Zidane said: “Cristiano is the best. Messi is his rival and it’s the rivalry everyone wants to see. But Ronaldo is phenomenal. There are no words to describe him. He is much better than me even though I had a great career. He’s the greatest of all time.” Jose Mourinho told beIN Sports: “I think it’s unfair to both of them when somebody [says] this one is better than the other one. I think they are just different. When you go to Messi and Ronaldo, I think it’s just unfair to compare the players. The only thing I can say is that when I had Ronaldo on my side, I was a very happy man. And when I had to play against Messi – and also against Ronaldo because I played against Ronaldo a few times – I had to think a lot to try and help my team have chances to succeed.” Pep Guardiola said: “Messi is the best, he is definitely the best. He knows how to play, score and make the other players play. He is always there. With all the respect to all the players, first to Cristiano Ronaldo – congratulations to him for the award – I think Messi is on another level.” But can Ronaldo and Messi play in the team? Answers to this poser are diverse, though many would want them to play. Reports Thursday suggested that Ronaldo has been placed on the transfer market including a likely or unlikely move to Barcelona. But Balague told 5 Live Sport on Ronaldo: I’m not sure if they can get rid of him easily with the kind of money he earns. Who is going to pay that kind of money?’’ ‘’He’s been offered everywhere, including Barcelona.’’  AND THIS… MESSI vs RONALDO Balon d’Or wins: Messi 6, Ronaldo 5 Career goals: Messi 634, Ronaldo 638 Career assists: Messi 285, Ronaldo 223