There was a high turnout of pupils in the exit classes on Monday in many parts of the country as secondary schools reopened their gates for return of classes, after four months of COVID-19 lockdown. Our correspondents across the states monitored the reopening of the schools and the observance of protocols among the pupils, their teachers and school workers. In Ekiti State, our correspondent visited some public and private schools in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital, where the pupils and their teachers complied with the COVID-19 safety protocols. At Ado-Ekiti Grammar School, teachers taking the classes followed COVID-19 guidelines, ahead of the commencement of the West African Senior Secondary School Certificate Examinations (WASSCE). The school’s Head Teacher Oluwatosin Ajayi said he had about 205 pupils registered for WASSCE, while about 95 per cent of the pupils had resumed. Head Teacher of Muslim College, Mr Gbadamosi Abubakar, said the school was prepared for resumption and revisions before the commencement of the WASSCE. In Kano State, pupils’ turnout was impressive; boarders had returned on Sunday. Some of the pupils were excited about their resumption of classes after sitting at home since March 19. Workers of the Ministry of Education checked the pupils and their teachers to ensure compliance with the COVID-19 protocols. Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje expressed delight about the pupils’ impressive turnout and observance of COVID-19 protocols. The governor had shared Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) to the state’s 538 public and private schools ahead of yesterday’s reopening. A statement by the governor’s Chief Press Secretary (CPS), Abba Anwar, praised the pupils for their compliance with the COVID-19 protocols. Pupils in exit classes (JSS and SS3) in Katsina State also resumed classes yesterday, as directed by the state government, to prepare for their examinations. Public Relations Officer in the Ministry of Education, Salisu Lawal Kerau, confirmed the resumption of schools. He said the government’s inspection team would go out today to monitor compliance to protocols among the schools. Our correspondent reports that there was a high turnout of pupils. Majority of the primary school pupils told The Nation that though they were told to come to school, they could not see any teacher to tell them what to do. None of the teachers was on the ground when our correspondent visited the school. A pupil of the Government Girls’ Science College, Raliat Ibrahim, said: “For students, it will be difficult for us to stop hugging or coming close to each other. Shaking hands, hugging will be difficult for students to stop it but we will work on it because it is for our own good and for our health.” Plateau State Commissioner for Education, (Secondary), Elizabeth Wapwuk, said 32,199 exit pupils in public and private schools in the state will sit for the WASSCE on August 17. Wapwuk told The Nation in Jos, the state capital, that there are over 624 examination centres across the state for public and private schools.