CEO of Adloyalty Business Network, Dr Freeman Osonuga, has published two books to support budding realtors and entrepreneurs. The books are titled Print money with zero capital and The Business Game puzzles that win every time. He said the books are for “start-ups, businesses, entrepreneurs and realtors who want to gain a competitive advantage in the most relevant and essential arena today.” The books offer examples and practical advice on how realtors and entrepreneurs can transform functions, leadership roles, and strategies in order to move ahead in their various careers. Freeman in Print money with zero capital aims to guide budding real estate entrepreneurs through the rocky part of their careers. The book is filled with practical wisdom gathered from extensive research and hands-on experience from years implementing these business strategies. In The business game puzzles that win every time, he shares his experiences, personal and vicarious, on what business-minded individuals require for succeeding in the uncertain world of entrepreneurship. It also demystifies the myths about successful businesses. On why he wrote the books, Freeman said: “I am delighted and proud of these books. In both professional and personal settings, I’m frequently asked for tips or advice to help someone through their real estate career or general entrepreneurship. Answering such enquiries sufficiently and comprehensively cannot be done via chat on WhatsApp or social media DM. He said. “The idea of creating something which could always guide and direct realtors and entrepreneurs came to me. “I sought a way to exhaustively answer these heartfelt yearnings and requests of realtors with an ultimate, extensive and a one-stop guide. “The wisdom I have accumulated along the years, compiled in a capsule, for those who would like to understand and seek direction. “These two books are easily digestible and were written in a simple, easy to understand language, filled with practical wisdom gathered from extensive research and hands-on experience from years implementing these cutting-edge business strategies.”