 Assistant Inspector-General (AIG) of Police  Ahmed Iliyasu has received commendations for taking urgent steps in securing justice for a 15 year- old rape victim. The victim, Blessing Asu, was allegedly raped by one  Sergeant Innocent Yakubu. Iliyasu was commended alongside Lagos Commissioner of Police Hakeem Odumosu for their heroic deeds. Counsel to the victim, Barrister Biodun Aboaba, hailed the cops for employing professionalism and patriotism in managing  the matter to the delight of the public. Abaoba stated the victim  was a virgin until the ugly incident,adding she was forced to open up when her guardian, Alice Hugbo discovered that she was pregnant. He noted the swift intervention of Iliyasu and Odumosu expedited arrest of the culprit. According to him: “Around January 10, 2020, in the wee hour of the day, precisely 10 am Sergeant Innocent Yakubu, entered the room of Blessing Asu and threatened Blessing Asu with an Ak-47 rifle, demanding to have sex with her by force. “Blessing Asu, fearing for her life, stopped screaming and Sergeant Innocent Yakubu violently raped her. After having unlawful carnal knowledge of Blessing Asu, Sergeant Innocent Yakubu threatened to kill her if she ever reveals to anybody that he violently raped her.” He continued “Blessing Asu, a virgin was introduced to sex in the most inhumane way ever by Sergeant Innocent Yakubu and started having nightmares immediately after the experience. She  however refused to disclose her ordeal to anyone. “It was until recently that her guardian, Alice Hugbo discovered that Blessing was pregnant after noticing the changes in her body. She was then pressed to talk on  to who impregnated her before she summoned courage to narrate her ordeals. “Child rape in Nigeria has assumed dimension in Nigeria and the rape culture. According to the Inspector-General of Police, the Police has recorded about 717 rape incidents across the country between January and May.” Aboaba further demanded justice for innocent citizens.     