 With the resumption of schools on Monday for SS3 pupils, the question of what becomes of other non-terminal classes vis-à-vis the academic calendar has become more poignant. According to the time table set by the Federal Government, examinations for the exit classes (SS3, JSS3, and Primary Six) will hold between August 17 and November 18, starting with the West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) on August 17 and ending with the Senior School Certificate Examination (SSCE) by the National Examinations Council (NECO) on November 18. In between, the Basic Education Certificate Examination (BECE) for JSS3 pupils by NECO will hold August 24 to September 7; the National Business and Technical Board (NABTEB) for Technical College Three students will be conducted between September 21  and October 15; and the National Common Entrance Examination (NCEE) for Primary Six pupils will hold  on October 17. While these examinations take place within four months, it is not yet certain whether schools would have reopened for other classes.  However, some states have hinted of plans to cancel the third term and start the 2020/2021 academic session. Oyo State, the first in the country to reopen schools, was also the first to set aside the third term and start a new session. Last week, the Lagos State Government said it was considering skipping the third term and beginning the 2020/2021 academic session when schools eventually resume fully. Lagos State Education Commissioner Mrs. Folasade Adefisayo said the government may use first and second term examinations or continuous assessment to promote students in other classes. However, the situation is not so straight forward for private schools. Cancellation of the third term would mean no funds for schools which are already behind on salaries, rent and other financial obligations. Many private schools have been running various forms of e-learning programmes since April when it became obvious the COVID-19 pandemic was not going away anytime soon.  But parents kicked against payment of fees for third term since the Federal Government expressly announced that the third term had not commenced.  To encourage parents to pay for the e-learning classes, some schools started charging monthly. When The Nation visited some private schools across Lagos, many confirmed they were running third term content online for parents whose children subscribed for it. Proprietor of Westown College, Ayobo, Lagos, Mr. Charles Ijimileyin, said the school was ready for a new session. He said the graduating pupils would free up space for others. He does not think it is practicable to run the third term because the time it would take to complete all the public examinations would leave little for the term (if the government plans to maintain its present policy of allowing only the terminal classes in schools to check the spread of the Coronavirus). However, chairman of Mind Builders School, Mr. Bosun Falore, thinks otherwise.  He said private schools should be allowed to run the third term online while the public examinations last.  He said the government needed to give directive on the matter so schools know what to do. “Private schools are ready and capable to run the third term online.  If the government does not give a directive on the matter, parents will question why we are doing it. The public examinations will continue until November; the National Common Entrance is holding October 17, which is indication that the new session may not start until January. Let the government give the directive so there is no confusion,” he said. Proprietor of De Joyland School, Onike, Yaba, Mrs. Abimbola Osagie, also agrees that the third term should formally proceed so they can get income for fees to pay bills. Mrs. Osagie said she was having a hard time paying teachers, rent and other bills because many parents in her school defaulted on monthly payment for e-learning classes.  She said parents should be ready to pay for third term online even if it would be discounted. “When schools return to normal, the government will not conduct examination for us; we will still be the ones to teach them and conduct examination. My own mindset is: let us run a standard online school and give back to these children and run exams.  Once we are done, if it is not safe to resume, the children remain at home and are safe.  Meanwhile, they will not lose the session; they will not repeat because they are not physically in school. “If schools physically resume, parents must pay school fees; that is the truth.  The only thing the school can do is to give you discount.  Do you know how many platforms I am using?  We are using Google Classrooms; Zoom and WhatsApp – not just WhatsApp, it is WhatsApp video calls. We see our children face to face. If I am giving you value, you must also return value. I told them to pay school fees and we write exam. Some people bought in, they paid. Some did not pay, I am not forcing them. When schools physically resume you pay your full school fees,” she said. Mrs. Osagie lamented the cost involved running these classes and urged the government to come to the aid of proprietors. “Do you know we still go to parents’ homes to teach the children? If your child requires attention and you permit us to come we will come and give that child extra attention.  If I am now asking you to pay, have I not tried enough considering the situation on ground? “I even read that the Minister of State for Education said private schools exist by school fees and we must charge for third term.  Because that is the only way we can survive.  They should pity schools and teachers.  If you say you cancel third term, all our house rent that is running, how are we going to survive? I had to borrow to pay my teachers because I do not owe.” For some schools, e-learning did not work well and they were unable to carry all pupils along.  Ijimileyin said Westown College discontinued online classes after a month due to various complaints from parents ranging from data costs to poor network. He, however, noted that measures were in place to cover up for lost grounds. Vice Principal, Bright Future International College, Somolu, Mrs. Eunice Utodo, said many pupils of the school did not participate in the school’s online classes.  She said the third term should not be cancelled. “Our school has been online but most of the students are not online with us due to financial challenges, and we cannot force them to partake in the classes because the decision is from their parents.  Many of them are not fully involved in the scheme of work. “The Federal Government should understand we are ready for the third term. I believe we need the third term to grade the students because the third term plays a significant role in students’ grades and promotion,” she said. At Queensland Academy, Okota, a member of the staff, who refused to be named, said the school had been running online classes and was ready to resume either for the third term or a new session. “Well we are waiting for the government. For now there is no direction as regards resuming for third term or starting a new session; but for us learning and teaching continue; it doesn’t stop learning and teaching. The term in itself is just a chronological system,” he said. Proprietor of Woodentots Nursery School Ikoyi, Mrs. Yinka Awobo-Pearse, said her school was done with third term and was ready to start the new session in September. “As a school, once we started online learning we engaged our pupils with third term curriculum content and continued this till we stopped online classes a few weeks ago.  Technically, we have completed our third term online. so we will be starting a new session,” she said. When asked what would happen to children who did not join the online classes, she said: “Children that did not subscribe for elearning will move to the next calss with everyone else (for mental health).  However, the school will work with the parents and children on steps to catch  up on critical skills.  The focus will be on skills not knowledge.” School Administrator of Apata Memorial School, Isolo, Mr. Mobalaji Johnson, also said the school was ready for both scenarios.  He said the school had even slated its entrance examination for new pupils next week. He said: “From the onset of the COVID-19 period we have started online programmes for the students.  Now that the SS3 students have resumed, the online programme still continues; those ones at home are enjoying it and those in school are still enjoying it. We have been doing e-learning across all classes. “We are ready for both (third term and new session). If the government says we should resume for third term, fine; and if it is to start a new term, we are also ready. In fact, we have also fixed a date for the common entrance online examination which is coming up on August 15.” However, parents are not ready to pay third term fees if the school does not open for that purpose.  One mother, Mrs. Mutiat Afolabi, said she opted out of e-learning classes and had taken a private teacher for her children. “I stopped the classes since.  They have a teacher taking them now. I cannot pay for third term when they did not participate. Where is the money?” she asked. Another parent said schools should consider that everyone has been affected by the pandemic, not just them and should not make such demands. “We are all in this together.  It is not only teachers that are suffering.  I cannot pay for third term online. I do not have the money,” the parent said. 