The Holy Bible admonishes Christians not to despise the days of small beginning. This scriptural injunction has been of immense inspiration to Dr Gbadewole Amos Kayode in his quest for survival in life. Gbade as he is popularly called began life as little boy by helping his mother to hawk wares on the streets. He never allowed his small and extremely humble beginning to dampened his spirit in his determined quest to climb the ladder of success. While helping her mother, Gbade did not fail to arm himself with the needed requisite skills that will make him succeed in the world of business later in life. Moreso, the imbibed culture of saving against all odds was another factor that helped Gbade to have climb very high on the ladder of success. He was able to look beyond the ephemeral satisfaction of pleasurable things and chose to save N2,000 on a weekly basis out of his meagre allowance while having his mandatory one year NYSC programme with Coscharis. While with Coscharis, he refused get swayed by any distraction and kept his vision clear and alive until the time that opportunity eventually met with his determination. Gbade had developed a clear cut vision to succeed against all odds in the world of business since he left secondary school. He had also worked extremely hard and made lots of self denials all in his bid to succeed where other have failed. Above all, place of the grace of God must be acknowledged in the height of success already attained by Gbadewole Kayode. Big things of life are said to often come in small packages. This truism was not different in the case of Gbade as the business opportunity that gave him the big break actually came in the smallest of packages. Someone he earlier had contact with called him sometime in 2015 to inform him of a piece of land in Abuja that he had actually negotiated but could not raise enough money to pay for it. The inherent opportunity in the offer was promptly identified by Gbade as he quickly applied for a loan of N150,000 from Coscharis which was eventually added to all his savings at the time to pay for the negotiated piece of land. In partnership with the negotiator of the land, Gbade began to develop the property. No sooner had the development of the property commenced that interested buyers began to make deposits for the preferred types of properties they desired to acquire within the estate. It worthy of note that part of the deposited money was reinvested in an entirely different estate by Gbade and the business has since then been growing in leap and bound. At a relatively young age of 35, Gbade has carved a niche for himself in the real estate business with his ownership of 11 smart estates that contained more than 2,700 housing units. Gbadewole operates with the business name of of Crown Allied Global Realty & Homes. He has fully developed seven different estates in Abuja and Lagos namely Crown Luxury Estate, Airport Road, Abuja, Crown Oakland City, Airport Road, Abuja, Crown Golden City, Airport Road, Abuja, Crown Sheffield City, Airport Road, Abuja, Crown Vista City, Airport Road, Abuja, Hill Crest Estate, Guzape, Asokoro Extension, Abuja and Crown Smart City, Ibeju-Lekki, Lagos which has over 100 blocks of buildings. Seest thou a man diligent in his business? He shall stand before kings; he shall not stand before mean men. This biblical charge has truly encapsulated the meteoric rise of Gbedewole Kayode in the real estate business of Nigeria. Gbade has really taken the nation’s real estate sector by the storm and he is not prepared to slow down any time soon. Dr Amos is still very far from conquering the Federal Capital Territory while he is already making serious inroads into other major cities in the country. From a very small and extremely humble beginning of poverty and street hawking, Dr Gbadewole Amos Kayode has moved to an enviable pedestal of prominence, influence and affluence within the real estate circle of Nigeria. With so much achieved successes at a relatively young age, the future of real estate business can only look better and brighter for Gbade Kayode. Femi Salako is the publisher of Triangle Magazine and writes from Akure, Ondo State.