 MRS Josephine Nchetaka Chukwujama-Eze, who refunded the N13 million mistakenly paid into her account, has been rewarded with N1 million. Commissioner for Gender Affairs and Social Development Princess Peace Nnaji stated this on Tuesday after a meeting with Mrs. Chukwujama-Eze. Mrs. Chukwujama-Eze, a teacher with a mission school in Enugu, is married to Chukwujama Eze, from Enugu Ezike, Igbo-Eze North Local Government Area. Nnaji, who presented the cash on behalf of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, hailed Chukwujama-Eze for being a good ambassador of Enugu. She said: “This is the kind of culture we are inculcating in all our women, men, young boys and girls. “What we are witnessing today is heart warming and thought provoking. It is something memorable and substantial. This is a woman who had N13 million mistakenly credited to her account. But immediately she saw it, she alerted her husband and they went to the bank and returned the money to the rightful owner. “We all know that times are hard, especially with the Coronavirus pandemic. She is not very comfortable; she is a teacher in a mission school and look at what she has done. This is a real character and the state wants to appreciate her for what she has done. “Governor Ugwuanyi has directed that she be rewarded with N1 million.” Mrs. Chukwujama-Eze thanked Ugwuanyi for the reward, saying: “I so much appreciate this. I was just being my normal self. I never knew what I did will get to this extent. I did what I felt I should do. I did it to clear my conscience. Thank you honourable commissioner and please extend my thanks to our dear governor”. Chukwujama-Eze’s husband, Eze ascribed his wife’s honesty to family upbringing and the cultural value of Enugu State and the entire Igbo. “It is a demonstration that there are a good people in Nigeria. What we have witnessed today is a life experience which didn’t come by accident; it is a function of family upbringing. “We sincerely thank Governor Ugwuanyi for this recognition. Nigeria is redeemable; Nigerians are good people and I am proud to say this,” he said.