No one could have thought it possible that a man in modern day Nigeria, especially in a region considered deeply religious, could subject his son to such unimaginable torture as was the case with Mallam Aliyu Umar of Birnin Kebbi, Kebbi State, in Northwestern Nigeria, who found his son, Jubrin Aliyu, 11, only fit to live with his animals in their abode. The boy was tied with a rope like an animal. Until freedom came for him on August 9, he knew no other life outside the pen. He ate with the animals and could not exercise the freedom of a citizen. Malam Aliyu Umar and his three wives denied young Jubrin the fundamental rights due all human beings. It was sheer cruelty; man’s inhumanity to man. Neighbours told the police that the boy was pushed out of the house to make way for his father and his wives since the mother had died. But, Malam Aliyu said he took the action because the boy was born with Down Syndrome. He also alleged that the boy had some mental disorder, hence the need to keep him away from other human beings. The father did not think the boy deserves the love he should normally get. The hospital was not a place to take him for treatment. This is an opportunity for the police, the social welfare section of the state government and the ministry of health to educate the people on how to treat children with special needs. First, the boy should be given adequate medical and nutrive attention. He must be nursed back to life. Whether the father was correct in diagnosing young Jubrin with mental imbalance, it is certain that anyone who had been subjected to such inhuman treatment, denied of friendship and love for two years, and who kept company with animals for the period, would need psychological retooling. The Sir Yahaya Memorial Hospital where the boy is currently accessing medical care should be assessed for its capacity to cater for his needs. Funds should not be spared in taking care of him, if need be, outside the state. This is an eye opener on the primitivity and wickedness of some Nigerians. Only recently, in Kwara State, a lady and his two children were allegedly turned out of their home because they had blue eyes. The head of the home had denied this, though. But, we know that more terrible things are happening in the country, fuelled by primitivity, ignorance or sheer cruelty, as in Jubrin’s case. It is sad that we are still having such experiences in Nigeria, centuries after Mary Slessor stepped in to lead a campaign stopping the killing of twins in Calabar. Malam Aliyu has offended God and man, and no effort should be spared in bringing him to book. The Kebbi State Munistry of Justice should not leave the prosection to the police. Neither should the non-governmental organisations. All sub-human acts should be duly punished to serve as deterrence to others like Malam Aliyu and his three wives, as their action has brought the country ridicule in the comity of nations. The twenty-first century is not a time for acts that would make people believe that the cruelty of the slave trade era still persists in our communities.