A Nigerian officer in the United States Navy, Lieutenant Victor Agunbiade, has been honoured for impeccable management of $45 million in his capacity as cash Disbursing Officer at the navy’s Camp Lemonnier in Djibouti where he served between October 2019 and July 2020. This was not the first time that Agunbiade would be honoured by the U.S. Navy. In 2018, he was named as the Navy’s 2018 Officer Recruiter of the Year, alongside 17 others at the annual Recruiter of the Year ceremony in Washington D.C. At the recent award ceremony, the navy’s citation for Agunbiade: “Demonstrating superior leadership, Lieutenant Agunbiade managed the navy’s largest cash disbursing office with $45m in cash transaction accounting for approximately 70 per cent of the navy’s overseas disbursing volume. Additionally, he maintained 100 per cent accountability of $23m across six rigorous inspections and independent audit with zero discrepancies… By his unswerving determination, wise judgment and complete dedication to duty, Lieutenant Agunbiade upon himself and upheld the highest traditions of the United States Naval Service,” portrays Agunbiade who joined the navy as a storekeeper in 2008 and got commissioned as a supply officer in 2013 as a paragon of professional ethics and moral character. The U.S. Navy’s award to him is another positive rating for Nigeria, following closely on appointments of Professors Charles Akande as President of Champlain University in the United States on July 1 and Charles Egbu as Vice-Chancellor-designate of Leeds Trinity University in the United Kingdom to assume duty on 1st November. News about Agunbiade’s transparent honesty may not be enough to counter many stories about Nigerian scammers in Western countries. However, it is salutary to majority of Nigerians, like majority of other nationals that act in compliance with demanding standards of conduct in business, professional, and social life. Honest Nigerians, wherever they may be, are likely to be excited by this public recognition in the United States of the sterling quality of their fellow-Nigerian in one of America’s leading institutions for ethical conduct. By the same token, Agunbiade’s moral strength and the readiness of the U.S. Navy to appreciate it publicly should leave a lesson for Nigeria’s institutions. Even though there must be many like Agunbiade in Nigeria’s Armed Forces, including the police, Nigerians rarely hear about them. Such enviable characters in our public institutions ought to be appreciated publicly as a way of telling Nigerians that, Nigeria has its moral heroes and villains, like their counterparts in other human communities. For example, an ongoing controversy in Operation Lafiya Dole against Boko Haram terrorists illustrates the axiom that bad news always travels faster than good ones. The reported uncertainties about the fate of General Olusegun Adeniyi, who was reported to have fought gallantly as commanding officer in Operation Lafiya Dole and later reported to be in the process of being court martialed for complaining publicly about inadequate supply of military equipment sends conflicting signals to citizens and other patriots. Although members of the Nigerian Armed Forces may have sworn to ultimate sacrifice by their choice of professions to defend our country and society, nevertheless, they are still human and can get their commitment refuelled by periodic recognition of their positive actions, just as the U.S. Navy has done for its Nigerian-born officer. We commend Lieutenant Agunbiade for doing Nigeria proud, especially at a time when some of his counterparts in the Nigerian Army are being accused of stealing money for weapons and welfare of troops, while some in the Navy are alleged to have given cover to oil thieves in the creeks and on the high sea.