But for divine intervention, I would have abandoned no fewer than 65 physically challenged pupils as a result of a series of frustrations I encountered in the course of taking care of their education and other welfare matters.” Those were the words of Mrs Ebelechukwu Justina Ndife, the proprietor of God’s Care School for Special Needs, Umuayom Village, Awka in Anambra State. She said she nearly quit the job when it became obvious that taking care of the feeding and accommodation requirements of the kids as well as paying their teachers was almost impossible. Ndife said the desire to establish the school was informed by the passion she had in assisting people with disabilities of various forms, including those abandoned on the streets. “God’s Care School for Special Needs, Umuayom Village, Awka in Anambra State was established to teach children who have special needs. I was motivated to establish a special school based on my experience as a teacher and proprietor of a mini-sized normal or conventional school. “God’s Care School for Special Needs has the objective and vision of providing a learning experience that will empower the children to be independent, creative, and self-sufficient and pursue a high academic level as well as fully participate in a competitive world by acquiring special education through training and practice. “The school was established in 2,000, though I have been managing a normal school since 1997. Later, I noticed that hearing-impaired kids could read and write, through one impaired man working with the Ministry of Works, and whose wife used to type for me. “I also recalled that one of my hearing-impaired age mates used to flow when he speaks despite his condition. So, I decided to gather hearing-impaired people in my Umudioka Village since I was already into the education system. “I used to attend lessons where one Victor Obionu couched me on the sign language; just to assist me to attain some levels of proficiency in the teaching of lessons for kids with special needs. I had to go from house to house to pick the kids,” she said. She said the school which began with two children at no cost, later grew to no fewer than 65 children. “Latter, people started coming from different places, asking where the lesson was going on. Along the line, the little couching efforts metamorphosed into a fully-fledged school, from two kids-Chisom Egbe and Chidinma Enweluzo. Now, it’s over 60 students,” she added. Experts have posited that kids with special needs also need an educator. This is where the role of God’s Care School for Special Needs, Umuayom Village, Awka Anambra State becomes imperative. The school is dedicated to the belief that children who are physically challenged can pursue a high academic level and fully participate in a fast-changing world. With a comprehensive educational programme, the school is geared towards developing the potential of the child with the help of professionals using a well-defined curriculum through a systematic approach known as special education. According to the proprietor, payment of teachers’ salaries and feeding of the kids became major challenges following the increase in their numerical strength. She continued: “Initially, I was managing a normal school. I had enough children whose fees I used to pay my teachers. But at a point, the number of the kids increased so much so that I was no longer able to pay teachers’ salaries conveniently. “My main challenge now is that the number of those with disabilities now outnumbers the normal children. The number of normal children currently is not up to 20 after many of them were withdrawn by their parents who felt the condition was no longer conducive for them. “I accept any form of disability, including those abandoned on the streets. Feeding them became a serious problem. Some have been with us for more than 10 years. There are those I send to police stations for a series of investigations. “Another challenge is the present condition of our building. Imagine feeding over 10 of them without parents; at the same time maintain the building. “At a point, I decided to forget about the building and focus on saving the lives of the kids.” On whether the government is aware of the plights of the school, Ndife said: “The government is aware of our situation. We attend most competitions organised by the government and have even won many trophies. If you come to my school, you’ll see some laurels we won in marchpast. “We’ve been writing to the government. In November last year, we were informed that our letter has been signed by the governor and money approved for the renovation of the building. “Since then, we’re yet to receive any response. If not for the churches and few individuals who visit us during festive periods, the situation would have been so terrible. “A media outfit in the state also visited us last year and gave us about 36 pieces of mattresses, 10 bags of rice and N300, 000. “I nearly quit the job when the number of normal children started plummeting. Parents of some of the normal children started withdrawing their kids. “But I had to change my mind after a dream I had in which I was warned not to abandon the children. That was when it dawned on me that I had embarked on a divine assignment. “It became obvious that it’s where God wants me to be, even though I took up the task through education of normal children. That is why we continued despite the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. “It came to a point when there were no rice and beans in the store; except a half bag of onions, spaghetti and indomie. The pupils were crying. But I consoled them, assuring them of God’s intervention,” she said. She, however, revealed that a glimpse of hope came the school’s way following a special invitation she received from the Commissioner for Basic Education in the state, Prof. Kate Omenugha. “Surprisingly, God answered our prayers. Just recently, someone took us to the Commissioner for Education for the first time; after previous efforts to see her failed. “We were surprised when she donated two bags of rice, a bag of beans, corn, and groundnut oil to us. That’s what is sustaining us. She promised continuous assistance to the school,” she said. Ndife listed the categories of special kids in the schools to include hearing-impaired, physically challenged, mentally retarded, learning disabilities and multiple disabilities’ children. “The only category we don’t have is the visually-impaired kids. But we have in our midst every other category. We have primary one to six pupils in the school,” she said. She further lamented that the number of schools involved in children with special needs in the state was too numerous for the government to cater for. She said: “I think we’re not less than 50 in the list of schools that are into special needs education in Anambra State. When we wrote for financial assistance to complete the building, we were told that the queue is so long that it will take time before it gets to our turn. “Even before the lockdown, we submitted a letter to the government. We just got information that we’re not among the people that will access ours quickly; that there are other people they will attend to first. “Even though it was the Federal Government that started that building, we wrote to the state government to assist us to complete it.” On whether her school was part of the beneficiaries of the Federal Government’s palliative package toward assisting private schools, she said she was yet to be informed. “Though somebody called us from the Education Development Centre (EDC) recently to tell us to submit the list of teachers in our employ, I think it may be in connection with that,” she added.  