The Special Adviser to the President on NGOs (Office of the First Lady), Dr Wole Aboderin, has called for palliatives in mental health to cushion the effect of Covid-19. In a statement, he said the pandemic has created a restrictive environment and limited outlets for many people with mental health issues to deal with normal stresses and pressures. Aboderin, appreciating the government, private organisations and individuals that have provided palliatives and assistance to Nigerians during the lockdown, stressed that the mental well-being of Nigerians is also paramount in a post-lockdown society; hence the need for palliatives intervention in mental health. According to him, as the Covid-19 lockdown is gradually being relaxed, the mental health impact on the people would begin to show. To tackle this, Aboderin noted that governments, organisations, firms and well-spirited individuals should come together and channel their efforts towards mitigating the mental-health issues resulting from pandemic and the lockdown. He stated that some people with well-planned lives and good hopes for the future might not have it the same anymore, as families might have been separated with no knowledge of when they could reunite with loved ones and some might not see their loved ones again. Abodenrin, who worked with Secure the Future International Initiative in gathering data during the lockdown, said  mental health has adverse consequences, adding that Nigerians are at crossroads on how to deal with it. Citing the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), he said only one out of 10 mental health issues is reported in the country, thereby necessitating urgent and strategic intervention on a post lockdown. He said first responders and frontline intervention workers on Covid-19 have experienced some unexplainable deaths, changes in their work environment, exposure to the virus and might have developed a pessimistic life expectancy. The frontline healthcare workers, he said, might also have been exposed to  traumatic sounds and images of the dying and dead victims with health risks to their families and society. Some might seem asymptomatic to the impacts of stress and trauma, but there is the aftermath; there can be post-trauma stress disorder (PTSD). “Arising from our research and predictive analytics on mental health and COVID-19 lockdown, we thus made following observations, which include: the need to reinforce and sustain current efforts to prevent further infection and spread of the dreaded virus. “To promote healthier and safe social and physical content new normal; to provide appropriate and sector-specific therapies to families and workers is germane; to provide holistic mental-health awareness and management training for Nigerians; to provide Autogenic Training (AT) for care givers. “To provide stress management training for Nigerians so as to help them focus on problem, emotion and positive coping strategies; to provide post-trauma health strategies to mitigate the impacts of stress and traumatic experiences on health; to provide critical incidence stress management (CISM) to frontline/first responders and mitigate stress/trauma impacts as well as equip them for future disasters and pandemics,” he added.