The Police in Ekiti State Command on Tuesday said it had arrested one person allegedly fingered in the killing of two persons during a mayhem that erupted in Ire-Ekiti, Oye Council Area of Ekiti State on Monday over stoppage of Ogun Onire festival. The Command’s Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Sunday Abutu, said more than 15 persons marked as arrowheads of the mayhem, now at large, had been declared wanted. Violence erupted in the ancient town on Monday as some youths protested stoppage of the annual celebration of Ogun Onire traditional festivals due to Covid-19. The protest, which started on Sunday evening, spilled over to Monday, turned bloody as two persons lost their lives and scores injured over the move by the state government to stop the festival. Governor Kayode Fayemi, had in a statewide broadcast ordered stoppage of traditional festivals across the state as part of measures to flattened the curve of the spread of coronavirus in the state. The Onire of Ire-Ekiti, Oba Victor Bobade, while trying to enforce Fayemi’s order by admonishing the adherents of Ogun to shelve this year’s celebration, met resistance by some irate youths who insisted on celebrating the festival. Speaking with journalists in Ado-Ekiti, Abutu said one of the persons allegedly fingered in the killing, had been arrested and detained for onward prosecution. “One person had been arrested and more than 15 persons have been declared wanted. They have run away, but our men are on their trail. “We won’t allow people to take laws into their hands or resort to self-help over small issue. We are going to apprehend whoever had hands in these killings and ensure that they face the full weight of the law.” The Police spokesman debunked the insinuation in some quarters that the casualties fell to the stray bullets fired by the policemen that were deployed in the town to quell the crisis. He said, “Just go and check the corpses of the two persons that were killed during the crisis. No sign of gunshots. In fact, they were clubbed to death. “The two rival factions were carrying planks and other dangerous weapons and those who died were hit with dangerous weapons, so they didn’t die through gunshots”. He said the policemen would remain in the town until normalcy returns to the beleaguered town, adding that all the perpetrators of the nefarious act would be brought to justice.