Stallion has begun a 5,000- kilometre roadshow to showcase its new product to Nigerians. It comprises a convoy of five tricycles, otherwise called Keke,that will cover 28 cities in 16 states nationwide. The tricycles were being led by a branded truck for customer engagement and market activation. It kicked off at the Stallion Bajaj Showroom at Ijesha, Lagos, last week. According to the company, the rally aims to attest to the strength of Bajaj Keke on the roads. The team is also scheduled to visit identified cultural sites in a comprehensive exercise designed to prove that ‘’Bajaj drives faster and lasts longer’’. Stallion Auto Keke Ltd Managing Director Manish Rohtagi, said Bajaj is the pioneer Keke brand known for its durability, speed and overall performance. He assured that the new distributorship would bring immense value to the dealers, fleet owners, riders and consumers, stressing that Stallion’s advantage lies in its de-centalised operation and quicker decision-making, which will help drive operating efficiency. “It will bring differentiated customer service, and ease of spare part availability through its existing footprints in the auto industry,” he said. Rohtagi plans were underway to engage more dealers across the country and provide first-class after-sales support aimed at quick service within four hours, rider training schools and rider and mechanic empowerment programmes. Stallion Bajaj boasts a network of sales and service outlets in 96 locations spread across Nigeria and plans to add 30 more exclusive and MFS (multi franchisee services) outlets by the end of 2020, taking the count to 126. The areas of focus would be Ilorin, Yola, Warri, Benin, Yenagoa, Sokoto, Kebbi, Lokoja and Bauchi. Stallion Group Marketing Head Arpita Luthra, said Stallion Auto Keke Limited would invest significantly in improving stakeholders’ interest, business and livelihood. “Be it landmark consumer-connect campaigns like the Stallion Bajaj Keke rally doing the durability drive of 5000 kilometres and touching 28 cities, or rider-training facilities, or scholarship programmes for the Keke riders and mechanics, the alliance of Stallion and Bajaj will enable progress, improve lives and dominate the market,“ she said.