 THE Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Friday released the final list of candidates for the October 10 governorship election in Ondo State. The incumbent, Mr. Rotimi Akeredolu, who is seeking a second term on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), makes the list. Also on the list are Akeredolu’s main challengers, Mr. Eyitayo Jegede of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Mr. Agboola Ajayi of the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP). National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee of INEC said four parties – “African Democratic Congress (ADC), Action Democratic Party (ADP) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) withdrew and substituted their Deputy Governorship candidates while the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP) substituted both its Governorship and Deputy Governorship candidates.” Ajayi took the ZLP ticket after defecting from the PDP where he came second in the party’s primaries. He was originally in the APC on whose ticket he became deputy governor but cross to the PDP on the approach of the primaries. Okoye said on Friday that INEC at its weekly regular meeting on Thursday 20th August 2020 deliberated on the conduct of the Ondo governorship election scheduled for Saturday 10th October, 2020 as well as other outstanding elections. He said: “It will be recalled that on 31st July 2020, the Commission published the provisional list of candidates for the Ondo Governorship election comprising 17 political parties. In accordance with section 35 of the Electoral Act, 2010 (as amended) and as provided in the Timetable and Schedule of Activities released on 6th February 2020, withdrawal and substitution of candidates ended at 6.00pm on 18th August 2020. “Consequently, the Commission has published the final list of nominated candidates in our State and Local Government offices in Ondo State. The list is also available on our website and social media platforms. “Political parties, candidates in the election and members of the public are advised to check the final list of candidates and be guided accordingly.” Seventeen parties are contesting the election. 