The Federal Government and governors on Wednesday said there is the need to invest more in youths and make them central to policy-making and governance. There was a torrent of messages as the world marked the International Youth Day. Endorsed in 1999 by the United Nations (UN) General Assembly, the International Youth Day gives an opportunity to celebrate and mainstream young peoples’ voices, actions and initiatives, as well as their meaningful, universal and equitable engagement. This year’s team is Youth Engagement for Global Action. As a way of reducing unemployment, the Federal Government urged youths to embrace agriculture. It said that the Bank of Agriculture is offering different loan schemes at very reasonable rates to encourage youths to go into farming. Minister of Special Duties and Intergovernmental Affairs, George Akume, stated these during a one-day symposium organised by the National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN) to mark the day in Abuja. He said: “Agriculture is capable of creating millions of jobs. I, therefore, urge the Nigerian youths to embrace agriculture for subsistence and commercial purposes.” NYCN President, Solomon Adodo, said the youths are ready to use their potential to bring an end to the problems confronting the country. Former Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) Director-General, Dr Dakuku Peterside, said the country cannot make expected progress without first making required investments to develop the youths. He urged the government to make education their top priority to guarantee a brighter future for the youths, insisting that any nation that desired rapid development must give the youths their pride of place. In a statement to mark the Day, he said: “Education must remain a top priority if we are to make meaningful progress.” Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, said his administration was poised to fortify the youths for a productive engagement. He said the government under his watch would provide the framework for all stakeholders to engage, empower, and equip the youths of the state to realise their potential. He spoke while addressing the youths in commemoration of the Day during a virtual meeting organised by the State Ministry of Youth and Sport. He said: “We are conscious of the fact that our youths are not only our future but also our present hope. “We first demonstrated this while constituting our cabinet. We have about four cabinet members, who are in their thirties. One of them is the Commissioner for Youth and Sports, Yemi Lawal. “To further demonstrate our commitment to building our youths and, by implication, building the future of the State of Osun, we have sustained the Osun Youth Empowerment Scheme (OYES) and the Youth Employment and Social Support Operation (YESSO), all of which are aimed at alleviating poverty as well as improving the economy of the State through the involvement of our youths. “In order to consolidate on our gains so far, we are putting a Policy Document together, which we shall soon present to the public for inputs and adoption. ‘The State of Osun Youth Policy Document is a fallout of the country’s National Policy on Youth. In our own policy, we will be talking about the 4Es, namely, Youth Education, Youth Engagement, Youth Empowerment and Youth Entrepreneurship. “This policy sets out guidelines and provides the framework for all stakeholders to engage, empower and equip the youth of the State to realise their potential and take advantage of the opportunities available to make positive contributions to the wellbeing of their communities across the entire State. “The State of Osun Youth Policy emphasises greater youth participation and engagement in decision making as well as welfare programmes of the Government at both State and Local Government levels. “This Policy will ensure sufficient investment by the state through the provision of resources, skilled labour and facilities. “We believe that engaging the youth for positive development will ensure a safer society and a better Osun. “We also acknowledge the fact that we need to collaborate with other stakeholders to achieve our objective. I am glad to say that our doors are open for such collaborations.” Lagos State Government celebrated the Day with a call on youths to key into the vision of a “Greater Lagos” being championed by the Babajide Sanwo-Olu administration. Addressing a group of youths, Commissioner for Youth and Social Development, Mr Segun Dawodu, said: “When the youths are engaged at the community, local or state level, they develop the skills needed to be effective leaders and make outstanding impacts.” Dawodu noted that the Lagos State Government realised that when youths are empowered, they can contribute to the development of the nation. He said that was why the state launched the Lagos Youth Policy which is, centred around youth development as well as the facilitation of the Child Right’s Law. The Commissioner also stated that the ministry has inaugurated the fourth legislative assembly of the Lagos State Youth Parliament, among other initiatives. The candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the Edo State, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, said the country must harness the energy, talent, and innovation of her youths to chart a path out of the economic downturn caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. In a statement to mark the International Youth Day, Ize-Iyamu said the youths are capable of big changes and transformation if provided the required support. He urged policymakers to intensify engagement efforts with the youths to design policies centred on their true concerns. “With an economy brought to its knees by a raging pandemic and necessary restrictions imposed to curb its spread, now more than ever, we are reliant on the energy, talent, and innovation of our youths to build a path out of the downturn and lay the groundworks for a prosperous and stable future,” he said. Anambra State government restated its commitment towards involving young people in policy making. Commissioner for Youth Empowerment and Creative Economy, Prof. Theresa Obiekezie said engagement of youth in political mechanism would not only enrich national and multilateral institutions but reduce democratic deficits and restore their trust in public institutions. The Commissioner said no fewer than 700 youths have undergone training in various skills, including Confectioneries/Event Management, Computer Management/Software Application, Tilling, among others. Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq said he is committed to taking steps to secure a brighter future for young people in the state. In a message commemorating the Day, the governor said the future always belongs to the youth, hence his administration has focused on critical engagement of young people for growth and development. “On this occasion of the International Youth Day (2020), the governor fully identifies with young people in Kwara and beyond in their aspiration for a future filled with hope and great possibilities,” Chief Press Secretary Rafiu Ajakaye said in a statement. Senator Aliyu Wamakko decried lack for job opportunities for young people. He acknowledged the contributions of youths in promoting the course for peace, unity and socio-economic development of the country for prosperity. The Chairman, Senate Committee on Defence, in a statement by his Special Assistant on Youths and Students Matters, Comrade Suleiman Mahmud, described the youths as significant and dependable pillars and agents of change.