For the third time, the BBNaija Lockdown housemates have lost their wager for the week. On August 13, the 16 housemates lost their chance to win the wager for the second time after winning it under Ozo’s leadership in the third week. Erica is the Head of House for the fourth week and she has Kiddwaya as her deputy. Despite Erica’s efforts to ensure the wager was won after Ozo achieved the feat in the third week, the housemates lost their chance to secure a wager ahead of the fifth week during the Thursday wager game. The housemates spent a major time of their free time in the fourth week preparing for their wager challenge – a drama on “No Means No”. After being summoned to the Arena, the housemates were instructed to divide themselves into a Black Team, and a White Team, with equal numbers of males and females in each team. After fumbling through the selection process, Biggie decided to make the selection himself. The White Team: Vee (leader), Bright O, TrickyTee, Erica, Lucy, Kaisha, Prince and Ozo. The Black Team: Kiddwaya (Leader), Wathoni, Tolanibaj, Praise, Laycon, Neo, Nengi, Dorathy. The first part of the wager challenge was a quiz on fun Nigerian history facts. The rules for this portion was that the round would consist of ten questions for each team. A team leader would have to be selected to read the questions out and they would not be allowed to answer any of the questions. It was the Team Leaders duty to select a specific individual on the opposite team to answer the question they had picked. The team member picked had a maximum of two opportunities to answer the question correctly, and they could not be assisted by any of their fellow team members. No team member was to be asked more than two questions. The losing team would forfeit all of their Big Brother Nairas and the winning team would be awarded fifty Big Brother Naira each. Praise and Tolanibaj both struggled and didn’t manage to answer any of their questions correctly while Prince, Dorathy, Lucy, and Nengi did brilliantly well. The surprise of the quiz was Kaisha who seemed unsure but still managed to get two correct answers. Joining her in the select group with two questions answered correctly was Erica. At the end of the quiz the score was: White Team 10 – Black Team 8, handing the win to the White Team. To this end, Kiddwaya, Wathoni, Tolanibaj, Praise, Laycon, Neo, Nengi, and Dorathy lost their BBNaira while Vee, Bright O, TrickyTee, Erica, Lucy, Kaisha, Prince and Ozo got 50 BBNairas each to their wallet.  This part of the Wager Challenge was focused around highlighting the scourge of gender-based violence. The Housemates created a play that touched on the different instances that this heinous crime can occur. The presentation was expertly narrated by Vee, featured a poem by Laycon, and showcased fantastic performances from all of the Housemates with Erica and Praise being the most noteworthy. After the housemates completed the performance, Biggie asked ominously: “Is that all?” Though the presentation was poignant, the Housemates fell far short of the allotted time for the performance. Kiddwaya attempted to soothe Biggie by explaining that the majority of messages that he had seen on the subject matter were concise like their effort. This was the reason that their presentation was succinct but still managed to highlight many varied instances of gender-based violence perfectly. This explanation didn’t manage to sway Biggie’s opinion and the Housemates winning streak came to an end. The presentation was perfect, but not following the rules led to the Wager Challenge being a loss.