SIR: There are several benefits to be derived from the Federal Audit Bill passed by the National Assembly (NASS). The Eighth Senate, in May 2018, passed a Bill for the Establishment of the Federal Audit Service Commission, in line with the Buhari administration’s anti-corruption fight. The Audit Bill, for the records, was first passed by the House of Representatives in April 2016, and transmitted to the Senate for concurrence. The Senate passed the Bill on Thursday, March 1, 2018. But due to disparities in the version passed by the two chambers, a conference committee was set up to reconcile areas of differences. The Bill was eventually harmonized and passed by both chambers. The harmonized copy was forwarded to President Buhari for assent on January 8, 2019. Sadly, the Audit Bill has since become orphaned, two year after its passage by NASS. The Bill was prematurely ‘murdered’ by the refusal of Mr. President to give it his assent. The Bill, among other things, will greatly assist in blocking revenue leakages and curtail corruption, when it finally becomes a law. It is incontrovertible that the absence of an audit law has given rise to impunity in the use of public resources in several MDAs. This is evidenced in the limitless numbers of probes conducted on key agencies of government, which completely indicted them of malpractices of different sorts. The absence of proper auditing in the MDAs is also responsible for the fusion of unwarranted projects in the budget of most MDAs. Projects are not subjected to either procurement, financial or performance audits. It is therefore incumbent on the President Buhari-led government, to activate every necessary mechanism that will bolster its anti-graft fight. The country direly needs a robust, and well- articulated audit law that will not only guide accounting officers and other responsible parties involved in the MDAs on the standard procedures in the application of public funds, but will also encourage performance in programmes and budgeting in the MDAs. That is why Mr. President must once again, diligently re-scan the Audit Bill, carefully identify grey areas in the current Bill, and then facilitate the process for quick harmonization of the perceived grey areas with NASS, before proceeding to sign the bill into law. Having a progressive audit law in place will indeed serve as an elixir for his government’s war against corruption.