Monster Corona walked in like a marauder into Nigeria polity after escaping the hoodwink and flippancy chain of Asia lord, sprouting from Wuhan province last year December. The Nigeria’s bastion was broke-in from the front door with the connivance of the state gate-keepers, fully armed but with hands akimbo, escorted the unseen beast for an easy entry into the preeminence wonderland of putrefaction. Turbulence, commotion, hurly-burly vapour beclouded the Nigerian’s atmosphere. The night turned into morning and sun ceased from rising from the east; the moon radiance recessed into dimness, and cities went into a silence mode ditto to a necropolis zone. Coropanic became a strange but acceptable song on every single tongue. Farmers vacate the field; workers of the king took an indefinite leave; students went on a timeless mandatory holiday. From Kings College in Lagos to Barewa College in Kaduna; and from Government College in Ibadan to Government College in Umuahia. All teachings edifice and dormitories are vacated and deserted till futurity, unknown to anyone. Education became a prawn on the pan of Coronavirus. It was on March 19th, 2020 when the Ministry of Education joined other countries of the World educational ministry in a bid to containing the spread of COVID-19 in the country by publicly announcing the closure of all schools across the Nation. Education suffers from one of the pernicious blow of the pandemic. A statistical report from the UNESCO estimated that a number of 1.75billion learners were affected by the schools close-down constituting about 99.9% of World student population as of April 13th 2020. Sharing from the adversity dividend, Nigeria rudderless educational boat capsized 46 million students to the torrent of the global pandemic as schools close down nationally. With an indefinite schools closures, having no flash of resumption any time soon, questions on how learning will continue without the horizon of schools physical walls arise from concerned stakeholders. Thus, emanating from the exemplary educational changeover some developed countries took from the conventional classroom learning to the emergent distance learning. Albeit, Nigeria’s educational system is a prebake fragile egg that lacks the vigour to tread the mountainous cliff of these advanced countries strategic educational movement that has a long-established supporting system in place for easy induction of virtual learning. Yet, some states in the country took the over-size shoe of digital learning, recording half-baked successes. Looking sideways to the raised questions of: Do schools in Nigeria have the technological capacity to cater for the 46 million students affected?, Do teachers have the necessary resources and skills to deliver live lessons and record a Massive Open Online Course (MOOC) styled lessons?, Do households have the facilities to engage their children in remote learning? After all, it was not an accidental coup to the Nigeria’s schooling system but a deliberate murderer of sound educational structure. In an attempt to ameliorate the pandemic effect on education, states across the country rolled out their online classes’ framework. From School on Air in Oyo to Radio Classrooms in Abia; Ogundigital class to unity schools virtual learning. States went on the field with unsharpened hoes and cutlasses that could not weed weeds. Although, laudable to some extent but the digital learning architecture benched the vulnerable and the disadvantaged students who lack the facilities to participate in the programme. The absence of radio or television to some homes coupled with the issue of erratic power supply; digital divide challenge exacerbated by inaccessible educational technological resources. Reports from Teach for Nigeria volunteers capture some students in the rural areas not aware of the online class as many of these programmes concentrate more on cities settlers leaving the poor child to be at the receiving end of their bourgeoisie counterparts. This, in disguise, further exacerbates the educational inequality gap among the children. Mukhtar Agbadi, a 2018 Teach for Nigeria volunteer in Kaduna state, says that, among his 154 students in his class, 55% of the lack access to a stable power supply while 40% of them lack access to either radio or television. This connotes that the probability of more than half of his students not having access to these educational programmes is very high. Alas! How do we expect these children to learn during this pandemic? With the unfeigned submission of Professor Allison Anderson, a teaching and learning scholar, he expresses that coronavirus will definitely not be the last pandemic to disrupt school continuity. If the prophecy is incontestable, therefore, a futuristic educational master-plan needs to be drawn against impending disruptions. Before moving on, let me quickly beam my light of comparison to the first-world countries education interventionist policies. In China, specifically, the government provides computers to students from disadvantaged households, an endowment of mobile-data packages and telecommunication subsidies. Similarly, effort is made in France to lend out gadgets to students who have no access to computers. Portugal also towed the same path by partnering with postal services to deliver worksheets to students who do not have internet access at home. If all these could be done by other countries of the world to salvage the situation, I believe Nigeria can also move in the same direction instead of hammering on the crookery homegrown feeding programme. COVID-19 has exposed us to a new form of pedagogy delivery that we must all embrace. Our teaching and learning system post-pandemic must have an incorporation of face-to-face learning with virtual learning. Blended learning needs to be dramatically encouraged in our schools. This development would lay an easy transition from orthodox learning into digital learning in case we are struck by another disruption in the future. The necessity of teaching and learning with asynchronous (blackboard and whiteboard) and synchronous (zoom, Google Meet, Cisco Webex) will yield significant results when these methods are integrated into face-to-face instruction. Part of the blended learning benefits is the delivery and submission of assignments through the online platform, thereby saving classroom precious time for discussion, debate, guided practice or other work that would’ve been difficult for the students to grasp. After COVID-19, a shared understanding of digital tools being a complement, but not substitute, for the intimacy and immediacy of face-to-face learning would be known to all. However, knowing its importance does not suffice our educational rejuvenation plan but rather, a need to walk the talk. From everyone are recommendations of different solutions ranging from the provision of solar-powered educational devices to teachers capacity building; learning methodology repositioning to technological infrastructure adequacy encapsulating Public-Private Partnership. The extension of the scope of Nigeria Education in Emergency Working Group (EiEWG) strategy from the North-Eastern part of the country to other regions suggestion. All these propositions revolve around government commitment and funding. Adequate funding from the government is an indispensable pillar to hold the education building, without it, it’s will totally collapse sooner than we envisage. Imperatively, a synergetic effort between government, private organizations, NGO’s, parents and caretakers need to be established for a rebirth of a solid educational system comes post COVID-19. As Benjamin Franklin rightly said, “investment in knowledge pays the best interest”. If truly we understand that statement, we would ruminate over the thought-provoking exposition of Dr Saheed Rufai that in a period of COVID-19 or after, the government should not expect a miracle from an underfunded system, ill-equipped teachers or academically bankrupt university lecturer. Sagaciously deduced, future lies before us, this is not the time to engage in educational gimmickries but a transition hour to dot the i’s and cross the t’s. Dawood, a recent graduate of Public Administration, wrote via Dawood.taoheed94@gmail.com.