‘ Former Senate Minority leader Biodun Olujimi has denied speculations she was planning to dump Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for All Progressives Congress (APC). Olujimi, who addressed reporters in Ado-Ekiti yesterday, said she remained a committed member of PDP and would never leave. She alleged the speculation was the handiwork of former Governor Ayodele Fayose, ‘who is bent on smearing my soaring political relevance’ in Ekiti PDP and at the national level. According to her, Fayose and his cohorts had resorted to a campaign of calumny because she was opposed to his tyrannical and dictatorial leadership style. She added that Fayose was trying to take advantage of her gender to sideline her from the management team of the party, even when she has given her best to the growth and service of it. She said: “It is what we do that will make people believe in us. Some people came together and said they want a new leadership. I didn’t compel anyone. They came and said they needed a breath of fresh air, a new beginning and inclusiveness and we started a movement which gathered so much momentum that they thought we were eroding the ground upon which they stand.  “I wonder why Fayose, who was governor for eight years, would be struggling for power with ordinary senator. If you have done well, you won’t need to wrestle at all. Fayose that I worked with and I had great respect for? How did he lose it? He needs to answer that. “What is happening is a misconception which came about because of the belief that one person owns the party and the other person trying to wrestle it from the owner. But that is not the situation; the situation on ground is that everybody, including the most lowly, joined the party because there is free entry and exit… “Contrary to insinuations, I am wholly PDP through and through.” On allegations that she was scheming for the 2022 governorship, Olujimi said nothing precludes her from participating in the election. “Nothing at all; I have paid my dues and done what I am supposed to do in Ekiti. I am qualified to participate. Don’t forget that I was a contestant in the 2018 governorship election”, she added.