The governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Eyitayo Jegede has knocked the administration of Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, saying it lacks a human face. Jegede spoke while addressing Ondo State Artisan Groups who were in his office to declare support for his gubernatorial project. He accused Akeredolu of misplacing priorities in terms of project execution. The PDP candidate alleged “the 6.5 billion naira wasted on less than 100m overhead bridge could be expended on education which is our pride. “But the government would prefer to cut corners through such phony projects. We will change the narratives.” Jegede said Akeredolu failed to maintain the high educational standard for which the State was reputed. He told his visitors not to be afraid and warned the APC not to throw the state into an avoidable crisis for selfish reasons. According to him: “The healthcare facilities are no longer within the reach of the masses. In the name of looking for revenue that will later find its way into the pockets of certain consultants, the boy who had appendicitis was abandoned to wallow in avoidable pains. “Our doctors on duty insisted that he must pay the multifaceted medical fees before he could be attended to. “The boy was truly writhing in pains yet nobody looked towards his side. That’s quite disdainful. “When help finally came the boy’s way, they collected all manners of fees ranging from consultancy fee, bed fee, sitting fee, management fee, pharmacy fee, visitors’ fee and all sorts of fees under ridiculous headings. “At the end of the whole show, they equally insisted that the boy must provide blood even when blood was not administered on him. “This is inhuman and really disgusting but we intend to put a permanent end to such irresponsible governance. “Opportunity to access free medicare will be given. Mother and child hospital will also be located in both Southern and Northern senatorial districts so that people from the districts can also taste the sweetness embedded in good governance.”