The Governor of Ekiti State, Dr Kayode Fayemi led some eminent Nigerians and top government officials to pay last respect to the late former Governor of the old Ondo State, Evang. Bamidele Olumilua. The Fayemi was joined by his wife, Erelu Bisi Fayemi, Deputy Governor, Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi, the Speaker, Ekiti State House of Assembly, Hon. Funminiyi Afuye and family of the deceased, led by the Commissioner for Information, Mr. Muyiwa Olumilua. Others included Secretary, Yoruba Council of Elders, Dr Kunle Olajide, members of the State executive Council, All Progressives Congress (APC) leaders, corporate organisations and businessmen. The elder statesman, Olumilua, an indigene of Ikere Ekiti, who was the governor of the old Ondo State between 1992 and 1993, died on June 4, 2020, at the age of 80. The old Ondo state comprised the present Ondo and Ekiti States before the latter was carved out by the military regime of Gen. Sanni Abacha in 1996. Fayemi, in a glowing tribute delivered at a commendation service held at the popular Adetiloye Hall in Ado Ekiti, said the late Olumilua left indelible imprints on the sand of time in advancing the cause of humanity. He lauded the late elder statesman for his immense contributions towards the return of democratic governance in the country, saying Olumilua fought for the enlistment of Ondo as an oil producing State while superintending over its affairs. He said the outstanding political will and courageous action taken by the deceased while presiding as a governor of the Old Ondo State between 1992-1993, led to revenue breakthrough and consequent infrastructural, economic and social, economic development for the neighbouring state today. “one important legacy of the administration of Evangelist Olumilua as a governor was the eventual enlistment of Ondo State as an oil producing state. “He worked relentlessly to actualise this. He also facilitated the establishment of the Oil Minerals Producing and Development Commission (OMPADEC) in 1992. “He had a star-studded team and in fact, his then Attorney General, Chief Wole Olanipekun (SAN) practically drafted the bill that established the commission. He worked hard to get the commission which has now been replaced by the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) established. “When the first tranche of N250m accrued to the state as an oil producing state , Evang Olumilua insisted the money must be put in a dedicated account to pursue his dream of modern urbanisation project of some select towns in the then Ondo State. “His thought was for the state to be economically competitive, because some towns needed to be deliberately transformed into modern cities where people could work, stay and enjoy their lives. “This was commendable and I had seen the Governor of Ondo State, Arakunrin Rotimi Akeredolu (SAN) commended this lofty achievement of Pa Olumilua, which I believed would lead to more revenue inflow to the state.” Fayemi said Olumilua was a detrabilised leader, saying not even agitation for the creation of Ekiti by his kinsmen could sway him as a sitting governor, which he said some misinterpreted to mean an act of betrayal of trust. “As the Governor with a mandate to govern the whole state where Ekiti was a subset, he frequently ran into disagreement with some of his Ekiti compatriots who genuinely wanted Ekiti to be created of Ondo State. “What we are doing today is a celebration of life and importance of Pa Olumilua in Ekiti State and Nigeria, because he had left an intimidating legacy and he will continue to live in the minds of the people. “Bamidele Olumilua belonged among great men during his lifetime. He was cerebral and had high oratorical prowess .His time was not only eventful, but his legacies were superb and efforts must be made to sustain them”. In his short sermon, a man of God, Pastor Ola Omoseebi, said Olumilua had taught a lesson of how our leaders can shun materialism, arrogance and corruption that had been the bane of leadership in this country with his Spartan and disciplined nature. “Pa Olumilua was not materialistic, neither was he arrogant. He was close to the rich and poor and never discriminated against anyone. He was modest in lifestyle and that was a good legacy for all of us. “As the Chairman of the National Christian’s Pilgrimage Board under Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, he resigned before the expiration of his tenure that was a sign of contentment which many of our leaders lacked today”.