President Muhammadu Buhari’s intervention in the simmering crisis at the University of Lagos (Unilag) is a welcome involvement in an administrative debacle that has been deteriorating for months. Last Friday, the President directed that Dr. Wale Babalakin (SAN), Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Unilag’s Governing Council, and Professor Toyin Ogundipe, the incumbent vice-chancellor, both recuse themselves from their positions, as he set up a panel to investigate the crisis. The acting vice-chancellor, Professor Theophilus Soyombo, is to step down while a replacement acting vice-chancellor is to be nominated by the university’s senate. Headed by Professor Tukur Sa’ad, former Vice-Chancellor of the Federal University of Technology, Minna, the seven-person panel is to review the report of the council’s sub-committee which examined expenditure in Unilag, and will also provide indicted officials with the opportunity to defend themselves. It will also look at the processes involved in the purported sacking of Ogundipe to see if laid-down regulations were followed. The panel is to be inaugurated on Wednesday. These measures represent a long-overdue effort to end the virtual administrative chaos in Unilag that has resulted in deep animosity between various interest groups, especially between Ogundipe and Babalakin, between the Unilag Chapter of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) and Babalakin, and between Ogundipe and the university’s registrar, Mr. I.O. Azeez, who is also secretary to council. It has resulted in increasingly acrimonious confrontations, culminating in the disorderly suspension of the university’s 51st convocation ceremony in March. On August 12, Babalakin had announced the sacking of Ogundipe for gross misconduct, financial recklessness and abuse of office. He based the council’s actions on the outcome of its deliberations and a vote on Ogundipe’s fate. Claiming that all members were allowed to comment on the matter and that Ogundipe had previously been allowed to speak in his own defence, Babalakin insisted that the vice-chancellor had been guilty of serious infractions of the university’s financial regulations. Babalakin also announced Soyombo as acting vice-chancellor, a measure that was opposed by Unilag’s Senate, its alumni association, ASUU-Unilag, and the Unilag chapters of the Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities (SSANU), the National Association of Academic Technologists (NAAT), and, initially, the Non-Academic Staff Union of Educational and Associated Institutions (NASU). It was a crippling standoff between Babalakin and a combined behemoth of institutional mainstays of the university. The senate railed at what it saw as Babalakin’s arbitrary display of dictatorial powers in a cerebral millieu that should inspire cooperative sagacity. They insisted he bypassed them in the investigation in defiance of the school’s procedure. Ogundipe declared his innocence of the charges levelled against him and insisted that he was still vice-chancellor. Unilag’s Senate argued that Ogundipe’s purported removal was illegal and that the status quo remained. ASUU refused to recognise Soyombo. The larger implications of this lamentable crisis cannot be underestimated. Apart from the obvious negative publicity it brings the university, as well as the unnecessary disruption of its operations, the crisis entrenched warring factions, eroded discipline, and set a very poor example for Unilag’s students. Part of the reason why things degenerated to this extent was the seeming inability or reluctance of the relevant regulatory agencies to step into the matter. Neither the National Universities Commission (NUC) nor the Federal Ministry of Education seemed to be adequately interested in finding solutions to what had clearly become an undignifying battle of egos rather than principled disagreement. As Visitor to the university, Buhari’s intervention will help to bring badly-needed due process to the whole affair. Ensuring that laid-down regulations are properly adhered to will end the personality clashes that have been so costly to the reputation of the university. The needless and demeaning confrontations between senior officials of Unilag will be halted, as well as the disruptive factionalisation which has so divided the university community. Most importantly, the triumph of due process will demonstrate that nobody is above the law, no matter how powerful they may be, neither the chairman of council nor the vice-chancellor. The rule of law often trumpeted from the ivory tower for the larger society must resonate at home. As the Sa’ad panel sets about its work, it is to be hoped that its findings will bring calm to the University of Lagos and enable it to fully live up to the noble ideals of its motto, “In Deed and In Truth.”