There was uncertainty and confusion over school resumption in Ebonyi as most schools in the state failed to resume Tuesday. This is in spite of the resolutions of the Southeast Governors Forum directing that schools in the region should open Tuesday. Also, a statement by the Commissioner for Education, Onyebuchi Chima on Monday morning also directed the schools to open. “I have the directives of the Governor of Ebonyi State, David Nweze Umahi to inform all parents, teachers, and students that with effect from today the 4th day of August 2020, JS3 and SS3 Exit classes only resumes in Ebonyi State”. “Teachers, Students and Parents are strongly encouraged to ensure the strict observation of NCDC Covid-19 protocols in all our schools and at our homes. “Note that the MOE Team will henceforth commence monitoring of schools,” he said. However, when The Nation visited the schools, it was observed that while the private schools did not open, most public schools witnessed turnout of students and teachers. However, there was no lectures for the students in the schools visited by this Reporter. The Principal of one of the schools, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said they did not get any directive from the state government to resume schools today. “The teachers and students only came because they heard the federal government’s announcement that schools should resume today.” The principal also said the state government intends to start fumigation of schools from today (Tuesday), so the schools will not resume. “We learnt the governor will be meeting with stakeholders today to discuss the issue after which they will communicate us on when to start”. Chairman of National Association of Proprietors of Private Schools (NAPPS), Elder Kingsley Igboke said private schools did not open because the state government has not given them the go ahead. “We have not opened because we are waiting for government directives. The Commissioner for Education told me last night that there will be a briefing by government before the schools re-opens”. He, however, said the private schools have put all necessary modalities in place for the resumption. It was gathered that the announcement of the resumption by the Commissioner was only issued on Tuesday Morning which was why the Teachers and Proprietors did not get the information. The Commissioner in a statement admitted that he only circulated the message late Monday morning. He however debunked the allegation that government has not fumigated the schools. “How can teachers who have been in the villages know whether we have fumigated the schools,” he said.