Borno State Police command Monday inaugurated the Community Policing Committee in the state. The inauguration of the committee is coming barely a week after the Federal government released the sum of over N13 billion for the kick-off of community policing across the state. The Assistant Inspector-General of Police in charge of Zone 1, Lawan Ado who took charge of the event which was held at the Borno State Police Headquarters in Maiduguri said the community policing will reduce crime right from the grassroots in the state. The committee which draws its membership from local hunters, civilian Joint Task Force, Vigilante groups, and members of the Civil Society will also work closely with traditional rulers to identify bad eggs from the society at the micro-level of the society. According to the AIGHe community policing is the new global way of combating crime in society. “This has become the best global trend of combating crimes from the micro-level of the society,” AIG Ado said. He added that “apart from the involvement of the conventional local security outfits, local women, traders, and community leaders too must buy into the new approach of crime prevention. “The idea of community policing is to prevent crimes at the grassroots level, and this is going to be intelligence-driven. It is about a partnership with the community and collaboration with members of the society. This will give a long way to reducing crime and bringing about a new trend in policing,” he explained. In his remarks, the Chairman of the Borno Police Community Relations Committee, Alhaji Sanda Sheriff, said the inauguration of the committee was a milestone in the police-community relations in Borno State. He said; “This will bring relief to us and engender better cooperation between the police and members of the society. In the past, there has been distrust between the two. “But this inauguration of the community policing committee will bring about trust and cooperation. “Our job as a Committee is to go into society and select trusted and reliable people that will work as community police.” The Borno state Commissioner of Police, Aliyu Ndaso, disclosed that only 50 volunteers will be selected from all the LGAs in the state for a start.