Chairman of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) COVID-19 Palliatives Distribution Committee, High Chief Sobomabo Jackrich, has declared he has evidence to substantiate his allegations of diversion of N6.25bn COVID-19 palliatives. He denied submitting a petition on the alleged diversion to blackmail the Prof. Keme Pondei-led Interim Management Committee (IMC). Jackrich, in a statement in Port Harcourt, at the weekend asked the IMC to hold its peace and prepare to defend itself before the National Assembly. He insisted he had evidence for every allegation contained in his petition. He described the response of the IMC to his petition as amusing, saying it was ridiculous for the commission to refer to him as the erstwhile chairman of the palliative committee. He stated the IMC failed to deny any of the allegations contained in his petition, including payment of scam contractors and denial of payments to genuine uncompromising contractors by the IMC. He said: “The unwholesome efforts by the Corporate Affairs Directorate of the NDDC to defend the indefensible acts of the IMC in the face of the overwhelming scandals and allegations smacks either deep ignorance or scantiness of facts on their part. “It will be rather most dignifying for the NDDC to wait to defend themselves in the National Assembly probe when scheduled so they do not destroy their almost unavailable chances of justifying their malfeasance because I have evidence for every allegations contained in my petition. “At the appropriate time, the IMC shall explain themselves and account for every kobo approved in the N6.25 billion by His Excellency President Muhammadu Buhari for the benefit of the indigent people of the Niger Delta who have now been denied. “Every claim on the purchase of the so-called medical equipment contained in their response remains false and all such distributions to states are absolutely misleading because our evidence will expose it. “The Education, Health and Social Services Directorate (EHSS) plan was only an afterthought gimmick to cover up our whistleblowing. “Is it not curious that a Committee properly constituted, inaugurated and task flagged off has suddenly become nonexistent and ‘redundant’ according to them just because a demand for probity and accountability is instituted? “While I deny in entirety the falsehood that my petition is a blackmail and that the bulk of my petition dwelt on the refusal of the IMC to pay me a ‘humongous amount of money’ as they said, for being Chairman of the Committee, none of these poor and weak propaganda will deter me from setting the records straight because I am not a poor man nor a jobless folk like certain persons who came for cheap popularity as they wrongly assume.”