As Osun State turned 29 yesterday, Governor Adegboyega Oyetola has said his administration will unleash its potential across sectors, particularly agriculture, tourism and mining. He said his administration would reclaim missed opportunities and set the state on the path of sustainable development and prosperity. A statement yesterday by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr. Ismail Omipidan, said the governor disclose this while addressing participants at the maiden Virtual Public Lecture organised by the Ministry of Regional Integration and Special Duties, to herald the 29th anniversary of the creation of the state. Speaking about the theme of the lecture: “Unbundling Osun potential towards prosperity in agriculture, tourism and mining”, Oyetola noted that “as a responsible government, which inherited a fragile economy and faced with COVID-19 pandemic, but is not given to excuses, we have gone back to the drawing board to creatively design an unusual method to respond to the challenges, in order to deliver better life to the people. “This virtual lecture is, therefore, a creative and proactive response to achieving the objective of the Economic and Investment Summit, which we floated last November as our solution to lifting the state out of economic woes and making it an economic hub of the Southwest. “As an administration, we believe that our state has all it takes to prosper and that the greatest potential of Osun is its people and the resources that lie under its soil. At a perilous time like this, there is need to look inward to tap on our strength and potential in agriculture, tourism and mining, which, without doubt, are our areas of comparative advantage. “From the experience of the nation with oil, unbundling Osun’s potential towards prosperity in its areas of comparative advantage goes beyond resource abundance. “We shall need to approach our potential as a business and adopt an amalgam of appropriate strategy, efficient and competent personnel and employment of due process in the management of our resources to avoid resource curse.” The governor, who reassured of the government’s commitment to contain the spread of the deadly Coronavirus pandemic and revive the economy, said: “The administration is resolved to wriggle the state out of lack and put it on the path of prosperity” The three guest speakers, including the Director General of International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA), Ibadan, Dr. Nteranya Sanginga, a tourism expert, Mrs. Chiamaka Ifediora and former Special Assistant to ex-Minister of Petroleum Najim Animashaun spoke about the need for the state to harness its potential in agriculture, tourism and mining. The Deputy Chief of Staff to the Governor, Prince Abdullahi Binuyo, had unveiled some of the achievements the government recorded in the mining sector, as the sector had witnessed transformation in the last 18 months of the current administration. Commissioner for Tourism and Culture Dr. Adebisi Obawale and Agric Commissioner Mr. Adedayo Adewole listed some of the achievements recorded in their ministries. Obawale said the government was committed to making Osun a tourist destination and bringing the best out of its rich cultural heritage to create wealth for the citizens. Adewole said no effort would be spared to turn the state to food basket of the Southwest.