 Eminent lawyer Aare Afe Babalola (SAN) has assured of his commitment to serving  the interests of the country, its citizens and the coming generation. Aare Babalola, the founder of Afe Babalola University, spoke while reacting to the naming of a street after him in the Apo District of Abuja by the Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC). The naming and unveiling of the street sign were done on Friday at an event witnessed by AMAC officials, friends of the honouree and officials of his law firm, Afe Babalola & Co. The street, now bearing the sign: “Aare Afe Babalola Street,” is located off Gashara Crescent, Apo Resettlement, within the vicinity of the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) in Apo. An elated Aare Babalola said, on telephone, that he was grateful to the Abuja Municipal Council and the Federal Government, particularly the President, who approved the naming of the street after him. He added: “I am indeed, appreciative of this kind gesture and I will continue to serve the country the way have done. I will also continue to provide services to the coming generation the way I am currently doing.” The leader of the team from AMAC, who is the council’s Director of Operations, Street Naming Project, Peter Ijwo, said the choice of Aare Babalola was informed by his tremendous contributions to the development of the legal profession and the entire country.  Ijwo said:  ”The street is named after the elder statesman and philanthropist for his contributions to the development of the country “It is for his immense contributions to this country’s legal profession and humanity that the authorities of the  Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC) decided to honour him by naming the street after him.” The Head of Chambers at Afe Babalola & Co in Abuja, Kehinde Ogunwumiju (SAN) thanked AMAC for honouring, “Our mentor and a legal icon by naming a street after him in Abuja. “Afe Babalola did not lobby for the honour but, AMAC came in their own volition to bestow the honour on him, in recognition of what he has done for the country. “Afe Babalola has made so much sacrifices for the country and as such, deserves the honour bestowed on him by the Street Naming Unit of the Abuja Municipal Area Council of Abuja.” Also at the event were Law Professor and President, Centre for Socio-Legal Studies (CSLS), Yemi Aknseye-George (SAN), the honouree’s son and partner in his law firm, Tunde Babalola and other officials of the firm.  