Following controversy over the fate of his client, counsel to the suspended Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Mr. Ibrahim Magu, on Sunday said the Judicial Commission of Inquiry on its activities has not submitted any interim report. Mr. Wahab Shittu said the release of the purported interim report did not emanate from the panel. He said he brought an application before the commission and the Chairman of the Judicial Commission, Justice Isa Ayo Salami, ruled on his application against the media report. Shittu said he also confronted the panel with the consequence of the purported release of the said interim report in certain sections of the media. In a statement in Abuja on Sunday, Shittu said he urged the panel to take a judicial notice of the publications. He said he asked the panel to take necessary action against the purveyors of the fabricated report. Shittu said Salami insisted that the report was based on the figment of the authors’ imagination. He quoted Salami as saying that “the story arising from the so-called interim report is not from us. He said: “Justice Salami told us that “what should concern you and your client is what the chairman said. Inviting the promoters of the story will not serve any useful purpose as they will not disclose their sources of the story. “The purported story is a figment of their imagination” Shittu added: “This was what transpired at the sitting of the commission. It is important for the public to know the truth.” The panel has not asked Magu to open his defence. Shittu said: “We are waiting for the panel to give us the green light to open Magu’s defence. We are prepared to respond to all the allegations any time. “We have been watching the proceedings of the panel and we have worked round the clock to prepare our defence to issues and allegations tabled before the panel. All we need now is for the panel to give us the opportunity to present our defence.” Magu was arrested on Monday, July 6, 2020 and taken to the panel. President Muhammadu Buhari signed the letter of instrument on July 3, 2020 and named the panel as a Judicial Commission of Inquiry to look into alleged mismanagement of recovered assets against Magu. But, the letter was made available on August 8 to Magu’s counsel. Although the panel has a 45-day mandate, it was unclear when it will end its sitting.