Lagos Governor and Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC) National Campaign Council for Ondo Governorship election, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has declared Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu enjoys the endorsement of the party’s national leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. He also said that Akeredolu’s candidacy has the blessings of the entire party structure from the national to the state level. He spoke with newsmen on Saturday at the party’s National Secretariat in Abuja after inauguration of the 104-member National Campaign Council by Governor Mai Mala Buni, the Chairman Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee (CENCPC). According to Sanwo-Olu: “The endorsement was not only his (Asiwaju Tinubu) endorsement but a collective endorsement. In this endorsement you saw Senator Borofice, you have seen our brother, Olusola Oke, you see meetings where Kekemeke was in attendance, you see meetings where Dr. Abraham was in attendance. “After the primary they all came together even before our choice of the National Council. In Ondo State, they have resolved their problem themselves and all of them said we are supporting the candidate of Governor Rotimi Akeredolu so it is a unified thing. “We know that the most critical thing is the people of Ondo State. It is about good governance, it is about what he is doing. ” It is not an easy job but we believe in him (Akeredolu), we believe that what he has started as a true Progressive he will take Ondo to higher level. “He is doing very well, we have seen it, he still has the capacity, he has the energy to further advance what he is currently doing. So that is why we are with him and we know he will do that.” The Governor assured the campaign would be issue- based and devoid of any acrimony. “We are going for an election and it is going to be issues based. We will ensure that we campaign for the people of Ondo State to see the need to continue with the progressive government that they have.” He further said the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its candidate, Eyitayo Jegede, are on wild goose chase, advising them not to waste their time and energy as voters have resolved to go for a progressive government. Buni said the choice of the council members was a reflection of the confidence the party has in the team. He charged them to ensure that the party secure the renewal of the mandate given four years ago.