The Nigerian Army under ”Operation SAHEL SANITY”, Tuesday announced various breakthroughs in their combat operations against banditry activities in Katsina and the North West States Acting Director, Defense Media Operations, Brigadier General Bernard Onyeuko, told newsmen at the party Super Camp 4 in Faskari, Katsina State, that troops deployed within the theatre of operation raided an illegal mining site, which served as a hideout, located along Gadan Zaima – Zuru Road in Zamfara State and arrested 150 suspects and recovered 20 locally fabricated Dane Guns. He further disclosed that one of the suspects was neutralized while trying to escape. He said ”Preliminary investigation reveals that aside sabotaging the nation’s economy, banditry is being financed through these illegal mining activities.” Also, another fighting patrol team encountered 3 bandits on motorcycles around Maigalma village in Anka LGA of Zamfara State, attempting to attack innocent residents with one of the bandits neutralized while others escaped and one AK-47 Rifle, magazine loaded with 5 rounds of 7.62mm ammunition and two motorcycles were recovered from the fleeing bandits. The troops also arrested a wanted notorious bandit named Isuhu Ibrahim (aka Bula), in Wagini village in Katsina, in the company of other bandits that have been terrorizing the area for some time The troops deployed at Daki Takwas also conducted a snap roadblock and successfully intercepted a Toyota Corolla car with Reg No. DAL 41MTand after a search on the vehicle troops 11 brand new locally-made rifles were discovered. A repentant bandit leader named Bornon Kejo also surrendered to the troops and submitted 2 AK-47 Rifles and 2 AK 47 Rifle magazines at Zurmi in Zurmi LGA of Zamfara State. The troops also rescued one adult male and one female earlier kidnapped by suspected bandits. According to Brigadier Onyeuko, the victims were kidnapped alongside four other persons at Daudawa village of Faskari LGA of Katsina State. He said; ”the victims managed to escape from their abductors as a result of troops intense operational activities in the area. The rescued persons have been handed over to officials of Faskari LGA for an onward reunion with their families while efforts are ongoing to rescue the remaining 4 victims.” Meanwhile, seven trucks loaded with cattle suspected to have been rustled were arrested along Jibia – Katsina road and Gusau – Zaria road respectively. The Army Chief further disclosed that the arrested cattle and suspects have been handed over to Katsina State Police Command and Zamfara State Association of Rustled Animals, Gusau for further necessary action. He thanked the general populace of the northwest zone for their support and cooperation and solicited for more timely and actionable intelligence that will assist the troops in the operation.