 STAKEHOLDERS of Ibeku, hometown of Senator Theodore Orji (Abia Central), have warned against ‘senseless media attacks’ on their son. They accused a chieftain and Board of Trustees (BOT) member of All Progressives Congress (APC), Benjamin Apugo, of championing the attacks. Orji’s supporters said it was shameful of Apugo to engage in such media war against a man who ‘distinguished himself in various capacities at the state and national level’. They are ex-leader of Abia State House of Assembly and Commissioner for Public Utilities Chidiebere Nwoke; former Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs Emma Nwabuko. Former Deputy Chief of Staff in the Office of the Deputy Governor Charles Ogbonnaya; former Chairman of Umuahia North Local Government Sir Frank Ibe; Traditional Prime Minister of Ibeku Ancient Kingdom Chief Uche Akwukwuegbu and elder statesman G. O Onyemaobi. In a statement – ‘A Rejoinder to Prince B.B Apugo’s diatribe against Senator T. A Orji’, they said: “…Senator Orji is our son of inestimable value in whom we are well pleased… “We call on discerning persons to compare Orji, who rose through the ranks to become Administrative Secretary of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), among other positions, with Apugo, a private person incapable of holding a public office…” But Apugo’s son, who is former general manager of Abia State Environmental Sanitation Agency (ASEPA), Victor, described the people as ‘third party’ and ‘sycophants’ stoking the political feud between his father and Orji. He urged the ‘third parties’ to rather explore ways to make peace between the duo instead of helping to escalate their differences. “Nobody should insult my father. That some of us don’t belong to the same political party with him does not mean we are quarrelling. Politics is all about ideologies and if we don’t share the same ideologies we owe nobody any apologies or explanations. “If my father has disowned us as they claimed, why were we part of the palliatives he shared during the COVID -19 lockdown? We were in every community in Ibeku and other communities in Umuahia distributing the items worth over N250 million, which we jointly donated with our father,” Victor added.