Loans may be good but they should not be death sentences. Shylock nations should not entrap us with their loans under the guise of international beneficence while pursuing hegemony on the world stage. That is what a session between the House of Representatives and Rotimi Amaechi, transportation minister, amounted to over loans with China. Despite the paucity of funds, the government of President Muhammadu Buhari has taken on the challenge of modernising our railways and several other critical infrastructure, which is commendable. The desire for a functional rail line connecting the south-west to the north-west has been furiously pursued by the administration, with a promise to also bring on board, the line connecting the south-south and north-east. The Federal Ministry of Transportation, led by Amaechi, has vigorously pursued this cardinal objective of the administration, with China as the main partner. To source the finance for the projects, Nigeria has to sign several loan agreements, to finance the various stages of the projects. Last week, the House of Representatives raised an alarm over the propriety of some clauses in several of the loan agreements, signed on behalf of the country. In his answer to these grievous allegations, the Minister of Transportation pleaded with the House to suspend any enquiries, until the pending railway loan agreements have been signed, so as not to annoy the lender, whom the House is accusing of inserting unconscionable clauses in the agreements.  The minister wanted us to risk going deeper into servitude before thinking it. While Nigeria needs every loan it can get, on reasonable terms, to bridge the huge infrastructure gap, it must only accept such loans upon such terms that are equitable and just, to our citizens. It would be foolhardy to exchange the dire consequences of the absence of critical infrastructure, with a debt peonage that could hand over our sovereignty to the lenders. In one instance, the House laid very serious allegations that some clauses in one of the agreements already executed, signed away our country’s sovereignty. The House Committee on Treaty and Agreement has therefore summoned the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs Zainab Usman; Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Ali Isa Pantami and Director-General of Debt Management Office (DMO), Ms Patience Oniha, to appear before the committee on August 17, with all relevant documents on the controversial agreements. We support a scrutiny of all controversial agreements, and condemn the attempt by the Minister of Transportation to cow the committee from querying the agreement, because he is afraid the Chinese government may back out of the pending loan agreements. The minister had said: “I have said here to the House, and it is a pity that I’m saying it in public, this government, outside Nigeria, they are sensitive to what you say. Nobody is stopping you from your investigation and no government from outside Nigeria can stop you from doing it.” When prodded further, he retorted: “Can we be allowed to get this loan? Then you can summon us, not to start what you are doing and the whole process will then be stopped,” he added. The minister has no option but to concede that the House has the power of oversight functions, as guaranteed by the 1999 constitution. So, we urge the House to exercise that power diligently and patriotically, and not allow what it described as signing away the sovereignty of our nation to take place. Of interest, a national newspaper claimed it sighted such an agreement already signed by the Federal Ministry of Finance, as borrower, on behalf of Nigeria, and the Export-Import Bank of China, as lender, on September, 5, 2018. The paper said that: Article 8(1) of the agreement provides that: “The Borrower hereby irrevocably waives any immunity on the grounds of sovereign or otherwise for itself or its property in connection with any arbitration proceeding pursuant to Article 8(5), thereof, with the enforcement of any arbitral award pursuant thereto, except for the military assets and diplomatic assets.” While a borrower would have to borrow on lender’s terms, to ensure repayment, it must be within the confines of international best practices. For Nigeria and the rest of the developing countries, the years of debt peonage under the western-controlled International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank, should not be exchanged with an intractable entanglement with Chinese loans, on unconscionable terms. Those who sign off loan agreements on behalf of our country, must brace up. They should not sign whatever is presented to them, for whatever reason. The sad experience with respect to the lingering case between Nigeria and the P&ID, before Arbitrators and Courts, in London, is a pointer to the need to be very careful. While we need a modern infrastructure, even when we don’t have the resources, we should not railroad ourselves into economic and political perdition. The offensive Article 8(1) in the commercial loan agreement, signed between Nigerian and Export-Import Bank of China, with respect to the $400 million loan, which allegedly wills Nigerians’ sovereignty to a foreign interest, for the development of the National Information and Communication Technology Infrastructure Backbone Phase 11, signed in 2018, should be re-examined. The same should be done to all similar agreements, signed since President Goodluck Jonathan’s era. We urge all relevant agencies of government to train and retrain, the relevant manpower, to deal with the emerging challenges of international economic relations. Clearly, the modern ways of dominating other nations, is not through military conquest, as we saw in the era of colonisation. What happens presently is economic domination, and there is no better way to subjugate another than to make that other nation economically dependent. As a sovereign country, Nigeria must watch out for such overbearing influence that could turn our future generations into servitude in the world economic order. One of the greatest challenges of our country is the mismanagement of our resources, arising from corrupt practices. Another challenge is the dearth of critical manpower, despite the abundance of skilled nationals, across the world. We run a democracy and no loans if such heft and significance should be entered without the input and vetting of critical stakeholders in the country, including lawmakers. The terms also should be made public. We believe that if the political, economic and social environment is favourable, our country would attract her enormous human resources in diaspora, to jumpstart our national development, through indigenous technology. We are paying a price for corruption and generations of poor governance, hence we have to go outside for loans. But it is no reason to sell our souls.