Former African Footballer of the Year Emmanuel Amuneke has described Victor Osimhen’s signing by Italian Serie A side, AS Napoli as an exciting news for Nigerian football. Amuneke gave Osimhen his first break in international football when  the leggy striker led the Golden Eaglets  to win a fifth FIFA U-17 World Cup at Chil2 2015 scoring a record-setting  10 goals in seven matches at the cadet championship. “I’m excited and very happy that Victor has finally signed for Napoli; and this is remarkable particularly at this challenging times,” the former Barcelona winger told NationSport.“ Of course, I’m happy with the progress being made by the boys we picked in 2015 for the Golden Eaglets; you talk about Samuel Chukwueze in Villarreal; Kelechi Nwakali recently gained promotion to La Liga with Huelva and there are others in other clubs in Europe too. “This is an exciting time for Nigerian football and I’m so pleased that Victor’s transfer to Napoli is now sealed; I wish him well. “This was a key decision for him and Italian journalists have been calling me and what I have about Victor is only good news; he’s a kind of player with hunger to win and he will be a great asset to Napoli,” noted Amuneke who is currently the technical director at Egyptian club El Makkasa. After weeks of speculations and transfer intrigues, Napoli President Aurelio De Laurentiis yesterday officially announced the capture of the Lille’s striker on a five-year contract. “SSC Napoli is delighted to announce the signing of Victor Osimhen from Lille on a permanent transfer,” read the Napoli statement. Meanwhile, De Laurentiis later told Radio Kiss Kiss: “We are very happy at Osimhen’s arrival “The young man has been enchanted by Partenopei (the ancient name for Naples). He will wear the Number 9 jersey. “Gattuso really wanted to sign Osimhen. (Director of sport Cristiano) Giuntoli did a great job, because the lad changed his agents during the negotiations. “Lille will receive circa €80m, while the player over the years will get between €4m and €4.5m per season.” With this transfer, the 21-year-old Nigerian striker becomes one of the most expensive African players and will be presented to the media in Naples after his summer vacation.