 “WE have released Northern Nigeria from the leading strings of the treasury. The promising and well conducted youth is now on an allowance of his own and is about to effect an alliance with a Southern lady of means. I have issued the special license and Sir Fredrick Lugard will perform the ceremony. May the union be fruitful and the couple constant” – Lord Harcourt, Colonial Secretary, 1st January, 1914. “What we often call the Northern Protectorate of Nigeria today can be better described as the poor husband whilst its Southern counterpart can be fairly described as the rich wife or the woman of substance  and means. A FORCED union of marriage  and marital bliss for both husband and wife for many years to come. It is my prayer that the union will last forever – Lord Fredrick Lugard, 1st January, 1914. For once in their lives, the ever duplicitous British did not mince their words. Masters of their own Englisl language, they laid out , in crystal terms, everything they wanted for the future Nigeria they were birthing in 1914. It must be a union of unequal partners, the superior husband, the North, and the ever inferior wife, the South, coyly acknowledging the fact that Sir Ahmadu Bello saw women as far too inferior to be given the right to vote. The poor husband , they assert, must  be fed by the wife, being of means. He must,  forever, live on an allowance, meaning that  baboon must work while the monkey chops to its heart’s content and, above all, this iniquitous arrangement, in which they never allowed the would- be suitors to discuss with themselves,  must last forever. What a lie from the pit of hell? And why would Nigeria not be in this rollicking maelstrom in which a Mailafia will be hurled before the DSS one day, and before the police the next, even if Badu Salisu Ahmadu, President,     Fulani Nationality Movement(FUNAM), can  thunder as he did when hordes of Northern youth, which may have included elements of Boko Haram and ISIS, were being hauled South in a massive exodus from the North. Hear him: “Relaunch the mass movement in ways they have never seen. Go in long convoys. If you are stopped,  use all means, the bushpath, the railways and all.  If the towns and cities are hostile,  hang out on the street corners, in uncompleted buildings, occupy the forests, pitch tents, make any where available as your abode, your rest places, your home. We urge you to be armed. The infidels may want to attack you”. All these, and more, he said without a single word, not to say invitation, coming from the Inspector- General of Police or the DSS Director – General. I am sick and tired of this overwhelming inequity in the country and we sure have had enough of our politicians  burying their heads in the sand as if  these things are normal. While Northern politicians have it all, their Southern counterparts are living in hope, believing that the day would come, when  the North will take pity on them and hand over political power to them, ala carte. They obviously dont think this country belongs to us all. Or why in hell, do they think Aminu Tambuwal has already commenced a marathon, starting from the home of a man who, forever, likes his ego massaged? Until they know better, and own their voice, this charllatanism will continue. Two weeks ago, exactly on Sunday, 16 August 2020, I asked on these pages the question as to whether Nigeria was already unravelling. That, of course, was a merely rhetorical because, to believe otherwise, is to bury our heads in the sand, living in denial. Apart from the crippling insecurity and the corrosive corruption ravaging the country, both of which are now too commonplace to deserve any significant mention in this piece, let me draw the readers’ attention to the types  of headlines that now dominate our newspapers: Federal government declares Katsina, Taraba, Kebbi, Borno and Bayelsa bankrupt – The Sun; In major coup,CBN blocks over-invoicing, FX overpricing –  when exactly did the ÇBN wake up from its  slumber?; Foreigners are now paying for gold with arms – governor Bello  Matawalle of  Zamfara. Where exactly  are those being paid to keep Nigeria save? Also. now that the IG thinks he must subsume Amotekun under a suffocating  federal stranglehold, and a whopping N13 Billion has been promptly approved for a  community policing  whose salaries the IG says states would pay even as some states are being declared bankrupt, can we in all honesty, say that Nigeria is being run like a serious country?. Have they now agreed to effect changes in the federal allocation formula which they have foreclosed like forever? The saying  is trite that wars are won in the map room. Do we have a map room anywhere in this country today where policies are  properly articulated? Why would intellectuals in this government, the likes of the Chief of Staff to the President, and the Secretary to Government, not properly interrogate the advice coming to the President from outlying agencies, knowing full well that the agencies go out insinuating the presidency into all their ill- thought out ideas? Must they be allowed to so uncritically over raw the President ,saying things that would not pass muster even in banana republics? Or how could the IG have suggested that more burden would be inflicted on states which may, very soon, be unable to pay workers salaries? Didn’t he foresee that when they decided to kill Amotekun and other similar life – saving programmes by states ? Or how do you expect an Amotekun whose existence has literally been cast in stone, through Acts of the respective state Houses of Assembly, be  subsumed under a community police whose establishment, by the way, is adhoc, and you wont  cause a major constitutional crisis? Should concerned governors  wait to see disaster come over their territory before they act  even if their Northern counterparts think nothing of the daily slaughter in their states, something that has indelibly cast Nigeria in the league of countries like Afghanistan, Libya, Somalia and Syria? Many Nigerians are  ashamed of seeing several  Western countries having to give their citizens dire travelling advice against the country we all call our own and whose economy severely requires  all the Foreign Direct Investment it could garner. Or what demon has gone into the hearts and  minds of these bands of Northern marauders who have turned a resource-rich Nothern Nigeria to a killing field? Where in all these are the highly regarded Northern royalty, her clerics, intellectuals  and sundry leaders we have heard their names in Nigerian public affairs, like forever? Is governor Zulum of Borno statr a lone ranger and must people be killed like rams at  Sallah? How many will have to die before they wake up?Where exactly is the conscience of the North? Why would they not save their people from needless death and immolation in this URGENCY OF NOW? Should it be just power without responsibility? I ask all these questions because , like my friend Toni Sani, I believe that Nigeria is like a big river with tributaries. Insecurity in one part translates to unrest in all. And to our dear President,  who I still believe loves this country, I say the following : Nigeria’s contemporary  circumstances  has gone beyond  the partisan political treatment. For the second time in a month, I am here suggesting that the President  should get help from across board. No emergency is greater than what presently confronts Nigeria. What this calls for is exemplary statesmanship. All the sabre rattling by his party and government spokespersons are now beyond the pale. They are bad medicine and would kill, not help the patient. Nigeria is in dire straits. The duration of the 1914 Amalgamation instrument has passed. It is dead, and today, nothing legally unites this country.  Let us rework  Nigeria . If we cannot do it by ourselves, let us seek help from the Court of International Justice. This is far from saying let us dissolve Nigeria because  a large population, properly motivated, will always be an asset. Free Nigeria from this  federal stranglehold, and see it blossom beyond our widest imagination. Let all the parts, like the United states of America,  work in harmony, but with each developing  at its own pace. Let us return to the  status quo ante, and have only common services at the centre. The 1914 Amalgamatiom instrument has overrun it’s time. We have discovered its inadequacies. Let us now collectively rectify them. All that this requires is political will which  has the distinct possibility of casting you as an exemplary statesman. I am sure you can muster the required political will if only you would put your mind to it. The North, Fulanis inclusive, will  flourish better and some Northern states, intent on developing at their own pace, can even elect to give an open invitation to their Fulani brothers and sisters, from  anywhere in the world, to come and join them in their development effort. Let FUNAM forget its chimera of NIgeria being a Fulani territory. It is an unrealisable, wishful thinking which will remain permanently unrealisable, no matter those behind it . And talking about flourishing, if  you ask  Prof Ango Abdullahi of the Northern Elders Forum, or Sani, they will even  tell you that the British lied, and that at no time was the North dependent on the South. They will even attempt to prove it to you. But I say, all that is grammar: just free the regions where, long before the  British incursion, empires comparable to those in Europe, have blossomed. President Buhari, Sir, you may end up earning yourself the title: Father of the Nigerian nation for we are not yet one ,  if only you  would correctly  read the signs of the  times and do the needful. Again, as I always say, I wish you well. But time is of the essence.