Resolving the long-standing clash between legitimate protest and the maintenance of order and security has become even more crucial in the COVID-19 era, and requires that all parties act with commensurate regard for constitutional rights and obligations. Protests organised by activist groups operating under the aegis of the Revolution Now movement recently took to the streets in various locations in Lagos, Ondo and Osun states, as well as Abuja, in order to voice their concerns about increased insecurity, economic contraction, the lack of social safety-nets and perceived poor governance. The demonstrations were undertaken with scant regard for the social distancing protocols that have become the norm in the anti-COVID-19 struggle. Protesters were tightly bunched together, very few wore face-masks, and hand sanitizers were nowhere to be seen. In Abuja, about 40 protesters were arrested at the Unity Fountain, 22 were arrested in Ikeja in Lagos, about an hour into peaceful demonstrations there. In Osogbo, Osun State, operatives of the Department of State Security (DSS) arrested six activists who were on their way to deliver a statement at the state branch of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ). Protests in Ore, Ondo State, passed off without incident. Many of the arrested protesters were taken to court. Section 40 of the 1999 Nigerian Constitution (as amended) gives Nigerian citizens the right to freely assemble in the pursuance of legitimate demands. In carrying out their demonstrations, the Revolution Now protesters were clearly acting within their constitutional rights. However, their failure to observe established COVID-19 protocol undermined the legitimacy of their actions and provided the security forces with an excuse to clamp down on them. Since March, the vital importance of adhering to laid-down social distancing protocol has been emphasised across the country. Those who have violated it have been criticised, regardless of whether they are prominent politicians, musicians or ordinary citizens. In several cases, the fatal consequences of failing to adhere to such protocols has been seen. It is thus surprising that activist groups ostensibly seeking the betterment of the Nigerian nation would fail to adhere to safety requirements occasioned by the most serious global public health emergency of the 21st century. The socio-economic progress they claim to be fighting for cannot be achieved if the citizens who are to benefit from it are stricken with COVID-19. Their inability to adhere to simple health restrictions undermined their credibility and cast doubt on their sincerity. However, the attempts of the nation’s security forces to claim that the protesters were arrested for violating social-distancing protocol cannot justify their own violations of constitutional guarantees of freedom of assembly. The police responded to the largely-peaceful demonstrations in precisely the same way they always have by arresting and detaining those they caught. Some protesters allege that they were physically assaulted; if true, it is difficult to see how beatings are a proper response to social-distancing violations. All parties must make themselves more aware of the limitations on their actions in situations like these. Demonstrators should understand that their right to free assembly is not absolute, and is contingent upon their adherence to regulations consistent with maintaining public order and safety. The security forces should not use flimsy excuses as justifications for violating the constitutional rights of the citizens they are being paid to protect. The best way to avoid unnecessary confrontations in future is the establishment of a proper procedure governing protests in Nigeria. Before demonstrations take place, organisers should meet with the state police command to agree on routes, times and acceptable conduct. Clearly-identifiable stewards should be present to ensure that protests are not hijacked. The police would provide an additional layer of security, and ensure that any acts of violence are dealt with. The right to protest is constitutionally guaranteed. But it must be exercised with proper regard for current health realities.