There was high turnout of pupils in Ekiti on Monday following reopening of secondary schools for final classes after four month of closure. The Nation correspondent, who visited some of the public and private schools in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital, observed the students and teachers complied with the COVID-19 safety protocols especially use of a facemask, hand washing, use of an inferred thermometer and social distancing. While the State Government provided all the needed items in public schools, private schools owners made provision for hand sanitisers, points for hand- washing and other protective materials. The schools visited were: Christ School, Ado Grammar School, Muslim College, Olaoluwa Muslim Grammar School and Baptist High School. Non-teaching workers of the schools were seen at the entrance using inferred thermometer to check temperature before students were granted access to school premises. Pupils without facemask were turned back while those with a facemask were allowed to wash their hands with liquid soap before entering. At Ado-Ekiti Grammar School, teachers were seen in the classes with the pupils receiving lectures in line with established COVID-19 guidelines ahead of the commencement of the West African Senior Secondary School Certificate Examinations (WASSCE). The Principal of Ado Grammar School, Mr Oluwatosin Ajayi, stated he had about 205 registered for WASSCE in his school and about 95 percentage of the pupils resumed. Ajayi said the State Government provided necessary protective materials, including wash hand basin, sanitizer, and even fumigated the school for conducive learning. The Principal of Muslim College, Mr. Gbadamosi Abubakar, said the school was fully prepared for resumption and revisions before the commencement of their WASSCE examination. According to the principal, about 131 pupils registered for 2020 WASSCE, adding that 90per cent has resumed fully. He commended the State Governmental for the measures put in place for students, and the provision of all the essential equipment for the students against their resumption.