 THE Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) caucus in the House of Representatives has said the recent political development in Edo State is capable of returning the country to dark days of the First Republic. It said the development could lead to collapse of democracy. The PDP lawmakers said the events, which led to a siege to the House of Assembly, could likely push Nigeria to the pristine old days whereby the military and anti-democratic forces held sway and could lead to a serious crisis that could cause the collapse of democracy. In a statement signed by the Chairman of the caucus, Kingsley Chinda, the PDP legislators said the nation was again at a crossroads, with the ominous signs that led to the collapse of the First Republic manifesting. The caucus accused Inspector General of Police (IGP) Mohammed Adamu and Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation (AGF)  Abubakar Malami of instigating what it called an attempt to impeach the House of Assembly Speaker, saying: “As highest ranking law officers, they should be seen to keep peace and order and not otherwise.” They claimed that the All Progressives Congress (APC) was trying to unleash mayhem on the people of Edo State and dubiously take over governance of the state. They asked former governor Adams Oshiomhole and his supporters, as well as the APC-led Federal Government to exhibit maturity, greater candour and a true sense of responsibility, as well as check their actions and those of their supporters, in order not to instigate any electoral violence that will flame and consume democracy in Edo State and indeed Nigeria, “particularly as this is coming on the heels of the September 19 governorship election.” The lawmakers want Governor Godwin Obaseki and the people of Edo State to stand up to the challenge and resist attempts to cause crisis in Edo State and truncate democracy in the country. The PDP caucus urged President Muhammadu Buhari “to live above partisan interest and for once be for everybody and defend the constitution of Nigeria”. The caucus, which has the backing of the national leadership of the PDP, stressed that ”the attempt to impeach Speaker Frank Okiye through the back door was not only a clear case of the desecration of the institution of the legislature, but also an affront on the people of Edo State and indeed Nigerians.” Frowning at “the role played by police officers, who stormed the state from Abuja to forcefully take over the assembly complex undergoing renovation”, the caucus enjoined the Nigeria Police to act professionally and be above board in ensuring that peace and tranquility reign in every part of the country. 