The First Technical University, Ibadan, and the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria have signed a Memorandum of Understanding towards revitalising tertiary education and business in Nigeria. Vice Chancellor of the University, Prof. Ayobami Salami, hosted officials of the MAN in Oyo, Osun and Ogun, when the MOU was signed at the institution a week ago. Chairman of the zonal MAN, Mr Samuel Kolawole, who is also the Managing Director of UP PLc, led the association’s delegation while Salami was joined by Tech-U’s Registrar, Mrs Olayinka Balogun; Chairman, Intellectual Property and Technology Transfer Office (IPTO) at Tech-U, Prof. Femi Koya; Director of the IPTO, Dr Samson Alayande; and the Director of Academic Planning at the institution, Dr (MRS) Oluranti Sangodoyin. In his remarks, the VC stated that the vision on which Technical University was built naturally attracted it to industry. He said: “Let me say that from the outset as a university, we recognised the critical role MAN should play in achieving the aims and objectives, mission and vision of this university. One major issue we have in this country is that many graduates are not fit to enter the market. It is unfortunate but that is the reality of our system. That is why beyond imparting theories, we groom our students into theoretical processes and product development. So, if we are to do that, we need to partner, so we are able to produce graduates that will be knowledgeable  as well as gain experience and exposure from private sectors before they graduate from the university.”  Also speaking, Kolawole expressed the belief that the MoU would be mutually benefitting. “We have been trying to work with universities on this particular collaboration, which will help students marry theory which they are being taught with the practical aspects of their profession. I want to commend the First Technical University for this idea. There are several institutions of learning in this country that have been in existence for decades and are not taking advantage of this type of collaboration, so this is a wonderful idea by the First Technical University.” Koya, who is also the Dean, Faculty of Engineering and Technology at Tech-U, said mechanism had been put in place to actively engage the memorandum. “This university, as highlighted by the VC, is an industry-integrated institution. Ordinarily, our students should be in the industry and also in school. If the curriculum cannot accommodate that now because of the workload, then we can bring the industry into the university,” he said. 