Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), has asked the Federal Government to expunge the regulation in the courier service that requires that courier service providers  contribute two per cent of their total annual revenue to the Postal Fund which sum shall be used for postal development and delivery of postal services in rural and underserved areas. In a statement signed by LCCI’s Director-General, Muda Yusuf, the Chamber said it “has strong reservations” over a provision requiring a courier operator committing funds for the said purpose. “We submit that this provision will put too much burden on courier and logistics businesses and make them unsustainable.  These businesses are already grappling with multitude of taxes and levies in the course of their daily operations.  We request that this provision be expunged immediately in the interest of investments and investors in the courier and logistics sector of the Nigeria economy. The provision in the Courier regulation which vests the Minister with powers to compel any licensed courier and/or Logistics Services Operator to undertake free delivery service for the purpose of Universal Postal Service Obligations/or any Social Service Delivery in National Interest, needs to be reviewed.  It borders on overbearing powers with little regard for the interest of investors. Yusuf said the provision “will undermine the confidence of investors in the courier and logistics business and should be immediately repealed,” saying it is a “negation of the efforts of the Federal Government to attract investment, create jobs and grow the economy.  He said the reality is that many corporate organisations are already undertaking various forms of Corporate Social Responsibility projects without being compelled or coerced to do so. LCCi also picked holes with another provision in the Courier regulation which stipulates that “all courier items/articles such as Right Issues, Shares Certificates, Statement of Accounts, Cheques, Letters or Offer documents, etc weighing below 0.5kg brought to a Courier/Logistics service operator shall be recorded and referred to the nearest Post Office of the Nigerian Postal Service for processing and delivery.  Failure to do so will attract payment to Nigerian Postal Service of a penalty of 90 per cent of the amount charged on the item by the erring Operator.” This is an “unfair provision.,” Yusuf said, pointing out that “the citizens should not be compelled to patronise NIPOST against their will, irrespective of the size or weight of the items. Indeed, it is an infringement on the rights of citizens and in conflict with the principle of fair.  It is a revolting provision which the  Minster for Communications needs to immediately expunge. “It is also important to clarify whether NIPOST or its parent Ministry has powers to regulate the business of Logistics in the country. The current NIPOST Regulation and Guidelines made copious reference to the business of Logistics.  The Lagos Chamber urged the government to take urgent steps to clean up these regulations in the interest of the Nigerian economy, business continuity, private sector development, and job creation. He said there is need to save the courier industry from a stifling and suffocating regulatory regime, saying the Nigerian courier industry is one of the most troubled sectors of the Nigerian economy at this time. “The foregoing limitations underscore the enormity of the challenges faced by courier companies in Nigeria. Most of them are in the Small & Medium Enterprise (SME) space, with little capacity to cope with these troubles,” he said.