The Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, has condemned the prominent television reality show; Big Brother Naija, urging the National Youth Council of Nigeria to work out plans to harness the talents and values of young professionals. The monarch opined that the show has been misrepresenting the goodness of the Nigerian youths. A statement by the Directorate of Media and Publicity of Ooni’s palace, Comrade Moses Olafare on Thursday said, Oba Ogunwusi played host to scores of Nigerian youths from all parts of the country under the aegis of the National Youth Council of Nigeria. “The youths have misplaced their priorities and must redress it as a matter of urgent public importance. Big Brother 9ija reality show has been misrepresenting the goodness of the Nigerian youths. “I am not pleased with the low participation of the country’s teeming youths in leadership. In the last general election, the total number of vote cast is around 27 million while over 170 million people voted during the 2019 Big Brother 9ija reality show. This is a practical reality of who Nigerian youths are and where our priorities lie as Nigerians. “The funny side in all of these is that we still go to bed, have a good sleep and wake up with the hope to meet a Nigeria we didn’t create. Nigerians Youths! Unfortunately, every time I talk about this kind of attitude, everyone just laugh and moves on. What kind of nation are we building? “When people say this country, or what kind of country is this, they are indirectly saying these people – it is the people that make a country; so what kind of Nigerian youths are we?” The Ooni queried. The monarch offered a suggestion for a reality show which will project the country’s values; he charged leaders of the National Youth Council of Nigeria to work out plans on the show which will be called, “The Big Nigeria Reality Show.” “The proposed show will be structured in a way that young professionals, talented individuals and others across several field of endeavour will be showcased and helped to reach their peak. This would help the participants and also help viewers to have access to people that can be seen as role models,” the Ooni added.