The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Ondo State has petitioned security agencies calling for the arrest of a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Hon Isaacs Kekemeke. It said Kekemeke made inciting statements at a political gathering where he threatens to use thugs and federal might during the October 10, governorship election. State Chairman of the PDP, Mr. Fatai Adams, told journalists in Akure that the party has sent petitions to all security agencies in the state asking for the arrest of Kekemeke. Adams noted that Kekemeke’s statement ‘was careless, very reckless and unbecoming of a man who parades himself as a lawyer. By his utterances, he’s a huge disgrace to his profession and party.’ He said the party was ready for the governorship election and tasked Governor Akeredolu and the APC to be prepared for a violence free election. According to him, “There is this viral video where one Isaacs Kekemeke, former chairman of APC in Ondo State openly admitted that APC thugs sponsored by Akeredolu were responsible for destroying campaign bill boards and posters of Eyitayo Jegede, SAN, the PDP standard bearer. “He also confessed that the NURTW will be mobilized with arms and ammunition to rig the election in favour of APC. He admitted in like manner that Federal Might (whatever that means) will be brought to bear on the elections in Ondo State. “We are very surprised that up till now, the security agencies have not apprehended D.I. Kekemeke to answer for his utterances that are capable of precipitating crisis and setting Ondo State on fire ahead of the gubernatorial election in the state. “We’ve sent letters to security agencies this morning (Monday). The security agencies are representatives of Mr. President and we believe through this, he will intervene. “We are doing this to guarantee free and fair election in the state during the forthcoming gubernatorial election on October 10, 2020. “PDP is law-abiding and ready to play the game according to the rule. We believe the security agencies will be able to handle this.”