 THE Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has deployed a carrot approach to woo former governor Olusegun Mimiko to support it in the October 10 governorship election. Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde had visited Mimiko at his Ondo home twice within one month to pressure him to dump the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP) and support the PDP. Sources said Mimiko was offered to run as a running mate with either Atiku Abubakar or Sokoto State Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal in the 2023 presidential election. Mimiko is the national leader of ZLP and his support for any party is seen as a plus for such party. The sources said the tag of third force on the ZLP in Ondo State is connected with Mimiko’s 2023 vice presidential ambition. A chieftain of ZLP, who spoke in confidence, said Mimiko’s acceptance of Deputy Governor Agboola Ajayi as the candidate of the party is to prove to Nigerians that he is still a big factor in the politics of the Southwest. “Mimiko is keen on winning the governorship election for ZLP. It’s not just about the party candidate, but our principal’s ambition to be vice president in 2023. “You will remember that Labour Party that ousted the late Olusegun Agagu from power was launched three months to the election in 2007. The great Iroko still has the magic. He still enjoys street credibility. This is why he is craving Ajayi to win so that they can both switch to PDP for the Iroko to be running mate. “But the problem now is who does he support as a presidential candidate? Tambuwal or Atiku? This is a major problem and it has polarised the party, I mean the PDP, because both camps of Atiku and Tambuwal want him as running mate in 2023. “He wants to prove that he is still a factor in Nigerian politics and winning the election for his party will boost his chances of clinching PDP running mate ticket,” he said Another source hinted that Makinde assured Mimiko that he would be picked as running mate if he worked for Eyitayo Jegede’s success at the polls. Ajayi is expected to formally join the ZLP tomorrow, but the yet to be resolved issue is who will be his running mate? Mimiko is said to be supporting a ZLP member who is a Muslim, while Ajayi is said to have secretly settled for ex-Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure Abdusalam Olawale Taofeek. 