The eye is a very important part of the body that must be given special attention and care. Sunglasses won’t just make you look good. Exposing your bare eyes to the sun is actually one of the most common things that damage your eyesight and it can have pretty serious consequences. For absolute protection, always rock a wide-brimmed hat and shades while you’re in the sun. To be useful, you’ll want sunglasses that offer UV blocking, which is usually printed on a sticker attached to the lenses. 100% protection is standard these days, so don’t settle for a lower figure. They may cost a little more than glasses that only offer 50% protection, but UV rays are known to increase the risk of cataracts, damage the retina and increase your risk of getting skin cancer on your eyelids, so it’s well worth the extra cost. If you regularly use eye drops, you probably think that you are keeping your eyes in great condition. Whitening drops, for example, often look just the same as medicine, and have the added benefit of making your eyes look white and healthy. No risk, right? Wrong. Drops that reduce the redness in your eyes do so by restricting blood vessels temporarily that’s why your eyes will appear redder than ever when the effect wears off, and the blood vessels dilate. Definitely don’t make using whitening drops a habit. Hitting the pool? Grab some goggles to stop pool chemicals from going in your eyes. Likewise if you are doing anything that releases chemicals or could result in debris hitting you. Gardening can be harmful to the eyes because of the dirt that can be disturbed during weeding, mowing the lawn and planting. Dirt and dust molecules can cause irritation and may even scratch the cornea of the eye. Protective eyewear is a must. Also be really careful that nothing can hit you in the eyes, because that’s the leading cause of cornea abrasions. As tempting as it may be, it’s a big no-no. Rubbing them too hard can break the blood vessels under the eyelids. So to soothe irritated eyes, try a cold compress instead. Yes — diet and nutrition matter. In fact, some fruits and vegetables are crucial for optimum eye health, especially ones with vitamins C and E, zinc, and omega-3 fatty acids. The AAO suggests adding citrus fruits, vegetables oils, nuts, whole grains, leafy greens, and fish to your meals as much as possible. Even more important? Water. Staying hydrated is key for tear production and keeping eyes well-lubricated. Also, make sure to skip foods high in sodium, which can dehydrate your body. Anything you put near your eye is a potential risk. And yes, this includes your mascara, eyeliner, eye shadow, and eye creams. So make sure to apply makeup far away from your lash line so you don’t block the oil glands of your lids — a build up here can cause infections. Also, throw away your eye makeup after three months. Bacteria loves to grow in dark, damp places, so your mascara could be a breeding ground to some nasty infections. Sleep deprivation can lead to a number of problems, including weight gain, depression, and decreased immune function. Moreover, a lack of sleep is also hurting your eyes (some symptoms include twitching, dry eyes, blurry vision, and pain). Be sure to get a minimum of seven hours a night and remember, put down that smartphone before bed. In fact, looking at any type of screen right before bed in the dark, including your cell phone, e-reader, television, and computer, is bad for you. The levels of light are changing rapidly, so your eyes have to work hard to process the changes, which can lead to eyestrain, pain, headaches, dry eye, and redness. Not only is it trickier to see through clouds of smoke, cancer sticks have a blinding internal impact as well. Smoking ups your risk of losing your eyesight fourfold and even if you swerve complete vision loss, the chemicals you’re inhaling make you three times more likely to develop cataracts, according to a Harvard University study.