Governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu and Edo Deputy Governor Philip Shaibu have traded blames over gunshots fired during a rally at Jattu in Edo North Senatorial District. Ize-Iyamu, through the Chairman of Edo APC Media Campaign Council, Prince John Mayaki, accused Shaibu of mobilising thugs who he alleged occupied venue of the party’s rally in Jattu, scaring residents and other supporters of APC with gunshots. He said: “The thugs, chanting war songs, insisted on preventing the APC’s rally from holding, as Edo deputy governor is keen on demonstrating his capacity for violence to Governor Godwin Obaseki and other members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who are battling him for the control of PDP’s campaign funds. “Multiple eye-witnesses in Jattu confirmed the arrival of the armed thugs in a convoy personally led by Shaibu at Jattu Junction, where they proceeded to the venue of the APC’s rally, shooting recklessly and causing terror. “Some residents fled the area for safety as some of the thugs pour on the streets, seeking leaders of the APC to attack. “Edo deputy governor masterminded the attack and invasion. The thugs were hired and lodged in hotels by Shaibu who preceded the carefully-planned attack with a false petition to the police to deflect attention from himself and blame the violence on others. “Today in Jattu, Shaibu charged his thugs to ensure that no APC rally took place, because the sheer number of residents who planned to attend would expose his rejection to the whole world and advertise his defenestration as a good-for-nothing liability on the PDP ticket.” But Shaibu, through his Senior Special Assistant on Media, Benjamin Atu, denied the allegations. He said: “The allegations are not true. Edo Deputy Governor was in the house of the late Speaker of Edo House of Assembly, Hon. Zakawanu’s for the 40 days prayer in line with Muslim practice. How can a man in prayer session with others be accused of such allegations? “Ize-Iyamu lies to survive. He spins lies like rain. One day, one lie. Is that the kind of life he has fashioned out for himself? “Today, four PDP members were gunned down in Agbede, Edo State by APC thugs at a PDP rally. Even the deputy governor’s campaign vehicle was attacked. “The victims are in Irrua Specialist Teaching Hospital in Edo State. Ize-Iyamu has the attitude of always being the first to cry.”