Questions have been raised about Lionel Messi’s future at Barcelona after their Champions League capitulation against Bayern Munich last week. Barcelona’s worst ever defeat in Europe, an 8-2 mauling at the hands of Bayern Munich, signalled the end of Quique Setien as coach but it feels like the end of more than that. Barcelona have invested heavily but ineffectively, spending more than £350 million on three players, two of whom started from the bench on Friday – with the other, Philippe Coutinho, scoring twice for Bayern Munich. Ousmane Dembele returned to the bench following a nine-month injury lay-off but was unused, while Antoine Griezmann has not replicated his Atletico Madrid form. “The club needs changes,” said Gerard Pique. “Nobody is untouchable, least of all me. Fresh blood is needed to change this. We’ve hit rock bottom.” Lionel Messi was supposed to win it alone, the Argentinian charged with somehow masking the failings of an entire club against the most formidable team in Europe. It was a desperate hope, swiftly dashed by a ruthless Bayern side, whose demolition exposed Barcelona’s ageing team for what Messi has been saying all along: they are simply not good enough. He said it in February and again in July, when a rant in the aftermath of handing Real Madrid the title turned into a brutal, but honest, assessment of their season. Barcelona’s new manager Ronald Koeman’s biggest task might be to try and convince the six time Ballon d’Or winner to stay with the club. Before that though he must improve a side that threw away the lead in La Liga to fierce rivals Real Madrid before one of the worst performances in the club’s history saw them knocked out of Europe in embarrassing fashion for the third season in-a-row. “He’s still got a contract and is still a Barcelona player,” said Koeman. “At this point I need to speak to him because he is the captain. “We need to work with him and speak with various players. We need to make some decisions but in Messi’s case I hope he stays with us. “I don’t know if I have to convince Messi [to stay], whether it’s that or not. He is the best player in the world and the best player in the world you want in your team, you don’t want him playing against you. “As a coach I would love to work with Messi because he wins matches. If he’s at the ability and level he has always shown I’d be more than happy for him to stay.” It is five years since Barcelona and Messi last won the Champions League, with the diminutive Argentinian now 33 and coming towards the end of his career. The club have been unable to provide their talisman with the support required for him to continue his prolific form, and he has been overshad owed this season by Bayern’s Robert Lewandowski who fired in 54 goals in all competitions. It is also worth noting that Messi has not yet signed a new contract with Barcelona and there had been reports that he wouldn’t sign but instead leave the club next summer, although nothing had been made official. If Messi chooses to leave Barcelona, he could seek a reunion with former manager Pep Guardiola at Manchester City although Barcelona president Josep Maria Bartomeu recently named Lionel Messi as being untouchable & non-transferable. The club is in disarray, with the president having become hugely unpopular amongst the fan base, but Bartomeu has said that the star forward is going nowhere and also listed five other players who won’t be sold. “Messi is untouchable & non-transferable,” the 57-year-old told a press conference on Tuesday, “He knows it, and we all know it. “But there are various non-transferable players like (Marc Andre) Ter Stegen, (Clement) Lenglet, (Nelson) Semedo, (Frenkie) De Jong, (Antoine) Griezmann, and (Ousmane) Dembele… players we are counting on in the future.” Inter Milan have also been linked with the striker over the last couple of years, and are not short of money with Messi’s former national team team-mate Javier Zanetti  serving as the club’s vice-president. The question now is if Messi leaves Barcelona, could the Catalans survive without their mercurial talisman? With Messi already 33, it is likely the club have already begun preparations for their future without him, although a Messi-less Barcelona is hard to contemplate. The six-time Ballon d’Or winner has spent his entire senior career at the Nou Camp, but with his current deal expiring next year, his future remains uncertain. Undoubtedly, Barcelona would find it almost impossible to replace the player who has scored over 700 goals for the club since 2003, and would have to rebuild the team. Barcelona do not have the money right now to make big additions, meaning they may have to look within with Frenkie de Jong, Ansu Fati and Riqui Puig, smothered this season by the failures of those ahead of them, perhaps ready to be trusted to lead. But that would be a long-term project, which the club cannot guarantee either given their presidential elections are due in 2021. A year might even feel like a long time for the current president Josep Maria Bartomeu, who would not rule out the elections being brought forward. “Today (After the Bayern game) was a disaster,” he said. “Some decisions we had already thought to take and others we will think about in the next few days.” Since 2014, his board has stumbled from blunder to blunder, all the while alienating the dressing room and driving this period of chaos and decline. It began with Neymar leaving and never being replaced, the frantic attempts to bring him back then failing because the funds had been squandered elsewhere.