Guinness World Record holder, Kafayat Shafau-Ameh aka Kaffy, has joined forces with stakeholders in the Nigerian dance industry to push for healthcare deals for dancers. Kaffy, under her foundation, Kreative Arts Foundation For Youths, enjoined stakeholders, business leaders to support the call for support in securing healthcare opportunities for the dancers. The call came during a two-day virtual conference tagged ‘Dance2 Health initiative.’ Speaking at the conference, Kaffy said, “More than 98% of dancers lack health insurance and self-awareness. The majority lead a lifestyle of drugs, peer pressure, poor mental wellbeing, and personal irresponsibility. This is the bane of the industry. Until every corporate dance leader is shouldered with the responsibility of ensuring that every staff (dancer) has a valid health insurance cover this industry lacks a heart.” Kaffy revealed further that a survey put out to measure the interest of dancers in a healthcare deal recorded an encouraging number of over 250 responders within 24 hours. She further said plans are being concluded to take off with the first phase of the project with an initial 500 dancers who would benefit from a comprehensive healthcare insurance plan at an affordable rate. “We agreed to start small in Lagos State by running with a proper organizational structure, proper registration of dancers within Local Government Areas, evaluating the cost of healthcare per unit, and finally putting up a system that stirs sustainable support and sponsorship is the way to go. This conference is an ongoing conversation that was purposed to run twice per month,” Kaffy pointed out. Another stakeholder, Agubata Ekene, summed up a major concern that resonated with all stakeholders in the gathering saying, “Until dancers pay attention to their body with time no one will pay attention to their dance.” In attendance was Engr. Adeoye Fadeyibi, MD/CEO of EKDC, Mr. Yinka Lawson, activist, Dr. Mario Adelaja, The Lead Business/Brand Developer and Strategist for Arrive Alive Diagnostics and Dr. Samuel Iwua, a Relationship Coach. Others include Seun Awobajo, Footprint of David, Omolade Dalmas, Ajowa Dance, Francis Adeshina Readland, and Ukalina Opuwari, Society for the Performing Arts (SPAN) among others. The conference was hailed as a first of its kind gathering.