All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu; House of Representatives Speaker,  Femi Gbajabiamila;  and Lagos  State governor,  Babajide  Sanwo-Olu,  yesterday expressed shock at the death of a chieftain of the APC in Lagos, Chief  Lanre Rasak . The Epe born businessman, politician  and member of the Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC) died yesterday following a brief illness. He was 74. Tinubu in a tribute called Rasak a grassroots politician, party loyalist and believer in the progressive cause. He said he was  “deeply saddened by the passing ”  of  one of the apex leaders in Lagos- East, “an important part of our political movement a loyal and energetic party man who did a lot for APC, Lagos State and his Epe hometown.” He added: “Since he joined politics to meaningfully contribute his quota to the development of the people and betterment of the society, Chief Rasaq had had his hand on the plough and never to look back. “He served Epe and Lagos State in various capacities including as Chairman of Epe Local Government Area and later Commissioner for Public Transportation in the state. “So influential is Rasaq in his hometown that he was gifted the traditional title of Balogun of Epe.  His death is a big loss to Lagos and Epe town. Lagos APC and members of the progressive family across the country will deeply miss him. “I mourn with his wife and children and the entire Rasaq family. May Almighty Allah give them the strength to live after their father and patriarch. “I commiserate with Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the government and people of the state, particularly the entire people of Epe for the loss of an illustrious son. “May Almighty Allah forgive the late politician of his shortcomings, reward his good deeds and grant him Aljanna Fridaus. Amin”. He was diligent, says Gbajabiamila Gbajabiamila, in  his own  condolence message,  said the death of the grassroots politician, popularly known as KLM would rob the state of his contributions and counseling. “As a grassroots politician, the innate qualities of KLM did not go unnoticed which was responsible for his diligent handling of his responsibilities as a Local Government Chairman and a Commissioner in Lagos as well as a member of the Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC),” the Speaker said. “Chief Rasak’s quest to impact lives of the State was evident through his endearment to the people of Epe and Lagos State as a whole. “My heart goes his family, people of Epe, the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu;  other GAC members, Lagos APC and the Government of Lagos State. “It is also my prayer that Allah gives everyone he left behind the fortitude to bear the loss and grants the departed Al jannah Firdaus.” Sanwo-Olu: Rasaq was a great politician Governor Sanwo-Olu described the deceased as a great politician, a strong party man and an advocate of masses oriented programmes. Sanwo-Olu said Rasak, during  his life time, stood for what was right, always championing policies that would impact positively on the lives of the poor masses. He added that the late Razak never hid his love and support for  his administration especially the Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s T.H.E.M.E.S. agenda. He said: “I am saddened by the death of one of our political leaders in Lagos APC, Chief Lanre Rasak. He was a loyal party man and committed democrat, with a deep understanding of the state’s political landscape. He was an extremely loyal politician, who did his best for our party, the All Progressives Congress. “Chief Rasak served his people and Lagos State passionately as Chairman of Epe Local Government Area and Commissioner of Public Transportation. He brought a lot of development to Epe as a council boss and also made a lot of positive contributions to turn around public transportation in Lagos during his tenure as member of the State Executive Council. “Chief Rasak was a great politician, a strong party man and an advocate of masses oriented programmes. His support for our T.H.E.M.E.S. agenda was exemplary. He always propelled us to do more for the people of Lagos State. “There is no doubting the fact that he would be missed by the entire political class, particularly the people of Epe, the Lagos East Senatorial District and the State as a whole.” The Governor also condoled with the immediate family of the departed, the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu; other GAC members, Lagos APC and the entire people of Epe, praying God to grant the late Rasak Aljannah firdaus. The State Chairman of the APC, Alhaji Tunde Balogun said the party was devastated by Rasak’s demise. He described the deceased as a very loyal influential party man, saying his death was a rude shock. He said:”We are sad to hear the news of the death of one of our very influential and loyal party men, Chief Lanre Rasak today (yesterday). “We are pained by the exit of this great man who contributed immensely to the progress of our party. “Chief Lanre Rasak was a great asset to the party and one of the elders .We are still in disbelief about his exit, we are pained.”