who was accompanied by representatives of the students’ body from all states of the Niger Delta confirmed that the hitherto stranded overseas students have started receiving payments for tuition fees and study grants since the president ordered that they are paid about a fortnight ago. N-Epba, a student of the University of Port Harcourt, Rivers State, said the overseas students are members of their association hence the solidarity visit to the presidential aide on their behalf. He suggested that the scholarship scheme be expanded to accommodate more students at home and abroad. On Senator Enang, N-Epba thanked him, saying he has represented them well by speaking on their behalf. “We are gathered here today because we have seen results. It is something that is of great joy to us. Thank you for speaking on our behalf,” he noted. Some of the overseas-based students including Olukayode Olugbemi, Daniel Danor, John Essien, Iwagun Temitope, and Gbenga Linus joined the meeting virtually via Zoom Video Conferencing. They equally expressed appreciation to President Buhari and called for some perceived lapses in the scholarship scheme to be sorted out. Comrade Idongesit Ukpong, the coordinator of the students union in Akwa Ibom State, equally poured encomiums on President Buhari. In his response, Senator Enang assured the students that the president is concerned about the welfare of Niger Delta people including students from the region. “When you led the protest to me in Abuja, and the overseas students led the protest to the High Commission in London, I addressed you Abuja office, I addressed the students (overseas) virtually. At the meeting, I conveyed to you that His Excellency, the president, is telling you to cool temper, I told you that the issue would be sorted out,” he recalled. While promising that the concerns of students of the region will remain a priority to the Buhari led administration, he urged the benefitting students to be serious in their studies so as to have ample knowledge which will translate into meaningful progress in the Niger Delta region. “We as a government will ensure that the future of our children is not endangered,” he further assured.