Nigeria is endowed with huge, but largely untapped deposits of precious metals, particularly gold. But, activities across the gold value chain are dominated by informal and illegal miners, mostly foreigners. Their illegal trade in gold denies the government of huge revenue from royalty estimated at $500 million yearly, and hurts efforts at job creation. However, the narrative is being reversed. This is on the strength of measures put in place by the Federal Government to optimise the mineral value chain and, ultimately, diversify the economy, create jobs and increase revenue. Assistant CHIKODI OKEREOCHA reports.  Nigeria may have positioned herself as the new bride of the international mining community, especially those desirous of taking advantage of her nature-endowed deposits of precious metals, particularly gold. And it took the 2019 launch of the Presidential Artisanal Gold Mining Development Initiative (PAGMI) by President Muhammadu Buhari to set the stage for the gradual emergence as a global gold producing and exporting hub capable of attracting genuine and discerning local and foreign investors. PAGMI is a comprehensive artisanal and small-scale gold mining development programme. It seeks to streamline the solid minerals value chain largely dominated by foreign middlemen. The game-changing initiative regulates the mining, processing and refining of precious metals, especially gold, by informal miners whose activities are said to be undermining the Federal Government’s efforts at leveraging mining to diversify the economy, create jobs and increase revenue. Indeed, until recently, Nigeria had, evidently, been holding the short end of the stick on mining, processing and refining of precious metals. Huge revenue that are supposed to accrue to the Federal Government in the form of royalty payments for gold mining end up in the pockets of illegal miners, leaving the country ruing the estimated loss of $500 million to illegal gold exports annually, including the loss of thousands of jobs for Nigerians. PAGMI Executive Secretary Fatima Shinkafi recently brought the reality of the illegal export trade in gold nearer home when she said as much as 18 tons of gold is illegally shipped to Dubai, United Arab Emirates, from Nigeria yearly. She, therefore, underscored the need for the PAGMI, noting that the programme was aimed at regulating artisanal gold mining. This, according to her, would help diversify the economy at a time lower crude prices are putting enormous fiscal pressure on the government. The icing on the cake of the programme is the fact that it allows the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to purchase and stockpile gold for use as a reserve instrument.This means that the CBN will be purchasing gold that has been mined, processed and refined under the PAGMI for use as part of Nigeria’s external reserves. The Nation learnt that on July 16, the first batch of artisanally-mined gold bars to be purchased by the CBN was unveiled at a reception to President Buhari. The gold bars were processed and refined according to the London Bullion Market Association (LBMA) standards for the use of gold as a reserve instrument by the apex bank. The LBMA, according to experts, sets the stringent criteria that enable the global trade in gold and silver bars. It is the de facto standard trusted around the world. However, riding on the crest of international standards to place Nigeria on the map of gold-producing and exporting countries was not happenstance. The milestone was the culmination of 24 months of intense efforts by his ministry, through the Solid Minerals Development Fund, Kebbi and Osun State governments, Ministry of Finance, Budget, and National Planning, under a Steering Committee led by the Chief of Staff to the President, Prof. Ibrahim Gambari. The Minister for Mines and Steel Development, Olamilekan Adegbite, who spoke at the ceremony, said it was a demonstration of Buhari’s commitment to diversifying Nigeria’s economy and foreign reserves. He said the launch of PAGMI in 2019 was to foster the formalisation and integration of artisanal gold mining into Nigeria’s legal, economic, and institutional framework. The minister added that the programme was designed to integrate social, environmental, health and safety, economic, commercial, and technical considerations into its implementation.  Opening the upstream, downstream gold sector The formalisation and integration of artisanal gold mining is not the only strategic measure put in place by the ministry under Adegbite’s charge to optimise the mineral value chain. Even before the PAGMI came on stream, the ministry is said to have articulated a robust framework for the development of the upstream and downstream segment of the gold sector. For instance, to derive immense benefits from the upstream sector, which deals with exploration, production and refining of gold, Thor Exploration, a Canadian company, was granted a licence to mine gold  through the Segilola Gold Project in Ogun State. The Segilola Gold Project comprises a proposed open pit gold mining, based on an indicated mineral resource defined by a comprehensive drilling programme. It is expected to process 650, 000 tons of ore, with a target production of 80, 000 ounces yearly from 2021. At the project’s block laying, Adegbite dangled the proverbial carrot in the form of waivers on equipment and taxes to major investors willing to come in the sector. He has also never looked back in ensuring that the two firms granted licences to refine gold in Nigeria to London Bullion Standard come on stream. They are Dukia Gold and Kian Smith. Both firms, according to the minister, will procure gold from the Segilola Gold project by Thor Exploration, as well as from artisanal and small scale miners, refining them to meet international standard. Some of this gold would be traded on the bullion trading platform where the CBN and investors both local and international would be the offtakers. The downstream sector is not left out. The ministry has created buying centres where gold can be traded. For instance, the Dukia, Heritage Bank Buying Centere was recently launched, with the minister noting that it would help solidify the gold ecosystem. Adegbite said: “This initiative will bring about efficiency and transparency to physical trading and transactions of mineral commodities, resulting in accurate mineral data aggregation and reporting.” Those are not the only benefits of the arrangement. The minister said: “Buying centres with minimum guaranteed price thresholds also ensure that artisanal miners receive the right pricing for their goods relative to illegal off takers, thus breaking the status quo of illegal mining and increasing the royalty revenue accrual to the Federal Government.” The Nation learnt that there are over 400 licensed mineral buying centres nationwide for precious and metallic minerals, such as gold, lead zinc, tin, and columbite. The Chief Executive Officer/President, Thor Exploration Limited, Segun Lawson, said the project, which is  under construction, is projected to start producing in the first half of next year, and it will provide over 400 direct jobs, 1,000 indirect jobs and revenue to the country. “Most importantly, I think it would demonstrate to the international mining community that a large scale metals mining project can be successful developed and implemented in Nigeria. This will be very important in opening up the mining sector in Nigeria,” Lawson told The Nation. Thanking the minister for being “Very supportive in helping us successfully navigate through the project’s development process,’’ Lawson said a gold ecosystem will provide opportunities for investors, while also providing a more integrated supply chain. The Managing Director of Dukia Gold & Precious Metals Refining Company Limited, Bose Owolabi, could not agree less with Lawson. She said a full-fledged gold ecosystem would place Nigeria and its economy on the global map of gold producing nations. She also said it would result in substantial revenue for the national treasury, significant employment and new skills opportunities across the board. Also, increased mining, including value added activities, according to her, would lead to better retention of value for Nigeria and Nigerians. Owolabi listed other mouth-watering deliverables from a vibrant gold ecosystem to include the emergence of ancillary specialised industries e.g. mechanised mining, logistics and security, geophysical and geochemical inspections and certifications; improved rural standards of living and job creation. Other benefits are the regularisation of imperfect methods, such as illegal mining, illegal exports, revenue losses; creation of a more attractive sector, which will, in turn, attract Foreign Direct Investments (FDIs) from international companies, such as the major mining ones. While measures so far put in place by the government to transform the solid minerals sector, especially gold, may have started yielding results, Nigeria’s road to a gold economy may not be a walk in the park. Owolabi said, for instance, that creating the right enabling environment, incentives and protective policies are key to a smooth sail. She said the ministry under Adegbite’s charge is doing well by advocating and putting in place policies that will safeguard the investments of the private sector participants. Owolabi, however, stated that there is the need to improve on the production of Gold Dores and other precious metal alloys in Nigeria. “The small-scale mining community needs to be complemented by attracting major miners to operate in Nigeria,” she said. According to her, Dukia Gold has the refining platform to buy and process the production of Gold Dore from Nigeria and the rest of West & Central Africa. Her words: “We understand that a lot of effort is also being made through international and local information, communication and education to showcase the huge potential of the mining sector and to attract and guide interested participants. “Capacity building including adoption/institutionalisation of a mining code that will drive appropriate certification and accreditation schemes for professionals is also key. The proper ecosystem will help to attract the right kind of attention and investments, including FDIs required to place Nigeria on the map of gold producing and gold exporting countries.”