 On-the-rise Nollywood actress, Seilat Adebola Adebowale is no greenhorn when it comes to the art of film-making. In fact the first film she produced was in 2013 but as fate would have it she had to leave the industry to work a bit and returned in 2015. Since then there has been no turning back for her but her sight seems to be set more on producing than acting. In a recent interview, she declares, “My ultimate dream or goal as an actress is to be one of the greatest film-makers in history. I want to be like the very best in the trade like Mo Abudu, Tyler Perry, Shonda Rhimes and many other great ones.” Since her comeback in 2015 she has produced two others films, namely; Aridunu Omo and Barrister Seilat. Her debut effort was “Imoran” in 2013. According to her, it was really difficult at the beginning but with her consistency she has finally stamped her feet on the landscape. She’s one of the hottest in-demand actors in the industry right now. Her role in a recent flick by Dayo Amusa “Omoniyun” is a clear testament to her versatility as an actor of immense qualities. She grew up in Ipaja area of Lagos State with her dad and step mom, after her mom left the polygamous marriage when she was merely two years old. She’s the 6th child for her dad and first for her mom. She however said she grew up in the midst of loving family and siblings. Seilat Adebowale went to Elibel International Nursery and Primary School, then to Abeokuta Grammar School. Her tertiary education was at Obafemi Awolowo University where she bagged a Bachelor’s degree in Dramatic Arts. Apart from her own productions she has featured in films like Ebi tani, Imoran, Maybe, Love and lies ,Omoniyun, Depression, Eebo bu , Gym house, Silence, Iro to jomi, Dear affy , Jackpot , Sixteen, Atupa , Odeere olounje , Odeere alagbo, Meje, Iran meta , Confession, Emuke , Just another fall guy , Too much , Ololufe , Lucifer , Aderoju , The tenant , Adams, Tenitika, You are me, Rollercoaster, 40, Inside life and Agbara ola. Seilat Adebowale hails from Abeokuta North local government area of Ogun State. 