In countries where security matters  are prioritised, the picture showing people scaling the perimeter fence of the Murtala Muhammed International Airport in Ikeja, Lagos, should have attracted tough sanctions in the agencies responsible for the running of our airports. That people could be gaining access to the airport with makeshift ladders can only sound incredible to those who are just returning from abroad. To many Nigerians at home though, it is not news because it only mirrors the country’s loose security culture as well as our condemnable culture of disorder, across age groups, and gender. Ours is a country where too many people are in a hurry to get nowhere. Not many want to tread the narrow path, preferring, instead, to cut corners. We condemn this short-cut mentality which has become a way of life for many Nigerians. But for the laxity in intelligence gathering, and a general lackadaisical attitude to duty, the scaling of the perimeter fence at such an international gateway ought to have attracted the attention of relevant security agencies at the airport, which would have removed the platforms and arrested those violating the sanctity of the airport, with a view to prosecuting them. Indeed, we won’t be surprised if security agents are among the law breakers! The first question that comes to mind is what happened to the closed circuit television cameras at the airport? If there are, are they functional? Or does it mean the areas through which people enter the airport illegally are not covered by such facilities? Are there no regular patrols that would have drawn attention to this anomaly or even checked the intruders? But this is not the first or only instance where our airports have recorded security breaches. News of the July 6, 2005 accident when an Air France jet ran into a stray cow on landing at Port Harcourt Airport spread like wildfire in the aviation sector. Although no one was injured in the accident, the aircraft suffered structural damage. We had a similar experience with the runway incursion by goats and sheep at Bauchi airport, which disrupted the flight of the Action Congress of Nigeria’s vice presidential candidate, Mr Fola Adeola, on  March 8, 2011. We would have thought that these two instances would have been the last of such unsavoury incidents, but, no. Because ours is a country where lessons are neither taught nor learnt, again, cows that strayed into the runway prevented an Air Peace airplane from landing at the Akure Airport in Ondo State for several minutes in February 2018. All the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) did was to apologise. Security lapses such as these, as well as other carefree attitudes to safety and security issues in our airports had attracted sanctions to the country in the past. The sanctions were only lifted after corrections were effected. The aviation sector is too important for anything to be left to chance. As a matter of fact, we should not wait for any international organisation to point out lapses there before addressing them. It is a very bad omen for our airports to be this porous. What it means is that anyone can scale the fence and take potshots at VIPs at the airport. However, it is not too late to right these wrongs. Airports are one of the very first points of contact for visitors into any country. Right from there, they begin to form an impression of the country. And, first impression, as they say, counts. It does not speak well of us when visitors see people scaling the fence at our airports, or when cows and other animals prevent airplanes from taking off or landing. The authorities should jolt those who ought to have prevented this sort of security breaches to action and apply commensurate sanctions. International airports are about the last place to be left so vulnerable, what with terrorists of all shades that are multiplying by the day. We need to be extra careful about security of lives and property, especially at our airports.