The global community has been confused and apprehensive since the outbreak of the dreaded COVID-19 pandemic. Millions have contracted the virus, thousands have died and the United States and Brazil have become the epicenters of the virus. Scientists and the medical world have been battling to find a vaccine but none of the efforts has clinically passed the tests. The efforts are still on around the world while doctors and scientists keep proffering short term measures – like wearing of face masks, washing of hands, maintaining social distancing and the use of hand sanitisers – to curb the infection rates. So, the claim by the Camerounian-born physician, Stella Immanuel, based in the U.S., that she had personally treated over 350 patients with COVID-19 infections with a combination of hydroxychloroquine, zinc and Zithromax, and that most of them had underlying illnesses and they were mostly elderly patients but all went home healthy, caught the world gasping for proof. However, many doctors and scientists, like the very experienced and famous Dr. Anthony Fauci, have said that the drugs she claims cured her patients cannot yet be passed as a cure for the virus because patients had reacted to the drugs  and their use has not provided substantial curative effect. Internet giants like Facebook, Twitter and Google have since pulled down her viral video that even President Donald Trump had retweeted parts of. They took the step because, according to them, she was sharing false information about cures and treatment for COVID-19. In the video, the doctor was heard saying that people do not need to wear masks. She claims that schools could be reopened and that people could be moving around all because it is possible to prevent and cure COVID-19. She accused her professional colleagues of being fake doctors. She was very condescendingly addressing Dr. Sanjay Gupta of CNN and Dr Fauci, and threatening them to come do a urine test to show the world that they are on hydroxychloroquine. While we believe that every effort must be put in finding a cure for this dreaded virus, the medical profession is a fact-based field. Drugs and their efficacy are not always the product of one individual making claims, there are laid down processes to certifying drugs for use for any ailment. The clinical trials go through a lot of processes because human lives are involved. We therefore find it curious that Dr. Immanuel seems to be the only judge of her own case. Her presentation looks very much like she has gone partisan, given the back and forth on the same drugs being a cure, as even a President Trump laid claims to, but was disproved by medical professionals. The doctor’s presentation defies all professional ethics and decorum. She appeared too combatively unprofessional in a field that thrives on team work and due diligence. While we all want a cure for the virus, we want a cure that has gone through the right processes. Given the number of deaths due to the virus, her claim of a perfect curative record is not yet proven with verified statistics. Even if by chance her figures are correct, it amounts to nothing with the global number of victims and is not enough for her to bandy in the media as proof that she has found a cure for COVID-19. Science is about facts and figures, and she does not yet seem to have enough of those.