Chairman of the Nigerian Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) Lagos State Council, Alhaji Musiliu Akinsanya (aka MC Oluomo) has called on the union members to remain calm. He spoke in reaction to a fracas between the Lagos State Taskforce on Environmental Sanitation and commercial motorists that led to the ‘death’ of a bus conductor, Wasiu Kolawole. Akinsanya, who spoke through the council secretary, Comrade Seyi Bankole, warned drivers not to take the law into their hands. He said the union leaders were investigating the situation. Bankole attended to the union members, who came to the union headquarters to protest the killing of their member. He assured the protesters the police the authorities would fish out the culprits among the officers and made them face the law. “We have confidence in the leadership of Commissioner of Police (CP) Hakeem Odumosu and the Taskforce Chairman, Yinka Egbeyemi to do justice on the issue at hand. “CP Odumosu does not condone the harassments of members of the public not to talk of the union by police officers. “We know the Taskforce Chairman, Egbeyemi did not direct the officers to harass our members. We also know that some of those officers are just being overzealous but no leader will watch his followers being molested and harassed for doing their daily job. At the union level, we maintain a good relationship with all police formations especially the Taskforce. ‘’Whatever issues the officers on the fields have with our members, they should inform us and we will act swiftly on them. Going to impound their vehicles daily and subjected them to heavy fines is unfair,” he said. Akinsanya appealed to Odumosu to order release of corpse of Kolawole to the union members. “I learnt the police Public Relations Officer (PRO) said the conductor is not dead. Let him disclose the hospital he was taken to for us to visit him. ‘’The police should release those arrested with their buses. They were there to protest the “killing” of their colleagues before they were arrested,” he said.