The Management and Board of Nosak Group has announced the appointment of Thomas Oloriegbe as the new Group Managing Director (GMD). He brings on board his wealth of experience and vast knowledge along with his exceptional track record of immense success in manufacturing operations. As the new Group Managing Director, Oloriegbe will oversee the business operations of the Group while providing strategic guidance and direction for the various businesses. He will be saddled with the responsibility of driving concerted efforts towards attaining the Group’s short and long-term goals. Prior to his appointment, Oloriegbe served in the capacity of the Group Chief Operating Officer (GCOO) for a period of four years, where he was responsible for coordinating administrative and operational functions of the various Strategic Business Units (SBUs). Speaking on the appointment, the Group Executive Chairman, Dr. Toni Ogunbor expressed confidence in the leadership style of Mr. Thomas Olorigebe and looks forward to future contributions and growth of the Group in his new role. A highly revered, seasoned consultant and project manager with over 21 years of work experience across Business Consulting, Mortgage Banking, and Real Estate Management; Mr. Thomas Oloriegbe is a graduate of Accounting, holds a Postgraduate Diploma in Management and a Master’s certificate in Business Administration. He holds a certificate in Advanced Management from IESE University of Navarra, Barcelona, Spain. He is a Fellow of the Certified Institute of Cost Management of Nigeria and an Alumnus of Lagos Business School. He is also a certified Management Trainer from the Center for Management Development (CMD) and a member of the Institute of Directors, Nigeria. Oloriegbe has shown an enviable penchant for growth and personal development since joining the Group in 2008 as the General Manager of Grand Villas Limited where he rose to become the Chief Operating Officer of the SBU. He displayed excellent leadership, communication, and organisational skills in the position, culminating in his appointment as the Group Chief Operating Officer in 2016.