The crisis arising from the conduct of the primary of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) is yet to settle as a governorship aspirant, Banji Okunomo and his supporters across the state have backed out of campaign activities of Eyitayo Jegede. Jegede won the primary of the PDP and was asked to pick one of the aspirants from Ondo South that contested against him as running mate but he picked a member of the House of Representatives, Hon Gboluga Ikengboju. Members of the Okunomo campaign organisation in a communique issued on Thursday directed all its members to refrain from joining forces with all political activities which relate to Jegede and his gubernatorial ambition till further notice. In the communique issued after an enlarged meeting of Okunomo campaign organisation at Okitipupa, a vote of no confidence was passed on Jegede. The PDP members said they observed with displeasure the overbearing political “modus-operandi” of Jegede since he emerged as the PDP candidate which they said demonstrated obvious display of dictatorship. They accused Jegede of manipulating the PDP structure to favour his political camp at the expense of others “winner takes all fashion”. According to the communique “The BBO executive session views with emphatic disapproval and absolute sense of rejection the undemocratic and unpopular dimension in which Barr. Eyitayo Jegede chose to foist the nomination of Hon. Ikengboju Gboluga a serving Member of the House of Representatives representing Okitipupa/Irele Federal Constituency on the PDP as his running mate and Deputy Governorship Candidate in stiff defiance to all wise counsels to the contrary portraying him as a rigidly conservative person that will always override superior majority view. “The previous recommendation by the PDP leadership including ELDERS COUNCIL and Party leaders to the effect that Mr. Eyitayo should drop the idea of Mr. Ikengboju Gboluga and pick from the list of names of those the Party found most suitable to foster the bond of unison and reconciliation needed to guarantee Landslide victory for the PDP in the forthcoming gubernatorial duel scheduled for 10th October, 2020 was utterly jettisoned by the Party’s flag bearer. ” The BBO Campaign Organization hereby wishes to profoundly affirm our decision to remain resolute against anti people and undemocratic tendencies threatening the core values of our party with heavy cost on the winning chances of the PDP in Ondo State in respect of the coming Governorship election.”