Delta State Ministry of Basic and Secondary Education has released the list of private schools approved as centres for the 2020 Basic Education Certificate Examination (BECE), organised by the National Examination Council (NECO). A statement by the Education Commissioner, Mr. Patrick Ukah,  noted that JSS3 pupils writing the NECO BECE are to resume for revision ahead of the examination starting August 24, while those writing the BECE conducted by the Delta State Ministry of Basic and Secondary Education will resume September 8 ahead of their examination beginning September 21. The approved schools are: Noble Academy Okpanam, International Unity Secondary School, Warri, Our Lady’s High School, Warri, Topgrade College, Umunede, Saints Enda’s College, Agbarho, DSC Tech High School, Ovwian Aladja, Faith Academy, Ugbolu, Asaba, Marble Hills School, Okpanam, Jesus Hominum Salvatore High School, Orerokpe, Joice International School, Okpanam, Line Christi Private School, Asaba, Our Lady of Nigeria Secondary School, Ugbimidala, Oghareki, St. Peter Clavers College, Aghalokpe, Alvinas High School, Effurun and Deeper Life High School, Opete. Others are Master Care International School, Asaba, Word of Faith College, Asaba, St. Patrick’s College, Asaba, Wingate Model School, Ogunu, Graceville High School, Okpanam, Royal Miral All Saints College, Asaba, Delta Careers College, Warri, Madonna School for Children with Special Needs, Okpanam, St. Brigid’s Girls Grammar School, Asaba, Justin Excel Internatinal School, Asaba, Madonna Internatinal College, Asaba, Heros Academy, Effurun, MacQueens High School, Effurun, St. Augustine College, Oghara, Mater Christi School, Igbogidi and Graceville College, Asaba. Also approved are: Christ The Redeemers Prime Seed High School, Effurun, Jasmine College, Azagba Ogwashi Uku, Bico International Secondary School, Asaba, Skysethigh School, Okpanam, Havepoint High School, Asaba, Mary and Martha Juniorate Convent, Igbodo, Faith Academy Egbirode, Warri, Dell International College, Asaba, Born Great International College, Asaba, and Marble Hill School, Asaba. The commissioner noted that 19 private schools were yet to register their pupils for the exam. He said they had until tomorrow, to do so if their candidates are to take the examination. He advised the management of the schools to adhere to the COVID-19 protocols during the examination as a committee set up to monitor compliance would visit schools regularly and any one found would be shut.