Some Anglican bishops attending the 12th Synod of the Diocese of Awka, in Anambra State, have described COVID-19 as a blessing in disguise as it has helped to unite families and expose Nigeria’s poor health system. As at the time of filing this report, no fewer than ten Bishops have arrived Awka, for the 12th Synod, with the theme, “God of Eternal Destiny and His Major Attributes.” The Anglican Bishop of Isuikwuato Diocese, Umunnochi, Abia State, Most Rev Manasse Okere, says despite the challenges COVID-19 came with, it brought fortunes to the citizenry, including re-uniting many families in prayers. He spoke as the guest preacher at the All Saints Church, Amaenyi, Awka South Local Government Area, Anambra State. Describing COVID-19 as a blessing in disguise, Bishop Okere said the pandemic, though with its attended calamities, was a blessing to families. According to him,   “God is aware COVID-19 will come the time it came. Nothing happens to God by surprise. He’s in charge of his creatures. All things worketh together, whether good or bad, for the good of God’s children. “COVID-19 has brought good fortunes, though has caused havoc. It has re-united families. People sat down with their families to pray. “People have turned to God knowing that science has failed. It’s not God that brought it, but he’s aware that it’s coming, and will work out His purpose through it,” he said. “COVID-19 has also exposed the weakness of our health sectors, exposed us globally. We thank God for the efforts so far, though with a mixture of politics. We continue to look unto God.” He thanked Archbishop, Province of the Niger, Most Rev Alexander Ibezim and his wife Mrs. Martha Ibezim, for their steadfastness in the service of the Lord. Earlier, the Archbishop, Ibezim, prayed that Christians won’t be found wanting at the end of the Christian race in heaven, particularly Church leaders. He commended the family of Dr. Okey Anuenyiagu, for building the primary school block, particularly his late father who led others to champion Anglicanism in Amudo Village Awka and Awka Diocese in general. 