 Dean, Faculty of Law, University of Lagos (UNILAG), Prof. Ayodele Atsenuwa,  the Director, Public Prosecution (DPP), Mrs. Yinka Adeyemi, the Solicitor General, and Ms. Titilayo Shitta-Bey, among others, have expressed concern over the rising incidents of child defilement in Lagos State. They lamented that child defilement accounted for 60 per cent of sexual offences captured in the Lagos Crime Information System (LCIS) between January and July this year. They blamed parents and community leaders and other influential persons in the society for the rising scourge. They spoke at a Webinar titled: The Crime of Defilement: the role of Parents, Teachers and Caregivers in ending the scourge, hosted by the Director, Directorate of Citizen Rights, Lagos State Ministry of Justice, Mrs. Oluwatoyin Odusanya. Prof. Atsenuwa identified the risk factors in child defilement  to include lack of parental care or support; cultural; poor reporting and impunity; peer pressure, especially among adolescents; poor training of teachers and caregivers and undefined and inadequate guidelines for schools and caregivers. Listing the roles of parents, teachers and schools, caregivers and the government, Atsenuwa maintained that the safety and protection of the child depended on the family and the environment. According to her: “The government should disseminate mandatory reporting rules and make reporting process user-friendly; adopt measures to protect teachers and others who report a crime; engage in standard-setting (alongside professional bodies, where applicable) in relation to activities of all stakeholders; adopt age-appropriate curricula for sexual health education for schools, and license and regulate caregivers activities among others.” Mrs Adeyemi who spoke on the topic: ”Preservation of Evidence in Order to Secure Conviction”, disclosed that 981 sexual offences were reported in Lagos within the last seven months. She said: “child defilement accounted for 586 representing 60 per cent, rape was 207 representing 21 per cent while 188 cases representing 19 per cent were other forms of sexual offences.”  The DPP advised parents not succumb to pressures from community leaders and influential members of the society. She further advised parents and teachers that if they found their children or wards in a situation of rape or molestation, they should ensure that all traces of evidence are kept intact and safe. According to her “when issues of rape occur, timing is critical, sexual evidences should be collected within the first 72 hours; Photographs of injury sustained or the scene of a crime to be preserved and protected,  victims should not take a bath or use the bathroom before undergoing medical examination; clothes worn should be preserved and put in a box bag and also the victim statement most be recorded.” Ms  Shitta-Bey who also expressed concern on the rising spate of the crime of defilement and other sexual abuses on children in the society. She said   the fraction of the incident reported by the media calls for great concern and makes the topic apt “particularly when these abuses especially on children, including infants happen almost on a daily basis.” The State Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Moyosore Onigbanjo(SAN) implored the public not to condemn the victims but to encourage and support the punishments of the perpetrators. Earlier, Mrs. Odunsanya, had urged parents, teachers and caregivers to engage their children about sex education noting “ignorance is one of the tools that most perpetrators use against them.” She also admonished them to educate them about private parts and not give it another name.