We all know that story from the holy books about how Jewish patriarch Esau swapped his elderly birthright with his sibling Jacob for a bowl of lentil stew. Esau, in desperation to satisfy primitive craving of his appetite and visual longing for the red tantalizing pottage prepared by his brother Jacob, tossed off his birthright in exchange, saying what was its use when he was about dying of hunger. In reality, though, he was nowhere near literally dying but only pressured by visceral lust. The Christian holy book, in the New Testament, castigated him as profane for trading off his birthright for “one morsel of meat.” There’s some element of the Esau syndrome in Nigeria’s loan deals with China that lawmakers in the House of Representatives recently brought to light. This country is signing off parts of its sovereignty to China, just so to secure loans for projects being executed by government. House of Reps Committee on Treaties, Protocols and Agreements raised the alarm last week when Transportation Minister Rotimi Amaechi appeared before it for briefing on $500million Chinese loan being processed for ongoing railway projects. Chairman of the Reps panel, Nicholas Ossai, took issue with government MDAs signing deals with other nations in Nigeria’s name without the National Assembly that ought to oversee such agreements being privy. Worse is that some of the pacts are waiving Nigeria’s sovereignty. Ossai cited Article 8(1) of the $400million Galaxy Backbone loan deal between Nigeria and the Export-Import Bank of China signed in 2018 that provides: “The Borrower hereby irrevocably waives any immunity on the grounds of sovereign or otherwise for itself or its property in connection with any arbitration proceeding pursuant to Article 8(5), thereof with the enforcement of any arbitral award pursuant thereto, except for military assets and diplomatic assets.” Federal Finance Ministry signed on Nigeria’s behalf as ‘Borrower’ and Export-Import Bank of China, ‘Lender.’ Amaechi, in making a pitch for the $500million loan sought for rail projects, said the legislature’s probe was unhelpful because China is sensitive and monitoring happenings in Nigeria. He argued that frequent legislative interrogation might give the impression that a part of government did not approve of the loan, and that could make China withdraw it; adding that the House panel should consider national interest in carrying out its oversight function. But what is national interest: waiving Nigeria’s future sovereignty to another country in the name of agreeable loan terms for the now? That is far too momentary a benefit for posterity as regards our country. Lawmakers should intensify their oversight vetting, so Nigeria’s sovereignty in the future is not mortgaged to present desires. Hardball says we do not need Esau’s pottage!    