 Senator Peter Nwaoboshi last night urged the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) to go to court over its demand that he should refund N2.5 billion being payment for unexecuted projects. Nwaoboshi, who represents Delta North in the Senate, in a statement by his media aide, Awele Onokwai, said that the Interim Management Committee (IMC) of the agency appeared confused. The statement reads: “Our attention has been drawn to the purported subject matter above, credited to one Peter Claver Okoro, Esq, posing as the Director, Legal Services of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) and we make bold to state the following: “That the purported matter is subjudice as it is already before two law courts of competent jurisdiction in Nigeria, wherein, Distinguished Senator Peter Nwaoboshi sued the NDDC, Mr Charles Odili and relevant newspapers for defamation of character. “The purported letter addressed to the Distinguished Senator Peter Nwaoboshi was written on the 5th of July 2020 and as at today, 7th of August 2020, said letter has not reached Senator Peter Nwaoboshi – either in person or Office or by substitution. “The purported letter, unlike any formal letter emanating from a recognized government Ministry, Agency or Department is not signed, therefore, can easily be denied. “Nowhere in the contents of the purported letter was it stated that the contractor is directly linked to Distinguished Senator Peter Nwaoboshi.  “Nowhere in the purported letter was it stated that the warehouse, where the plastic chairs were domiciled belongs to Distinguished Senator Peter Nwaoboshi. “The purported letter is absolutely fake, as it was not conveyed through the official letter-headed paper of the NDDC – apparently for fear of being sued for divulgence of fake information to the general public. “We are also not ruling out media urchins who may have been recruited by the desperate members of the IMC of NDDC in an attempt to divert public attention from the humongous corruption charges hanging on their necks. “Finally, we have always maintained that the IMC of NDDC are a bunch of confused men without vision or direction. Initially, the alleged figure was pegged at N3.7 billion only for the confused IMC Team to now come up with a totally different figure of N2.5 billion. “Nigerians and the entire world could see the charade clearly, even through the eyes of Steve Wonder! However, if the IMC of NDDC feel they truly have a genuine case against Senator Peter Nwaoboshi as contained in the purported letter, we are challenging them to go to the law court or make use of every legal procedure available to them.