Lionel Messi, arguably the greatest footballer on earth, on Tuesday shocked the sporting world with a transfer request to the club of his dream, FC Barcelona. Many had derided Messi as a one-club player, a criticism he has found amusing wondering why he should leave a club and city he considers his home. But on Tuesday, everything changed. Messi, the ever-loyal Barcelona talisman, asked to leave. Before kick start of the just-concluded 2019/2020 Messi openly asked for return of Neymar, the Brazilian, who left in 2017 for French champions PSG. Messi has a bond that goes beyond the field of play with Neymar. With Suarez, the trio formed the fearsome MSN trident that won the treble in 2015. The Argentine considers Neymar his heir apparent and as he ages wanted an opportunity to pass on the torch. But Messi felt betrayed the Club administrators didn’t push hard enough. Instead they bought Griezmman, who he didn’t quite jell with. Messi has grown increasingly tired of recent signings by Barcelona, many of whom he considered below par. From Dembele to Griezmman, Martin Braithwaite and Paulinho, Messi believes Barcelona were not fortifying well. That left with him with too much workloads on the field of play. New coach Ronald Koeman reportedly called Messi’s buddy Luis Suarez on Monday to tell him he was not wanted for next season. Suarez, who hinted he does not mind a substitute role, was shocked. Messi was infuriated. He believes that was not the way to treat the third highest goal scorer in the history of the team. His decision to leave is partly to fight for Suarez. Messi is completely pissed off the board headed by Josep Barmoteu has been portraying the players in a bad light. During the coronavirus pandemic, the players accepted a 70 percent pay cuts but the board alleged they were reluctant, which the players considered in bad taste. Many stories were also planted in Catalan media showing the players in bad light. Messi felt he had had enough and chose to experience a new culture and environment.