The Onne Port complex of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) at the weekend successfully berthed one of the biggest gearless Maerskline vessels at the Federal Ocean Terminal (FOT) in the town. Onne Port is in Rivers State. A statement by the Head Corporate and Strategic Communications, Onne Port Complex, Barbara Ejeme, said the vessel arrived on August 15 and was fully berthed at 16.20 hours (4.20 p.m), Nigerian time. NPA Managing Director Hadiza Usman, who was represented at the reception of the vessel by the Assistant General Manager (Harbours), Capt. Uduiguomen Eboreime, expressed happiness for the safe arrival of the Maersk Stadelhorn vessel at the port. “The NPA is equal to the task. What happened today is a five-day preparation for the arrival of the vessel from Cotonou, Benin Republic,” Usman said. Giving details of the vessel, Maesrkline’s Port Capt. Kikelomo Cudjoe said the length of the vessel is 300 metres and the width is 48 metres; its total draught of 11.2 metres, while the vessel capacity stood at 9,971 (TEUs).  Receiving the vessel at the Federal Ocean Terminal (FOT) at Onne with some port officials, Port Manager Alhasssan Ismaila Abubakar said the arrival was a milestone for the NPA. He expressed appreciation to Usman for supporting Onne Port Complex in making the arrival of the vessel possible. “I give kudos to the NPA MD. She made this landmark achievement today possible. This is the first time such a gigantic container vessel is calling at any Nigerian port,” Abubakar said.  He said the vessel came from Fairway Bouy Bonny by NPA’s three pilots, who were well trained on pilotage of such vessel. “We deployed three TUG boats with three pilots from Onne Port Complex. For us, the successful arrival of this vessel showcases the expertise of NPA’s ports operations,” he added. The Country Manager of A. P. Molleer Klaos, Holman Laursen said: “This is the biggest container vessel to call in Nigerian ports. The vessel’s length overall is 300 metres, width is 48 metres and draught of 11.2 metres.” The vessel, named: Maersk Stadelhorn, is a flagship from Singapore, which sailed from Cotonou Port in Benin Republic to Onne Port. Also, Ondo State Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu has said the state is set to make its deep seaport the hub in West Africa. It was gathered that governor had received the Outline Business Case (OBC) of the project, which is one of the critical requirements before port declaration. Addressing the residents in Akure, the state capital, Akeredolu expressed gratitude to the people for the cooperation his administration had got for the project. The governor noted that with the enormous resources in the state’s coastal communities and its longest coastline in Nigeria, Ondo would make the proposed port the hub for the West Africa sub-region. “This port is very important to me, to the people of the state, Nigeria and indeed West Africa. We are going to pursue this dream with vigour,” he said.