 Ondo State governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, has raised the alarm over alleged plot by his estranged deputy and governorship candidate of the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP), Agboola Ajayi, to use fake documents to embarrass and malign him. Governor Akeredolu said the plot was initiated five months ago and aimed to harass him, top government officials as well as members of his immediate family. The governor’s allegation against his deputy came just as the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), warned him against assigning any role to the Amotekun Corps in the state’s governorship election scheduled for October 10. Akeredolu who spoke through the spokesman for his campaign organisation, Olabode Richard Olatunde, said contents of the documents containing Agboola’s plot against him were unimaginable lies and imaginary concoctions. He said it was part of the many ignoble plots hatched to discredit him and the APC ahead of the October 10 governorship election. The Ondo governor alleged that Ajayi engaged the services of two popular printers in Ondo town and Akure, the state capital, to print fake documents and clone receipts purported to have been presented by members of the governor’s immediate family and senior government officials for transactions. “While Governor Akeredolu and indeed, the APC family remain unperturbed over any such plot against the Project of Grace, it is, nonetheless, pertinent to alert the unsuspecting public, particularly the good people of Ondo State. “For the records, the Akeredolu administration’s proclivity for transparency and accountability has made it a difficult task for anyone to malign, blackmail and discredit his administration. “On our part, we shall inexorably sustain the civil, issues-based and persuasive campaigns that had been enunciated from the beginning of this process.” But Agboola said the governor was being haunted by the injustice he dispensed to the people of Ondo State He said: “The fact that the family of Akeredolu is running the government is an open secret to everyone in Ondo State and don’t need any document, either clone or otherwise, to prove that. Like lawyers say, the fact speaks for itself. “The wife of the governor has about six projects which she used to siphon money while the son is the consultant to the board of IGR and has access to N4b stashed in an account where he got ten per cent of the money. “People don’t need document to show that the government of Akeredolu is the government of father, mother and son and in-laws. This is why people are clamouring for his exit from the state.”