The #BBNaija Lockdown kicked off on Sunday July 19 with Ebuka Obi-Uchendu returning for the fourth time as host. Fans and viewers have been rooting for their favourite Housemates, who in return, are becoming more famous by the day. Instagram gives high priority to #BBNaija Housemates by verifying their accounts even without their application. Some of the Housemates are already getting their verification ticks. On July 22, Laycon became the first Housemate to be verified, a few days after the show began before others started getting their blue ticks. Olamilekan “Laycon” Agbeleshe is a 26-year-old singer and rapper from Lagos. He’s a graduate of philosophy from the University of Lagos,who started his musical journey early and has emerged as one of Nigeria’s most promising new school acts. Laycon describes himself as being versatile and able to coin words together to soothe scenarios and moods. Dorathy Bachor is a 24-year-old entrepreneur from Lagos. She believes she is the only one who should make you smile. Her boldness proves she’s an asset in Big Brother Naija Lockdown season. Rebecca “Nengi” Hampson (22) is an entrepreneur from Bayelsa. She is a former model and MBGN top five contestant who loves learning new things, having fun, travelling, taking on new adventures, and being true to herself. Nengi, as she prefers to be called, studied communications at the University of Port Harcourt and is a proud Capricorn. She says: “If you want the job done right, give it to a Capricorn. I give 110% of my energy and enthusiasm into everything I do.” Praise Nelson is a 28-year-old dancer from Enugu. Not new to fame or competing, he was a winner at the K-Pop World Festival, South Korea 2015 and won third place at a national Dance Competition in 2010. He is also a fitness and personal trainer and a certified Latin ballroom expert. Florence Wathoni Anyansi is a 29-year-old fashion entrepreneur This multi-talented single mother juggles a fashion business and a parenting blog. She is also bilingual. She speaks and writes in Swahili fluently.