THE Lagos State government has said that it had put in place measures that would ensure a continued flow of its land title documentation, irrespective of coronavirus pandemic the country is currently contending with. At a webinar organised by DF LEGA, a firm of legal practitioners, themed: “Covid-9 Disruption and Land Title Administration in Lagos State: Preserving the Real Estate Business”, the Permanent Secretary of the Lagos State Lands Bureau, Mr. Olabode Agoro, revealed that the agency had set up a dropbox facility which is administered at the collection centre of the Lands Registry. Explaining further, Agoro said all transactions, including the application for governor’s consent would now be operated using the dropbox facility system by placing the application and supporting documents inside an envelope with the name of the applicant on it. The applicant is also required to write a phone number (WhatsApp enabled) and an email address on the envelope. “Upon submission of the envelope, a file number is given for tracking the application and a team of dedicated officials at the Registry would proceed with the processing of the application, the team would contact the applicant where documents are outstanding. Also, the Bureau has limited the number of persons allowed at a time into its customer service centre to use the dropbox,” Agoro explained. He listed services undertaken by the Bureau to include the application for Governor’s consent, processing of all documentation regarding land titles and administering all lands in Lagos on behalf of the governor of Lagos State. Governor’s consent is the process where a transferor seeks the approval of the “governor of Lagos State to transfer of interest in land to the transferee.” The Permanent Secretary also assured that the on-going digitisation process, which is aimed at automating all processes in the Lands Registry, should be concluded by the end of next year. He said this would culminate in the launch of the e-portal for hosting all kinds of transactions carried out in the registry.