 THE Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC), Edo State chapters, have disagreed over Imo State Governor Hope Uzodimma’s template. PDP, through its Publicity Secretary, Chris Nehikhare, on Sunday at a news conference in Benin, alleged that the party had uncovered a plot by APC leaders to disrupt the September 19 governorship election, use fake result sheets in some polling units and write results in hotels, which they would attempt to smuggle in at the collation centres. It claimed that PDP’s agents in APC gave the information on Uzodimma’s template, which it said would be resisted by members of the party (PDP). The party said Edo residents were wiser, as they would re-elect Governor Godwin Obaseki and defend their votes. PDP said: “Edo APC has imaginary SIMPLE agenda, but PDP’s Obaseki is embarking on mega projects that are people oriented and capital intensive, across the three senatorial districts. APC members are surprised to see many projects embarked on by Obaseki’s administration and inaugurated during the campaigns. We are not noise makers, but silent achievers. “APC members are reeling out unacceptable fake news on arms’ build-up, threat of violence and use of thugs to scare Edo people from coming out to vote on September 19. Edo residents must reject APC and its governorship candidate (Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu) with their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs). “We have tamed APC’s lions and tigers. APC is peopled by desperate members and they have run out of ideas. APC will be rejected by residents on September 19. Let us encourage and support Governor Obaseki to do more during his second term. We are very proud of Obaseki and his achievements. PDP will record a landslide victory on September 19.” PDP said its campaign in Edo South would begin tomorrow, claiming that the senatorial district’s 77 wards were for it, while thanking the people of the 54 wards in Edo Central for the massive support during the electioneering in the area. APC, reacting through a member of its Media Campaign Council for Edo governorship election, Simon Ebegbulem, who is Imo State’s Commissioner for Special Projects, said the party would resist any attempt by the failed PDP government in Edo to manipulate the crucial election. It said: “It is clear that Obaseki and his PDP are finding it difficult to market themselves to the electorate, after four years of failed promises, signing frivolous MoUs (Memoranda of Understanding) and Ponzi government, therefore have resorted to blackmail and lies to cover their shameful outing so far. “Governor Uzodimma is not an official of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). So, he has no business keeping result sheets. “The governor believes in the rule of law and he has strong belief that only the electorate will vote out Obaseki and not rigging. Obaseki is only disclosing what he and other PDP governors have perfected to execute. “It is on record where Obaseki boasted that only himself and his deputy (Philip Shaibu), have monopoly of rigging and maiming, because they have immunity. So, they are only rehearsing their evil plots, seeing that the electorate have rejected them. “Telling lies and propaganda will not save Obaseki. He will be voted out on September 19. APC will resist any attempt by the failed PDP government to manipulate the election, as they are plotting.” APC said Uzodimma had no business rigging the election, but he would stop Obaseki from rigging the poll on September 19.   