The Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities (SSANU) has called for re-composition of the Special Visitation Panel set up by the Federal Government to look into the immediate crisis rocking the University of Lagos (UNILAG). The government last week set up a panel to look into the removal of the Vice-Chancellor of UNILAG, Prof Oluwatoyin Ogundipe by the Governing Council of the university. The government asked the Pro-Chancellor/Chairman of Council, UNILAG, Wale Babalakin and Prof Ogundipe to recuse themselves from official duties pending the outcome of the Special Visitation Panel set up by President Muhammadu Buhari. In an open letter addressed to President Buhari and copied to the Minister of Education and Executive Secretary of the National Universities Commission, SSANU called for the constitution of a fair and unbiased panel with representatives of all stakeholders in the university system. SSANU, in the letter, titled: ‘Observations on the visitor’s setting up special visitation panel at the University of Lagos and ordering of a special senate meeting of the university: A call for a review,’ the union said the panel, as it is presently constituted, has the tendency to deepen the crisis rocking the university. According to the letter signed by the President of SSANU, Comrade Samson Chijioke Ugwoke, the membership of the panel is made up of Professors who are members of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), alleging the decisions of the panel would be tampered with by ASUU. The letter reads: “The crisis in the University of Lagos has the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) as a major participant. Indeed, ASUU is the complainant in this matter. “The composition of the Special Visitation Panel with a preponderance of Professors (ASUU members) is an indication that the decisions of the Panel would be tampered with by ASUU. The fact that they are former Vice-Chancellors also implies the tendency to protect one of their own – an embattled Vice-Chancellor. “While SSANU appreciates the prompt intervention of the Visitor in the ongoing crisis and the sincere efforts in nipping the crisis in the bud, the directives of the Visitor as contained in the Press Release have a further tendency to cause more crisis as issues bordering on due process and fair hearing have been trampled upon arising from the Visitor’s directives under reference. “It is our informed observation, therefore, that a fair and unbiased Panel, representative of all stakeholders in the University system should have included at least a retired Registrar, a retired Bursar, and a prominent individual with undoubted integrity, who should be a former Pro-Chancellor and not a Professor, as Chairman of the Panel. “With the present composition and membership of the Panel, the Federal Government may have unwittingly handed over the Panel to ASUU to return victory to its member and condemn all others.”