Exceptional, Charismatic, luxury, hardworking, humanitarian are just a few words that describes Olori Aderonke Omolola Erinle fondly called Queen Ronny by her numerous fans. The energetic lady was born with open hands and a noble heart has become a great inspiration to many young people today. She is also proud to tell anyone who cares to listen about her background in Abeokuta, Ogun State, being a devoted Christian, a doting mother, a supportive wife, an astute entrepreneur and a philanthropist. In obedience to God’s calling, she has immersed herself into transforming and serving a group of people often forgotten by society. A good measure of her time and resources, she informed has been committed to making a difference in the community by the touching lives of the aged and vulnerable in the society. “I am the founder of Olori Aderonke Omolola Erinle Foundation, known as OAOE foundation, CEO, OOH Fragrance Palace and QR LUXURY Event. The vision for the foundation started about a decade ago when I saw the need to be there for the aged after the demise of my late mother,  Mrs Bolajoko Bamgbade (Nee Taylor)”. Happily she goes down memory lane to recall how it all started:  “I saw how my mother took care of my grandparents in their last days, Pa Edwin Abiodun and Mrs Dorcas Alaba Taylor.  The experience registered deeply in my heart. It dawned on me that there are a countless number of aged people who don’t have anyone they could lean on. People whose children were out of town or unable to provide for them in the way that they deserved to be provided for.” She continued: “This included a number of people who have been a product of life’s mishaps. This burning zeal led to our first initiative and Program with the elderly which we called “Spa date with the ladies”. We also asked this senior citizens to form a group called “Friends of Queen Ronny”. It was a very exciting opportunity bringing them together and on the 4th of May, 2019 my team and I had a special outing with them. It was quite memorable as we celebrated with them in a grand style, providing Spa treat among other things they would never forget. Going down memory lane, she recalls how the foundation started and the things they have been able to achieve over the years. “What started as a pet project has now blown into a community of old people brimming with life and hope for the future”. Erinle also takes you into the happy world of this senior citizens and the things that keep them going. “The foundation provides a complete care package which includes regular checkups, fitness programs, emotional support, mental health care, spiritual support, creating an authentic space for open communication and a chance to be heard”. Wondering how she gets support for the project and she responds this way: “A bulk of the finances required to pull such weight is gotten from my perfumery business and from my personal funds. I made up my mind to dedicate a total sum of 50% from the proceeds of my perfume company, OOH FRANGRANE PALACE to provide for the needy through our foundation. And yes, we get support from passionate Nigerians, with the hope that many will also share in our vision”.