  BIG Brother Naija Lockdown entered its sixth week on Sunday, August 23 after five weeks and 36 days of frills and thrills. In the sixth week, 14 housemates got viewers’ talking and rooting for favourite housemates as Praise joins the growing list of evicted housemates that include Kaisha, Tochi, Eric, Ka3na, Lilo. Praise’s eviction came with mixed feelings for fans, viewers, and even Praise, who also said he expected the eviction. Here is a quick recap of the sixth week of the reality TV show that kicked off on Sunday, July 19. On Monday, August 17, Ozo emerged the winner of the Head of House challenge, hence collecting the mantle of leadership from the resident playboy, Kiddwaya. To announce his deputy, Ozo met with Biggie in the Diary room where he revealed two other possible deputies should Nengi refuse the offer. Ozo mentioned Dorathy and Vee as substitutes should Nengi refuse the offer to be his deputy. Ozo registered his name as the first housemate to win the HoH challenge twice in the BBNaija Lockdown. The 26-year-old is returning to the HoH lounge and taking the mantle of leadership three weeks after first winning it. Two-time Head of House, Ozo, and TrickyTee have emerged winners of the Pepsi TurnUp music challenge. The two housemates, who belong to Team Tekno, emerged winners of the highly anticipated task af  ter impressing Biggie with their teamwork, showmanship, and accurate lyrics of the song. The winning team performed Tekno’s hit song, ‘Duro,’ released in 2015. For winning the second task, Ozo and TrickyTee won themselves the sum of N1 million each, an all-expense-paid trip to Dubai for OneFest music festival and a year’s supply of Pepsi beverages. Earlier in the day, the housemates in two per team had been asked to assemble a puzzle piece to determine which of the Pepsi ambassadors they will be representing. Team Tiwa Savage, which had Prince and Nengi, won the task. The remaining 14 housemates left in the BBNaija Lockdown house for the sixth week have continued to win cash prizes between Monday, August 24, and Wednesday, August 26. All the housemates won various sums of prize money in the Indomie challenge that saw them cooking the noodles with different special spices. The housemates won cash prizes ranging from N220,000 to N430,000. As if that wasn’t enough, more housemates won cash prizes in the Pepsi TurnUp challenge as well as the Kuda bank contest. As expected, the fondness among the housemates keeps growing. After the exit of Praise, Lucy announced that the only male housemate she could have had a relationship with was Praise. In the sixth week, the strongest of the Ships remain Neo and Vee’s relationship. The pair keep waxing stronger in love even after their little fights. Vee raised her fears to Tolanibaj saying she hopes fame doesn’t take Vee away from him but she has been reassured to allow things to work out naturally. Kiddwaya remains smitten with Erica, even as Erica noted that she has no other option in the house and that was why she decided to pitch her tent with Kiddwaya thro  ughout the show. Prince and Tolanibaj’s ship seems to have hit the rocks but with none of the housemates feeling hurt or bad. Getting stronger in the sixth week is Bright O and Wathoni’s ship. The two keep getting stronger even as Bright O told Biggie that he doesn’t have anything with either Wathoni or Dorathy. Dorathy has repeatedly said that she doesn’t want to be the one to block Wathoni from smitten with Bright O. In the same vein, Nengi had told Ozo that they would remain best friends for life. She also told him that she can’t and won’t date Kiddwaya because he’s just like a very close friend to her After a short secret vacation, Big Brother returned on day 34. While away, Biggie had instructed the Head of House, Kiddwaya never to disclose his disappearance with anyone. Biggie told Kidd he would communicate with him with a telephone line and he should be in charge of the house. On his return on today, Biggie gathered the housemates in the lounge and played video clips where the housemates flouted the house rules showing they are guilty of any punishment. However, Kiddwaya, Erica, and Ozo were found guilty of whispering which is against the house rule and given strikes each. Erica and Kidd got two strikes each while Ozo got one strike.