The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) in Anambra state has expressed its preparedness towards guaranteeing minimal crashes on the roads before, during and after the ember months. The Sector Commander in the state, Andrew Kumapayi who disclosed this on Tuesday in a chat with The Nation, urged motorists to ensure their vehicles and relevant documents were in order to avoid unnecessary embarrassment why plying the roads. He also stressed the need for drivers to take necessary precautions including maintaining required speed limits and driving defensively to ensure hitch-free ember months season. He said, “We’re prepared in Anambra to ensure near crash-free ember months. All our activities will fall in line with the COVID-19 safety precautions. We’re still expecting a theme from our headquarters. “The drivers should also start preparing, especially in the area of renewal of relevant documents and licences as well as ensuring their vehicles are in good order so as not be embarrassed.” According to Kumapayi, the Corps would beam its search lights on various parks in the state with daily inspection to ensure strict adherence to COVID-19 protocols. “There may not be the usual rally and campaign. We’re devising other means particularly the mass media to ensure messages are deciminated. Thank God the average resident of the state is informed even those in the market,” he added. Expressing regrets over increasing cases of crashes in the state, the FRSC boss who attributed the ugly development to reckless driving especially by articulated lorries, assured continuous clamping down on defaulters. He added, “Last month, we did a comparative analysis of the crashes recorded between January and June 2019 and 2020. We discovered that 102 crashes were recorded last year, while 101 crashes were recorded in 2020. “Though the figure is not significant, we’re not resting on our oars to reducing it to the barest minimum. “We’ve also gone ahead to introduce Mobile Patrol technics to ensure frequent patrol of our vehicles because the presence of our men is enough to ensure motorists maintain speed limits, which remains 50km per hour in urban areas. “The enforcement of clamp down on articulated vehicles causing crashes continues, especially in the commercial city of Onitsha.”