Jurgen Klopp admits there is “no chance” of Liverpool signing Lionel Messi from Barcelona this summer. The Argentine star rocked the world of football earlier this week by communicating his desire to change clubs, leading to a host of transfer stories across Europe. Manchester City have been strongly linked, as have Inter, Paris Saint-Germain and Juventus with Messi, at 33, ready to challenge himself outside of La Liga for the first time in his club career. Interest in the story, naturally, is high across the world, but Klopp says a move to Anfield can be ruled out for certain. Speaking on Friday at a press conference to preview the Community Shield against Arsenal, he said: “Interest? Yeah, who doesn’t want to have Messi in their team?! “But no chance. The numbers are absolutely not for us, so we don’t even have to start thinking about it! It is clear, there is no chance. “But… good player, to be honest!” Klopp was later asked how he would react if Messi were to sign for Manchester City, and what that would mean for the Reds’ title chances. “It would obviously help Manchester City!” he said. “It would make it even more difficult to beat them – and it was already very difficult. “For the Premier League it would be great, 100 per cent. Having, I think, the best player in the world come to the league would obviously help. I’m not sure the Premier League needs a boost, but it would be a boost. “It would be interesting to see as well. Messi never played in another league than Spain. Football is different here, so I actually would like to see it. But I’m not sure if I will.” Discussing Liverpool’s transfer business – the Reds have added only Kostas Tsimikas, the Greek left-back, to the squad which won the Premier League last season – Klopp hinted that there was still time for new arrivals. “I don’t know what will happen to be honest,” he said. “There is a long time until October 6 [the transfer deadline]. We will see what other teams will do but we are more or less in our situation, and we will deal with our situation like we always did. “I think the philosophy of this club is pretty clear. We will see how much we can and how much we want to spend. There is nothing really to say about it.” (Goal)