 FORMER Emir of Kano Muhammad Sanusi II is on a one week visit to Kaduna State and other places. He arrived on Sunday, accompanied by his wives, to a rousing reception in the old capital of the north. It was his first time in the region since his deposition on March 9 by the Kano State Government. Sanusi, who has been staying in Lagos, was banished to Nasarawa State after his removal from office. He was however allowed to go to a place of his choice following the intervention of well-meaning Nigerians. Sanusi was accompanied out of Nasarawa to his preferred destination, Lagos, by Kaduna State Governor Nasir El-Rufai. The governor promptly appointed him the Chancellor of the state-owned Kaduna State University and vice-chairman of the state’s investment promotion council. The last time Sanusi was in the city was during Governor El-Rufai’s 60th birthday in February when he was still the Kano emir. Yesterday, Sanusi, arrived aboard a private aircraft at the Air Force base with his wives around 10.40 a.m, Scores of residents were on hand to receive him. Some traditional title holders from Kano and Kaduna states were also on hand to welcome him. A close aide of the former Central Bank of Nigeria, Dr. Suleiman Shinkafi, said the former emir while in Kaduna would receive visitors who had wanted to see him. “Since his dethronement, many people have indicated their intentions to visit him in Lagos. But the monarch decided to relieve them from the stress of travelling as far as Lagos”, he said. Shinkafi added that the deposed monarch will later visit Sokoto to greet Sultan Muhammad Abubakar Sa’ad, and thereafter move to Azare in Katagum Local Government Area of Bauchi State, where his late grandfather, Muhammad Sanusi I, stayed when he was deposed by the late Sardauna of Sokoto, Sir Ahmadu Bello. He is also expected to be involved in the activities of the Kaduna State University and the state investment matters. During his visit to the governor, Sanusi gave his backing yo El Rufai in his row with the Nigerians bar Association (NBA). The former CBN Governor said the decision did not portray the NBA as part of people who wanted progress. He described their decision as sad for freedom of speech. Noting that, most of the NBA members are not happy with the decision taken to stop the governor from attending the conference, Emir Sanusi described Governor El-Rufa’i as a nationalist and not a religious or ethnic bigots. He said: “I am aware that the vast majority of NBA members do not agree with those things. “Nasir always has opinions, he knows what his positions are on things, he says that position very clearly, people will like it some people will not like it and that is what some people call controversy and being controversial is actually having an opinion. “If you don’t want ?to be controversial, you will just be flexible, just flow with the wind and nobody knows where you stand. Then you will not have any friend or enemies as the case maybe. “To be honest I do not want to join issues because we have already heard the views of Nigerians and the response. “I spoke with Konyin Ajayi who is the chairman of the technical committee who confirmed to me that he was the one who invited His Excellency to come and speak at the NBA meeting. The technical committee didn’t support the call to dis-invite him.? “You know if you are going to take action on people based on allegations. The president of the NBA himself has allegations against him that have not being proven. Nobody said anything about him because this is a matter that is before the court of law and people will wait for the court to decide. “Everybody has a right to fair hearing and most important for me if you feel that the governor of Kaduna state is not doing right, you should invite him and ask him to explain what he is doing. Tell him what you think is doing wrong and you will learn something from him and he will learn something from you. “Dis-inviting him is not the part of people who actually want progress. Because if you disagree with someone having him in your hall where you can tell him your views is important and he can defend himself. If there are things he needs to improve upon, he will take onboard and if there are things that you don’t know he is doing you can be better informed. “That is the best way to handle issues like this. But again, I have seen the response from different branches of NBA and I hope this matter will not be turned to ethnicity and religious matter; it should be a matter of principle. “If he is there he will add value to the conference and they can also learn from what he is doing. I hope if they changed their minds he will consider but it is sad. Sad for freedom of speech because I  have known Nasir since we were 16-17s  he is a nationalist. “Anybody who knows him, knows he has never ever associated with any ethnic or religious bigotry all our friends and people never know us as northerners  because we are just Nigerians,” he said El-Rufai said the former Emir was in the state not only to visit him but also as a Vice Chairman of the state investment promotion agency. He said Emir Sanusi will spend a week in the state during which he will be briefed on the activities of the agency and also to interact with investors in the state. “As you know his highness is the Vice Chairman of Kaduna Investment, Promotion Agency chaired by the Deputy Governor. “We hope by this visit he will be briefed on the activities of the investment agency and also interact with all the agencies that are working to attract investment in kaduna. “Kaduna state is lucky to have him as the Vice Chairman of the state investment promotion agency because of his wide global network,” El-Rufa’I said.