  What then are we doing practicing democracy when we do not have men and women brimming with ideas, dreams and visions of how to rescue this country from certain doom and self-destruction?  My favourite magazine last week featured a story of a new kind of computer printer that prints 3-D inanimate objects. Imagine that! All you need to own various objects like toys in your home is that printer called The Cube, your own imagination and a cartridge that spews plastic instead of ink, and hey presto! you’re lost in the very depths of your own toy and object factory. You can print practically anything you want. Now, don’t get me started on just what I can do with that kind of machine, because that is one beauty I’ve been longing to see in my lifetime for many reasons. Let’s see why now. To start with, I have long had a hankering after serving plates that do not break or require too much care. Now, with a machine like The Cube, I will not only make my own plates, I can make them in shapes, sizes and colours I want. Should I desire to satisfy my palate for a large-sized plate of my favourite dish of good ol’ Amala on a particular day, I would first take my time to design the shape of the container; then I would choose the colour of the day, maybe marigold yellow with a hint of a rainbow mix rimming the edges. Then, I would make the food. With the combination of food and plate simmering in front of me, I can now sing, ‘I’m in heaven… This is the heaven…’ as one morsel follows another down the dark, dark tunnel. Then, when I remember that I can choose another plate design and colour for the next day’s menu, another song will issue forth, ‘It doesn’t get better than this…No, no, it doesn’t get better than this…’ Ah, that sure is the life! Hopefully, with enough coaxing, the machine will be able to print my lunch one day. Oh yes, I have also wanted to own something that I can stuff down people’s throats when they are saying what I particularly do not want to hear. Now, with that machine, all I have to do is look at the shape of the mouth of the speaker and design the appropriate object to fit it – round, square, triangular or slit. No problem. When someone around me is complaining about the fact that money is scarce in the town and so the housekeeping money is going to be… I quickly shut the mouth before the word is uttered. When someone in the vicinity of where I am standing is trying to tell me that the country is broke, would I mind a salary… I quickly shut the mouth before the unutterable word is uttered. Beautiful. Now, all I have to pray for is that someday, a machine will be invented that will print people, so that I can surround myself with only my kind of people who will only say things I want to hear. Now, I have always wanted a machine that can print me a new dress every day. According to the article that started all this wish list, someone is already thinking like me. There are designers out there, it said, who have printed a pair of shoes and a dress, using different printers. Now, that is music to my ears. No more can my tailor and cobbler be rude to me. No more will I have to grin and swallow their insults of ‘come back tomorrow…’ while the waters are roiling deep inside me worse than the Atlantic Ocean in a storm. Now, all I need to do is dream up a look for the day, and command the machine. Then, when I get to the end of the road and find that the look does not really work for me in broad day light as it did in my head, I can go back home and make the necessary adjustments. I command my machine. The only thing that would be left would be for that beautiful machine to print money for me… You’re right, we need money to design and build the machines that will make my dreams come true. Don’t I know it? But, seriously, where do you think the money to fund the technological drive in this country will come from when we are busy funding ridiculous projects? Once, I read in the papers that a Senator from Rivers State was once flown abroad for medical attention after being allegedly shot by the police with rubber bullets! I ask you! It’s people like these – the one who shot him, the person that was shot and who agreed to be flown abroad, and the one who funded the ridiculous trip – these are the ones who are standing in the way of making my machine dreams come true. They are the Dream Terminators! Honestly, I sometimes feel as if all our money is going into funding the expensive hobby the country is engaged in right now, politics. Our political assemblies are not only the highest paid in the world, many of the members are also said to help themselves to the juiciest contracts in the land, e.g., according to NDDC reports. It’s a little like the head of a family who persists in searching for the cure for hunger by locking himself in the kitchen purportedly conducting one experiment after the other, leaving the rest of the family in hunger. For all he cares, they can be left to feel like orphans. I think he actually believes he is childless himself. Anyway, I just hope this politics will not be the death of this country – through laughter. Take a news report I read recently which ‘flabber-whelmed and over-gasted’ me. It said that the council of the University of Lagos decided to remove the Vice-Chancellor of the institution for reasons best known to them. This not only completely usurps the power of the Visitor of the university, the president of the country, who appoints and dismisses, it makes nonsense of the rule of law. There is more. Another news report is hinting that the fine for ‘hate speech’, which had been hiked from half a million to five million Naira, might have been at the instance of a single person in government. Again, the whole hate speech thing makes nonsense of the law which says that any aggrieved party can head to the court and sue for libel or defamation of character. Why then is everyone taking the law into their own hands? It just proves two things. The first is what many people have said before: that this country has NO POLITICAL CLASS. What then are we doing practicing democracy when we do not have men and women brimming with ideas, dreams and visions of how to rescue this country from certain doom and self-destruction? All the country has thrown up so far are a class of egomaniacs and marauders. The only problem is that while we are laughing, like Nero, Nigeria is burning with issues of insecurity, hunger, ignorance and disease. In the face of complete helplessness, however, what are we to do but hold on to our dreams? We have sublime notions of what good governance is like: politicians directing the affairs of the country; leaders keeping their pulses on the prices of garri, beans, oil and rent in the market so that when all else fail, the people can eat and sleep; leaders knowing the state of the national institutions under their care because they also use them – hospitals, schools, transportation systems, roads, recreation grounds, etc. Like I said, these are sublime dreams but it’s not as if they are not attainable. They are, if the leaders would just put their backs into the job and teach the people how to do theirs too.  ***This modified article was first published in April, 2014. 