Edo State Deputy Governor Philip Shaibu has said officials of the administration of Governor Godwin Obaseki are different from former national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and the party’s governorship candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu. He claimed that Obaseki’s administration had restored pride and dignity to the people. Shaibu spoke on Tuesday in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media, Benjamin Atu. He said: “With a dedicated focus on development and synergy with relevant development partners, we restored the pride and dignity of Edo State. ”Governor Obaseki is shaping Edo State’s vision, mission and value system. Edo was a gloomy state when we took over in 2016, but today, the story is different. “One of the key planks of the current administration is to initiate policies and programmes aimed at empowering our people and encouraging the ordinary man or woman to be economically independent.” The deputy governor said Obaseki would develop Edo and ensure that opportunities were available to the people. He said: “We are developing Edo State’s economy, impacting on the lives of the people directly and promoting commerce and industry. We are seeking re-election to enable us create more opportunities for the good people of Edo State. “Rather than fighting the government for not allocating the wealth of the state among some people, Oshiomhole and Ize-Iyamu should acknowledge the ingenuity and resilience of the Obaseki administration towards eradicating poverty in the state. Other governors should emulate him. “We are improving the workforce and creating a conducive environment for industries to grow. The era of Oshiomhole when our local engineers and professionals were abandoned for foreign contractors should not be continued. We need a government that will continue to open the space for our qualified professionals to compete with others.” Shaibu said transforming the state to the current level was not an easy task. He said: “We took over a state where the governor, who ought to be a role model to youths, was more aggressive than the youth he was elected to model. “Nigerians are not in a hurry to forget what Oshiomhole told a trader and a widow. Such an indecent way of life can only produce a chaotic state. The lawlessness in Edo State during Oshiomhole’s tenure made him to drop his immunity as a governor, vowing to go to court in order to convince the people that Ize-iyamu is a thief. Today, Oshiomhole is trying to tell us the other side of the story. This is surely not the type of role model our youths need. “The good people of Edo State have a better story to tell about us and that is why we are not distracted by what Ize-Iyamu and others are doing. We eliminated multiple taxation in Edo State. Our administration has respect for traditional institutions and the elderly. “We did not tell any widow to go and die, as was demonstrated in Oshiomhole’s government, with no regard for the citizens. Illegal sale of state assets has become a thing of the past. Award of government contracts to cronies without execution has stopped. Pensioners no more protest in Edo State over unpaid gratuities and pensions.” The deputy governor urged the people to look back and reflect on the road already travelled. He said members of the Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT), Edo wing, were no longer ridiculed at Ring Road, Benin during protests over unpaid salaries. Shaibu added that in all aspects of social and economic development, Obaseki’s administration had shown more readiness for good governance in words and in action.