Increasingly, the Nigerian Army authorities give the impression that they are above the law. The case of Lance Corporal Martins Idakpini of the 8 Division, Sokoto, of the Nigerian Army, represents yet another instance of the display of arrogant contempt for the rule of law by the army leadership in recent times. “On June 23, 2020, the Nigerian Army arrested Lance Corporal Martins for being critical of the army chief of staff over the handling of security crises and lack of adequate amenities to battle terrorism,” according to his lawyer, Tope Akinyode. Idakpini had got into trouble for making a June 22 twelve-minute viral video in which he said, addressing Chief of Army Staff (COAS) Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai, “I’m highly disappointed in your command.” He called the army boss “a coward, a traitor and a betrayer,” adding that the loyalty of the rank and file to the army leadership must be earned. “You have failed,” he said, addressing Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen. Abayomi Gabriel Olonisakin. “You should be ashamed of yourselves,” he said, addressing the National Security Adviser, Mohammed Babagana Monguno, and the Minister of Defence, Bashir Salihi Magashi, both retired army generals. “I’m a concerned Nigerian,” Idakpini explained in the video. “We cannot continue to keep quiet when people are dying… many of our colleagues are dying.” He added that “innocent soldiers” were locked up in the guardroom indefinitely for complaining about inadequate weapons to fight insecurity. “We need to restructure this army in order to achieve peace in the country,” he declared. He also criticised the Muhammadu Buhari presidency and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). “I’m ready to face court martial,” he said fearlessly. Justice Anwuli Chikere of the Federal High Court had ordered that Idakpini’s lawyer be granted access to him. The judge said the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF), Abubakar Malami, and Lt. Gen. Buratai, should ensure the enforcement of the court’s order. However, Akinyode was quoted as saying he had been denied access to Idapkini twice. “I got to the army headquarters around 2pm today after informing the AGF of my planned visit. Two officers that I met were identified as Lucky B and Genesis J. They denied me access to my client based on the order of Buratai,” the lawyer narrated his experience on one occasion. Akinyode introduced a disturbing dimension, saying he feared that Idapkini may have been tortured or killed. The question is: Why has the army denied him access to Idapkini, after a court order that he should be allowed to see the detained soldier?   It smacks of arrogance. And what is the AGF doing about this? The army authorities are not above the law, and should stop acting as though they were.