 NOVA Merchant Bank Limited’s Non-Performing Loan (NPL) ratio has remained at zero per cent. Its Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Anya Duroha, who  made this known during virtual interactive session with reporters in Lagos, said the bank did not take any forbearance from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to restructure its loans. He said the bank has a sound risk management structure, good understanding of the business environment and  customer base. Duroha said despite the economic crisis triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic, healthcare businesses and their value-chain were  thriving. He advised financial institutions to embrace innovation, while understanding the businesses they are funding. He added: “The traditional ways of doing business cannot suffice. Therefore, every bank or financial institution needs to get very creative about the products they sell and how they offer these services in the market.” He pointed out, however, that despite the pandemic, there are sectors that are doing in the market. He listed these to include information technology, fintechs and healthcare. “Therefore, banks would need to refocus and support those industries clearly, even while fulfilling their role of working with the sectors that are not performing very well, to bring them back on stream. It is something we take very seriously. One of the things we do at the advisory side of our business is also to work with industries we had identified that are struggling to see how we can work with them,” he said. According to him, since inception, Nova Merchant Bank has been an information technology-driven bank. This, he said has placed the bank above its peers in the industry. Speaking about the bank’s recent bond offering that was 300 per cent oversubscribed, Duroha said: “As part of Nova’s strategy, we knew that at this point we needed to get long-term funds to be able to finance long-term assets. Being a merchant bank, we would like to do a lot more developmental financing and you need long term funds to do that.