PIERRE-EMERICK Aubameyang’s two goals served notice that the Gunners are going places under their Spanish manager. It has taken Arteta just 28 games to lift his first trophy for the club he served with such distinction as a player. A two-time winner of the famous old trophy when he patrolled Arsene Wenger’s midfield, the 38-year-old now has another medal to add to his collection. Now the Emirates hierarchy have to back their young boss in the market. And the first piece of business must be to persuade Aubameyang to sign a contract that will keep him in North London for the rest of his career Chelsea began brightly and grabbed the lead inside of five minutes thanks to who else, Christian Pulisic, who started and finished a lovely move that cut through Arsenal’s midfield and defense like butter.  But that early impetus quickly petered out, with Chelsea increasingly unable to deal with the simple tactic of hitting long balls down the flank towards fast runners. Aubameyang was especially starting to enjoy himself, and he won his side a penalty after falling down with Azpilicueta’s hand on his shoulder. The Arsenal captain made no mistake from the spot, while the Chelsea captain’s day only got worse, as he picked up bad-looking hamstring injury just a few minutes later. Azpi departed in tears, but Chelsea avoided further damage thanks to the referee’s half-time whistle. But things did get worse almost immediately after the restart, as Pulisic tore his hamstring less than a minute into the second half, just as he looked to be in on goal. Pedro came on to replace him, setting up a potential fairy tale ending to his Chelsea career. The Blues remained largely in control from that point until the drinks break, but were unable to truly carve open Arsenal’s well-organized defense. And of course, just before the drinks break, Arsenal hit on the counter, with the referee ignoring a clear foul on Christensen. Aubameyang finished with the ease. Things then just kept getting worse, with Kovačić getting sent off for an incredibly harsh foul and second yellow card, as the referee firmly took center stage.