The apex Igbo sociocultural organisation, Ohaneze Nd’Igbo has expressed grief at the unwarranted killings during the Sunday clash between Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and security operatives. It vowed to unravel the circumstances surrounding the killings that have caused widespread anger in its wake. The organisation said it has been studying the events surrounding the killings last Sunday of members of the IPOB and working with the Enugu State Government with a view to finding the truth before making its position known in the coming days. In a statement by Special Adviser on Media Affairs to President General Ohanaeze, Chief Emeka Attamah, the body described the incident as sad. “In the last two days, news has broken out about clashes between IPOB and security agencies in Emene, Enugu State. “Since the outbreak of this development, Ohanaeze has been involved in getting to the root cause of this development. “Whilst these investigations were going on, fake Twitter accounts and fake Facebook accounts and press releases bearing the name of the President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, Chief John Nnia Nwodo, have inundated the social and mass media. It has become necessary to make it abundantly clear that Chief Nwodo, until now, has not commented on this development”, the statement noted. “Ohanaeze is saddened by the grave fatalities occasioned by this development and is determined to get to the root cause of this unfortunate event. “We mourn the sad loss of all our children and other Nigerians whose lives were wasted by this sad development. “We await the outcome of the Enugu State Security Council inquisition and advise all and sundry to discountenance all false releases attributed to the President General. Our final statement on this subject will be made in due course.” Enugu Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi has summoned an emergency Security Council meeting to discuss the tragic incident. The meeting, according to a statement by the Secretary to the State Government, Prof. Simon Uchenna Ortuanya, will hold on Tuesday, September 1, 2020 at the Executive Council Chambers, Lion Building, Government House, Enugu by 2pm.