 IN a self-appraisal of his performance in the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) governorship primary, Ondo State Deputy Governor Agboola Ajayi said he fought a good fight, but some forces thwarted his emergence as its candidate. He did not say, however, whether the forces are within or outside the PDP. Prior to the primary, Ajayi had pulled out of the All Progressives Congress (APC), the platform on which he was elected deputy governor, and joined the PDP, hoping to clinch the opposition party’s ticket. But, he was trounced in the primary by Eyitayo Jegede who got 888 votes. The deputy governor was the first runner up with 567 votes. No doubt, this is a trying moment for Ajayi. His defeat at the primary is a double jeopardy for him, as he will now have to fend off an aggressive plot to remove him from office by the APC government. Analysts believe there are three options before Ajayi. The first option is to run for the election on another platform. The second one is to become a running mate to Jegede, while the third is to return to the APC. To placate Ajayi, some PDP national leaders, including the governors that drafted him into the race, came up with the idea that Jegede should pick him as running mate. They premised their argument on the fact that the party does not want a situation whereby Ajayi, who defected as deputy governor, feels neglected after the primary. They said Ajayi is the kind of grassroots mobiliser that Jegede needs, because he can match whoever the APC picks as Akeredolu’s running mate from Ondo South Senatorial District. But, Jegede has refused to key into the arrangement. Rebuffing the idea, the PDP candidate said it would be difficult for him to accept the offer because he does not want someone who would be working behind to oust him from office, if he eventually becomes the governor. Rather, Jegede told the Ajayi’s promoters that he is ready to concede the Ondo South senatorial ticket to him in 2023 general elections, if he is ready to work for the victory of PDP in the election. However, Jegede seems to have foreclosed the issue of running mate. It was learnt that he has presented three names to the party leadership for consideration. The nominees include a member of House of Representatives, the first female Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Mrs Jumoke Akindele and a former aspirant, Mr Banji Okunomo, all of them from Ondo South. In the provisional list of 17 governorship candidates and their running mates for the election released by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Jegede supplied the name of one Olumide Ogunje as his running mate. It is believed, however, that the party will make use of the substitution window to change it, after it must have concluded on the substantive running mate before the deadline. An associate of Jegede who spoke on condition of anonymity said there is no amount of pressure from the national secretariat or governors would make him accept Ajayi as his running mate. He said: “Given Ajayi’s antecedent, nobody can trust him. If he can betray his own blood, who else can he not stab at the back? “They are talking as if only Ajayi is the only grassroots politician in Ondo South Senatorial District. We have many of them that are even more popular than Ajayi. I advise the national leadership to tread softly on the issue of running mate by allowing the state caucus to decide. We should not sacrifice the party’s interest because of an individual. What is at stake is beyond Ajayi. The PDP is greater than Ajayi.” On a comparative note, he said the national leaders of the APC did not intervene or dictate to Governor Rotimi Akeredolu on the choice of his running mate. Rather, the governor consulted with party stakeholders. Of great concern is that APC members are uniting on a daily basis. It is a challenge to the PDP. Realising that Jegede would not yield to pressure to pick him as running mate, Ajayi seems to have concluded plans to dump the PDP and join the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP), after meeting with its leader in Ondo State, Dr Olusegun Mimiko who was also the immediate past governor of the state. Political associates of Mimiko and Ajayi have confirmed that both parties held a series of meetings in Abuja which ended with a resolution that Ajayi will be announced next week as the ZLP governorship candidate. Another ally of Ajayi said it is true that he is moving to ZLP because the party has existing structure in the state. He said: “We want to play on Mimiko’s template and popularity. There is still room for substitution of names with INEC. Ajayi’s name would be used to replace that of Mr Rotimi Benjamin whose name had been submitted to INEC as ZLP governorship candidate.” Analysts are of the view that Ajayi’s ZLP candidacy will change the contest into a three-horse race. Hitherto, it was expected to be a straight fight between Governor Akeredolu of the APC and Jegede of the PDP. Ajayi will now face his former allies in the APC and the PDP for the governorship seat. In their calculation, if Ajayi eventually becomes the ZLP flag bearer, it would affect the chances of the PDP. There will be split vote as Ajayi supporters would cast their votes for ZLP. To avert this, some PDP bigwigs have begun the move to impose Ajayi as a running mate to Jegede, to forestall to run on ZLP platform. They have met with the PDP National Working Committee (NWC) led by Uche Secondus on the need to prevail on Jegede to accept Ajayi as running mate, so that the PDP camp will not be depleted before the October poll. A PDP chieftain said Jegede has no other choice but to accept Ajayi as running mate. He said: “We cannot afford to go into the poll as a divided house. Jegede must understand that despite winning the primary, Ajayi is still a factor to be reckoned with in Ondo politics.” Analysts say Ajayi’s contemplation of leaving the PDP to seek for another party’s ticket to contest the governorship election contradicts his acceptance of the results and his pledge to support Jegede to win the governorship election. Reacting to his defeat, Ajayi said: “The people have spoken, and we accept the outcome in good faith, knowing fully well that it was a race against different forces. We remain undaunted and resolute about our commitment to a people-oriented government against personalised democracy. We wish the good people of Ondo State and the winner the best as we march on. For us, life goes on.” But, Ajayi is heading for the ZLP to contest the October 10 poll. If his defection plan comes through, the deputy governor would have changed platform twice within two months. This implies that he is not consistent; that he is desperate for power at all cost; and does not believe in the party’s ideology. How far can he go in his new adventure? Lawyer and human rights activist, Monday Ubani said the new move by Ajayi portrays him as a desperate politician. He said: “Ajayi’s ambition is dead on arrival. He was not contesting to win but wants his name to be on record as a governorship candidate. The governorship race is a straight fight between the APC and the PDP candidates.” Ubani advised him not to contemplate going back to the APC because he will be treated as a traitor. He added: “He would not be accepted and will be totally disgraced. The man goofed. If he decides to go back to the APC, he will have to queue up and become an ordinary member.” A PDP chieftain from Ondo South, Alex Kokumo said he was not disappointed that Ajayi is leaving for another party because that is his stock-in-trade. He said: “Ajayi is a fair-weather politician who joins parties that will benefit him. For instance, in 1999, he joined the PDP. He contested election on the platform of the party into the House of Representatives and won. He dumped the PDP for the APC in 2016 after his cousin Akeredolu promised to choose him as running mate. “Having realised that Akeredolu would not retain him as running mate for the second term, Ajayi left the APC and returned to the PDP. Before the primary, he boasted that he would win the PDP governorship ticket. He failed hence his planned defection to the ZLP. What kind of politician is he? Must you hold political office all the time? There are PDP leaders in Ondo State that have never held any public office since 1999 and they still remain in the party. “One thing is certain; some supporters of Ajayi have lost faith in him because of his inconsistency. A principled politician cannot be changing political platforms at will. People will not respect you if you are not predictable. The national leadership of the party have been misled into believing that Ajayi is the only aspirant that can win the governorship election for the party. The result of the primary has proved that notion wrong. In Ondo South Senatorial District where Ajayi comes from we have many influential politicians that are solidly behind the PDP and that is why the zone has remained the stronghold of the PDP in Ondo State.” While assessing his chances at the primary, Ajayi said other aspirants ganged up against him because they see him as a threat to their ambitions. He said: “You cannot gang up against an aspirant that can win. This is a sign to affirm that I am the candidate to beat in any election and I’m going to emerge victoriously in the primary.” Ajayi will not be the first deputy governor that is desperate for power. There were deputy governors that undermined their principals and paid for it. In the Second Republic, former deputy governor to Mohammed Abubakar Rimi in Kano State was impeached for undermining his principal. Farouk who was deputy governor between 1979 and 1981 was removed from office by the State House of Assembly. The impeachment followed the rift between the faction of the defunct Peoples’ Redemption Party (PRP) loyal to the late Aminu Kano and the other faction led by Rimi. The Aminu Kano group had pencilled Farouk down as Rimi’s successor in 1983. But Farouk was not fielded as the Rimi faction preferred the late Senator Sabo Barkin Zuwo. The late Chief Bola Ige, former governor of old Oyo State, suffered a similar experience in the hands of his deputy, Chief Sunday Afolabi who wanted to take over as governor. In 1982, a year before the 1983 general election, Ige had to contend with internal and external political and social challenges from his deputy, his former Commissioner for Local Government, the late Chief Busari Adelakun, alias Eruobodo and others. After losing out from the governorship primary, they all defected from the ruling Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN) and joined the leading opposition party, the National Party of Nigeria (NPN). The main cause of their defection was the declaration by Ige to contest for a second term as the UPN governorship candidate. He eventually won the ticket. Ige lost the election. Neither Afolabi nor Adelakun was considered to be the NPN governorship candidate. The rest has become history. In Lagos State, the former deputy governor under Senator Bola Tinubu’s administration, Mrs. Kofoworola Bucknor-Akerele defected from Alliance for Democracy (AD) to the Democratic Peoples’ Alliance (DPA). She was accused of undermining the government. She eventually resigned from office. Since her exit from office, Bucknor-Akerele has taken the rear seat in Lagos politics. 