 He’s young and exudes tremendous passion when he’s talking football. At 11, Ugwunnaya Chiedozie Erondu a.k.a ‘Doodo Sports’ won’t come across to you like a regular kid, going by the fervor at which he analyses games, especially ones involving his adorable team, Manchester United. Now a regular face on sports programs on national TVs and cables like TVC, Galaxy TV, Channels, Rave TV, and ARISE News, Erondu has warmed himself into the hearts of many ardent football followers. He said his love for Premiership top club, Manchester United and their former star Cristiano Ronaldo fired up his enthusiasm to analyse games. “I like football a lot. I like the club Manchester United and Juventus because of Ronaldo. I watched him play at Manchester United even though I was too young to watch him live. But I watched his video at United. That love drives me learn more about football and players and I love to analyse games based on the information I have gathered.” Doodo Sports is not only skilled with analysing sports but exceptionally tech savvy and his passion has attracted the Abia State Ministry of Youths and Sports, who last Friday awarded him ‘Youngest Football Analyst Award’ for his skill and exemplary conduct. The Umuaro Obingwa LGA born attributes the recognition to the grace of God, while adding, “there are other exceptional kids around Nigeria but it suits God to have an 11 year old recognized with such prestigious award.” Due to his strong passion for science, the young Erondu wants to study Aeronautical engineering because of his attraction to designs and manufacturing of flight capable machines and the techniques of operating them. He further disclosed that his greatest support system are his parents, Chief Erondu Jr and Mrs. Queeneth Erondu, adding that he was inspired into football analysis by his elder brother Ebuka Erondu, who is a skillful football player. The young analyst who started talking football at age nine further urged Nigerian kids and youths to follow their dreams.