Ten final year students of Lagelu Grammar School, Agugu, Ibadan have benefitted from a gesture  of the 1993 graduation set of the school. The Old Boys under the aegis of ‘93 Set, Lagelu Grammar School, Old Boys Association’ on Friday   presented a cheque for the payment of the National Examination Council (NECO) of deserving students to the school authorities. The Set Chairman, Mr Oluleke Isola who was accompanied by other executive members of the set at the presentation said the effort is to support brilliant students faced with the challenges of meeting up the payment requirement to write this year’s national examination. While noting that a lot had been done by the set for the Alma Mata in times, Oluleke said the payment of the examination fees is in the bid of the set to boost the morale of the students and their parents especially in the face of economic hardship occasioned by the outbreak of the novel coronavirus. He noted that the Old boys, as much as other stakeholders in the educational sector including government, teachers, parents and students must as a matter of importance play significant roles if the educational system must advance to be at par with what obtains in advanced climes. He said “Given the situation of the global economy due to pandemic Covid-19 ravaging the world and its impacts on the availability of resources, we came to the conclusion that influencing the up-coming future leaders through the payment for ten brilliant but indigent students will be an enviable lifetime opportunity for those students, to that effect, we constituted a committee who worked in contact with the management of the school in getting the list of these students. “The education sector of our nation requires a lot of resources in moving it to a level where it will not only compete with those in the developed countries but also meet the developmental needs of the nation through the supply of competent human resources, labour and great entrepreneurs. “If these critical factors of production are available, harnessing the other non-human resources for national growth and development becomes easy. Invariably building a nation becomes easy through educational advancement. In this regards, all of us, government, teachers, parents, students present and old have great roles to play in the said educational advancement.”