  The Ghost’s suspension is tuned for comfort and its driving demeanour doesn’t try to be anything but plush. The Ghost is a Rolls-Royce to take when the parking is tighter and the chauffeur’s gets the day off. Smaller, in the same way a tanker is to a supertanker, the Ghost keeps Rolls-Royce’s imperious manner, but hides it behind slightly more bluff edges and not quite as aggrandising a front grille. Indeed, driven and specified conservatively, the Ghost doesn’t even draw that much attention from other drivers or passers-by. And those that do notice it don’t react with fury and vitriol, as they might to a Ferrari, Lamborghini or, perhaps, Rolls Phantom, but with respect and deference. You get let out of side-turnings, and nobody dare tailgate you. After all, you might be some lesser-known royal and, therefore, worthy of a measure of respect. Or you could have them killed. In addition to this luxury, Rolls-Royce Motor Cars Lagos, the exclusive representative of the iconic luxury brand, Rolls-Royce Motor Cars in Nigeria, has come up with a special package designed specifically for all Rolls-Royce Ghost owners to get a bespoke ownership (Aftersales) service free. Coscharis Group, the franchise owner of Rolls-Rolls Motor Cars in Nigeria, said the package is to delight owners of the Rolls-Royce Ghost  for them to enjoy their favourite luxury item, especially during the pandemic that has restricted movements for some time. According to Abiona Babarinde, Coscharis General Manager, Marketing and Corporate Communications, the offer was to honour their customers, adding: “More importantly for us is that we adhere strictly to all the COVID–19 health protocols for both the home and workshop service as we put premium on our customers and staff in terms of safety. This offering is bespoke in nature because you have an option to have this service delivered for you in the comfort of your home or we come and take the car to our workshop, all at no cost to the customer under a strict precautionary measures’’. Coscharis Group Executive Director, Ownership Services, Cosmas Maduka Jnr, said: ‘’We guarantee top notch ownership service for all Ghost owners leveraging the expertise of our Rolls-Royce certified technicians that will deliver the service with the right tools and original parts. This, ultimately, gives the customer the peace of mind for a seamless package that resonates with the luxury brand.’’ As a result, some customers that have shown interest had enjoyed the special package exclusive for Rolls-Royce Ghost Car owners, which started early this month  while more have equally indicated their interest to keep their luxury car in good shape. The special Health Check offerings will last till the end of next month. The Ghost comes in several flavours. There are standard and long-wheelbase versions. All Ghosts come with a large infotainment touchscreen in the front with navigation, but a dual-screen rear-seat entertainment system is an option that allows passengers to control the car’s radio, navigation, and other infotainment features remotely. An 18-speaker premium stereo system is also available to replace the car’s standard 16-speaker unit. Other than a new dark-brushed metal finish option for the Ghost’s interior dashboard trim, the car carries over unchanged from the 2019 model. Since this year will be the final model year before a full redesign, Rolls-Royce is sending the Ghost off with a limited production Zenith model. The Ghost’s hood is topped by the iconic Spirit of Ecstasy ornament. Underneath it lives a twin-turbo, 6.6-litre V-12 good for 563 horsepower that’s paired to a satellite-aided gearbox. This setup uses GPS data to read the roadscape ahead of you in an effort to anticipate your driving needs and shift gears at precisely the right moment. Black Badge models make another 40 ponies; Rolls claims a governed top speed of 155 mph for every version. The last Ghost wthat was tested had the standard power level, but it still managed to move with authority in a straight line—even though it listed like a sailboat when going around corners. To enter the cavernous back seat on the Ghost Series II, have your personal assistant open the rear-hinged door. Available with a short or long wheelbase, the Series II provides generous spread-out space; one-percenters will be happy to know that they will be treated to some of the finest interior materials on the planet. The cabin can even be outfitted with a headliner that replicates a star-studded night sky, while two 9.2-inch screens complete the Ghost’s rear-seat theatre system. 