Pensioners under the aegis of Federal Parastatals and Private Sector Pensioners Association (FEPPAN) have hailed Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige as he turns 68 Saturday. The pensioners urged the minister to maintain the existing cordial collaboration between his ministry and the Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning, which facilitates the regular and prompt payment of monthly Pensions of Federal Pensioners since President Muhammadu Buhari came into power. In a statement by its President-General, Chief Temple Ubani, the pensioners described the minister’s life as one filled with excellent leadership, achievements, professional experiences and outstanding services to humanity. The statement reads: “The leadership and entire members of the Federal Parastatals and Private Sector Pensioners Association of Nigeria heartily congratulate the Honourable Minister of Labour and Employment HE Chief, Dr., Senator and two times Minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Chris Nwabueze Ngige OON; on his 68 birthday today, August 8 2020. “Our dear Onwa, yours has been 68 years of fulfilled life of leadership, achievements, professional experiences and outstanding services to humanity. “Politically, you have seen it all. From the government house Awka as goernor Anambra State to the three(3) Arms zone Abuja as Senator and Senior Cabinet Minister two terms. “As Pensioners and Trade Unionists, we can testify to your doggedness and strong character as the Umbusman between government, employers and labour generally. There is no doubt that your informed and unbiased interventions in labour matters has ensured relative peace and progress in labour Sector generally and in particular, unprecedented sanity and stability of the Pension sub-sector. “We acknowledge and believe that the cordial collaboration between your ministry and that of Finance Budget and National Planning facilitates the regular and fairly propmt payment of monthly Pensions of Federal Pensioners since the emergence of President Muhammadu Buhari’s Administration. We also encourage you to keep the tempo going. “As we urge you to keep the flag flying, it is our fervent prayer that God Almighty will continue to bless you with long life, good health, wisdom and prosperity as you serve our nation and humanity. We also wish you peace in your family, office and of mind all the way. HAPPY BIRTHDAY ONWA!”