Welcome to another exciting week! I hope you were blessed by last week teaching. This week, we shall focus on: Love: Access to Financial Fortune! According to Scriptures, heaven is an epitome of wealth, splendour and beauty. The walls are made of jasper, the foundations of the walls of the city are of precious stones, the gates are made of pearl and all the streets of heaven are paved with pure gold (Revelation 21:11, 18-21). It is important to understand that the Church is ordained a ruling and super wealthy Church. God will be visiting the earth with heaven’s order of wealth before Christ returns. He will be releasing His wealth to His church so she can rule in the midst of her enemies (Malachi 3:17-18, 4:1-4; Haggai 2:6-9; Psalm 110:1-3; Proverbs 22:7). However, from Scriptures we understand that a genuine love for God and His Kingdom is the biblical foundation and our covenant access to heaven’s order of financial fortune. What are the Proofs of our Love for God? Biblical Examples of How Love Empowers for Kingdom Wealth Concerning Solomon, the Bible records, And Solomon loved the Lord, walking in the statutes of David his father: only he sacrificed and burnt incense in high places (1 Kings 3:3-4). After he reared that altar of sacrifice, God told him to ask whatever he desired and he requested for wisdom to rule His people. Please understand that his request was based on his love for God and the affairs of His Kingdom; as a result, God blessed him in return (1 Kings 3:12-13). Also, Solomon built the house of the Lord with pure gold and the best of materials (1 Kings 6:21-36). This is to show where his heart was and as a result, he was launched into the ‘Heaven on Earth’ order of wealth and extraordinary abundance (1 Kings 10:4-6). Furthermore, David was referred to as a man after God’s own heart and he emerged a financial giant. He was virtually wealthier than the entire nation in his days (1 Chronicles 29:3-5). We must also understand that our love for God and His Kingdom are the two-fold platforms for the rise of giants. It is also the covenant launching pad into a world of financial fortune. The Bible says, …But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you (Matthew 6:31-33; see also Psalm 102:13-15). No wonder all true lovers of God in Bible times, flowed supernaturally in financial fortune. Therefore, love-motivated stewardship is the platform for the rise of financial giants in the Kingdom. However, God’s love is not theoretical but practical. That is, it is impossible to love God and not know. In summary, accessing heaven’s order of financial fortune through love is a reality if you are born again. Are you born again? If you are not, this is an opportunity to do so. Simply say the following prayer: Lord Jesus, I come to You today. I am a sinner. Forgive me of my sins. Cleanse me with Your precious Blood. Today, I accept You as my Lord and personal Saviour. Thank You Jesus for saving me! Now, I know I am born again! For further reading, get my books: Understanding Financial Prosperity, Breaking Financial Hardship, Covenant Wealth and The Hidden Covenant of Blessing. I invite you to fellowship with us at the Faith Tabernacle, Canaanland, Ota, the covenant home of Winners. We have three services on Sundays, holding at 6:00 a.m., 7:50 a.m., and 9:40 a.m. respectively. However, due to the restrictions, you can join our live services via Facebook: David Oyedepo Ministries International, Twitter: @Davidoyedepomin, Instagram: davidoyedepomin, YouTube: Domi Stream, Hebron 95.9 FM, Winners World App, Impact Africa TV (on Startimes and NigComSat), Domi Radio and via the Church Satellite. I know this teaching has blessed you. Write and share your testimony with me through: Faith Tabernacle, Canaanland, Ota, P.M.B. 21688, Ikeja, Lagos, Nigeria, call 01-4548070, 01-4548280, or E-mail: dphprints@gmail.com.