U.S. Democratic Party presidential candidate, Joe Biden, and his running mate, Kamala Harris, have reacted to the shocking death of Black Panther star, Chadwick Boseman. “The true power of @ChadwickBoseman was bigger than anything we saw on screen. “From the Black Panther to Jackie Robinson, he inspired generations and showed them they can be anything they want, even superheroes. “Jill and I are praying for his loved ones at this difficult time,” Biden tweeted shortly after the news of Boseman’s death broke on Friday evening. The true power of @ChadwickBoseman was bigger than anything we saw on screen. From the Black Panther to Jackie Robinson, he inspired generations and showed them they can be anything they want — even super heroes. Jill and I are praying for his loved ones at this difficult time. — Joe Biden (@JoeBiden) August 29, 2020  Also reacting, Harris, who graduated alongside the late actor from Howard University, a historically black college in Washington, D.C., said she was heartbroken. “My friend and fellow Bison, Chadwick Boseman was brilliant, kind, learned, and humble. “He left too early but his life made a difference. Sending my sincere condolences to his family,” she said also on Twitter. Heartbroken. My friend and fellow Bison Chadwick Boseman was brilliant, kind, learned, and humble. He left too early but his life made a difference. Sending my sincere condolences to his family. pic.twitter.com/C5xGkUi9oZ — Kamala Harris (@KamalaHarris) August 29, 2020  Boseman’s last tweet, on Aug. 11, is a picture of himself and Harris hugging, along with the caption “YES KamalaHarris! #WhenWeAllVote #Vote2020”. The tweet came after Harris had been announced as the Democratic vice presidential nominee. According to Newsweek, the photo was taken at a 2018 event for Families Belong Together, a coalition against separating children who have immigrated to the U.S. from their families. The American magazine said he had been a strong voting advocate, and appeared in a 2018 public service announcement encouraging Americans to vote. Baseman, best known for playing King T’Challa in the Marvel superhero franchise, Black Panther, died at the age of 43. A statement on his official Twitter handle said the actor, who had been battling colon cancer since 2016, died at home in Los Angeles with his wife and family by his side.