The Kano State governor, Alhaji Abdulahi Ganduje, has described the tenure of the Edo State governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, as a woeful failure. Ganduje, who is also the Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Campaign Council for Edo governorship election, stated this while answering questions from State House Correspondents in Abuja on Friday. Ganduje, who was in the entourage that was at the Aso Rock Villa to introduce the governorship candidate of the APC in the upcoming election, Past Osagie Ize-Iyamu, to President Muhammadu Buhari, said Governor Obaseki, being an incumbent governor notwithstanding, would not be a problem for the APC to defeat, citing his alleged failure to perform well. He said further that the governor is rather a liability to his new political party, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), than an asset, insisting that having Obaseki as the opponent candidate is a blessing to the APC. “Your question is that we are contesting against a serving governor in Edo State. Yes, that is a very important question at this material time. It could have been a big problem if the governor performs well while governing his state. “He could have been an asset to PDP. But I assure you that governor is a liability. In fact, it’s even better for us that we are contesting against a serving governor who failed woefully. He failed woefully in the area of human development. “He failed woefully in the area of providing infrastructural facilities to the good people of Edo State, he failed most woefully in the execution of constitutional provision in the state, especially pertaining to the legislature. “14 members were out of the legislature for 13 good months. When we calculated, we saw those 14 legislators are representing 60 per cent of the population. All their constituents are unhappy that elected legislators were not given the chance to participate in the legislations in that state. In fact, all the legislations made should be considered as illegal. “So, we are ready to fight somebody who has failed and it’s an advantage to us,” he said.