The Akwa Ibom State government has disclosed of its plan to strictly enforce the use of facemask in villages, warning of dire consequences for defaulters. Accordingly, it has enlisted the cooperation of the state police commissioner, Imohimi Edgal to arrest anyone found culpable. It has also directed village heads, youth presidents and local government council Chairmen to ensure enforcement of use of facemask and strict adherence to other Covid-19 protocols in rural communities in the state. Secretary to State Government and Chairman, COVID-19 Management Committee Dr. Emmanuel Ekuwem announced this during a briefing at Government House, Uyo on Monday. Ekuwem warned that civil servants across the state would no longer be permitted into their respective offices without facemask He declared that anyone caught defaulting the order would have to be detained for hours to serve as deterrent to others. “We have noticed with dismay, the manifest flouting of the regulation requiring the use of face masks. As a responsible government, we must act to curb the spread of the virus and protect our citizens and residents. To this end, the Governor has directed the State Commissioner of Police to order the monitoring teams to enforce this protocol to the letter. “We urge our citizens to take personal responsibility by properly wearing their face masks and maintaining social distancing. All citizens and residents are urged to comply with the AKSG/NCDC/WHO COVID-19 Guidelines and protocols. For emphasis, we must all note the need for: “We insist on social distancing wherever people are gathered (churches, markets, schools, hotels, funerals, etc.); Wearing of face masks, Frequent washing of hands, Use of sanitizers. “Report any case of high body temperature (38oC and above), frequent sneezing, frequent coughing, loss of sense of smell, frequent stooling, breathlessness, etc. to the Isolation Centre in Ituk Mbang General Hospital or to the nearest medical facility,” he said Giving update on the spread of the virus so far in the state, Ekuwem said “Our statistics as at yesterday are: Total tests conducted – 1721, Total number of confirmed cases – 250, Total number of recoveries – 208, Total number of active cases – 34Total number of deaths – 8”. The SSG used the occasion to reiterate that the Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Mr. Udom Emmanuel has been leading the battle against the pandemic from the frontlines, which accounts for the huge support all critical pillars of the fight have received. “He has spared nothing in this fight, but now is the time for individual responsibility- by maintaining high personal hygiene, keeping social distancing and proper use of face masks,” he assured.