 GOVERNORS have joined the growing list of Nigerians bemoaning the security situation in the country. They have planned a meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari and the Service chiefs to discuss “this worrisome and rapidly degenerating situation.” The states helmsmen conveyed their feelings in a letter to their counterpart – Borno State Governor Babagana Zulum – whose convoy last week came under attack between Baga and Monguno in his state while on a trip. The attackers are suspected to be fighters of insurgent group, Boko Haram. Zulum accused the military of sabotage. He criticised troops for not showing enough commitment to the fight against insurgency. The governor threatened to mobilise hunters and members of the Civilian Joint Task Force (CJTF) to battle Boko Haram should the troops fail to perform after some time. In the letter to Zulum, the Chairman of the Nigerian Governors Forum (NGF), Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi, described what happened to Zulum as “one unwarranted attack too many”, which “epitomises our collective vulnerability and the fragility of  the country’s security architecture.” The letter added: “Although you emerged from this incident unscathed, we note with regret the injuries sustained by two members of the CJTF and a police officer attached to your convoy and do accordingly pray for their quick recovery. “Mr. Governor, forum members are resolutely behind you in your effort to rid Borno State of these dastardly and wicked agents of evil. “On our part, the Sub-Committee on Security will be meeting tomorrow and rising from the resolutions thereof will soon dialogue with Mr. President and the nation’s Security chiefs, to discuss this worrisome and rapidly degenerating situation. “On a final note, Mr. Governor, we thank God for always being merciful.” Fayemi double as chairman of the security sub-committee of the NGF. There have been calls for rejig of the nation’s security architecture from many quarters. A lot of others have also called for the removal of Service Chiefs who are believed to be weary to enable new ideas to take root. At the weekend, Katsina State Governor Aminu Bello Masari, whose state is under the siege of bandits who are operating in the Northwest, said his state is under policed. According to him, there is an average of about 30 policemen deployed for 100 villages. 