 FORMER governor of Imo State, Dr. Ikedi Ohakim, on Friday said, through his lawyer, Aloy Ejimakor, that he does not want to make further comments on the current face-off between him and Ms Chinyere Lilian Amuchienwa, even as he called on his supporters and well-wishers to stand down. He noted that he has said enough to refute the allegations and is therefore not interested in further media exchanges on the matter. In a press release made available to The Nation on Friday, Ejimakor, who is the Managing Partner of Adulbert Legal Services in Abuja, said, “I refer to recent publications based on a number of unproven and libelous allegations by one Ms Chinyere Lilian Amuchienwa (née Igwegbe) against the person of His Excellency, Dr. Ikedi Ohakim (a former governor of Imo State) on whose instructions we hereby state as follows: “That it is understandable that media organisations are interested in obtaining Ohakim’s side of the story to the negative media publication, Ms Amuchienwa’s subsequent interview published on August 18, 2020 and other negative publications issuing therefrom. “That Ohakim hereby categorically states that he does not wish to say anything further on the matter beyond the press release issued by this counsel on August 13, 2020, the two interviews counsel subsequently granted to the media and the two press releases by Ohakim’s Political Adviser, the last of which sufficiently conveyed Ohakim’s profound lack of enthusiasm and distaste for any negative media against Ms Amuchienwa, even as this whole saga started with the initial publication of her libelous, incredulous and unproven allegations against his person. “That it is pertinent to note that Ohakim himself has not publicly uttered a word since this whole saga started with its inaugural publication which said it obtained the story from sources other than Ohakim. And all the public statements by Ohakim’s Political Adviser and this counsel have advisedly been centered on rebuttals of the unproven allegations publicly leveled against him by Ms Amuchienwa.” Ejimakor therefore said, “we are determined that our rebuttals, as enumerated above, are enough to refute those published false allegations.” The media have been inundated with reports of the misunderstanding between the former governor and his onetime campaign associate. 