Babcock University in Ilisan-Remo, Ogun State, yesterday held its maiden virtual convocation ceremony due to the global COVID-19 pandemic. Its President and Vice Chancellor, Prof. Ademola Tayo, described the virtual convocation ceremony as historical and a defining moment for the institution. Speaking during the event, in which graduating students and their parents and well-wishers joined in their academic gowns from their homes, Prof. Tayo congratulated the students and the university community for their immense contributions toward the achievements recorded by the institution. The vice chancellor said Babcock had no choice but to tap into technology to see the academic session through. He added: “In spite of the current gloom, anxiety and apprehension of what becomes of our world and living conditions after and in the face of the global health crisis and economic meltdown occasioned by the COVID-19 pandemic, you never gave up. “You took your examinations against all odds and stood up for integrity. This resilient sprit enables us to set standards, create our own unique paths, carve out our niches, think outside the box and hit the ground prepared. “It made us prepared to keep our promise not to keep you one day longer than necessary. Indeed, you have been built not only to last but to swiftly adapt to changing situations.” The vice chancellor listed the achievements of the university in the past year to include the funding of more than 18 research works. Babcock University graduated 2,169 students, comprising 1,686 undergraduates and 483 postgraduates out of whom 66 of made First Class. The Department of Christian Religious Studies in the School of Education and Humanities produced the Overall Best Student, Olayemi Oluwaseyi Olayinka, with a CGPA of 4.92. Tayo said Dr. Ezekiel Chibundu and Dr. Emeka Okoro of the institution were ranked among the top 100 Nigerian authors in a recently released ranking of “Top 500” Nigerian authors for Year 2019. He said this was presented by SciVal, a ranking instrument used by Elsevier and the Times Higher Education to rank world-class universities. Tayo stressed that Chibundu had consistently ranked first in Nigeria and third in Africa on the list of Top Food Safety Experts. “Three of our research products were patented and the certification of registration handed over to the institution by the Minister of Science and Technology. “Currently, eight of our research products are under process for patent at the National Office for Technology Acquisition and Promotion in the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology,” he said. According to him, a Babcock University graduate in Law, Mayowa Mubashir Abiru, was Nigeria’s overall best at the 2019 Law School Bar examinations. He said at the call to Bar in Abuja, Abiru went home with 11 awards and accolades. Group Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Ecobank, Mr. Patrick Akinwuntan, urged the graduating students to be ready to adapt and compete with others as they enter the next phase of life or be ready to start their own businesses.