Big Brother Naija Lockdown entered its fourth week on Sunday, August 9 after three weeks of frills and thrills. This week, 16 housemates got viewers’ talking and rooting for favourite housemates as Tochi and Eric joined Ka3na and Lilo as ex-housemates after three weeks in the house. While the last day of the weekend got tongues wagging over the eviction of Tochi, Eric fans blamed him for losing his guard to get evicted shortly after Lilo. Here is a quick recap of the third week of the show. Erica follows Ozo’s style of leadership  Erica won the Head of House challenge on Monday, August 10 and she had some minutes to announce her deputy. Her choices were Kiddwaya and Ozo but she told Biggie that her first choice is Kiddwaya while Laycon is the substitute. After two weeks of losing out on their wager and winning it in the third week under the leadership of Ozo, Erica remains determined to cement the winnings. To exert at authority, Erica had to shout on Lucy and Bright O at different times. She was close to all housemates but remained stern and firm in her decisions.  Housemates win cash prizes  The 16 housemates left in the BBNaija Lockdown house for the fourth week have continued to win cash prizes between Monday, August 9, and Wednesday, August 12. From the Blue and Black teams winning N2 million and N1 million during the Guinness challenge, to Erica and Praise winning N500K each and Oppo phones, in the Oppo charade games, the week has been filled with little wins and victories. The ‘Ships’  As expected, the fondness among the housemates keeps growing. After the exit of Lilo and Eric from the show, more bonds have been formed. Kiddwaya has remained smitten with Erica all through the fourth week as they both enjoyed immunity from eviction and privileges of the Head of House and Deputy HoH. Nengi and Ozo have remained close as good friends while Prince and Tolanibaj seem to be starting something new. Neo and Vee have remained strong and waxing stronger by the day. So much that Tolanibaj and other housemates are quick to tell the lovebirds to stop intimidating them with their Public Display of Affection. A new ship that seems growing but might not see the light of the day is between Dorathy and Bright O. However, Dorathy was quick to shut the thoughts down saying Bright O also has eyes for Wathoni. Erica admits missing Laycon After three days of enjoying immunity from eviction and lounging in the Head of House arm of the house, Erica confessed that she misses the friendship she had with Laycon. Erica confessed while having a conversation with Ozo on Wednesday, August 12, Erica stated that she misses the bond she once shared with Laycon due to her relationship with Kiddwaya. “I feel like I should still be able to be friends with Laycon. We were friends, It’s not as if something happened between us so why can’t we just remain friends. I miss the friendship. I miss gisting with Laycon, I don’t like losing friends, I like the way his mind works but now for some stupid reasons we can’t talk,” she told Ozo. Prince finds friend in Lucy  Two weeks after the exit of Ka3na from the show, Lucy seems to have found a new friend in Prince. In the fourth week, Prince had gotten close to Lucy as a friend and had advised her on several issues – especially after her clash with Erica. Lucy expressed her innermost thoughts to Prince, who in turn advised her to remain herself said she isn’t a bad person. Prince further encouraged Lucy to keep being herself saying he doesn’t see her as a bad person. He noted that he had often mentioned that he is her friend. He advised that she shouldn’t let anybody’s opinion make her feel less of herself.