Benue State Government has said the Miyetti Allah Vigilante group set up by Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore won’t operate in Benue. Reacting to media statement credited to a Fulani socio – cultural association called Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore, which said it has set a vigilante group nationwide to protect Fulani herdsmen from cattle rustlers, Benue State government said there is no room for such Vigilante group in the state, as security agencies and livestock guards are already working to keep peace between herdsmen and farmers. A press statement signed by the Chief Press Secretary (CPS) to the governor, Terver Akase, and made available to newsmen in Makurdi on Thursday, stated that Benue does not need Miyetti Allah Vigilante group. The government statement reads: “We read the statement credited to the Fulani socio-cultural association, Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore, in which the group announced that it has established its security outfit called ‘Miyetti Allah Vigilante’ to operate nationwide. “As much as we do not have any problem with Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore floating a security outfit in other states, it is important to say that such a vigilante group WILL NOT OPERATE IN BENUE STATE. Miyetti Allah has no constitutional right to establish a nationwide security outfit. “Benue does not need the Miyetti Allah vigilante. The State Government is working with conventional security forces and has already established a vigilante group at the state, local government and ward levels. This is evident in the ongoing recruitment of personnel for community policing who will soon be trained as recommended by Inspector General of Police.” It added that “The idea of running a nationwide vigilante group is a mere strategy by the Fulani socio-cultural organisation to elevate their nefarious and inhuman activities to another level. They have repeatedly claimed responsibility for the killing of thousands of children, women and other vulnerable people in different states, yet, members of the group walk freely in Abuja and hold press conferences threatening to unleash terror on the people of this country,” the statement further read. The state government in conclusion, “urged the Federal Government to stop looking elsewhere for bandits who have been killing innocent Nigerians. Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore are coordinators of banditry in the country, and officials of the group reside in Abuja.”