COVID-19 did not stop the Lagos State Ministry of Education from holding this year’s edition of the Lagos State Schools Governor’s Quiz competition as the virtual version produced winners over the weekend. Co-incidentally, the winning schools are zoned under the same area of Lagos State. While Ahmad Primary School, Agege, under Agege Local Government Education Authority (ALGEA), won the primary school category, Fagba Junior Grammar School, Fagba, and Keke Senior Grammar School, Agege, zoned under Education District I headquartered in Agege, won the junior and senior secondary categories. The competition tested the pupils’ knowledge of Mathematics, English, Biology, Basic Science Economics, COVID-19, and Current Affairs. Keke Senior Grammar School, represented by Ayomide Shodiya and Emeka Nwoke, lifted the trophy with 14 points – narrowly edging out Oriwu Senior Model College Ikorodu, which had 12 points. Lagos State Senior Model College, Kankon followed in the third position with 10 points. In the junior category, Jethro Ishaku and Grace Owolabi of Fagba Junior Grammar School, Fagba, carried the day with 18 points. Lagos State Junior Model College, Kankon came second with 16 points; followed by Eva Adelaja Junior Secondary School, Bariga in third place with 12 points. In the primary school category, Ahmad Primary School, Agege came first with 14 points, Oke Ishegun Primary School, Alimosho and Mafoluku Nur/Primary School, Oshodi-Isolo emerged second and third with 10 and eight points. The Education Commissioner, Mrs. Folasade Adefisayo, expressed delight that the competition held despite the disruption caused by the COVID-19 to regular schooling.  She said holding the competition virtually was part of efforts by the state government to keep the pupils engaged while at home. She said it was also a means to assess what the children had learnt from the radio, television and on-line classes driven since March. “In any good educational system, you don’t only test knowledge by written or summative examinations, there are so many other means such as tests, quizzes, panel discussions, and project work, among others, which will develop the students for the task ahead,” she said. On her part, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education, Mrs. Abosede Adelaja, praised the participants for their performance. “The government was happy with the overt display of knowledge by our amiable children in all facets of life, science & technology, art and craft etc. The improvement recorded in external examinations and achievements in many competitions both at home and abroad are encouraging,” she said. The winners got trophies, plaques and gifts like laptops, android phones, tablets, and school materials for their efforts.