 Irrespective of the federal government’s effort towards finding a lasting solution to the numerous challenges militating against the growth of the economy, experts have identified international financing through equities and partnerships as an alternative means of revitalising the ailing micro and small medium enterprises (MSMEs) sector of the economy, the Lagos Chambers of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) has said. The Chambers spoke through Obinna Anyanwu, who is Managing Director/CEO, Capital Square Limited and currently Acting Chairman Financial Group LCCI. According to him, before the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, businesses were increasingly finding it difficult to access finance through the domestic financial system given the high borrowing costs associated with credit facilities in the conventional banking system. He noted that international funding can be in the form of equity or partnering in other forms, such as the provision of expertise, structure and as well as running capital, stressing that the players in the private sector, especially the MSMEs should engage in foreign partnership for them to experience growth. “In order to unlock access to international capital and finance for Nigeria businesses, we need to holistically and very quickly address issues that have constituted impediments over the years in order to align the expectations of investors with the priorities of business owners,” he stressed.  Echoing similar sentiments, the President of LCCI, Mrs. Toki Mabogunje, stated that the pandemic has elevated the risks and uncertainties around capital and finance generally, adding that the development therefore reinforces the need for businesses to explore alternative funding solutions available on global as well local space. She stressed the importance of access to capital and finance to the development of the Nigeria economy, emphasising that a large number of businesses in the country and the role of the private sector in facilitating economic growth and development cannot be overlooked. “According to CBN, total gross credit to the private sector stood at N18.90 trillion at end-June 2020 representing about 13 percent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Similarly, the World Bank statistics show that Nigeria’s 10.5 percent Domestic Credit to the Private Sector (% of GDP) in 2019 was one of the lowest in the world.” Mabogunje pointed out that inability to meet the demand for finance by the private sector is creating a huge funding gap, adding that liquidity challenge to meet working capital requirements and finance new projects and expansion of existing ones are part of daunting challenge. “This scenario therefore reinforces the need for businesses to explore alternative funding solutions available on global as well local space. We recognise the role of CBN in areas of expanding the frontiers of finance for businesses through policies like increase in Loan-to-Deposit ratio and several intervention funds for different categories of business including the MSMEs. I note the Covid-19 interventions programme of the apex bank such N50 billion Targeted Credit Facility to cushion the effect of the pandemic on business enterprise. This underscores the need to deepen the landscape of capital and finance,” the LCCI President maintained. 