Coronation Capital has concluded a virtual Corporate Finance & Business Valuation Masterclass during which a Professor at the Stern School of Business, New York University, Aswath Damodaran, educated participants on the gains of valuation and corporate finance, reports COLLINS NWEZE. Coronation Capital has reiterated the gains of building a financial system where stakeholders have deep knowledge of corporate finance and valuation principles to guide their investment decisions. In lectures under the auspices of Coronation Capital’s second Corporate Finance and Business Valuation online masterclasses, Professor Aswath Damodaran of the Stern School of Business, New York, University, United States pointed out that running away from uncertainty does not fix the analysts’ difficulties. He argued that the best approach was to confront the problem by modelling uncertainty and incorporating the model outcome in the analyst’s valuation formula. On the most significant learnings over the years, Damodaran stated that changes in corporate behaviour and active investing reflects a much flatter world where competition has to be taken into consideration. “With globalisation, everyone is exposed,” he said. He further stated: “Every bubble that bursts, creates permanent changes in how we live,” adding that the principles of valuation are the same though data and tools used are richer than what they were in the past. Advising financial professionals, he emphasised the need to value companies based on where they are located, not where they are incorporated, adding that valuation needs to be forward-looking and dynamic. For corporates like Coronation Capital, the iconic professor explained that with a culture of learning, people should not be punished based on outcomes but on processes, because processes matter more. On the downside to globalisation, he stated that emerging markets offer growth opportunities but they are also riskier, adding that if the growth is taken into account, the risk must also be considered. “Two ways of estimating the country risk premium include Sovereign default speed and adjusting for equity risk,’’ he said. Explaining the concept of company exposure to risk, the finance expert said the danger of focusing on revenue is that it misses other exposures to risk (production and operations), adding that the default approach in valuation has been to assign country risk based upon your country of incorporation. “As companies globalise and look for revenue in foreign markets this practice will underestimate the costs of equity of developed market companies with significant emerging market exposure and overestimate the costs of equity of emerging market companies with significant developed market risk exposure,” he said. The areas of  covered at the programme include discounted cash flow model, risk premiums, loose ends in valuation, the cost of debt, and the downside to globalisation and ways to estimate a company’s growth rates, patterns and country risk exposure, among  others. Continuing, Damodaran gave some key perspectives on valuation while taking a look at the discounted cash flow model, the process of setting the same up and various case studies. He further addressed some misconceptions around valuation and gave an insight into what valuation entails for the financial market and the economy. He also gave participants opportunity to ask questions and obtain clarity on general corporate finance and business valuation principles. In his welcome address, Chairman of Coronation CapitalAigboje Aig-Imoukhuede, described the event as a critical learning point for stakeholders in corporate finance and valuation business. He disclosed that for the nation’s financial system to get the best investment, stakeholders should have a deep understanding of corporate finance and valuation principles. Aig-Imoukhuede described the second edition of the masterclass as another critical learning point for stakeholders in corporate finance and valuation. Managing Partner, Coronation Capital, John Opubor, said there is a consistent and clear theme in Damodaran’s lecture, which further emphasises the need to return to the real fundamentals in challenging times like we are.