The Christian Association of Nigeria has rejected the Companies and Allied Matters Act 2020 (CAMA), dismissing it as “satanic”. The apex Christian body said CAMA “would snuff life out of the church and rank the church as a secular institution under secular control.” President Muhammadu Buhari on August 7 signed into law, the Companies and Allied Matters Bill 2020. The bill passed by the National Assembly replaced the 1990 CAMA. The Christian body described sections 839(1) and (2) as of the law which empowers the supervising Minister “to suspend trustees of an association (in this case, the church) and appoint the interim managers to manage the affairs of the association for some given reasons” as “satanic”. Adebayo Oladeji, Special Assistant on Media and Communications to CAN President, Rev Samson Ayokunle, in a statement noted the Federal Government has declared war on the church if the law were to stand. Titled “Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) rejects CAMA Completely,” the statement reads: “The leadership of the Christian Association of Nigeria rejects outrightly the Companies and Allied Matters Act, 2020 that was assented to by President Muhammadu Buhari recently. “The law, to say the least, is unacceptable, ungodly, reprehensible, and an ill-wind that blows no one any good. It is a time bomb waiting to explode. “While we are not against the government fighting corruption wherever it may be found, yet we completely reject the idea of bringing the church, which is technically grouped among the NGOs, under control of the government. “The Church cannot be controlled by the government because of its spiritual responsibilities and obligations.” The Christian body added: “How can the government sack the trustee of a church which it contributed no dime to establish? “How can a secular and political minister be the final authority on the affairs and management of another institution which is not political? “How can a non-Christian head of government ministry be the one to determine the running of the church? It is an invitation to trouble that the government does not have power to manage.” It advised the government to “face the business of providing infrastructure for the people. Let them focus on better health provision, food, education, adequate security employment, etc. “The government should not be a busy body in a matter that does not belong to it. The government does not have the technical expertise to run the church of God because of its spiritual nature. “If the government is bent on imposing a law on us which the entire Church in Nigeria is against, then, they have declared war on Christianity and the agenda to destroy the Church which we have spoken against before now is coming to the open more clearly. “If you cannot give us good amenities of life, we would not allow you to take away our liberty to worship our Maker.” CAN called on Buhari to “stop the implementation of the obnoxious and ungodly law until the religious institutions are exempted from it” and “return the law to the National Assembly for immediate amendment.”