Big Brother Naija Lockdown entered its second week on Sunday, July 26 after a fun-filled week. The 20 housemates set viewers’ tongues wagging from the first week and the second week had them taking it to another height. Here is a quick recap of the second week of the show. Housemates escaped week one eviction A week after BBNaija Lockdown kicked off, viewers were kept on the edge of their seats as it was unsure if Biggie will evict any housemate in the first live eviction show. However, the housemates, who waited patiently to know the new twist from Ebuka had their nerves calmed when it was announced that all the housemates were saved till the second Sunday. Lucy emerges second Head of House  Lucy took over from Nengi as the new Head of the House of the BBNaija 2019 tagged Lockdown on Monday. Lucy emerged as the second Head of the House exactly a week after Nengi won the Head of House challenge at the Arena. As requested by Biggie, Lucy chose Prince to be her deputy. In her speech, Lucy believes Prince is someone she can work with, hence her decision for choosing him to be her deputy. She further urged all the Housemates to play their part in her Inaugural address. Housemates reveal secret pain during an uncommon Yoga session  During the week, housemates were engaged in an emotional discourse which brought a lot of the housemates nearly to the point of sobbing. Biggie then decided to get the housemates to reflect on all the issues and stresses that have been affecting them through a Yoga session. After the Yoga was completed tears could be seen on the faces of Praise, Lucy, Prince, and even stone-faced boss lady Ka3na. The ‘Ships’ BBNaija has become synonymous with relationships and the BBNaija Lockdown is no different.  As Eric and Lilo continue to wax stronger, new relationships seem to be emerging in the house. Kiddwaya has been smitten with Erica and all through the second week, the two were spotted having intimate talks or casual conversations. Neo and Vee are still trying to know themselves better as Ozo and Nengi seem to be heading somewhere despite Nengi saying they are only friends. Biggie hits housemates hard For failing to understand a simple task that focused on the organisation without communication, Biggie hit housemates hard. Biggie decreed that since both the grey and black teams had broken the rules of the task, they both failed and there was no winner. Their punishment for the glorious loss was that both teams would have to clean the House on alternating days making sure it is sparkling and spotless when done.