President Muhammadu Buhari has extolled media guru and former Editor of the Guardian, Mr. Femi Kusa, for his contributions to the media and the health sector in Nigeria. President Buhari’s message to Kusa was to mark his 70th birthday anniversary. The President, in a statement issued by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, expressed the belief that the awareness and knowledge Kusa had shared with Nigerians over the years will endure for a very long time. “President Muhammadu Buhari rejoices with veteran journalist, media trainer and consultant, John Olufemi Kusa, on his 70th birthday, August 23, 2020, congratulating the foremost editor and writer for choosing a career that best expresses his talent. “The President believes the awareness that Mr. Kusa brings to Nigerians through his years of working in newsrooms and writing, will continue to be appreciated, and his wise counsels to leaders, more recently on broad health issues, have influenced the review of strategies and policies, with more focus on homegrown options for treatment of infirmities and ailments. “President Buhari extols the former Editor of The Guardian for his passionate and courageous contributions to the development of the health sector by consistently putting the spotlight on the efficacy of traditional and alternative medicine and practitioners until they gained formal recognition by the Federal Government and inclusion in the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria. “As the media trainer and consultant turns a septuagenarian, the President affirms that his willingness to share knowledge and experience with upcoming journalists and writers deserves commendation, urging him to take pride in the many people he inspired and mentored, who have played key roles in the country as legislators, chief executives, media entrepreneurs, and advisers. “President Buhari prays that the Almighty God will continue to strengthen the renowned writer for greater service to the nation, and humanity,” the statement said.