It is a bold step, but not without its challenges. Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamilla, convened a virtual meeting of his counterparts from across the African continent as the first of its kind to pivot the lawmakers as a major platform to confront the issues plaguing the people for whom they make laws. The meeting, which the speaker chaired, highlights debt as its major inaugural theme. But, as he noted, the idea is to turn the platform into a regular fixture of Africa’s political and development efforts. Its choice to confront debt cancellation as its maiden challenge is imaginative and fitting. Hear him: “We all agree that Africa’s debt burden has become an existential threat to our societies, our economies, and the future; we leave to posterity, and we need to do something about this and treat it as a continent-wide priority. It is safe to say that the burden of debt servicing, vis-à-vis spending on education and health care, for example, is a threat to our continent’s stability and development, especially in the era of COVID-19.” It is significant that the speaker was able to tap into his will and charisma to mobilise his colleagues. He has been able to do so at a time when politics and debt on the continent have degraded into hobgoblins for the smartest of political theorists. Debt and debt servicing are not only serious matters today, they are becoming an easy way out for African leaders to tackle or pretend to tackle their challenges. Hence it is commendable that the legislative arm of government that holds the executive to account should delve into this sore point. One of the reasons for this intervention is the effect of COVID-19 on debt and the economy. This is a global challenge and it has turned many thriving economies into prostrate shadows of their former health. The United States has suffered tremendous strain. Great Britain has slid into its worst recession in decades. Germany, in spite of its clever containment of the pandemic, has suffered immense paralysis. Jobs are suffering. Infrastructure is strained. Trade has plummeted. Africa, the Ethiopian speaker noted, had been groveling under the debt burden before the pandemic. It is even worse now. Nigeria is in the throes of a debate as to the sovereign implications of its debt entanglement from China, where the pandemic started. There are fears whether the Asian lender is seeing its money more as power leverage than as a benefactor. Some countries that have defaulted have witnessed China take over their assets, making their citizens move from employees of their sovereign states to those of China. The Ghanaian speaker noted that it ought to be seen as an opportunity to hold African leaders to account. They cannot seek pardon when the leaders splurge and do not show restraint in spending and imagination in policy. They also raised the issue as to what loans to cancel and what loans to suspend, and this will depend on the flexibility of the lenders and the nature and structure of the loans. It is essentially a good step for the continent, and the Nigerian speaker has foisted a continental task on himself and we wish him well in this all-important initiative. Debt may be the first of their challenges but the continent is host to so many, and poor governance and poverty underlie our malaise. Its engagement will need the executive branches to cooperate and see their legislative counterpart as another avenue for solution and not conflict. And the speaker must ensure too that the Pan African Speakers Conference, or CoSAP, as it is named, will also not become mere appendage or bureaucratic weight on the continent.