 THE European soccer inches towards the closing stages with the UEFA Champions League and Europa League fixtures to mark the end of the longest football season in Europe. No prize for guessing right that the Covid-19 pandemic is the reason for the elongated soccer season. 2019/2020 calendar is one to be forgotten quickly because winners of competitions couldn’t celebrate elaborately, like they would have wished. The season was filled with twists and turns, especially towards the end of major leagues where new winners emerged, leaving defending champions such as Manchester City, FC Barcelona gnashing their teeth while teams such as Paris Saint Germain (PSG), Juventus, Bayern Munich, Celtic retained their titles. It was in the Barclays English Premier League that games on the last day decided those to play in the UEFA Champions League’s last two positions and Europa League slots which went to Leicester and Tottenham, where Jose Mourinho showed his managerial savvy by picking up Spurs’ early season flop for a place in Europe next season. Mourinho met Spurs in the 14 the place and took them back to Europe albeit. Europa League isn’t Mourinho’s turf. He is the big stage manager with the right set of players. But Mourinho won the second tier European competition’s diadem coaching Manchester United. Pundits are worried over Spurs’ owner’s deep pocket and willingness to spend it aplenty. The Special One loves recruiting top players to prosecute his assignments. Playing at the final of the 2018/2019 UEFA Champions League against Liverpool, opened a new vista for Tottenham and Mourinho looks like the man with the right technical savvy to make history, only if Spurs’ management can splash the cash for quality players. The end of the season throws up an array of choices of the best players in the different leagues. The ultimate prize would be to select the best stars in the five continents of the world. The World Footballer of the Year awards have been  cancelled as result of  the Covid-19 pandemic. It is being speculated that FC Barcelona gem Lionel Messi won it with few ardent watchers of the game worried how Lewandoski fell behind Messi. The interesting part of these awards is that the process can’t be faulted. It is easy to track how the voting pattern went. Perhaps the biggest spectacle are the mind-boggling figures in the transfer markets for various players with Inter Milan of Italy throwing up what many have described as a fantasy offer of 260 million Euros ($306m) for Messi in a four-year deal, which when broken down would see the famous Barcelona number 10 left with a net amount of €50m per annum. In fact, Inter Milan’s management knows that the Argentine’s contract expires on June 30 2021. Laughable? No. That is how such transfers start leading to the eventual change, though this writer is inclined to tag Inter Milan’s quest for Messi as the wildest fantasy. How about this? Inter Milan’s chief executive Giuseppe Marotta dismissed the talk of the Serie A giants signing Lionel Messi as ‘fantasy football’. “Messi on the cathedral? It wasn’t my idea,” he told Sky Sports Italia. “It reminds me of football from the past with such situations. We are talking about an icon, a great player, a desire that everyone has.” Marotta stressed it would be ‘extraordinary to see such a champion at Inter’, before adding: “It’s fantasy football, a utopian situation.” He continued: “Our football [in Italy] needs a lift. Champions raise the value of the Italian brand and football. “If we could consider ours to be a championship in which the great champions come and stay, it would be better. No Italian team is capable of carrying out such an operation unless extraordinary factors arise related to the shareholders, and therefore the actual owners. “Let’s not forget that we must respect FFP [Financial Fair Play]. This year, COVID-19 has ensured that there is some flexibility, but afterwards the rules will have to be respected. Suning has already injected many millions into the company. Today investments have to give continuity and be done with a project.” Talking about big money transfers at the end of seasons reminds this writer of Arsene Wenger who derided the emergence of Sheiks  in the ownership structure of the English game, warning that they would ruin the business with their senseless splashing of cash. Wenger’s fears was hinged on the likely dearth of new talents from the academies, if clubs start to see the recruitment of big stars to win laurels as the only way to compete favourably. Wenger’s fears are profound, given the news on Wednesday that Pep Guardiola has gotten £300million to help improve on Manchester City’s squad, which is already overloaded to the hilt with stars. According to The Athletic, Guardiola is also interested in bringing in a £100m striker, who he has been monitoring in the last 18 months. One wonders what Cityzens’ attack would look like with the striker darting towards the goalpost with Aguero anticipating a through pass to bury the ball into the yawning net. It is true Manchester City have not been able to replace their former captain Vincent Kompany. It accounted for the surprise losses against the lower teams last season.  Guardiola’s response before the 2020/2021 season would be the invasion of the market for top players which includes Ferran Torres from Valencia and Bournemouth’s Nathan Ake, who have both joined the Cityzens, Napoli’s Kalidou Koulibaly and Atletico Madrid’s Joao Felix. I pity teams next season, if these lads join Guardiola. The leagues are not about the players alone. Coaches play vital roles in making the game the first choice among the spectators in term of sports to embrace. they get sacked when the teams flop. The players get the accolades when the going is rosy. What a travesty. Consequently, when renowned journal adjudged Zinedine Zidane as the best coach, nobody flinched considering the parameters used in arriving at the decision. Facts are sacred and it rang so true with the evaluation of the coaches during this  fading season. Liverpool’s manager Jurgen Klopp and Manchester City king of the dugout placed third. The European game had many Africans who distinguished themselves, although three of them were top performers namely Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang, Sadio Mane and Mohammed Salah, not surprisingly. The threesome shared the top scorer’s award in the 2019/2020 Barclays English Premier League with 22 goals each. But, Sane was adjudged the Africa Footballer of the Year ahead of his Liverpool teammate Salah, dethroning the Egyptian who won the award the previous season. Obviously, Liverpool’s superlative performance in Europe the previous season leading to the team lifting the UEFA Champions League trophy, European Super Cup and the World Club Cup turned out to be the clincher for Sane. Salah did well too. Aubameyang was left on the lurch because his English side, Arsenal FC of London tottered making his 22 goals in the EPL meaningless, especially as he comes from Gabon, which isn’t really a strong African nation in football. Last season, it was easy to give the award to Sane because Senegal finished as runners-up to the eventual winners Algeria, whereas Egypt were eliminated in the group stages though Egyptians hosted the Africa Cup of Nations. Aubameyang’s Gabon fell early too like the Egyptians. But things have changed for the Gabonese with his goals earning Gunners its 14th English FA Cup, with the darting striker wearing the iconic jersey number 14. Symbolic, isn’t it? In fact, Aubameyang scored a brace in both the semi-final and final games, some history for the English FA Cup chroniclers. Will winning the FA Cup be enough basis for crowning Aubameyang the next Africa Footballer of the Year? Why not? Having excelled last season, Aubameyang is easily the best playing African in the European game. What makes Aubameyang worthy of the award is that he has replicated what he did in the Bundesliga playing for Borussia Dortmund. Since he joined from Borussia Dortmund in January 2018, Aubameyang has scored 70 goals in 109 games for Arsenal. 