Babcock University, Ilisan – Remo, Ogun, has graduated 2,169 graduands, comprising 1,686 undergraduates and 483 postgraduates out of which 66 of them made first class. The Department of Christian Religious Studies in the School of Education and Humanities produced the overall best student: Olayemi Oluwaseyi Olayinka with a CGPA of 4.92. Speaking at the virtual convocation ceremony which took place on Thursday, President/Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Ademola Tayo, said that the event was historical as it marked a defining moment in the life of the institution in the midst of the global pandemic. While congratulating the students and the university community for their immense contributions toward the achievements recorded by the institution, Tayo said the university had no choice but to tap into technology to see the academic session through. The Vice-Chancellor praised the resilience of the graduands during the present COVID-19 pandemic period. “In spite of the current gloom, anxiety and apprehension of what becomes of our world and living conditions after and in the face of the global health crisis and economic meltdown occasioned by the COVID-19 pandemic, you never gave up. “You took your exams against all odds and stood up for integrity. This resilient sprit enables us to set standards, create our own unique paths, carve out our niches, think outside the box and hit the ground prepared. “It made us prepared to keep our promise not to keep you one day longer than necessary. Indeed, you have been built not only to last, but to swifly adapt to changing situations, ” Tayo said. He listed the achievements of the university in the past year to include the funding of more than 18 research works. Tayo said that Dr. Ezekiel Chibundu and Dr Emeka Okoro of Babcock University were ranked among the top 100 Nigerian Authors in a recently released ranking of “Top 500” Nigerian Authors for year 2019. He said that this was presented by SciVal – a ranking instrument used by Elsevier and the Times Higher Education to rank World Class Universities. He said that Chibundu had consistently ranked first in Nigeria and third in Africa on the list of Top Food safety experts. “Three of our research products were patented and the certification of registration handed over to the institution by the Minister of Science and Technology. “Currently, eight of our research products are under process for patent at the National office for Technology Acquisition and Promotion, Federal Ministry of Science and Technology,” Tayo said. He said a Babcock University graduate in Law, Mayowa Mubashir Abiru, emerged Nigeria’s overall best at the 2019 Law School Bar Examinations. Abiru was one of the 10 Babcock alumni with a first class grade at the Nigerian Law School Bar exams, placing Babcock among the top three universities nationally in Law. He said that at the call to bar held in Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory, Abiru went home with 11 awards and accolades. In his commencement speech during Thursday’s convocation ceremony, the Group Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Ecobank, Mr. Patrick Akinwuntan, urged the graduands to be ready to adapt and compete with others as they entered the next phase of life or be ready to start their own businesses. Akinwuntan said if the graduands chose to start their own businesses, they should pay attention to the ones that would demand less funding. On the other hand, he advised that if they chose to seek paid employment they “need to have a DNA of an employer”. Akinwuntan noted that the “basic value of punctuality, respect, humility, diligence” had become rare in the business community and those who sought to do business must learn to “have and keep them; be bold and have the courage to dare”. He urged them not to be ruled by fear, but to be positive and be ready to play by the right rules; recognize an opportunity and take advantage of it.