A non-governmental organisation, Centre for Good Governance (CGG), has expressed deep regret that President Muhammadu Buhari, inspite of the alleged mismanagement of resources at Niger Delta Development Commission, hasn’t seen the need to sack Godswill Akpabio, Minister of Niger Delta Affairs and Prof. Daniel Pondei, the Acting Managing Director of NDDC. The group expressed profound concern in a statement, by the Head of Research and Documentation, Mr Douglas Azubuike, that a member of Aso rock cabal has been shielding Akpabio from being sacked by the President. The group noted with dismay, that inspite of monumental corruption and financial malfeasance by the National Assembly against Akpabio and his cohorts at Niger Delta Development Commission ( NDDC), President Buhari had not seen the need to terminate the appointment of Mr Godswill Akpabio. “We equally read with dismay a press statement by the President’s spokesman, Mallam Garba Shehu, that President Muhammadu Buhari should not be stampeded into taking decisions over the high level of corruption at the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), and that ‘Nigerians should allow the processes to run their full courses’. “We found the statement distasteful, embarrassing and astonishingly disturbing. ‘What more do we need to unravel’. “Nigerians have watched on Television the monumental shame, disparagement and opprobrium the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs and the Interim Management Committee ( IMC) of the NDDC has brought upon the nation and the nauseating dramas that characterised the probe. “Just last week, we read a report in one of the National newspapers, that Nigerians scholars abroad now resort to menial jobs to survive. Monies mean for their school fees and upkeep has been fraudulently diverted. Indeed President Muhammadu Buhari admitted in an interview he granted on salah day, of a ‘ breach of trust ‘. “The President at his inauguration in 2015 said with nostalgia that he belongs to no one but belongs to everybody. What would you like to be remembered for Mr President. “President Muhammadu Buhari is known globally as Anti- corruption czar and a man with integrity who wouldn’t condone any act of financial malfeasance from anyone, let alone, a cabinet member in his government. “Mr President, the NDDC scandals have revealed the wickedness of the Nigerian elites and sheer criminality. “We have seen the plight and deprivation of the Niger Delta people, it is difficult to believe that this is what their elites are doing with the little opportunity given to them. “It is more tragic that these are the films coming out of Nigeria at a time you have promised to change things from the way it was done in the past. This necessitated the ‘ change mantra ‘ of your party and your government. “Mr President, the buck stops with you. Nigerians overwhelmingly voted for you and not members of the cabal. We urge you to write your name in gold as adumberated by Africa Union, when you were honoured as the Anti Corruption Czar in Africa. “The right thing must be done to ameliorate the sufferings of the people of the region,” the statement read.