A middle-aged woman simply identified as Funmilayo has been hacked to death by some yet-to-be identified assailants around Ori-Oke Olurunkole in Akinyele Local Government Area of Oyo State. The incident which was said to have happened late Thursday night sent shivers the spine of residents of the community when they woke up to receive the news, Friday morning. Concerned by the development, angry youths in the area trooped out en-mass to protest the series of killings in the area which led to an attack on the police at the Divisional Police Station, Moniya, Akinyele. Despite efforts by the combined team of security agencies and locals, Akinyele axis of the state has gained prominence lately due to series of continuous killings of innocent people, mostly women and children of various age divide. But the police said a number of arrests have been made with an assurance of ongoing efforts to apprehend other perpetrators of the dastardly acts who are still at large. When contacted to confirm the incident, the Command’s Public Relations Office, Gbenga Fadeyi, a Superintendent of Police said the woman died at the University College Hospital (UCH) as a result of the injuries inflicted on her by the assailant. He said “The information got to us from Moniya Police Divisional Crime Officer that around 4pm on Thursday, one Mrs. Olufunmilayo was attacked and macheted on the head. In the process, she sustained serious injuries but the assailants ran away. “She was taken to the University College Hospital (UCH) for immediate medical attention where she died later in the night. Then, youths in the area came out this morning (Friday) and started protesting on the issue and at the end of the day; they started attacking policemen from Moniya area command. “They seriously attacked our men, trying to cause a breakdown of law and order. They took laws into their hands, which was not supposed to be the next thing to do. The police are always there to do what they are supposed to do and we will continue to do more. “If an incident happened, they should allow the police to look into it and investigate in order to unravel the mystery behind it, not to carry out protest and it becomes a violent one, attacking the police. But as the case is now, no arrest has been made, because the issue is still on. We will surely get more details.” In his own account of the incident, the Caretaker Chairman, Akinyele Local Government, Mr. Taoreed Jimoh explained that “we heard that the woman was macheted, she was rescued immediately and taken to UCH, so we heard the report that she died this morning. “That was what prompted residents to embark on a mass protest, unfortunately, the peaceful protest was hijacked by hoodlums. The hoodlums went to the extent of pelting security operatives with stones and other objects, but with the help of God, peace is gradually returning to the area and it is under control. “I have called Deputy Commissioner of Police on Operations and he has deployed more officers to the area. Also, I called the Area Commander and Federal SARS and other security operatives and local security agents such as Soludero and others have arrived in the area to calm the situation. The Alakinyele of Akinyele Oba James Odeniran was also on ground to rescue few police officers that the hoodlums manhandled. When asked of his views on the killed woman, the council boss said “the killing was carried out by suspected ritualists. Residents suspected a ritualist who was reportedly arrested by the police but allegedly escaped from their custody; he was seen in Akinyele two days ago and yesterday. “The residents had to raise alarm and people are suspecting he was the one that carried out the dastardly act.”