Porn has evolved from the airbrushed glossy spreads and smut-prints of “Better Lover,” “Dauda the sexy guy” to amateur flicks hawked on seedy websites. It is now trendy and easily accessible. Porn is political, as the pageantry of curvaceous ladies or BBWs if you like, contracted to enliven the campaign of a legislative hopeful with raunchy “twerks” and hip-rolls at the 2019 general elections. Porn has evolved from presenting humans as sexual commodities to corporate, political pop culture. In Nigeria, it fuses with the commercial mainstream to win the culture war. Hence exhibitionism, promiscuity, and outright porn are mainstream chic, no thanks to ‘emancipated’ thinking and muck-fests, like the big pervert reality show. The show glorifies as its core message, an innate claim that we’d all like to be porn stars at one point in our life or another. Predictably this narrative runs the gamut of modern Nigerian life; fashion takes lessons from porn. Movie and music video directors, artistes, and the chain of backroom production staff vie to fulfill a morbid stereotype that ‘enlivens’ music and movies with porn scenes. Characterisation re-imagines men as disposable tools while portraying girls and women as sex machines, porn-rats, or video vixens if you like. The language and moral bankruptcy of porn mould and redefine popular culture; ditto the sex games at popular night clubs, and the after-parties of major entertainment awards where revellers get plastered, and randomly have sex as a frantic mime of western notions of celebrity and hipness. Producers of the big pervert reality show have told Nigeria that her women are sexual commodities and porn assets. Every year, they teach Nigeria to redefine and accept her daughters as whores: docile whores, opinionated whores, while reinforcing narratives of the Nigerian male as brute chauvinists, and numbskulls with ripped torsos. But all is fair game as long as parties profit from the whorish enterprise. So, the show’s producers, while ‘enabling’ Nigeria’s youth to seize supposedly grand opportunities to acclaim, state emphatically, that, the Nigerian daughter is a whore, and the Nigerian son is a whore-monger. And whores deserve to be dominated and abused hence the pornographic shower hours, sex in the house’s public toilet, frantic fondling, and intercourse. Once the live-in whore-mongers have had their way with the whores, or vice versa, they are discarded or ‘evicted’ – except the one that emerges winner. The show manifests a more dangerous pandemic; it glorifies the illimitability of lust. Its a disease that thrives on the ability to wield money and fame to induce others to fulfill random, subhuman sensuality. Very soon, the show’s producers will include same-sex intercourse in its offerings. It will broadcast in the near future, an edition featuring more children of influential public officers engaged in same-sex unions. It’s a sure-fire path to desensitising Nigeria to homosexuality and further brainwash an amoral youth population to embrace filth as civilisation. After all, they got away with featuring foremost statesman, Obafemi Awolowo’s descendant in their muck-fest. The show’s audiences should also look out for that edition featuring their favourite celebrity artistes, authors, on-air personalities, journalists, public officers, and corporate titans – they will legitimise the show’s decadent jousts with morality and make pornography even more mainstream. The best way to destroy the system is to debauch its major currency: fear. Fear is responsible for society’s amoral swerve to the decadent. Fear has become a legal tender shadowing more informal fears. Politicians prey on fear. They know the citizenry lives under a slew of fears. The fear of poverty; fear of the police; fear of COVID-19; fear of soldiers, shylock landlords, and ill-health. As COVID-19 wreaks greater havoc, more businesses and homes slip into financial crisis and the Naira unravels becoming worthless on the watch of a leadership desperate to borrow and squander its way out of a pandemic and deepening recession. Dystopia dawns, and the citizenry, continually robbed of hope and socialised to scavenge the dump of the national sweepstakes, frantically seek escape. So doing, they embrace and celebrate filth like the big pervert reality show. They confuse pornography with diligence and celebrate it as a higher industry. The illusion deepens when they enjoy the rare fortune of being selected as participants, after committing to several days of prayer and dry-fast, as revealed by a three-time applicant to the  reality show. The worse reality becomes, the less a beleaguered Nigeria wants to confront it thus the citizenry’s recourse to manufactured illusions and pseudo-realities of TV shows, celebrity trivia. These are the debauched revels of a dying civilisation. The severe economic crisis triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic has no doubt, reordered society, inducing calls for social discipline and a new moral code. Any new revolutionary movement may topple the political system only by entrenching a new moral code. In The Republic, Plato imagines human beings chained for the duration of their lives in an underground cave, knowing nothing but darkness. Their gaze is confined to the cave wall, upon which shadows of the world above are thrown. They believe these flickering silhouettes are reality. If, Plato writes, one of these prisoners is freed and brought into the sunlight, he will suffer temporary blindness but eventually, his eyes will adjust to the light. The illusion of the tiny shadows on the cave wall is decisively obliterated. But he is despised when he returns to the cave as he is unable to see in the dark as he used to. Those who never left the cave ridicule him and swear never to go into the light lest they are blinded as well. Plato feared the power of entertainment, the power of the senses to overthrow the mind thus his admonition that the enlightened or elite had a duty to educate those bewitched by the shadows on the cave wall, a position that led Socrates to quip: “As for the man who tried to free them and leads them upward if they could somehow lay their hands on him and kill him, they would do so.” The more we sever ourselves from reality and embrace illusions, the more we are destined to implode. The earth is strewn with the ruins of powerful civilizations that decayed—Egypt, Persia, the Mayan empires, Rome, among others. Not all died for the same reasons but they all suffered affliction by a bankrupt, corrupt elite. The latter squandered resources and pillaged the state, and became unable to muster internal allegiance and cohesiveness. These empires collapsed structurally in the wake of their moral demise. The leaders, in the final period of decay, increasingly had to deploy state law enforcers like armed mercenaries until they lost control of the latter. The citizenry descended into orgies of violence and self-indulgence. They surrendered their civic and emotional lives to the spectacle and violence of the political and social arena. This depicts the state of modern Nigeria, where the fabricated, the inauthentic, and the theatrical, as Boorstin writes, have displaced the natural, the genuine, and the spontaneous until reality itself has been converted into stagecraft. 