Ibrahim Hala Hassan is a member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Borno State and a former House of Assembly aspirant for Maiduguri Metropolitan Council. In this interview with reporters in Lagos recently, he spoke on a wide range of issues, including the recent attack on Governor Babagana Zulum’s convoy, the challenges facing the state because of the Boko Haram insurgency and how the governor is tackling the infrastructure deficit. He says Governor Zulum needs to work in concert with the Federal Government to restore peace. RAYMOND MORDI reports What is your view on the recent attack on Governor Babagana Zulum’s convoy? I was badly disturbed when the governor’s convoy was attacked on July 29 by Boko Haram insurgents on Maiduguri-Damaturu highway. Five people, including three policemen, were reportedly killed during the incident. The Constitution stipulates that no person shall be subject to torture or to inhuman or degrading treatment. So, the attack on Zulum’s convoy is a breach of this aspect of the constitution. That is why I am calling on the Federal Government to enhance security around the governor to ensure that such an attack does not reoccur. I also call for an investigation to ascertain the immediate and remote causes of the attack, and where sabotage is established, the people behind such dastardly act should be punished in accordance with the law. What is your assessment of the impact of the Boko Haram insurgency on Borno economy? As we speak, the insecurity in the state has repeatedly delayed the return of displaced communities and triggered new population movements in the region. Since community members are not within their business areas or farmlands, their economic base is weakened. So far, over two million individuals remain displaced; a number that has once again increased over the past year. Ongoing military operations around Lake Chad continue to force more people to leave their homes and drive others into secondary displacement, particularly due to the military’s ongoing practice of clearing rural villages by pushing civilians into internally displaced persons’ (IDP) camps in nearby towns. This has not only brought a humanitarian crisis in its wake but an economic crisis too. International organizations estimate that around 800,000 people are still stuck in areas in northern Borno, which is beyond the reach of humanitarian assistance, with little information available about their profile and needs. What else can the governor do to enhance the security of lives and property, especially after deploying hunters and vigilante groups to augment the efforts of regular security forces? Governor Zulum has attributed the attack on his convoy between Monguno and Baga town to military sabotage. In a viral video with the commander in the area, pointed accusing finger at the Army, alleging an attempt to sabotage the visit with the attack. As the Chief Security Officer of the State, he has enough information to arrive at that conclusion. The governor was convinced the exchange of fires was between the Nigeria Army and the Police Special Anti-Robbery Squad (FSARS) leading his convoy into Baga town. The governor said as far as he is concerned, what happened in Baga was complete sabotage by the military. He said there is no Boko Haram in Baga. He wondered how such a thing could happen, with over 1,181 soldiers in Baga. There are 72 officers, 107 soldiers, 400 soldiers in Mile 4 and 1,900 soldiers in Monguno. There is no reason why only five Boko Haram will stop them from occupying Baga town. The troops have been in Mile 4 for over one year. This is complete sabotage; the problem is not with President Buhari but the command and control structure. So, there is a need to look into the command structure In your view, what steps should be taken to put the state on a path of recovery and reconciliation? There is need to stem the tide of violence in the state. Findings have shown that several overarching challenges have complicated local-level stabilisation efforts over the past two years. The ongoing insecurity presents the most immediate challenge in Borno State. Recurring attacks by Boko Haram and ISWAP, as well as ongoing military operations, have delayed the return of displaced populations, prolonged humanitarian crisis conditions, and made it difficult for aid organisations to reach vulnerable communities. Community stabilisation programmes rest on the assumption that communities are, in fact, to some degree stable, rather than experiencing temporary displacement or being at high risk of renewed displacement. Lastly, stabilization efforts to date have been stymied by weaknesses in regional cooperation. Although Nigeria has been most severely affected by Boko Haram’s violence, the crisis spans the entire Lake Chad Basin. Challenges such as the return of displaced populations, the reintegration of Boko Haram members, and socioeconomic recovery in rural areas require cross-border approaches. How would you assess the performance of Governor Zulum so far? Several there people who have watched his career path and leadership style see Governor Zulum as God-sent to the people of Borno State. He is not only diligent but has zero-tolerance for dishonesty. He rewards diligence and commitment to duty. We have seen him physically inspect construction sites and assessing materials needed for work in the state just to ensure that the state gets the best in everything. These things can only be done by someone with the interest of the people at heart. And when someone goes the extra mile, he recognizes such efforts and rewards, such persons, accordingly. So, Zulum has not only brought Borno State to the limelight as a state that has set high standards for efficiency and productivity, but a state that so much desires peace and progress for its people, businesses and economy. From reintegrating ex-combatants to preventing farmer-herder conflicts and rebuilding rural economies, Zulum has proven his mettle as a leader of courage and great wisdom. Governor Zulum has overtime demonstrated efficiency and result-oriented qualities. Since his first appointment as Assistant Technical Officer in Borno State Civil Service in the state’s Ministry of Agriculture in 1989, Zulum’s competency and commitment to duty have never been in doubt. In 1990, he moved to the state’s Unified Local Government Service as Senior Field Overseer and later Principal Water Engineer. He later became an assistant lecturer at the University of Maiduguri. How would you assess his performance in the area of infrastructure, education and rural development so far? The governor has executed several projects since he came into office, particularly the model schools that he built, and some other projects inaugurated to mark his first anniversary. Zulum was has brought massive transformation to bear in Borno State through hard work, integrity, transparency, diligence, courage, commitment to duty and patriotism. Borno State, which was obviously brought to its knees by insecurity, rebounded within the first year of Zulum’s tenure in all spheres of socio-economic and infrastructural development. For instance, the governor has not only instilled discipline in the hearts of civil servants through unscheduled visits but has also positively impacted on many lives by the numerous capital projects his administration has undertaken in addition to people-centred policies and programmes. Within one year he has undertaken 326 capital projects, initiated 49 policies and programmes, which are capital intensive. The administration is constructing 6,544 sub-urban and low-cost houses for the resettlement of internally displaced persons and refugees across the state. Surveillance vehicles have been distributed to security agencies. He has also carried out rehabilitation of schools and established new ones, the construction of Primary Health Care facilities, the rehabilitation and construction of roads, including the first fly-over in Maiduguri, the state capital. We have also seen other projects such as water supplies, including drilling of 213 boreholes, 18 electrification and agricultural projects and the restoration of irrigation farming for communities in Marte.