Farm Secure, a Nigeria-based startup, is among 18 businesses chosen for international support by a precision agric tech firm, AgriEdge, based at University Mohammed VI Polytechnique (UM6P) in Ben Guerir, Morocco. Abridge  launched Filaha Innovation Programme to support high-potential startups and drive innovation across Africa. Developed by OCP’s Business Unit, AgriEdge, in partnership with Moroccan and African universities, the programme aims to find digital solutions serving African farmers and agricultural cooperatives and transform such innovative ideas into startups. Farm Secure is a solar power artificial intelligent system made up of amazon deeplens, cut cameras, solar panel and pole to monitor and protect farms from destruction by animals. The system will recognise animals that can destroy the farm in the absence of the farmer, and then it will produce sound to scare them away from farm. Among the startups were Farm Manager,Benin Republic; Pulsar Solutions, Cameroon;Kyda Empire Cameroon; Bilanga Solutions Congo DRC ;Aque Eng Egypt; Ethiopia AgricTech Solutions, Ethiopia and  Agritech Sensor, Ivory Coast. Others are Organo Credit, Kenya; Shamba Nexus, Kenya; Digital Journalism Kenya; Honey bee Morocco; AIV Crowdfunding Morocco; Digi Agro South Africa; Agri Poa, Tanzania; ENV 619 Tunisia; Dynamic Agrilinks Uganda and Agrodots Zambia. The firm said 131 applications were received    from 23 African countries to participate in the programme. A committee of 11 experts in  agriculture and technology were brought together to assess the applications, a challenging task that led to the selection of 18 innovative projects. The projects spread over various aspects of agriculture, involving pollution issues, monitoring the carbon footprint in farms, security of farms using digital tools, knowledge transfer, connecting the farmers to the rest of the agricultural ecosystem. Some projects focused on the use of new technologies in aquaculture, others in poultry, while others work on improving the use of water and fertiliser in   agriculture, in   addition   to   the   improvement   of the   management   of   beekeeping cooperatives. Last year, a non-profit organisation, Mass Challenge, and UM6P in Ben Guerir, Morocco, also launched the Impulse Accelerator Programme to support start-ups in Nigeria and other parts of Africa. Its Director Adnane Alaoui Soulimani said Impulse was developed by UM6P, in partnership with MassChallenge, and OCP Group and its subsidiary, OCP Africa, to support the selected startups and to help them forge lasting partnerships. The 12-week programme targets startups in agritech, biotech, mining technologies and materials science and nanotechnology.