The Oyo State Police command has denied that Ikolaba Divisional Police Headquarters, Ibadan, was attacked by gunmen Friday evening. It said in a statement yesterday that two policemen attached to the divisional police headquarters were at the opposite side of the road to the station when they were attacked by hoodlums in an unidentified moving vehicle. A statement by the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) of the command, Mr Olugbenga Fadeyi, denied the said attack. The statement read in part: “Two of our officers were at the opposite side of the road to the police station   and were attacked by hoodlums in an unidentified moving vehicle, who opened fire on them. “Consequent upon this, one Corporal Dada Christopher was hit by the pellets at the right side of the rib and he died on the spot, while Inspector Busuyi Ayodele was also hit at his back and he sustained injury, and was subsequently rushed to the hospital for immediate medical attention.” Fadeyi, a superintendent of police, added that the AK-47 rifle with 24 rounds of ammunition belonging to one of the  policemen was taken away by the hoodlums. He said that the Commissioner of Police has ordered the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Operations) to visit the scene for on-the-spot assessment of the incident, adding that a matching order has been given to all police tactical teams including the Special Anti-robbery Squad (SARS), Swift Response Squad (SRS), SKYNET Squad, Federal and Safer Highway patrol teams, Puff Adder team e.t.c. to be on the trail of the hoodlums while all other patrol teams within and outside Ibadan metropolis were also placed on red alert to clamp down on the assailants and equally arrest them when seen. The police boss, however, said that the police would not relent in its efforts to protect the lives and property of the citizenry and ensure that they operate and carry out their lawful businesses in a safe and secure environment. He, therefore, called on the members of the public to continue to partner with the police to engender a better service delivery.