The Special Adviser to Edo Governor on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr. Crusoe Osagie, has said a renewed mandate for Governor Godwin Obaseki and his ‘Make Edo Great Again’ (MEGA) manifesto will bolster the economy to tackle the vagaries of the post-COVID-19 era. Osagie said: “Governor Obaseki has designed socio-economic policies, which are contained in his MEGA manifesto that will address the challenges arising from the COVID-19 pandemic. “Our manifesto is alive to the challenges of today and the future, with policies and programmes tailored to reflate and stimulate the economy, unlike the SIMPLE agenda manifesto of the opposition party, whose ownership is still a controversy and bereft of strategies to tackle the challenges associated with the COVID-19 pandemic. “In our manifesto, a section is devoted to post-COVID-19 economy. In that section, the governor said he will run a post-COVID-19 economy after the election. This will task our resolve to restart the economy, even as we push for an economic stimulus package to resuscitate businesses, sustain livelihood and hold the economy together. “Our focus will be on supporting businesses with low interest loan facilities, strengthening the productive sector by prioritising the Edo Production Hub Initiative and pursuing more impactful policies in the agricultural sector.” He said the reforms in the Edo State College of Agriculture and Natural Resources, and Edo State College of Education would be sustained, while sourcing more partners to pull in resources to groom youths for global competitiveness. The media aide said: “We will leverage on our assets at the Edo Innovation Hub to migrate more of our people, especially workers and businesses to the digital space, because much of human activities will be done online, going forward. “We will increase investment in the health care system, while ensuring the statewide roll out of a responsive and well-managed health insurance scheme.” He claimed that Edo people would not vote for a candidate that was still dwelling on developmental issues of 2016, the year the SIMPLE agenda was written.