 Candidate of the All Progressives Congress(APC) in Edo Governorship election, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, has received royal blessings from his High Royal Highness, Alhaji Aliru Momoh Ikelebe III, the Otaru of Auchi and Vice-Chairman of the Edo State Council of Traditional Rulers. Ize-Iyamu was at his Palace on Saturday alongside his running mate Mallam Gani Audu and other leaders of the APC to pay the traditional ruler homage as part of the Eid-el-Kabir celebrations and officially deliver copies of his SIMPLE agenda manifesto. He said as one of the foremost Islamic traditional rulers in the country, the Otaru of Auchi holds an important position in Edo, which informed his visit to felicitate with him during Sallah and formally inform him of his governorship bid. Ize-Iyamu praised the Otaru as a forward-thinking ruler with great love for his people. He lamented the state government’s failure to take maximal advantage of the solid minerals deposited in Auchi and rising insecurity that scared away investments, while assuring the ruler that as Governor, he will tackle the challenge of security and the erosion problems of the Auchi kingdom. Receiving the candidate and his running mate, the traditional ruler commended him for the documentation of his promises in the SIMPLE agenda manifesto. He advised him to keep his promises to the people if elected, stating that truth and justice are important values that leaders must display to bring peace and development. He recounted some of the contributions of Ize-Iyamu’s running mate, Mallam Gani Audu, as Local Council Chairman and offered prayers and blessings for the candidate. The Otaru was joined by other traditional rulers including HRH Alhaji Ali Suleiman, The Ogeagah of Three Ibies and prominent Islamic leaders such as the Sadiq of Auchi, Alhaji Saliu Ahmed, and Dr. Sani Jimoh, Chairman of the Muslim support group for the APC Campaign. APC leaders on Ize-Iyamu’s entourage included Engr. Lawrence Okah, Hon. Patrick Obahiagbon, Hon. Lucky James, Olusola Oke (SAN), and former trade union leader, Comrade Peter Esele.