 Liverpool meet Arsenal in the Community Shield this afternoon, as Jurgen Klopp’s side look for an early trophy in the 2020/2021 season. The match will be played behind closed doors at Wembley with no fans due to be present due to government guidelines regarding coronavirus. The 112th   instalment of the annual curtain-raiser will be contested between two of the competition’s most successful sides with a combined 30 victories between them. The Kops are appearing for the second successive year following a 2019 penalty shootout defeat by Manchester City, but this time as Premier League champions having finally ended their 30-year wait for the title. Jurgen Klopp’s side lost out in last year’s Community Shield, losing 5-4 on penalties to Manchester City after a 1-1 draw in normal time. Meanwhile, Arsenal finished an eventful campaign on a high note by coming from behind to defeat Chelsea 2-1 and secure a 14th FA Cup triumph thanks to a brace from Captain Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang. Heading into today’s game, Mikel Arteta’s side will be rusty having played just one pre-season friendly against MK Dons. Liverpool on the other hand returned last week and have two games against Stuttgart and RB Salzburg under their belt during a training tour in Austria. Both managers might not be eager to overburden their key stars with a busy campaign so the chance that the final might see a number of fringe players making the team list seem likely and heading into the new season, Arteta will have players looking to prove themselves to him after somewhat inconsistent campaigns last year. Klopp received something of a scare after Virgil van Dijk sustained a blow to the face during Tuesday’s 2-2 draw against Salzburg. But the German expects the charismatic Dutch defender to be fit for the Wembley showdown. “Virg only looks like he has a piercing now and has a plaster on it,” Klopp said.“It should not be, and is, no problem. At the moment it is of course not cool but there will not be a problem.” A knee injury to Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain will see the ex-Gunner miss facing his former employers while Kops’ captain Jordan Henderson will return to training after Saturday’s final. With Trent Alexander-Arnold also recovering from injury , Neco Williams, touted to be the next best right back in the world is called up for duty in the same week he is called up to the Wales senior squad while Curtis Jones, after a couple of impressive performances in pre-season, might be given the nod today in midfield and if he is then it could be an indicator of just how much faith Klopp will be putting in him. On the other hand, Arsenal, who last appeared in the Community Shield in 2017 against Chelsea, will have first-choice goalkeeper Bernd Leno back in goal and new center-back William Saliba starting as the pair formed part of a strong starting XI for Arsenal’s 4-1 friendly win over MK Dons on Tuesday evening, having now fully recovered from knee and foot injuries respectively. Arteta would be facing problems at the back as Shkodran Mustafi (hamstring), Pablo Mari (ankle) and Calum Chambers (knee) all remaining side-lined while Striker Gabriel Martinelli – currently back in his native Brazil – is aiming to return from his own knee injury by the end of the calendar year. Although the Community Shield’s reputation as a glorified friendly rather than an ultra-competitive final has only increased over recent years, most pundits still expect Liverpool to triumph over Arsenal, despite the Gunner’s FA Cup triumph at the beginning of August further cementing their status as Wembley specialists. Arteta’s boys also defeated Liverpool in the last meeting between the two sides, with blunders from Van Dijk and Alisson Becker ending Liverpool’s hopes of equalling or surpassing Manchester City’s record Premier League points haul in July. But former Liverpool great Michael Owen thinks that Liverpool’s extra match sharpness during their pre-season tour in Austria could prove crucial at Wembley. “Their [Liverpool’s] formidable record at home was the catalyst for winning the Premier League last season, with their last Premier League defeat at home coming in 2017. “However, their away form wasn’t too shabby either and every single player at the club will be champing at the bit to get going again and maintain their phenomenal form of the last two seasons. “Despite all the talk of this being a glorified friendly, both teams will be very keen to start their season with a win and I really fancy an entertaining game with plenty of goals.” Both teams have played 229 times across all competitions over the years with Liverpool recording 89 wins to Arsenal’s 79 and 61 games have ended in draws so the Kops are expected to have an edge due to the head-to-head superiority.