The Zonal Coordinator of National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), Walson Brandon, has said over 500 communities are at risk of flood this year. Brandon who disclosed this to The Nation in Port Harcourt, Rivers state yesterday said the South-south zone would conclude its sensitisation campaign to vulnerable communities in the zone next week. The campaign started in May, shortly after the 2020 Annual Flood Outlook (AFO) prediction was released by the Nigeria Hydrological Services Agency (NIHSA). Brandon said three of the six states in the zone made the flood list this year, with a total of 40 local government areas and more than 500 communities on either highly probable flood risk or probable flood risk lists. He listed the states as Rivers, Akwa Ibom and Cross River. “Statistically speaking, 15 of the 23 LGAs in Rivers State made the list, Cross Rivera has 14, while 11 are in Akwa Ibom,” the zonal Coordinator stated. Brandon said the campaign which began in Rivers and Akwa Ibom states in May is currently being held in Cross Rivers State especially in the highly probable flood risks, local government areas, which include, Calabar Municipal, Calabar South, Akpabuyo, Abi, Obudu and Odukpani. The outreach, according to him, is also going on in probable flood risk areas of, Yakurr, Obubra, Yala, Bakassi, Boki, Ogoja Bekwarra and Biase, and would be ended in the state by August 10. He said the programme has the approval of the Director General of NEMA, AVM Muhammadu Mohammed. Giving insight into the Agency’s activities in the areas, the Zonal Coordinator said, “what we are doing in these places is to sensitize communities living in flood prone areas on the outcome of rainfall forecast for the year and what it said concerning areas, places and communities that are located in flood prone lines like theirs and everything they need to know about flood, the risk/danger it poses, the warning signed and how, when and where to move to, to avoid loss of live, among others. “We use information contained in NISHA’s 2020 AFO and NiMET’s 2020 SRP to do this. “Again, we pay advocacy visits to critical stakeholders such as, Disaster Response Units (DRUs), at 146 Battalion, Nigerian Army Calabar and 305 SMG Air Force  Base Calabar.’’ “We also engage in safe ground mapping where affected community can run to in the event of flooding of their community, we distribute fliers and handbills on impacts of flooding. “We equally do assessment of impacts and damages caused by already flooded communities, gauging the level of preparedness of critical stakeholders, such as local Emergency Management Committees (LEMCs), State Emergency Management Agencies (SEMA) among others. “We also use the period of the campaign to identify equipment gaps by liaising with equipment holding companies in the state,” Brandon said.