In a way, my pilgrimage to the sacred Osun-Osogbo Grove in Osogbo, Osun State, to see the grand finale of the famous Osun-Osogbo Festival three years ago prepared me for the oddity of this year’s celebration. Ahead of the climax of the festival on August 14, the Osun State government issued a statement “informing the general public that this year’s celebration of Osun-Osogbo Festival will be symbolic, as only the worshippers that will perform ritual activities will be allowed into the grove. These worshippers must, however, comply with the state government’s COVID-19 protocols.” This statement prompted a recollection. The day after the grand finale of the 2017 Osun-Osogbo Festival in the Osun-Osogbo Grove, a small group of foreign tourists stood at the riverside in the sacred grove with a local female guide who enthusiastically told the story of Osun, the water goddess represented by an attention-grabbing statue at the edge of the mystical Osun River.  One of the fascinated visitors asked the guide a fascinating question I overheard. “What will happen if they don’t do the festival?” It was a striking question. As I walked out of the sacred space, that question would not leave me alone. Indeed, the question followed me to my base in Lagos. The Osun-Osogbo Grove is the site of Nigeria’s star tourist attraction and the country’s pre-eminent traditional religious festival, which draws a large number of domestic and foreign tourists.  The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) listed the sacred grove as a World Heritage Site in 2005. The Osun-Osogbo Grove, listed for natural and cultural reasons, is the second of two UNESCO-branded sites in Nigeria, coming after the Sukur Cultural Landscape in Adamawa State, which attained the distinction in 1999. The festival happened this year but not as usual. “There was strict compliance with COVID-19 safety protocols at the grove,” according to a report. At the grove, Governor Adegboyega Oyetola,   represented by Commissioner for Culture and Tourism Obawale Adebisi, was quoted as saying: “I want to appreciate the monarch and the worshipers of Osun-Osogbo for their cooperation with the state government. The purpose of the restriction is not punitive but to ensure safety of the entire state. “People should know how fast COVID-19 is spreading, particularly in our state… Osun-Osogbo is strategic to the state because it is an international festival and our plan was that people from outside should join the festival, but because of the COVID-19, we could not do that… by next year we will bring many people, as many as possible, to celebrate…” There was a possibility that the festival could be marred following an Osun State High Court order that one Adigun Olayiwola and Adesiyan Olayiwola should not be removed from their positions as priest and priestess in charge of Osun-Osogbo Festival. Justice A.O. Ayoola said Ataoja, Oba Jimoh Olanipekun, should not prevent them from performing their duties during the Osun-Osogbo Festival.  The duo had been removed in August 2019. They went to court. A report said: “Justice Ayoola noted that both Adigun and Adesiyan had performed the duties of Osun priest and priestess since the days of the immediate past Ataoja, Oba Oyewale Matanmi. “Justice Ayoola added that even after the passage of Oba Oyewale, the plaintiff/applicants still played the role of Osun priest and priestess. “She maintained that the loss and damage that stopping the two officers from performing their roles during Osun Festival would cause them would be impossible to calculate. “The judge subsequently ordered that the defendants/respondents should not restrict the applicants from entering the Osun temple located within the Ataoja palace or stop them from participating in any activities relating to the celebration of Osun-Osogbo Festival.” It is unclear why Oba Olanipekun has not reinstated the removed priest and priestess based on the court order. The Ataoja should respect the court order just as he respected the state government’s restriction order concerning the celebration of  this year’s Osun-Osogbo Festival. Interestingly, as the country struggles to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, the Osun-Osogbo Grove may well be relevant to the search for a possible herbal remedy.  “The dense forest of the Osun Sacred Grove, on the outskirts of the city of Osogbo, is one of the last remnants of primary high forest in southern Nigeria,” according to UNESCO, adding that it is “probably the last sacred grove in Yoruba culture.” This explains why, in 2016, Fountain University, Osogbo, Osun State, described as “a privately owned Islamic faith-based university,” signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the National Commission for Museums and Monuments (NCMM) towards research in the Osun-Osogbo Grove, which is a significant ritual ground of Yoruba indigenous religion. It is a thought-provoking agreement. According to a report, “The MOU which was signed at the grove was to enable the university to conduct researches to establish some of the medicinal benefits that can be derived from certain plants and organisms that have been preserved in the sacred grove over the years.”  It quoted the then Vice Chancellor of the university, Prof. Bashir Ademola Raji, as saying that a researcher at the university, Dr Afolabi Nusra Balogun, had made certain discoveries in the Osun-Osogbo water and some plants in the grove which would contribute to health care delivery when fully developed. It is interesting that Fountain University was interested in the grove’s resources. The university was established by the Nasrul-Lahi-li Fatih Society of Nigeria (NAFSAT) in 2007.  In 2014, its Vice Chancellor told journalists: “We are exploring the United Nations Heritage Site, the Osun grove, as a potential source of novel pharmaceutical compounds in Nigeria.” It is a testimony to Susanne Wenger’s work that the forest is “a protected area,” a national monument established by Decree 77 of 1979, and a World Heritage Site. The phenomenal Austrian artist, who became an unapologetic populariser of Yoruba traditional religion and attracted global attention to Osogbo, lived in Nigeria for nearly 60 years, and died in country on January 12, 2009, at the age of 93. At the “Susanne Wenger’s Sacred Colloquium 2015” held at the King’s palace in Osogbo,   the then Director General of NCMM, Yusuf Abdallahi Usman,  presented a paper titled “Late Madam Susanne Wenger and National Commission for Museums and Monuments as Springboards to the Development of Osun-Osogbo Sacred Grove and Enlistment as a UNESCO World Heritage Site.”  He said: “She championed the beautification, preservation, adoration, conservation and unification of nature and culture in the Osun-Osogbo Sacred Grove.” The event marked Wenger’s 100th birth anniversary and the grove’s 10th anniversary as a World Heritage Site. I had planned to make yet another pilgrimage to the grove this year to see the festival. But the prevailing pandemic and the connected restrictions made it impossible. Hopefully, the pilgrim will perform the pilgrimage again.