An international non-governmental organisation, WaterAid Nigeria, has received N284 million from Heineken Africa Foundation (HAF) to support its COVID-19 emergency response work in communities in six states. The states are Bauchi, Oyo, Ekiti, Enugu, Plateau and Benue. WaterAid Nigeria said the funds would help vulnerable communities protect themselves against the spread of disease. Communications and Media Manager, WaterAid Nigeria Oluseyi Abdulmalik stated these in a statement yesterday after the launch of WaterAid and HAF COVID-19 response hygiene project virtually. According to WaterAid, the six months project is designed to strengthen ongoing efforts to curtail the spread of the coronavirus disease by supporting national and state governments to promote hygiene practices and behaviour change on a massive scale. “More than 1,000 much-needed handwashing facilities will be installed in healthcare centres and other busy public places in Nigeria. Hygiene product packs will be distributed to 12,000 households and 6,000 people with disabilities. A large-scale hygiene campaign will also be carried out on TV, radio and billboards. It is hoped the project will reach millions of people across the country. “Handwashing with soap is the first line of defence against the spread of infectious diseases such as COVID-19, but according to government statistics, more than 160 million lack access to basic handwashing facilities with soap and water, increasing the risk of infection. “The funds are part of the Heineken Africa Foundation’s generous N547 million (€1.2 million) donation to WaterAid to support the international charity’s water, sanitation and hygiene work in vulnerable communities in Sub-Saharan Africa. Also, Heineken Africa Foundation General Manager, Suzanne Giele, stated at the launch: “Clean water, decent sanitation and hygiene are basic human rights but unfortunately vulnerable communities, especially in Sub-Saharan Africa, do not have access to these basic essentials. “Water, sanitation and hygiene have been on our agenda for many years already and I am happy that we will scale up and accelerate our efforts in this field because handwashing with soap not only helps to protect against the spread of COVID-19 but also other infectious diseases. “Together with WaterAid, I hope we can make a difference for communities during these very challenging times and after.”