Kaduna Polytechnic Rector, Professor Idris Bugaje, has advised the Federal Government to collaborate with Morocco in enhancing skills in Nigeria, to address poverty causing the challenges of insurgency and banditry in the country. Professor Bugaje said, the need for Nigeria to invest more in skills development becomes imperative, saying solution to the chronic unemployment that feeds poverty insurgency and banditry lies in such investment. The Polytechnic Rector made the call while presenting certificate to 33 Quality Assurance Assessors for Skills Training under the National Skills Qualification Framework, (NSQF) which the institution intends to embark upon this year. While explaining that, the aim of the NSQF training is to facilitate certification of skills to allow graduates move out for greener pastures, Bugaje said the training is starting with Panteka Fabrication and Skills Hub. According to Professor Bugaje “Nigeria needs to invest more in skills development and collaborate with countries such as Morocco in enhancing Skills in the country. In doing that lies the solution to the chronic unemployment that feeds poverty insurgency and banditry which are the bane of the nation at the moment. “CTD shall, in addition to the NSQF training, carry out other skills training programmes, such as the ongoing refresher training in welding for Arewa Welders who may potentially be absorbed into the AKK Gas Pipeline project. “There is also short training programme in welding, plumbing and carpentry meant for up-skilling of Out-Of School Children (Almajiri and others). This is expected to commence this year immediately the campus is re-opened,” Bugaje said. The Rector also advised that, as part of its urban renewal plan, Kaduna state government should declare Panteka Fabrication Market as state heritage site, following its contributions to the development of the country. According to him, “What Panteka requires is restructuring and not demolition. The government should fix the market by making good roads networks, drainages water supply and electricity accessible to people. “The old site should be phase one and anybody who is eager to expand his business should extend it to site two which is built by government. “The advantage is that the market is close to Kaduna Polytechnic and if such market is pushed into the bush or areas that are inaccessible, there will be low patronage,” he said.