The Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ondo State, ALEX KALEJAYE, explains why the harmonisation and reconciliation in the chapter will contribute to the victory of Governor Rotimi Akeredolu (SAN) at the poll. Genuine reconciliation paves the way for harmonious working relationship within a system. And with that comes quality planning and efficiency in implementation. The Ondo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) is not unmindful of all these, when it resolved to explore the path of reconciliation, after its governorship primary on the 20th of last month. The leader of the party in the State, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN), and the State Chairman, Ade Adetimehin rode successfully on the leverage availed by the intervention of national leaders to unite the party, and brought divisive tendencies to a domesticated state. Prior to the gubernatorial primary, the tendencies were acute. To an average political observer, possibilities of assembling gladiators for a common cause, thereafter, were simply inconceivable. In all, twelve aspirants jostled for the most important and influential job in Alagbaka, the seat of political power in the Sunshine State. The list included the incumbent Governor,  Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN), Chief Olusegun Abraham, Chief Olusola Oke (SAN), Chief Isaac Kekemeke, Ifeoluwa Oyedele, Chief Bukola Adetula, Prince Jimi Odimayo, Olusola Iji, Mrs. Jumoke Ajasin-Anifowose, Chief Olayide Adelami, Barr. Nathaniel Adojutelegan, and Akin Awodeyi Akinsehinwa. At the end of the exercise, considered to be unusually transparent, Akeredolu won the party ticket with an intimidating margin. The winner is not unaware of the importance of political synergy. He knows that presenting a common front during a governorship election could only boost the chances of a political party. Therefore, he craves unity and calmness, in place of rumble. He wholeheartedly sought true reconciliation of all gladiators. Akeredolu found in the State Chairman, Ade Adetimehin, a tireless political party-builder. The duo set sailing, few hours after a candidate had emerged; signaling the beginning of enduring reconciliation within the fold. They led other party chieftains in the well-thought-out mission. They visited, in turns, aspirants, leaders and major stakeholders. Tension waned and suspicions declined in matter of days. This prepared the ground for a comprehensive Stakeholders Meeting of the chapter on Sunday, in Akure, the State capital. The State Chairman,  Ade Adetimehin, applauded the governorship aspirants for their courage, and readiness to seek the fortification of the party ahead of personal aspirations, as he welcomed the critical stakeholders to the post gubernatorial primary election meeting. “Now, that the gubernatorial primary has come and gone, the internal political differences that existed before and during the event should be put behind us for the sake of our great party. “Permit me to say that this is the most auspicious time for all stakeholders to embrace genuine reconciliation, and integration at all levels, if truly we desire to have one indivisible, great party. Even so, we still have a great task ahead of us and only through joint efforts can we achieve our collective goal.” Adetimehin frowned at what he termed “destructive and needless dichotomies” within the chapter, vowing to resist and eradicate same from the fold. “Succinctly put, henceforth,  there would be no room for unhealthy groupings in the party; groupings such as Team Aketi; Team Borofice; Team Iji; Team Kekemeke; Team Abraham; Team Oke, and so on,” he explained. Political parties, without arguments, draw strength from various organs within. Such organs like caucus and elders’ council are imperative for proper planning and guidance. The meeting also resolved to rejig the existing organs, inject further strength, and maximise the gains therefrom. It was impossible for the State Chairman, particularly in an election year, not to canvass support for the party’s flag bearer. Adetimehin did not fumble with the opportunity presented by the quality gathering. Hear him: “Let me therefore call on all stakeholders present to be resolute in their quest towards the success of the second term bid of our party’s candidate, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Odunayo Akeredolu  (SAN). Let the success of his reelection bid remain the fulcrum of our collective goal. May God crown our efforts with resounding success.” Akeredolu has no space for frivolities. He addresses issues based on conviction, and endowed with the character of strength to uphold same. At the meeting, he was elated at the turnout, and pledges of various gubernatorial aspirants to support the party without reservations. He betrayed no impression of conviction or otherwise of pledges and promises by co-contestants to “collapse all” their individual structures into Akeredolu/Ayedatiwa Campaign Organisation. To him, the gubernatorial aspirants should rather be commended and celebrated for embracing the reconciliatory moves. He would rather urged that the spirit of oneness that pervaded the hall be sustained. Speeches competed for space, as speakers lauded the party’s leader and State Governor, over his efforts at rebuilding the State and the party. Supremacy of the party was also non-negotiable, as forcefully argued. The victory of the party, come October 10, seems determined and assured with a united chapter that appears set to jealously guide its jewel.