 After playing in the Nigerian league, you moved to Lebanon to ply your trade. Why Lebanon? After the completion of the 1993 Season with Stationery Stores, my fellow player and friend at Stationery Stores – Sanusi Yussuf came to inform me about an agent who was interested in taking us to Lebanon for a short time contract. The contract was very attractive compare to what we were earning then in Nigeria. So we decided to give it a shot. The decision to go to Lebanon was more of taking the opportunity at hand because we had finished the season with Stationery Stores. You later played in Indonesia and Thailand what is the attraction to Asia? After leaving Lebanon, I moved to Thailand in 1998 and joined BEC Tero Football Club. While with the Thailand Club I had the opportunity to go to other Asian nations on loan during our League break in Thailand. The second major reason of my attachment to Asia is my calling as a minister of God. My life was transformed in Lebanon and the agreement between my wife and I, is to raise our children in Thailand. Thailand is tagged country of smiles, amazing people, places, strong culture attachment with serious values, and a passion for reaching out to share the love of God with many Thais and Asians. Why didn’t you play for Super Eagles having played for the U-20 and U23 teams? My decision to travel to Lebanon put an end to my national team career as a player. Lebanon football was not regarded as good enough for consideration. But I will like to tell you that among the foreign players in my club are two former national team top players, Balarabe Musa and Kabir Mohammed. What was your experience in the bribe-to-play syndrome asso ciated with Nigeria national teams? I did not experience such situation throughout my career as a player. It is all about your performance and meeting up with the coaches’ expectations on the field of play. In our time, at the club and national team levels, we had more than enough players that were ready and waiting for the opportunities. How receptive were the Thais when you started your coaching career in Thailand? Not every coach including great and good coaches from  Europe and  South American, have been able to coach in Thailand because of language barrier and inability to understand the influence of culture in training the players. Thai Players are technically sound and fast but it takes deep knowledge of their culture to motivate them as a team. For me, it has been a great success because I can speak and understand the language. Also, my sociology background was a real plus for me as I got acquainted with the Thailand culture. Winning the Thailand Premier League twice with my team put me in a position of great honor and I am regarded as a legend in Thailand Football. At least, an epitome to reference a good Nigerian compared to what they used to see. Glory be to God! What were the culture shocks that you experienced when you started your career in Thailand? With my Sociology background, I was not really shocked. I fell in love with the society. Peaceful, well organized, perfect welfare facilities, good and developing football facilities, well organized road network and good security. The only challenge that I had was the language. Thai language is the official language but my club management, coaches and fellow players are very supportive. What about racism issue in Thailand? Thailand is among the top tourism countries and they welcome everybody regardless of your race with the ‘Amazing Thailand Smiles’. Thailand citizens respect foreigners and love foreigners to have good memories of Thailand. How would you advise African players planning to come to Thailand? Thailand football is fast developing and it is rated among the Top 6 League in Asia at present. So, my advice to my fellow Africans coming to Thailand is that it is a favorable place for Africans as their weather is the same as West Africa. No snow. And the good thing here is you have the world at your feet if you are a good player and have outstanding character outside the field. What is your greatest regret as a footballer? No regret as a football player. My utmost ambition in Nigeria while playing football in Nigeria was to play for Stationery Stores. So, in 1993 I left all the huge sign on fee and bags of cements offered to renew my contract at the then Eagle Cement Football Club of Port Harcourt and signed for the Stationery Stores for almost free. How did you meet your wife and why did you settle for a Thai woman? After being saved and born again, I have a very clear understanding of God’s concept on marriage. I met my Wife in 1999 and we married in 2000. She is not only the mother to our children but also a very loving wife, sister and best friend. At what point did you fall in love with a Thai woman? It took us a year plus. She was a friend and very caring, loving and very natural. What were the reactions of your parents? My parents were happy that finally I had found the bone of my bone. You are currently the coordinator of the Redeemed Church of God in Thailand, how do you combine both? The Almighty God has really been my strength. The Church headquarters is in Bangkok while my club is in another Province (about 2hours 30 minutes’ drive) Thank God for His divine wisdom on good planning and management abilities. Tell me about life in Thailand… the good, the bad and the ugly Life in Thailand for me and my household has only the good side. A deep knowledge of the plan of the Almighty God and His will in our lives have helped us a great deal to overcome seen or unseen storms and challenges. Thailand thriving economy and vast development is strongly attached to the cultural bond of the Thailand citizens special love for one another and their nation. The Thailand government and private sector believe in delivering quality services, projects, products and machinery equal with top world standard. Good and modern transport system, good road network throughout the country. Good security that we do not need lock our doors with padlock.