LUGI is the stage name of Clement Chuks Simon. A graduate of Political Science from the University of Port Harcourt, he holds a Master’s in Business Management, from Plymouth University in the United Kingdom. He recently released the video of his song, Aso Rock, featuring O’Kitaa. He took out time to speak to filmmaker and writer, Onyeka Nwelue. Tell us about yourself and the new video you are about to release? My new video is titled ASO ROCK — Aso Rock is track from my newly realized EP “Badman Lugi”  its fresh vibe, I know the fans will love it. You have been in the industry for a while. You made a transition from Simon Sniper to Lugi. What made you change your name?  Simon Sniper is a beautiful and unique name, also it struck people as offensive. I have had to take out the sniper so I could perform at some events s just ’Simon”. It didn’t bother me though.  However, as i kept working on myself and discovering myself more,  I got a fresh inspiration, I needed a name that will define me, my craft and everything I stand for.  That was how LUGI came.  Lugi means FOREVER. I won’t live forever but I will create something that will. And that is Lugi.  You have travelled widely, but currently stuck in Abuja. What is happening there? Any new projects? And what is your take on the current situation of the world? I am not STUCK in Abuja. I live here, I was born here, I grew up here. Abuja is my home. I have lived in few places outside Nigeria, performed and all. I saw how entertainment can contribute to growth of a city. Abuja is not known to be the entertainment hub yet, but it can be. I have met a lot of talented people here. It made me realised I can do more here and if I want to reach the world, I have to start from my city. They love me, I love back. About the current situation of the world, we are in the middle of a pandemic, it’s unfortunate that a lot of people lost their lives and a lot of people lost their loved ones. It reminds us of how connected we are. I hope to see a better planet, when all this is over. Are there new releases in the coming months, as you have been busy shooting new music videos? Oh yeah!  We have a lot coming before the end of the year!  What do you hope to achieve with your music? Who is your target audience? My music makes people happy. If you have positive energy and want a happy life, my music is for you.  Where do you see yourself in the next 5 years? Alive. Are there any collaborations? If so, what are the artistes you hope to work with? Right now I’m more focused on establishing my sound and my vibe. Collaborations will come after.  You split your time between the UK and South Africa? Why did you choose those territories? Basically, I’m where the music takes me. I got signed to a record label in South Africa for a while; reasons I spent a lot of time there. Would you be collaborating with South African musicians? Sure! I like the SA vibe a lot. SA is like my second home. When do you release an album? When the album is ready. 