In line with the job creation agenda of the Federal Government, the Vice President, Prof Yemi Osibanjo has reaffirmed government’s commitment towards creation of five million jobs. Osibanjo who disclosed this over the weekend during the Virtual Presidential Policy Dialogue Session organised by the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), said that the administration is focused on providing He stated that while focusing on key areas like agriculture, housing, manufacturing, that they would expand cultivation and agro processing. The Vice President said, “We are to create jobs and boost our national housing programme. We would be intentional in the support of manufacturers in using our local raw materials. We are seriously engaging the use of cement in building our roads, as it will be cheaper for us and more durable. “We are targeting electrification of five million households with solar power, and we are supporting SMEs, especially in the pharmaceuticals to enhance the production of personal protective equipment.” Earlier in her welcome address, the LCCI President, Mrs Toki Mabogunje expressed worries over failure of the Nigerian Customs Service to adhere to the Executive Order which forbids Customs checkpoints around the ports and within given geographical delimitations in the country. She pointed out that the slow pace of reforms in the oil and gas sector was another cause for worry, adding that the part of the PIB that was passed was not signed by the President as it has affected the growth of the sector. According to her, “Closure of the land borders has enormous implications for cross border economic activities around the country. The indications are now that the closure is indefinite.  While we share the concern of government on issues of security and smuggling, we believe that the indefinite closure of land borders is not the solution to the problem. “We are excited about the signing of the AFCTA. But we need to get ourselves ready for the pressure of competition inherent in the continental economic integration agenda.  A number of commitments were made about the creation of an environment that would enable the private sector to be competition ready. But not much has happened in this regard so far. “We are aware of the efforts of government to fix our infrastructure, including roads and railways, but funding has remained a major challenge.  We would like to see a new funding model with much bigger focus on private sector capital within a Public Private Partnership [PPP] framework for infrastructure development in the country.”