  It was no doubt a well-meaning gesture designed to boost the morale of soldiers of the Nigerian Army who sustained varying degrees of injuries in the ongoing battle against the  Boko Haram insurgency as well as banditry in the theatres of operation in the North East and North West, and are currently undergoing treatment. We refer to the visit, last week, of the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt-General Tukur Buratai, to wounded soldiers at the 44 Nigerian Army Reference Hospital, Kaduna, to cheer up the affected soldiers. The spirits of the officers and men being attended to at the facility must have been lifted by the sight of the army chief not only offering them words of appreciation and commendation but also personally serving them lunch. A number of them who spoke in response to the COAS’ visit were demonstrably excited at the gesture and expressed their readiness to return to the battle front after recovery. Commendable as the initiative by the COAS was, it should not distract attention of all relevant authorities from the need to take drastic steps to address the country’s protracted war against the Boko Haram insurgency and other forms of crime that have evolved from that group’s extremist religious violence. The war is certainly not going on well as it is inexplicable that a hitherto well regarded Nigerian military, with a track record of efficiency, effectiveness and excellence in several international engagements over the years, has been held down to an embarrassing stalemate by a rag tag band of less than 5,000 men when the insurgency started. From his address to the injured officers and men, the COAS did not appear to appreciate the seriousness of the situation confronting both the military and the country it is meant to protect by the persistence of the insurgency. In his words, “I am happy that you made the impact that several of our colleagues and indeed Nigerians are now living in peace though relative, but I assure you that it is much better now than it was five or four years ago”. Ironically, it was not long after this statement by the COAS that the convoy of the Borno State governor, Mr Babagana Zulum, was attacked by suspected Boko Haram insurgents between Baga and Munguno, last week Wednesday. The truth is that after the initial successes of the military in checkmating and rolling back the offensive of the insurgents in the early years of the Buhari administration, leading to their being dislodged from previously held territories, the insurgents have adjusted their strategies and tactics to the new situation and remain as deadly as ever. The COAS should know that the reputation of the military as an institution, and its Service Chiefs as its leaders, needs as much urgent treatment as the wounded soldiers he visited. Given the gallantry and unflagging patriotism of the men who spoke at the health facility, it is obvious that the problem is not with the willingness and ability of the officers and men of the Nigerian military to fight. Rather, there have been unceasing complaints from the war fronts about Nigerian soldiers given poor quality equipment and inferior weapons to fight the better armed and perhaps motivated insurgents. While deaths and Injuries are inescapable features of war, it is far better to do everything to prevent their occurrence rather than being content to offer succour to wounded soldiers who became casualties because they are not given the requisite quality of arms to fight the enemy. At the inception of the President Muhammadu Buhari administration, it discovered the colossal fraud in the management of funds for military procurement with top military brass and politicians sharing over N2.1 billion meant to buy equipment and weapons for the military. Portions of these stolen funds have been recovered while funding for the military has steadily increased between 2015 and now. We thus think that tales of inadequate or poor quality weapons should by now be a thing of the past. While the country’s security budget grew from N932 billion in 2015 to N1.03 billion in 2019, the allocation to the Ministry of Defence specifically increased from N357 billion in 2015 to N435.62 billion in 2019. We also recall that in 2017, $1 billion was released from the country’s excess crude account to help fight the insurgency war conclusively. It is important to give an account of how these huge expenditures have been expended as the operational capacity of the military against the insurgency does not appear to have justified the expenditures. Can it be that the military does not receive the actual amounts announced as statutory allocations to it? If so, the military top brass must report the situation to the appropriate authorities for redress. Security experts have decried a situation where a huge chunk of the defence budget goes to recurrent expenditure such as payment of salaries, wages and allowances, while only a minuscule proportion goes to capital expenditure, including procurement of equipment and weapons. Thus, in the 2020 Appropriation Bill, for instance, 91% of the military and police budget will reportedly be expended on recurrent items and only 9% on capital items. With this lopsided expenditure structure, it will be impossible to adequately arm the military for greater offensive and defensive efficacy. The COAS should be worried about the rate of reported desertions, low morale, ceaseless grumbling and protests as well as resignations by soldiers at the war front. While paying visits to wounded soldiers is worthy of applause, the nation wants to hear more good news about victories against the insurgents by well armed and motivated officers and men.