The Anambra State Government, on Monday, suspended the Igweship certificate of HRH Igwe Peter Uyanwa, (Eze Dike), the traditional ruler of Ukwulu town in Dunukofia LGA of Anambra State. The purported suspension was said to be effective from Friday, July 24th, 2020. According to the government, HRH Uyanwa was suspended for one year, both as the traditional ruler of the community and as Chairman of Anambra Central Traditional Rulers Council. The traditional ruler on his part has come out to accuse the state governor, Willie Obiano, of removing him because he supports President Muhammadu Buhari. The monarch also said the governor cannot really remove him and that the best he could do was keep back his certificate, which he said had no importance in how he ruled his people. ”I remain the traditional ruler of this community and no one can remove me. I give respect to whom respect is due. If I talk, I will die and if I don’t talk I will die, so it is better to talk and die.” From the undercurrents that have trailed this development, it seems clear that this tussle is not unconnected to the big question of who succeeds Obiano after he leaves office. Conversely, the hullabaloo that has engulfed the state can all be traced to this fight. As a pointer, the monarch of Abagana, Mbamalu Okeke said, “Arthur Eze spoke to us about zoning. But if you say only Anambra South will contest governorship, then they need to come for negotiation with other zones.” So politics is at the heart of the brewing crisis. But for now, it is important to stress that governors should not by any means try to intimidate traditional rulers. This is because the Majesties are the fathers of the nation. They are also the conscience of the communities since they are the custodians of our traditional institutions steeped in culture, truth, morality and godliness. No governor should threaten to withdraw their certificates of recognition and staff of office just because they differ on an issue. The governor’s action is also against the law of natural justice and should be condemned by all and sundry.  The step speaks to the growing culture of intolerance amongst our political class. When has dissent become an offense when we are not in a dictatorship? This action is not just against HRH Igwe Peter Uyanwa. Obiano is fighting all other traditional rulers in Anambra State who do not seem to be clapping for him. It is instructive to note that the governor’s action has now pitched him against traditional rulers in the state. For instance, the traditional rulers of various communities in Anambra, who were on solidarity visit at the Palace of Igwe Peter Uyanwa recently, openly blamed the governor for meddling their cultural affairs. The matter seems to have entered a new phase as Prince Arthur Eze, an influential son of the state, have come to the aid of the embattled traditional rulers in the state. He is said to have promised to even lead the monarchs to President Buhari. The development is so sad, as the traditional rulers seem really pained. The Monarch of Nawfia community, Igwe Chijioke Nwankwo, captured their mood when he said: “We have nothing against Obiano. He is our brother and our son. If Igwe Uyanwa has done anything wrong, we the monarchs of the state should be told so, after all we all were in the meeting where Arthur Eze spoke.” My humble advice to Obiano is to stop meddling in the affairs of Anambra traditional institution, which we all know is older than the government and should not be ridiculed because of politics. The position of Prince Arthur Eze during the briefing by the suspended traditional ruler is very pregnant.   He had said “Obiano is fighting a battle he cannot win,” adding that since the governor is not ready to pay the traditional rulers, he (Eze) will be giving N200,000 to all monarchs every month and that he will also give N10m to former LGA chairmen to pursue their matter in court.” This should confirm to Governor Obiano how sensitive issues of tradition and culture can be. He should therefore stop meddling with our revered traditional institution.