 The Liquefied Petroleum Gas Retailers (LPGAR) has said that proper investigation should always be conducted before a gas explosion is attributed to a specific product. The union said it found that the explosion that occurred in Ajao Estate on July 28 was caused by industrial gas and not liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), also called cooking gas. LPGAR, a branch of the Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG), in a statement by the branch National Secretary, Olukayode Solomon, believes the explosion at Innua Mohammed Street, Ajao Estate, Lagos, was caused by acetylene and oxygen gases. LPGAR said: “The wide speculations that the incident was caused by cooking gas (LPG) is not true. Cooking gas explosions as observed over the decades result mainly in flames and burns. “Cooking gas accidents do not lead to the destruction of structures to rubbles in the manner typical of military bombs, which was the case of the Ajao Estate explosion of July 28th 2020. Our investigations have been able to ascertain these facts, hence this statement. “The dealer, who unfortunately died as a result of the explosion, is not by any means a cooking gas retailer. The customer in question was a known panel beater in the neighbourhood who was in the industrial gas shop to buy welding gas.” The union said these were corroborated by neighbours who share the same building with the late dealer as well as eyewitness accounts. LPGAR added: “On that fateful evening, according to eyewitnesses, the panel beater came to buy welding gas at about 7:00pm when the female dealer had already closed but was still in front of her shop in preparation to go home. The panel beater succeeded in persuading her to reopen her shop and attend to him. The late dealer agreed and asked her daughter to attend to the panel beater. “It was in the process of selling the industrial gas to the panel beater that the explosion occurred claiming the lives of the daughter, her mother (the dealer) and the panel beater on the spot. Another casualty, our union learnt, was a neighbour who sustained serious injuries and later died in a hospital. “It is, therefore, important all stakeholders particularly government agencies do a reappraisal of these industrial gases and situate them within an efficient regulatory framework that is known by the public. These gases are not the same as LPG which is popularly called cooking gas. “The production and distribution of these industrial gases are not in any way connected to the cooking gas being regulated by the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR). The composing elements of these particular industrial gases are also different from those of cooking gas. “As a result, LPGAR cannot give any explanation on how these industrial gases (acetylene and oxygen) behave.” The union said it was ready to cooperate with regulatory agencies in ensuring that cooking gas business is conducted in a safe manner stipulated by the concerned authorities. LPGAR-NUPENG sympathised with the state government and the families who lost their loved ones in the explosion and prayed for the quick recovery of those who sustained injuries. 