The new factional chairman of the Ekiti State chapter of the People’s Democratic Party in Ekiti, Bisi Kolawole has called on the members of the party to forget their differences and embrace peace. Kolawole made this call on Monday while addressing PDP supporters at the party’s Secretariat at Ajilosun in Ado Ekiti, stressing the need for aggrieved party members sheathe their proverbial swords so as to ensure PDP relaunch itself to political prominence in Ekiti. The factional chairman loyal to former governor Ayodele Fayose promised to reach out to Senator Biodun Olujimi and its loyalists to unify the party and reinforce the party. He said the state chapter remains solid and indivisible against insinuation that the party is factionalised as a result of crisis that had trailed the conduct of the ward, local government and state congresses. “We have only one PDP in Ekiti. I heard APC saying that we are factionalised. The ruling party has destroyed itself in Ekiti, go to town, people are hungry. They have been rejected by Ekiti people. “Disagreement is not alien to any political setting and at the appropriate time, we will come together and continue to be one”. “We are going to reconcile all reconcilable because not everybody will come on board, some people will be adamant. We have started the process. Misunderstanding is not unusual. With what we are putting together, we will bring those that had gone astray back to our party”. Kolawole said the party got enmeshed in the present internal crisis owing to alleged compromise by the immediate past Gboyega Oguntuase-led SWC. “But the new executive will give APC fire for fire. We have served in government and we know that there is dormancy and lackadaisical attitude in governance. We know what is happening and we will give the APC a run for its money. “The PDP didn’t have voice under the last executive, because they compromised, but we won’t compromise like them”. The factional party chairman said the opposition PDP was poised to end what he called “a reign of terror” allegedly being inflicted on Ekiti people by the APC-led administration in 2022. He said the people were disillusioned with alleged empty promises being made by the APC- led government in the state and is ready to embrace a change. “We know the people of Ekiti are tired of APC government, we shall deliver our people from them in 2022 by the grace of God. Enough is enough (O to ge) for APC. We shall possess our possession and our possession is PDP producing the next governor of Ekiti. “We appreciate your confidence in us and we shall right all wrongs. Our party shall reclaim Ekiti and occupy Oke Ayoba. We pray that Fayemi will end his tenure hale and hearty, but 2022 will be the end of APC reign in Ekiti. “Help us thank our leader, former Governor Ayodele Fayose for his support; we pray that he takes us to the promise land. We pray for long life for Fayose.”