 THE Chairman of the Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee (CENCPC), of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Governor Mai Mala Buni has said that the outcome of the on-going reconciliatory initiatives of the party will shock the country’s political space with massive return of former aggrieved and unwilling members who went to other political parties. He said this in Abuja on Friday while inaugurating Imo and Ogun States Reconciliation Committees. The National Caretaker Committee Chairman said no sooner his committee was inaugurated, he initiated some peace building and true reconciliation mechanism that was designed to give every member a sense of fairness and belonging. He noted that, “I am proud to say that, with the support enjoyed from members of the party, the committee has recorded remarkable headways, reclaiming some distinguished and very valuable members with thousands of their supporters back to our fold. “I am equally fulfilled that our exploits in reconciling our members in Edo and Ondo states has strengthened the party and further expanded our chances with assurances of winning the governorship elections in the two states with land slide victories. “Let me also add that, the on-going reconciliatory initiatives of the All Progressives Congress, will soon shock Nigeria’s political space with massive return of former members who felt aggrieved and unwillingly, went to other political parties.” The Chairman recalled the unfortunate incidences that bedevilled the party in the recent past which threatened its existence and subsequently, the constitution of the Caretaker Committee. He then advised the members of the Reconciliation Committees to reconcile aggrieved members and groups within the party in the spirit of the ongoing reconciliation efforts by the caretaker committee. He said that the party has great confidence in the individual and collective capacities in executing the assignment with sense of fairness, justice and responsibility, placing party interest above personal interests. The committee has the governor of Jigawa State, Alhaji Mohammed Abubakar Badaru as the Chairman, while other members are Ekiti State governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, Plateau State governor, Rt. Hon. Simon Bako Lalong, Nasarawa State governor, Engr. Audu Abdullahi Sule and Governor of Gombe State, Muhammed Inuwa Yahaya Addressing newsmen shortly after inauguration, the chairman the Committee and Governor of Jigawa State, Alhaji Mohammed Badru assured the party of reaching out to all the aggrieved members and group in fulfilment of the dreams of the new leadership of the party. He expressed optimism that his committee will achieved the desired result, as members of the party have implicit confidence in the Gov. Mai Mala Buni led national caretaker committee. He said; “I believe they are all genuine members of the party who care about the development of the party. So, the job of settling the dispute in your own house is not going to be a difficult one. “I am sure there were interests and that was why they split or left, but strengthening the party and making the party strong is more important than individual interests and I am sure they will see that and they will agree to come to the table and resolve all differences. And we have one single party, committed and dedicated to fight for the people and continue to help the people in Imo and Ogun states.  