Frontline health workers in fight against Coronavirus pandemic will get their June hazard allowance next week, the Federal Government has said. Labour and Employment Minister Chris Ngige dropped the hint after Thursday’s meeting between representatives of the Federal Government and the leadership of National Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) in Abuja. In a statement by the Deputy Director, Press and Public Relations, Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment, Charles Akpan, the minister stated that despite shortfalls in revenues, the government would start the payment with six hospitals, while awaiting more funds. The minister assured the doctors that government, through his ministry and the Budget Office of the Federation, in collaboration with the Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning, had rectified residency training for doctors in the budget while the processing would commence soon. Ngige said: “Teaching Hospitals and Medical Centres have been directed to submit to the Federal Ministry of Health the list of names of their personnel who had some hitches in receiving their payments.” The minister assured that the names would be forwarded to the Integrated Personnel Payroll Information System (IPPIS) for action. He added that the issue of shortfall in payments had also been dealt with as the names of the affected persons would be compiled and forwarded to the Finance, Budget and National Planning Ministry. Ngige disclosed that the case of the University of Port Harcourt Teaching Hospital (UPTH) had been amicably resolved, with the Chief Medical Director bringing back the interdicted resident doctors. According to him, the two factors thrown up by the crisis in that local chapter of NARD had merged peacefully. “Elections have been conducted to elect an interim executive to man the affairs of that chapter till December 2020, after which a fresh election would hold for a new executive that would take over in 2021,” the minister said. He congratulated the Dr. Solomon Amadi-led interim government in UPTH and lauded the peace committee for brokering peace successfully and the Nigeria Medical Association (NMA) for superintending over the election. NARD President Dr. Aliyu Sokomba noted that although a few issues were still pending, significant progress had been made in addressing the concerns of the association. He appreciated the Federal Government’s efforts as championed by Senator Ngige.