 EKITI State Governor Kayode Fayemi is not privy to his 2023 presidential campaign posters circulating on the social media, his Chief Press Secretary, Yinka Oyebode, has said. The posters, bearing Fayemi’s photograph and the ruing All Progressives Congress (APC) logo, were reportedly being sponsored by the Chairman of Ikere Local Government Area, Mr. Femi Ayodele. In a statement on Wednesday in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital, Oyebode said: “The attention of Governor Kayode Fayemi has been drawn to news reports of a campaign poster being purportedly circulated on social media by the Chairman of Ikere Local Government Area, Mr. Femi Ayodele. “Mr. Ayodele is reported to be canvassing support for Dr. Fayemi for the 2023 presidential election through the poster, which was designed with the logo of the All Progressives Congress (APC). “However, mindful of the possible interpretation such an unauthorised act could be given by well-meaning members of the public, we consider it important to state as follows: “Dr. Fayemi does not have any knowledge of the campaign poster, neither did he authorise Mr. Ayodele or any other person or group of persons to start a campaign on his behalf. “As a matter of fact, Mr. Ayodele does not and cannot speak for the governor on any matter, be it policy, administrative or political. “Fayemi has reiterated over and over that he has a four-year mandate as governor of Ekiti State and he is focused on actualising his promises to the people of the state through pragmatic leadership and systemic implementation of his administration’s five pillars of development. “This also serves as a note of caution to political appointees, government functionaries, political associates and groups to operate within the ambit of decency and steer clear of actions that are capable of distracting the government, the party and the governor.” Ayodele said he made the posters to show his unalloyed and uncompromising loyalty to Fayemi against insinuations that he was working against him. The local government chairman said the governor is qualified enough for the exalted office, considering his outstanding credentials, administrative shrewdness and political acumen. He added that Fayemi’s commitment, resourcefulness and pedigree put him in good stead to lead Nigeria in the next political dispensation.