 The Archbishop of the Church of God Mission International, Margaret Idahosa, has said that she got attracted to Christianity when God used her late husband to raise a dead boy. She made the revelation in an online video interview posted over the week to mark her 77th birthday. Idahosa, said “l was attracted to Christianity when God used my late husband Archbishop Benson Idahosa to raise a dead boy. “Brother Benson and the dead child left the room. That was what got me into Christianity” She said that in the night, I was going to sleep and I was thinking about the miracle because the coffin for the dead child was already bought and the father had gone to get the certificate of death but came back to see a living child. She continued: I was asking the Lord how he got that power. I did not hear God respond to me but I had peace in my mind. “The following day he came and I asked him how he got the power and he began to preach to me about the finished work of Calvary and that I could do it myself. So he started preaching to me and I started going to church with him”. Idahosa, the first female chancellor in Nigeria, said “when it was time for me to get married my father said, no, you can’t get married to hallelujah man. My father was a die-hard Anglican. So we started praying”. She posited that her husband said we should give him time. When I was 26, my father was still adamant. But my mother was behind me. My father did not come to the wedding but his brothers came. We got married. “I am glad that before he died we were his darling. We changed his house and furniture and gave him all that he could not get when he was working in PWD.” Idahosa said further in the interview that marriage is not sustained by love alone but by patience, communication and perseverance. She warned young ladies who want to marry not to marry an unbeliever. “she must not marry a man that has no work either because Adam had a job before God brought Eve his way.” She said. She, however, said she never thought she would be married to a pastor. “The pastors I knew then had tattered clothes. Their shoes were eaten up. I wanted a man that we would go to the movie together, come to the restaurant and have fun. But God had a different plan. “He (my husband) came along the line and everything changed. We used to talk about marriage when he had not proposed to me. I believed he prayed. When he proposed I said no problem.”