IKI Leads, a Nigeria-based wholly-owned firm involved in distilling, blending, packaging and marketing of both alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages, has signed on three brand ambassadors including ace comedian and Nollywood actors, Ayo Makun popularly known as AY, Chinedu Ani Emmanuel aka Alhaji Musa and Zubi Micheal. The official signing ceremony, held in Lagos, was witnessed by the top management staff of the company, including the Managing Director/CEO, Innocent Onwunali, partners, friends and associates, amongst others. Justifying the need for the endorsement deal, Onwunali said, it was part of efforts to reposition the company as a truly global brand. “I wish to thank the brains behind all what we are doing. The partners, staff. I’m seeing the celebrities here as a call to work, to do our best. It’s a call to service,” he said. The choice of the three brand ambassadors, he said, was most important because the ideas and ideals of the IKI Leads range of products would be better served through the cooperation and support of the artistes. The contract, which is for an initial one year, is renewable if both parties are satisfied with the outcomes, he stressed. The highpoints of the occasion was the signing of the memorandum of understanding (MoU) between the CEO and the new brand ambassadors supported by the company’s lawyer and witnesses.  Speaking on the deal  AY expressed happiness, saying it’s an opportunity to serve. “For me, this is a line of duty and what it means is that the AY brand has been recognised and based on the recognition I have been given an assignment. As an ambassador I know what it takes, and I know what is expected and I know what is required. ”Inasmuch as there is that aesthetic balance from both the brand that we represent in our capacity to do what we have to do, we just go all out there and work. Yes, this is to say that IKI LEADS, you didn’t make a wrong choice. This is a good one and coupled with the fact that I’m very familiar with my two other brothers. Apart from being entertainers, we are also fans of each other’s’ works. What it means is that collectively, we are going to make the brand great.” While advising the youths out there to drink responsibly, he said, “The message is that this is a proudly Nigerian product and we should cultivate the habit of appreciating our own and exhibiting our own out there.” The distillery is mainly known for its flagship products Pasa Bitters, Meridian Brandy and Meridian Ponche. 