Ebonyi State Governor, David Umahi has accussed officers of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) of masterminding criminals to loot shops at the popular St Margate Umahi International market. Governor Umahi, vicibly angry at the hike in the activities of hoodlums in the state, expressed dismay that the officers deployed to protect the market turned around to join in the looting of the place. The number one citizen of the state, without mincing words, accused men of Civil Defense of masterminding the various armed robbery incidents frequently witnessed in the area, revealing that the men were captured in the camera while in the act. Addressing Ebonyi State Community Policing Advisory Committee and service Chiefs in the state Umahi said: “The CCTV mounted at different locations in Ebonyi state captured when the robbers were negotiating with Nigeria Secuirty and Civil Defence Officers. “The other day we captured on camera where arm robbers came to International market negotiated with Nigeria Civil Defence Officers at the gate for 45 minutes and after that they open the gate wide for them to come in. We captured them in our camera. “The seat of that camera is at the Akanu Ibiam. We are still working on it and when we finish, we will be capturing all our boarders and other important locations. “And if you go there, you will see over 30 different televisions, they are all linked with different cameras all through the state. We deployed International mechanisms that was how we were able capture them. ‘I hope the Commissioner of Police will do quickly and take them to court and Civil defence people will be quick to dismiss them,” he prayed. Umahi who vowed to stop at nothing in granting adequate protection to his people called on the Commissioner of Police to quickly arraign the suspects in court. Umahi added: “There was a time in 2016 and 2017 when there was no single armed robbery and kidnapping in Ebonyi state and that was done by the security agencies and the neighborhood watch. “Let me today put the job of Commissioner for Internal security and all Special Assistants on security on the line. If I hear one single arm robbery again I will take your jobs. We have been noted as one of the most secured states in the whole country and that is what can attract investors.” However, the State Commandant of the NSCDC, Lucy Amu denied the allegation. When The Nation contacted her on phone for reaction, she quickly replied that “they are not my officers. My officers were not the ones who did that.”