Men and women have a major problem. They easily forget history, even theirs. Or they just pretend as though unaware of their own beginning. Cote d’Ivoire President Allasanne Ouatarra, 77, was a man after my heart. I was appalled by the attempt to stop him from taking office after he won the presidential election. My joy knew no bounds when he eventually took office. Sadly, he is working his way into ignominy with his attempt to rule the country for a third term. With this ambition, Ouatarra has obviously forgotten the way he got to power. Laurent Gbagbo, the man he replaced, was disillusioned by his quest for life presidency. For no less than six months, Cote d’Ivoire was turned upside. Men died. Women died. Children died. And the elderly were not spared in the orgy of violence that followed Gbagbo’s desire to rule for life. Gbagbo ended up in Hague for crimes against humanity. The country erupted in excitement when Gbagbo was forced out for Ouatarra. Now, it is looking like history will repeat itself and the people will rejoice after Ouatarra’s imminent ouster. Rioters are on the streets of Abidjan because Ouatarra has reneged on an earlier promise not to seek a third term in office. Ouatarra’s desperation has brought back the debate on whether or not Africa is cursed with bad leaders. This has been reinforced by the military take-over in Mali. I hate military rule with passion but men like Ouatarra give soldiers the excuse to usurp power and end up leaving things worse than they met it. Aside Mali, there is also trouble in Guinea over succession. Its president insists on an unconstitutional third term. These men who are unwilling to leave offices are old, tired men. Sudanese-British billionaire businessman Mo Ibrahim once complained about the average age of African leaders. He asked: “Are they leading us to the grave?” A study showed that the average age of the 15 oldest African leaders, at some point, was 77 compared to 52 for leaders of the world’s ten most-developed economies. At the time he was unceremoniously kicked out of office, the late Robert Mugabe was 94. He led Zimbabwe for 37 years. The man who took over from him, Emmerson Mnangagwa, still qualifies as one of Africa’s oldest leader. Mnangagwa, also known as ‘Crocodile’, is about 78 years old and is already unleashing terror on his country, including the arrest of Booker Prize nominee Tsitsi Dangarembga. Yoweri Museveni, who has led Uganda since 1986, is over 76. The country’s constitution had limited the presidential age at 75, but to allow Museveni to continue in office beyond that age, the constitution was amended. The amendment engendered bitterness in the country but Museveni was not moved. He got what he wanted and that was all that mattered. The situation in Tunisia was scandalous. Its late President, Beji Caid Essebsi, was 92. He was a beneficiary of the revolution in the country which led to the Arab Uprising in the Middle East. If not for death, he would still be in power. His 87-year-old ‘younger brother’, Paul Biya, has been ruling Cameroon since 1982. He has survived coup after coup. Abdelaziz Bouteflika only left office as Algerian president controversially last year at 82. He was in the position since 1999 and was serving his fourth term before he was forced to resign. A man, who is two years younger, Arthur Peter Mutharika, is President in Malawi. Another age-mate of his, Alpha Conde, is in charge of Guinea and his scheming to stay in office is currently turning the country apart. Namibia, Ghana, and Nigeria also have presidents who are over 70. Hage Geingob of Namibia is 76. Ghana’s Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo is 76. His Equatorial Guinea counterpart Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo is 78 years old. Ridiculously, his son, Teodoro Nguema Obiang Mangue, is Vice President. Our dear President, Muhammadu Buhari, is 76 years and has three more years in office. Ivory Coast leader Alassane Ouattara is 76 Years. If old age equals wisdom, Africa should be the best. But what do we have to show for these wise men ruling us? Almost nothing. Don’t think I am asking our old people to go and die. We need their wisdom, but largely in the background. A few of them can be in the main arena, but what I abhor is a situation where they take over the arena — which is what is happening in the African political space. Under these leaders, Africa remains backward. Its people are daily trooping to the developed world. Its professionals are ever ready to emigrate to the United States, United Kingdom, and Canada. Australia is now home to a number of them. Under these wise men, corruption and illicit flow of funds are problems the continent is grappling with. A joint report by the African Development Bank (AfDB) and Global Financial Integrity, a United States research and advocacy group, says: “The illicit haemorrhage of resources from Africa is about four times Africa’s current external debt.” The report, Illicit Financial Flows and the Problem of Net Resource Transfers from Africa: 1980–2009, discovered that illicit outflows from Africa over 30 years ranged from $1.2 trillion to $1.4 trillion. I found something very instructive in the report. For many, Africa receives aids from the developed world. But what this report found out is that what the developed world gets from Africa indirectly far outweighs the aids the continent receives. This explains why Raymond Baker, president of the Global Financial Integrity, argued that Africa has been a net creditor to the rest of the world for decades. He said: “The traditional thinking has always been that the West is pouring money into Africa through foreign aid and other private-sector flows, without receiving much in return.” This clearly shows what we need with Africa’s rich resources. Our gold, diamond, cocoa, crude oil, and many more are made to serve private interests. My final take: Africa will not progress with men like Ouatarra, Biya, and Conde replacing general interest with personal interest. No one should be allowed to rule more than two terms of four years each. Anything more than this is giving room to men to play God.  Let me tell you a bit about a young Ijaw woman named Alaere. She wants a fantastic career  and the joy of motherhood. When she is yet to conceive, her mother-in-law blames her and subjects her to snide remarks. Others from her husband’s side join in in torturing her emotionally. And when she eventually conceives and suffers a stillbirth, the mother-in-law begins the process of bring in an underaged as second wife for her husband. As she goes through the drama in her home, there is also abundant drama at work: Her Managing Director wants an affair; a female boss also wants her for a romantic relationship; and her driver, Alhaji Wasiu, proves to be annoying. Alhaji Wasiu wants an heir by force and subjects his wife to all manners of rituals, including eating monkey. His five female children mean nothing to him until he drives his wife to her death bed. What men do in search of heirs! Alaere’s travails are laid bare in Dear Alaere, the debut novel of Eriye Onagoruwa. This novel published by Paperworth Books, on the surface, is about Alaere’s tortuous journey to motherhood. But, it is more than that. It is a social commentary on patriarchy and its evils, Lagos and its contradictions and Nigeria, and its failures. It is a very important story rendered in appealing prose! This is one book likely to break your heart in a pleasant dimension and mend it in an exciting manner. Eriye Onagoruwa writes amazing characters, including the annoying Alhaji Wasiu, who I felt like slapping anytime he opened his dirty, stinking mouth. Please buy, read and gift to loved ones.