Ahead of the October 10 governorship election in Ondo State, Chairmen of 18 local government areas have begun moves to woo Jimoh Ibrahim to join the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) for the actualisation of the second term bid of Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN). The move was made public when the chairmen paid a courtesy visit to the business mogul at the construction site of the University of Fortune, in Igbotako his country home. Akeredolu won the ticket of the APC with a landslide margin and has immediately begun reconciliation with other aspirants. Chief Ibrahim, a member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), is a force to reckon with. Since he enjoys a good relationship with the governor in the legal profession, his political and professional experience will count in Akeredolu’s second term bid. The Chairman of Okitipupa Local Government, Omo’ba Abayomi Adesanya, introduced his colleagues to Ibrahim, the Araba of Osooroland, and thanked him for his support for Akeredolu. He also commended him for his efforts towards improving the economy of Ondo State through job creation with the ongoing University project. The Chairman Akoko Southeast Local Government Area, Yomi Babatunde, described him as an accomplished business man and politician whose support and mentorship will be needed in the APC. He therefore, requested Ibrahim to officially identify with the party as a card carrying member. Ibrahim said: “Akeredolu means a lot to him. He reiterated the governor’s leadership quality which is evident through the giant strides he has accomplished since he took over the mantle of leadership in the State. “Akeredolu was a formal President of Nigeria Bar Association (NBA) where he left very good legacies” Jimoh said. He assured the chairmen that he would consider their request after due consultations with his political mentors and followers. “Ibrahim advised the chairmen to form a formidable team to be relevant and make vital contribution to reelection bid of Akeredolu. Other chairmen in attendance were, Adebayo Oke, Chairman Owo LG; Hon (Mrs). Roseline, Kolawole, Akure South; Olukayode Falayi, Ifedore LG; Jerome Akinsuyi, Idanre LG; (Mrs) Raphat Modupe Ahmed, Odigbo LG; Chief (Mrs). Rebecca Adeoyin Ile Oluji/Oke Igbo;  Iwarere Iji, Ese-Odo and Chief of Staff to the Okitipupa LG, Prince Osmac Ikubuwaje.