An Islamic scholar and Chief Executive Officer of Qiblar International Travel and Tour, Alhaji AbdulFatah AbdulMajeed has said poverty is not a sign of piety. He said this during the disbursement of Zakat proceed by The Companion, an Association of Muslim Men in Business and Professions at their Ikeja, Lagos National Secretariat. No fewer than 75 people received cash and materials worth N8 million from The Companion Zakat and Sadaqah Fund. Abdul Majeed warned that poverty can lead to disbelieve. “This is why our prophet taught us how to pray against poverty. It is the duty of Muslims to fight against anything that has to do with poverty. Allah also commanded Muslims to seek refuge against it,” he said. According to him, it is unwise to seek advice from someone who is hungry. The Companion former National Amir (President), Alhaji Musibau Oyefeso canvassed financial literacy among the Muslim Ummah. Oyefeso said this will make them access the various governments’ intervention funds. He urged The Companion to organise seminar on financial literacy for the beneficiaries of zakat. “We have huge poverty in the country. It can be ameliorated through accessing government’s funds and judicious use,” he said. The Companion National Amir (President), Alhaji Thabit Sonaike urged wealthy Muslims to fulfill their Zakat obligation. Represented by the Zakat and Sadaqah Fund, Alhaji Lai Baruwa, Sonaike reminded them that Zakat was meant to purify their and increase wealth. “They will also earn a great reward from Allah both in this world and the hereafter. If left unpaid unfortunately, the zakat will also be a source of punishment from Allah both in this world and the hereafter. I pray Allah to save us from His punishment,” he said. Sonaike called on the government at all levels to create more social welfare programmes for the suffering masses. Health care services especially at the Primary Health Care Centre, he said, should be free or heavily subsidised. “Pension should be paid as and when due, education in public schools should be affordable, the agricultural sector (especially food crop production, storage and distribution) should be heavily subsidised in order to make prices of food affordable for the poor. The government should do more for the masses while our political office holders should give up part of the extravagant life styles and humongous remuneration to release money for the welfare of the masses. I hasten to remind the government that the security and welfare of the people is their most paramount duty,” he said. Sonaike said he was happy that the number of contributors for this year’s Zakat was higher than in the previous years. He said: “We have also been able to increase the number of beneficiaries as well even though it is less than 50 per cent of the applications we received. This clearly shows that we still have a very long way to go.”  