  I must have been under six years of age when I learned of a throat problem named Tonsillitis, although not by this name. Some of the regular readers of this column reminded me of the childhood experiences of tonsillitis when they told me last month they had bouts of it. In those childhood days when I had not begun school and it was difficult for me to tell which day of the week was a Saturday and which was a Thursday, for example, I knew that  Saturday was the day of trouble for us children. I could tell that, after morning prayer, my grandmother kept our single room apartment locked for us children to take turns to have our Saturday medicine. The cries of children in other households could be a sad reminder that another Saturday morning had broken through. For, in Abule-Ijesha, a squalid neighbourhood of Lagos, the Saturday medicine for preventing and treating childhood diseases was one tablespoonful or two of a horrible smelling concoction of herbs in fermented cow urine kept in a fireplace for weeks or months. We were not as wise as today children. Today’s children would throw the bottles away on a Friday evening or ” accidentally” break them. Cow urine as medicine would be a health sin today. It seemed to work in those days. I am describing health life in the late 1950s, when, like today, malaria fever was killing many children and Western medicine was taboo. Mothers of children stricken with convulsion in the dead of the night would fling their doors open, rush onto the street and scream for help. Their cries brought traffic of medicines to the sick child. That night, in that “compound”, every mother would rouse her children from sleep to drink cow urine as a prophylactic against whatever infection was flying in the air. Many children must have died from this medication. Many must have survived it. It is obvious I am a survivor. In high school, Health Science education enabled me to assume cow urine suppressed convulsion and life-threatening high fever in order to contain infection because it induced vomiting and caused catalytic spasms of the intestine which emitted hot faeces! Both actions had temperature-lowering effects and salvation from convulsion, which were the therapy goals of the mothers of those days. But the fifth and last child of my mother did not survive it. He was born on August 5, 1959 (61 years ago yesterday). My mother died during his birthing process at the Ikeja General Hospital (now Lagos State University Teaching Hospital – LASUTH) because she could not expel the placenta, and, thus, bled to death! The baby, named (Oluwaremilekun and Oluwafeyiropo) would himself die about one year later from malaria fever and convulsion. That is why, till this day, I find it difficult to be a disciple of urine  Therapy (UT), the so called Water of  Life, despite all the healing properties ascribed to it. In those days, cow urine might have saved many lives from malaria fever and convulsion, as is shown in evidence from survivors such as me. But it might also have caused or triggered many infections such as those which involved the lymphatic system, the human system family to which the tonsils belong. The Tonsils, like the Adenoids and the Lympth Nodes are important members of this great system. They prevent dangerous substances and germs from entering the body or from continuing their existence in it. The Adenoids exist high up in the throat, behind the nose. When they experience poisons too much for them to handle, Adenoids become inflamed and block the passage of air from the nostrils. In adults and children alike, this may be a cause of snoring. Some children foam in the mouth as a consequence in their sleep. Many have to breathe through the mouth day and night, thereby increasing the workload of the Tonsils which are neighbours of the Adenoids. Such children are likely to experience poor oxygen intake, body pains and learning difficulties. Some of those Nigerian children develop enlarged Adenoids after inhaling chemical substances in their beddings over a period of time. Nigerians have graduated from the grass to the cotton mattress and now we have the foam mattress. Because foam is made from chemical processes, the producers cover it with cloth to hold back some of the obvious toxins. In the police barracks of the 1950s where I was born, and those of the 1960s were I grew up, European police officers supplied the Nigerian rank and file police men and women with thick blankets to cover their mattresses. It was from there I picked up the thick blanket culture for mattresses. In many Nigerian homes today, only bed linen are spread over foam mattresses. Where these are inadequate to hold back chemicals in the foam mattress, Adenoid inflammation may occur. There are many other possible causes of this condition, no doubt.  Lymph Nodes  They are like military check points. They are located in the lymphatic system throughout the body. This system transports the lymph in the body just as the blood vessels take the blood around. The lymph, unlike the blood, which is red, is almost clear white. What gives the blood its red colour is the red blood cell. These cells carry oxygen from the lungs to the cells via the lymph and carbon dioxide from the cells to the lungs, again, through the lymph. In the course of circulating blood throughout the body in blood vessels, the near clear-white part separates from the red portion to take white blood cells, nutrients and oxygen to immobile cells of tissues and organs. This near clear-white nutrient-dense lymph travels in those special channels or vessels. These channels are the lymphatic system. At various points in the lymphatic system, the body stations “military” check points that are called Lympth Nodes. Their job, like those of the Tonsils and Adenoids in the throat is to filter germs, tissue debris, toxins and degenerate tissue such as cancerous tissue from the lymph and get them “detonated”. If the load becomes heavier than they can stand, the Lymph Nodes may get irritated and become inflamed (swollen) to let us know something adverse is going on. They are located in places such as underneath the skin, on either side of the neck, beneath the jaw bone, in the armpits, and on either side of the groin, among other places.  The Malam  In the days of cow urine medicine, the fear of the Malam walking down the street alone or in a group was the beginning of wisdom for us children. It was possible cow urine poisoned the blood and the “military” check points got the poison arrested and the poisons got the Lymph Nodes inflamed in return. For many children often came down with Tonsillitis or swellings of these nodes in different parts of the body. My sister came down once with swellings in the neck. The Malams were “specialist surgeons for such matters as well as for Tonsillitis. For Tonsillitis, they were invited by parents of a challenged child. They got as many as four agile adults to hold the child down. He or she was sat down. One adult sat directly behind him or her with both legs locked around the child’s waist. One adult held down one leg while another took care of the hands. The child was made immobile thereby. Then the surgeon, aided by the parents, forced open the child’s mouth, clipped down the tongue with a wooden instrument and proceeded to probe the engorged and drooping tonsils with a curved, long, sharp knife, aimed at surgically removing the tonsils with a deft stroke from their roots or base-line in the throat. As the tonsil sprang out and glided down the mouth of the child he or she,  was warned not to swallow the pus and blood discharge by the tonsil like water from a burst or ruptured water hose. This was a painful experience for the child.  Even more painful was the sterilising process after, which involved stopping the bleeding with freshly-made pepper soup which the patient was forced to lick and drink. This was after the patient would have had mouth rinses with warm saline water. This probably made the nerves contract and stop the bleeding. For many days, the child would feel not only the pains of the surgery, but of muscles in different parts of his or her body which arose from the physical struggle with several adults. Every child who witnessed these events and was lucky to not be the Malam’s patient, lived in fear of seeing him on the street or around the home of his or her parents.  Tonsillitis  Happily, today, the Tonsillitis patient need have no fear of the Malam. He or she can have the infected tonsils surgically removed by a qualified and competent surgeon and have the bleeding stopped or quietened not by  hot peppers or hot food. I do  not know if we can still hold on to the  belief of our parents of old that the infected, engorged and drooping tonsils must not burst, and that, if it did, its contents of  pus and other  poisons swallowed, would result in death. There is no doubt that a bombardment of the system with toxins from burst, infected tonsils would cause germs and toxin rampages in many parts of the body. But whether this is a terminal condition as was once thought is for specialists in this field to determine. What is clear is that, today, Tonsillitis, like Adenoids, can be successfully treated with herbal medicines. I caved in to surgery once, in respect of one child, but undertook natural procedures for the Adenoids of others. A reader of this column now resident in New York and I never fail to discuss her child whenever we speak on the telephone. Back home in Nigeria, at the age of six or under, he developed Adenoid problems. His father seriously wanted a quick-fix surgery. But the mother preferred a natural resolution when she learned he may forever lose the immunity defence this tissue was meant to provide if it was removed. Luckily for the family, the doctor who was seeing the child was not the “hurry-hurry” type. He thought child could outgrow it if he was supported. This support was provided by diet and herbal medicines. Today, he must be over 16 and still no recurrence of Tonsillitis. I have witnessed Tonsillitis cases resolved with herbal medicines. Actually, this is a major question often asked by Tonsillitis-challenged people who, like me, fear surgery. The first step towards a natural cure, in my view, is to appreciate the fact that the tonsils belong to the lymphatic system as well as to the immune system. So, we need to clean up the lymphatic system, detoxify the Lymph Nodes and support the tonsils to literally vanquish poison in its pantry. In these venture propolis is well recommended. It is a product of the honey bees which they use to paint” their hives. Propolis ensures no germs survive there. That is why Egyptian Pharaohs embalmed with propolis-rich honey hundreds of years ago have not decayed till today! For mouth and throat questions, propolis tablets and syrup may be used. The tablets may be chewed and used to gaggle. I believe the syrup does the job better. Better still, you can use the propolis throat spray. Golden Seal Root Powder is now as expensive as gold, literally speaking. It can be taken as tea and left on in the mouth as a paste to keep the mouth and throat good company. Women who suffer from vaginosis or candida issues know of its value when it is used as a paste overnight in the secret place. We cannot forget Oregano Oil spray or drops, which has proven a good health ally for COVID-19 look-alike symptoms patients. A medicine of equal worth as the foregoing is the group of plant medicines warehoused in a proprietary product named Amazon Lymph Support. It comes in handy not only when the Lymph Nodes have enlarged, such as those in the armpits during breast cancer escalations, but even when one is not ill, but wish to give the system a helping hand to do its job without stress. We must remember always that physical, emotional, chemical and environmental stress, among others, impact our systems and health. As I write today, I have just been through with my first Organic Coffee Enema of the month. The second will be done mid-month. I should, indeed, do it every week, to not only detoxify the digestive system but the entire biological system. If about 70 percent of immune capacity is logged down in the intestine, as we have been told it is, we may be unhelpful to our bodies if we do not free some of this capacity for deployment elsewhere, by lending the intestine a helping hand. In www.olufemikusa.com you should find an article titled “The pit toilet inside all of us” and another titled “Death begins slowly” but surely in the intestine. That PIT TOILET is the intestine.  Dr. H.V.A Vogal  Vogel advises us in his book, The Nature Doctor, that Tonsillitis like sore throat, can cause ear infections, inflammation of the kidneys (nephritis), arthritis and even heart problems, including periditis (irritation and swelling of the membrane which  surrounds the heart). He recommends that the throat be painted with Whey a protein. He suggests also, Pimpernel Root (Pimpinella Saxifraga). He does not rule out lemon juice and calcium supplement in the diet. A remedy often forgotten but which features on his prescription pad is carbbage poultice alternated with mud cabbage poultice arround the neck. The cabbage poultice is widely reported to soak out toxins, reduce or stop inflammation and pain. The leaves are beaten to pulp till they ooze juice and then wrapped around the throat or any swelling part of the body. Being anti-inflamatory, they tone down inflammation or swelling anywhere they are wrapped around. Horseradish Oil in a carrier oil such as Olive Oil is good for throat massage, he suggests as well. If the tonsils have broken open and thrown their poisons into the body, it would be necessary to gently activate the eliminative organs, especially the liver, intestine, skin and kidneys, if permanent damage is to be avoided. This will be in addition to cleansing of the lymphatic system and switching to a diet which provides more minerals and vitamins. Fruits and vegetables, in particular, nettle, yarrow, and baobab are legendary here. Another helpful combination used by some clinics is Clove Oil in a carrier antibiotic and anti-viral oil such as Black Seed Oil. It is good for gum and teeth challenges even in Gigivitis (swelling of the gums) and nibbling cough as well as for the digestive system. With the tongue, this combination oil may be swirled around in the mouth, allowed to bathe the throat several times and then allowed to gently drain down, sometimes by inclining the head backwards. In all healing endeavours, we can never exhaust the treasure trove of mother nature. So I would like to mention only one more possible healing agent in this condition. That is Tocotrienol, a powerful form of Vitamin E which is well represented in palm fruit. Please recall that palm oil or red oil, as we call it in Nigeria, comes from palm fruit, and that the unadulterated and unprocess palm oil is an anti-poison in our culture. As a protection against COVID-19, I have become passionate not only about palm fruit derived bangs soup. I boil and eat palm fruit in place of meat in most meals, including corn pap nowadays. When fish bone picks my gums or I tend to over floss the dentisture, I tend to develop gum boils and toothache which could take some time to contain. Two weeks ago, I had an encounter with such gum boil and toothache. But to my surprise, the boil and the ache were gone the morning after the day they came up. With dinner the previous night, I had eaten about twelve palm fruits. My gum boils and the aches they cause have never disappeared so fast. The long and short of it is that our forebears got it all right from experience that Tonsillitis may kill, even if they did not get the solution as accurately as we do today in alternative medicine. 