 THE All Progressives Congress (APC) Media Campaign Council for Edo governorship election has said its campaign launch, attended by governors and other leaders of the party, was a display of the party’s unity to ensure the victory of its candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu. The Chairman of the Media Campaign Council, Mr. John Mayaki, in a statement yesterday, said the rally showed that Pastor Ize-Iyamu had obtained the favour and love of the people and would win on September 19. He said: “Our great party, the APC, has continued on its exemplary path with a campaign launch that excites admiration and awe. With the comprehensively peaceful rally, which drew an enormous crowd of loyal supporters after our candidate, Pastor Ize-Iyamu, received the endorsement of the President, we have set off a campaign that is certain to bring success and victory on September 19. “A rare kind of unity and consensus factored the rally, as it attracted governors elected on the platform of our great party, who reiterated their support and eagerness to ensure the success of the APC and the emergence of Pastor Ize-Iyamu as the next governor. “The leaders of our party in Edo State were delighted to receive Governors Mai Mala Buni (Yobe State), Nasir El-Rufai (Kaduna), Babajide Sanwo-Olu (Lagos), Atiku Bagudu (Kebbi), Hope Uzodimma (Imo), Rotimi Akeredolu (Ondo), Abubakar Sani Bello (Niger), Gboyega Oyetola (Osun), Dapo Abiodun (Ogun), Abubakar Badaru (Jigawa), Kogi State Deputy Governor Edwin Onoja and other leaders of our party, including Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege, Minister of Transportation Rotimi Amaechi, Minister of State for Petroleum Resources Timipre Sylva and Minister of State for Mines and Steel Development Uchechukwu Oga.” “The launch entailed, also, a remarkably successful outing at the palace of the Oba of Benin, Oba Ewuare II, where, having fulfilled the necessary traditional requirements, Pastor Ize-Iyamu obtained the royal blessing, which his opponent, Governor Godwin Obaseki, failed to receive, having forgotten the necessary ingredients needed for the ceremony in the usual sloppiness and disorganisation that rendered his administration impotent and a complete failure. “The launch rally, through its peculiar characteristics of peace, unity, large crowd turnout and people-centred approach, recalls the historical electoral display of 2015 that saw President Muhammadu Buhari coast to victory, riding on a nationwide support novel in Nigerian politics. The same President gave his blessings, endorsing Pastor Ize-Iyamu and beginning the plot and setting of a similar story of eventual success preceded by a long and repeated attempt. “For Pastor Ize-Iyamu, the sail has set, and the winds seem aright for sure victory. Through a modern and inclusive engagement so far, he has obtained the favour and love of the people, and by the significant launch on Saturday, the APC will no doubt reclaim Edo State.” 