 THE Federal Government on Thursday decried the low number of COVID-19 tests so far carried out across the country, stating that most states are yet to fully utilise the current testing capacity available. It stated that as at Thursday, more than 70 per cent of the COVID-19 tests conducted have been in only nine states – Lagos, Kano, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Plateau, Oyo, Kaduna, Edo, Ogun and Rivers. It also said it is currently working to ensure that the 85 Local Government Areas (LGAs), where no tests have been conducted, will be prioritised, as it plans to set up at least one sample collection site in the 774 councils across the country. Minister of State for Health Dr. Olorunnimbe Mamora, during the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 briefing in Abuja, said: “As of today, more than 70 per cent of all the tests conducted have been in nine states, including Lagos, Kano, FCT, Plateau, Oyo, Kaduna, Edo Ogun Rivers with 25 per cent of the tests in Lagos alone. We shall continue to work with state governments to ramp up case findings and sample collection activities. “This pandemic has had its impact on our young people. As at yesterday, 46 per cent of positive cases in the country are young people between ages 21-40. I will, therefore, appeal to our youths to take responsibility. Let us ensure that we adhere to the advisories to wear face masks appropriately, regularly wash your hands and ensure respiratory hygiene.” He added: “We are concerned by the resurgence of infection in healthcare workers. In a bid to sustain the gains we have made in reducing the rate of infection among our health workers, we have made training and retraining of health workers on infection prevention and control. “In Abia State, we have concluded the training of 594 healthcare workers from private and public health facilities on infection prevention and control. We are currently investigating healthcare associated infection in a health facility in Kaduna State. “Lessons learnt from this will be used to improve service delivery. I encourage our health workers not to drop their guards as the pandemic is still with us. Use your PPEs appropriately and judiciously. We have ensured that PPEs are available in all our health facilities.” The Head of Epidemiology of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Elsie Ilori, in her address, said: “In line with our national strategy, we have rapidly scaled up our testing laboratory assessing capacity nationwide. As at today, we have 63 laboratories that are testing for COVID-19 in the country. “We have leveraged on the existing laboratories in the country, including other disease laboratories and private laboratories, to set up these laboratories. In addition to accessibility and improving the turnaround time of our results, our aim is to expand national testing capacity which we have achieved. We have also supported the setup of sample collection sites. “However, our current situation is that our testing labs are under-utilised. That is because we are not collecting enough samples for our labs to test.”   