Osagie Otabor, Akure Chairmanship candidate of the Social Democratic Party, in Idanre local government, Mr. Bankole Akinselure and his running mate, Mr. Idowu Akinrotohun have been hospitalised after been attacked by thugs. The thugs were said to have used matchet to inflict bodily injuries on Bankole, Akinrotohun and other stalwarts of the party at the party’s secretariat at Agosile Odode area of Idanre town. Witnesses said the suspected thugs carried out the attacks at a meeting of SDP members in Idanre town. The Ondo Independent Electoral Commission (ODIEC) had fixed local elections for this Saturday, August 22, and the SDP is one the 10 political parties participating in the election. The party is factionalised as it conducted parallel primaries where two candidates, Alhaji Adekunle Saliu and Mr. Tope Fasua emerged but INEC recognised Fasua. About seven persons were wounded in the attack on SDP members. It could not be ascertain if the attack was as a result of factions within the party but
SDP members present at the meeting pointed accusing fingers at the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the town. A member of the SDP who was attacked said the thugs were hired to disrupt the meeting because of the popularity of the party in the area. According to him, “The attack was launched on us during a meeting at our office (SDP Secretariat) at the Agosile Odode in Idanre. “These thugs came fully armed and attacked SDP members in the meeting with cutlasses and axes including stones. “In fact, the thugs destroyed all the posters and billboards that were posted at the secretariat because those who sponsored them are threatened with the popularity of our candidate for the Saturday LG election. “We had to quickly call the police to intervene but surprisingly to us, they came late and started watching these thugs attacking and destroying our properties.” Mr. Akinselure said it was unfortunate that policemen who came to the scene of the attack failed to stop the attackers.” Spokesman for the Ondo State Police Command ASP Tee Leo-Ikoro, said no arrest was made because the SDP members said they have settled the matter. He said it was skirmishes between SDP members.