 In an ever-increasingly sophisticated society, dynamism, innovation and proactive interference are preconditions to make institutions and organisations be in control of situations. Under the circumstances, revamping policing in Nigeria would inculcate the virtues of meritocracy, pragmatism and honesty in order to achieve its desired results. Mindful of these facts, the Ministry of Police Affairs, since its re-establishment last year has evolved some policies and programmes aimed at achieving tangible results. On assumption of office on August 21, last year following his appointment as the Minister of Police Affairs by President Muhammadu Buhari, the thoroughbred administrator, Mohammed Maigari Dingyadi, has demonstrated his commitment to deploying his administrative prowess in exploring the ideals of change over stasis in driving the mandates assigned to the newly re-established ministry. The mandate was to ensure the safety and security of all Nigerians and to help in providing an environment conducive enough to guarantee peaceful co-existence among the citizens as well as providing an enabling environment for socio-economic development and sustainable livelihood for the people. Generally, the new ministry was to, among other functions, initiate, formulate and implement policies and programmes relating to policing and internal security as well as providing supervision and administrative support to the Nigeria Police Force (NPF), the Police Academy (POLAC) and newly established Nigeria Police Trust Fund (NPTF). To assist the minister to accomplish the task of revamping policing framework in Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari had approved the deployment of renowned accountant and topnotch technocrat, Nnamdi Maurice Mbaeri, as Permanent Secretary for the ministry, to give administrative leverage to policies and programmes of the ministry. To this effect, functional departments and units were swiftly re-established for ease of bureaucratic undertakings. In undertaking the onerous task of returning the primacy of Nigeria Police in tackling internal security challenges, the seasoned Sokoto-born administrator and astute politician, Dingyadi took a deep retrospect into the ministry’s activities in the past, with a view to appraising current status to build sustainable policing architecture capable of deepening safety of lives and property in all parts of Nigeria. This consideration necessitated the resuscitation of the USD470 million National Public Security Communication System (NPSCS) Network popularly called CCTV project. This project was executed to a lesser degree of success prior to inauguration of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration in 2015. Work is ongoing to fully revive NPSCS projects, through concession arrangements, to help ease communication challenges hampering the advancement of police operations, provide intelligence, surveillance and quick response by Nigeria Police. The project, when fully operational, will generate over two million well-paying jobs for unemployed youths. Dingyadi said in compliance with the Federal Government’s directive on mandatory enrollment of government workers in the Integrated Personnel Payroll Information System (IPPIS) platform, to block leakages, the ministry supervised the capturing of police personnel and personnel of Police Academy, Wudil and Police Colleges nationwide. The ministry, through the Nigeria Police, embarked on trend analysis/statistics on crime data for mapping and deployment of resources. State-of-the-art CCTV cameras were installed in the FCT and Lagos for gradual implementation of the smart policing initiative. This project will be expanded to cover other states of the federation. The acquisition and deployment of Police Operational/Combat Vehicles and establishment of Police Crime and Incident Centre in December, last year is also an innovative approach toward deepening policing in President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration. In addition to the centre inaugurated at Force Headquarters in Abuja, centres in Lagos have been completed and ready for inauguration, while those in Port Harcourt and Kano are near completion. Manpower deficit in the police also received attention, through collaborative efforts of the ministry, Police Service Commission and Nigeria Police to recruit 10,000 constables approved by the President and Chairman, Nigeria Police Council, President Muhammadu Buhari in gradual fulfilment of United Nation’s recommendation of 1 policeman to 400 citizens. To this end, the ministry said an additional 40,000 police constables will be recruited in phases, starting with the 10,000 recruit advertisement for the year 2020. Enlistment into the officer cadre also received a boost with the passing out and inauguration of 637 cadets by President Muhammadu Buhari on December 12, last year. While 1,200 Assistant Superintendents of Police/Cadet Inspectors were admitted, another set of about 800 cadets are being recruited for the 2020/2021 academic year. The need to take policing closer to communities through community policing initiative of this administration is being implemented by Nigeria Police through the supervision of the ministry. The idea is to improve on existing police/community partnership to guarantee community ownership of policing efforts, for better intelligence gathering, insulate manpower gaps, resolve communal clashes in affected areas and build goodwill trust and confidence for sound policing. State and local government implementation committees have been set up in all the states of the federation, while recruitment of constabularies in local government areas is in progress. Within the last 12 months of the ministry’s re-establishment, several academic programmes at the Nigeria Police Academy in Wudil received accreditation. Such courses include English language, History/International Studies, Law, Accounting, Management Sciences, Political Science, Sociology, Biological Science, Biochemistry, Mathematics, Chemistry and Physics, with few courses awaiting accreditation. Capacity building for all cadres of police officers was intensified to acquaint officers with modern policing skills. This was further heightened with the inauguration of the third Police Mobile Force (PMF) Training College in Nasarawa State on August 12, this year for training of PMF personnel, Special Forces and Special Protection Unit. Similar Mobile Police training facilities will be established across the remaining geo-political zones to build requisite capacity against emerging violent crimes, the ministry said. Also worthy of mention, is the recent re-organisation of the Force which upgraded the Force Criminal Intelligence into a full department, creation of zonal investigation centres, creation of additional Zonal Commands from 12 to 17 and more Police Mobile Squadrons to meet increasingly growing security needs. The setting up of Operation Puff Adder by the Inspector-General of Police, (IGP) Mohammed Adamu, has also strengthened the fight against terrorism, kidnapping, armed banditry and other violent crimes. The welfare need of policemen has not also been left out. Police medical facilities have been upgraded, payment of over N2 billion insurance claims and improvement of salaries and promotion of 26,390 inspectors, 28,190 sergeants, 690 corporals and other deserving junior officers. Similar promotion was also carried out at the officers’ cadre. With the takeoff of Police Trust Fund more attention will be focused on building critical policing infrastructure, improving capacity building, enhancing welfare needs through the provision of decent residential and office accommodation, fund research into new crime-fighting methods and provision of needed logistics. Efforts have also been made to match the increasing crime rate across the country with actions to drastically reduce the problem. Although it still has much to achieve, the Ministry of Police Affairs is working closely with the leadership of the Nigeria Police Force to put in place a more proactive security structure across the country to secure lives and properties.