 Barring any hitch, international flights will resume into Lagos and Abuja Airports on Septemberb 5, 167 days after the Federal Government banned scheduled operations into the country as part of containment measures for the spread of the deadly coronavirus disease. In over 22 weeks and six days, the Federal Government only granted approvals/permits for “special and evacuation”  flights for Nigerian citizens and other nationals trapped in countries that experienced high infection and deaths from the COVID -19 pandemic. Though the Federal Government has announced the date of international flights resumption, an air of uncertainty still pervades as the Ministry of Aviation and Foreign Affairs are yet to list qualifying countries and carriers approved to fly into Nigeria following the restriction it placed on China, Italy, Iran, South Korea, Spain, Japan, France, Germany, Norway, the United States of America, the United Kingdom, Netherlands and Switzerland since March 23. Besides, it is unclear whether the over 30 foreign carriers operating into Nigeria pre-COVID era will get the nod as aviation authorities were yet to communicate the criteria for carriers that will be mandated to ferry in 1,280 passengers daily into Lagos and Abuja Airport, already cleared as temporary points of entry for international departures and arrivals. Besides the restriction of operations into Lagos and Abuja Airports, there are more headaches for foreign carriers as the government is yet to roll out the template for qualifying carriers permitted to ferry in passengers. The air of uncertainty is predicated on the threat by the Federal Government that it will invoke the principle of reciprocity in admitting countries and their airlines into Nigeria ahead of flight resumption. As health and relevant authorities ramp up efforts to flatten the curve of COVID -19 through improved testing and treatment, the Presidential Task Force on COVID -19 has, however, continued to study the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) with findings indicating a steady decline over the last few months. Chairman of the PTF on COVID -19 and Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr Boss Mustapha said the PTF has put in place Point of Entry Protocols to minimise importation of the virus. This measure, he said, has become imperative ahead of re-opening of the airspace for international flights on August 29. But, he expressed worry over the recent spike in the number of confirmed cases in Lagos, which was traceable to evacuees. He said: “Unfortunately, the validation process for the pre-boarding PCR test has shown that 64 per cent of the recent spike in the number of confirmed cases in Lagos (404) on Saturday, August 22 came from the evacuees.” National Coordinator of the Taskforce, Sani Aliyu explained that with the resumption of international flights as from August 29, there would be an additional 10, 000 tests to be conducted daily. He said airlines would be made to pay a fine of $3, 500 if they board a COVID-19 patient. The Federal Government, on Monday, revised existing protocols, which now prescribes that passengers coming into the country must present a PCR COVID-19 test result within seven days. Such passengers presenting a PCR negative result are expected to self-isolate for seven days and submit his or her COVID-19 test before reuniting with the community. The Ministry of Aviation, Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Federal Ministry of Health and the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID -19 were yet to finalise discussions with foreign carriers on the template to be adopted for flights resumption. As foreign carriers await communication from the government on the mode of operations of flights, Aviation Minister Hadi Sirika said the reduction of flights into Lagos and Abuja was intended as a temporary measure to test the capacity and preparedness of the country to handle flights post-COVID-19. The minister, who disclosed this at a webinar, said the experiment would last for just two or three weeks before the doors will be open to all carriers that meet with all compliance guidelines of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) to resume full operations in the country. Investigations by The Nation reveal that some foreign carriers may have concluded plans to operate scheduled flights effective September 1, 2020. Checks by The Nation reveal that no fewer than 12 foreign airlines have released timetables for the resumption of flights into the country. Some of the airlines that have indicated readiness to resume scheduled flights into Nigeria are British Airways, Air France, KLM Airlines, Lufthansa, Emirates, Etihad Airways, Delta Air Lines, Turkish Airlines, Ethiopian Airlines, Egypt Airways, Angola Airlines, and African World Airlines. Air Italy, Qatar Airways, South Afri­can Airways, Kenya Airways, Middle East Airlines, Rwanda Airways, Asky Airlines, and Air Namibia – all, in the docu­ment, said, “no flight yet.” The document made available to The Nation  indicated that Ethiopian Airlines may be the first foreign carrier to fly into the country next week, from its base in Addis Ababa. British Airways, Air France, KLM Airlines, and Africa World Airways would all fly into Nigeria next week. Also, the United States carrier, Delta Air Lines, would operate its maiden flight into Nigeria after the re-opening of the airspace on September 11, and Etihad Airways would operate into Nigeria on October 2. After a five-month hiatus, Virgin Atlantic Airways said it will make a return to Lagos on September 10. A statement from the carrier said to ensure the health and safety of customers and crew, Virgin Atlantic is implementing additional measures to offer peace of mind in the airport and when taking to the skies. These measures include enhanced and thorough cleaning practices at check-in, boarding gates and on-board, including the use of electrostatic spraying of high-grade disinfectant in all cabins and lavatories before every flight, ensuring that no surface is left untouched. Safe distancing will also be adhered to wherever possible, and mask-wearing will be required throughout the journey. All customers will be provided with a personal Health Pack for their health and safety, which will contain three medical-grade face masks to be worn on-board, surface wipes and hand gel. Only last week, the Federal Government revised the quarantine protocol for arriving international passengers to Nigeria, stating that they must have tested negative for COVID-19 twice within two weeks of pre-boarding. They are expected to have undergone a PCR test in the country of departure as any test before two weeks is unacceptable. A former Director-General of NCAA, Harold Demuren, urged the relevant aviation authorities to conduct mock operations for international flights for the nation to be able to benchmark its preparedness. The General Manager Public Affairs, Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), Mrs. Henrietta Yakubu, said FAAN has put arrangements in place regarding passenger facilitation and what to expect as international flights resume. Yakubu stated that the COVID-19 had brought a lot of changes to air travel to ensure the safety of passengers and airport users. At all airports, she said, corporeal distancing would be implemented in addition to the authorities insisting on 100 per cent temperature screening. She said the authority will insist on compulsory wearing of face masks, disinfection of shoes and passengers’ luggage, which would also be carried out. The Director-General of NCAA, Captain Musa Nuhu, said the passports of intending passengers into Nigeria would no longer be collected for safekeeping for 14 days by the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS). He noted that all passengers entering into the country would be required to show their COVID-19 certificates. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Air Peace, Allen Onyema commended Sirika for the decision of the Federal Government to enforce the principle of reciprocity in granting permission to airlines to resume operations in the country as it opens its airspace. Onyema said this decision would elevate the image of Nigeria in the comity of nations and send a signal to international airlines that it is no more business as usual. To make facilitation seamless at points of entry, Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA) Lagos Command has called on airlines to administer passenger information cards aboard the aircraft to reduce delays on arrival at airports. The Comptroller NIS MMIA Abdullahi Usma said it was the responsibility of the airlines, apart from distribution of information cards to also ensure that the cards were filled appropriately by passengers to avoid delays at the Immigration counters. He emphasised that if the documents or cards do not have the required information which the NIS needed, it could result in officers asking certain questions to update the cards leading to delay in processing. The NIS Comptroller-General, Mohammed Babandede, also approved that foreigner whose residence permit in Nigeria had expired within the COVID-19 lockdown should still be admitted in contact with the airlines. On work permit, the MMIA Comptroller NIS said an online Temporary Work Permit (TWP) visas, Pre-approval had been introduced because of the closure of the foreign missions due to the pandemic. He explained that, unlike before, the Pre-approval was not seen but only the visa, adding that this was for a short time and when things pick up fully, it would no longer be acceptable. As international flights resume in Nigeria, global airports body, Airports Council International (ACI) World has canvassed the blanket replacement of quarantines of passengers flying between countries with risk-based testing protocols backed by health certificates and other tactics that reassure the travelling public amid the COVID-19 pandemic. IATA Director-General Alexandre de Juniac said: “This is a call for common sense and taking responsibility. The vast majority of travellers understand the importance of face-covering both for themselves as well as for their fellow passengers, and airlines appreciate this collective effort. But a small minority creates problems. Safety is at the core of aviation, and compliance with crew safety instructions is the law. Failure to comply can jeopardise a flight’s safety, disrupt the travel experience of other passengers and impact the work environment for the crew.  