 THE Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and First Exploration & Petroleum Development Company Limited (FIRST E&P) have received the Abigail-Joseph Floating, Production, Storage and Offloading (FPSO) unit. Prior to her sail-away, the FPSO underwent upgrade in Keppel Shipyard, Singapore, to meet specified standards. The partnership between NNPC, Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), First E&P, Yinson and Keppel Shipyard, sources said, helped ensure critical pre-deployment for the FPSO were completed in time. As part of technology transfer, a team of young professionals were at the Keppel Shipyard. They will form an integral part of the FPSO team in the production phase. The FPSO is a 274-metre long converted Suezmax trading tanker. It is self-propelled with 11 cargo storage tanks, two slop tanks and six dedicated water ballast tanks, including beffore and after peak tanks. It will be deployed in the Anyala and Madu fields, offshore as part of OMLs 83 & 85 field development, Nigeria’s first indigenous integrated oil and gas project in the shallow offshore. The processing on the FPSO includes facilities for oil separation, stabilisation, produced water treatment, gas treatment and compression. The processing and storage capacities are oil processing of 50,000 barrels of oil per day, produced water treatment of 20,000 barrels of water daily, gas handling of 39 million standard cubic feet  daily and cargo storage capacity of 700,000 barrels. The FPSO will be operated for First E&P by Yinson. The ongoing exploration in the Anyala Field is planned for seven  wells approved by DPR. The drilling uses Borr Drilling’s Natt rig. The batch drilling from the installed Conductor Supported Platforms (CSP) in Anyala field is a novel technology deployed in the Niger Delta Basin. Anyala field will be developed along with the nearby Madu field (OML 85) through a shared production facility. The produced oil will be processed through the Abigail-Joseph FPSO. Associated gas and non-associated gas developments will be integrated into a gas-integration hub designed to feed an export line for the local gas market.