Last week Friday marked 12 years precisely since Nigeria handed over the oil-rich Bakassi Peninsula to Cameroon. Unfortunately, respite is a mirage for Nigerians previously domiciled on the peninsula who opted to relocate from under Cameroonian control of the territory. They are yet mostly quartered in Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) camps in grossly derelict conditions across Cross River and other South-south states. Their experiences in those camps border on a humanitarian crisis, and it is far from certain when substantial help is coming their way. These displaced persons are hapless victims of a tangle between Nigeria and Cameroon over the territory they had lived in historically. After Southern Cameroons voted in 1961 to leave Nigeria and join Cameroon, Bakassi had remained under Calabar administration in Nigeria. But Nigeria ceded sovereignty over the peninsula following the verdict by the International Court of Justice (ICJ) that awarded the territory to Cameroon on October 10, 2002. Ownership of the swampy territory had been contested by both countries in the years after Independence, with the presence of oil and gas in the peninsula fuelling tensions. Late in 1993, Nigeria deployed troops to occupy much of the territory, resulting in clashes between the armies of the two countries. Cameroon eventually took the border dispute to the ICJ, which in 2002 ruled in its favour, drawing largely from a 1913 treaty between former colonial powers Britain and Germany that reportedly gave the area to Cameroon. Nigeria initially kicked against the verdict, but later accepted the terms it laid out after former United Nations Secretary-General, the late Kofi Annan, brokered meetings with leaders of both countries. The UN initiative culminated in the establishment of the Cameroon-Nigeria Mixed Commission (CNMC) that was saddled with demarcating land and maritime boundaries between the two countries. Negotiations involved produced the Greentree Agreement that both countries signed, along with international stakeholders in June 2006. It was by this pact that Nigeria formally acceded to yield control of the disputed territory to Cameroon. On November 22, 2007, the Nigerian Senate rejected the agreement, saying it was contrary to Section 12(1) of the 1999 Constitution. But the government of the late President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua, in fidelity to the ICJ verdict, proceeded to relinquish the peninsula to Cameroon on August 14, 2008. With that change of sovereignty over the peninsula came a drastic change in the fortunes of its about 300,000 erstwhile residents. In the immediate aftermath, tens of thousands of Nigerian fishermen and their families fled Bakassi to nearby South-south states where they have been kept in IDP camps and are waiting to be resettled 12 years on. Former Presidential Adviser on National Assembly Matters Florence Ita-Giwa was recently reported saying all countries that signed the Greentree Agreement had abandoned the people. Besides that, they were disconnected from their cultural vocation of fishing, they live abjectly poor in squalid camps that mostly have neither electricity nor potable water. “We have a health centre that is not functioning; people are dying in the camp due to lack of medical attention,” one camp resident was once reported saying. The people have had to live on food aid by government and private donors allegedly often diverted by officials assigned to distribute such aid. A conditional cash transfer programme introduced in Cross River State by former Governor Liyel Imoke’s administration to pay N5,000 monthly stipends was abruptly stopped by the same administration in 2012. Incumbent Governor Ben Ayade recently provided 50 two-bedroom-flat units to some of the returnees, but that number was extremely insignificant considering their total number. It is sad that Nigeria has not made these returnees’ choice to stick with the country worth their while; no effort should be spared by all relevant authorities to urgently redress this. However, it is also high time the returnees explored creative and legitimate ways of settling in, rather than endlessly await government bailout that has been so long in coming.