The US-based doctor who went on television touting hydroxychloroquine as a cure for coronavirus  is said to have been  once sued for malpractice after one of her patients allegedly  died with a meth needle in her arm. According to the Daily Mail of London, the family of Leslie Norvell took  Dr. Stella Immanuel to court claiming her negligence resulted in the death of the patient. Norvell had complained about a methamphetamine needle that broke off in her arm. The claimants said Norvell  went to the Sabine Medical Centre  where Immanuel was working and was given only medication. No attempt was made to remove the needle fragment that had broken off inside her arm and both Immanuel and another doctor who attended to the patient failed to take a closer look at her arm or alert authorities ,they alleged. Norvell,the lawsuit further claimed,returned home but had to go to another hospital  later  when she had so much pain It was in the other hospital that  the needle fragment was removed. A flesh-eating infection in her arm allegedly caused her death six days later in February 2019. Police were unable to serve the doctor with the lawsuit in April because she no longer worked at the medical facility. The report said the police  had no idea that Immanuel  had moved to Texas where she made the  claim that hydroxychloroquine is a valid coronavirus treatment despite global trials suggesting otherwise. The 55-year old Cameroonian in her video which has gone viral  claims that the anti-malarial drug would stop the COVID-19 in 30 days. He says: “I’m kind of used to these medications,’ Immanuel said in the video. ‘When they started saying it was dangerous, I was like, what? Because we give it to babies, pregnant women, elderly people. Everybody takes it. Hydroxychloroquine works. “You don’t need masks. There is a cure. You don’t need people to be locked down.” Dr. Immanuel’s video message has been shared on social media by President Trump and his son Donald Jr. The American leader has said he’s a ‘big fan’ of Dr. Immanuel. “I was very impressed with her and other doctors that stood with her,” Trump told reporters Wednesday before traveling to Texas. “I think she made sense, but I know nothing about her.”