Much has been written and said about Nigeria’s external debt. However, not enough can be written and said about a phenomenon which has the potential of not only throttling national development, but is also capable of sentencing the country into economic enslavement and political servitude. Further still, although external borrowing is a globally accepted approach to public financing, however, the raison d’eter for obtaining external loans; the terms of loan agreement; the utilisation and impact of the loans cannot but elicit public interest and scrutiny more so that, either in the long run or in the short run, it is the citizenry (the public) that will bear the brunt of servicing the debt and making even repayment. Little wonder that   patriotic Nigerians, have expressed concerns about what the opposition party has described as the Buhari administration’s penchant for borrowing and also as worrisome because of their seemingly unacceptable terms. External borrowing is not indeed peculiar to the administration of Buhari as previous administrations in the country had had justification for external borrowing. The recourse to borrowing by this administration of course, became imperative following the financial barbwire it ran into upon inauguration in 2015. Apart from inheriting almost a dry treasury occasioned by mismanagement, the administration was almost instantly confronted with declining revenue precipitated by fall in oil revenue caused by decline in oil prices from all-time high of $140 per barrel to as low as $38, a decline which was to be later compounded by the emergence of COVID-19 and its attendant lockdown. Two windows inevitably opened to the government: borrowing and raising funds through increase in taxation. Obviously, as the latter option would increase the burden of the citizenry and thus generate public outcry, protest and opprobrium, the administration had to, in the immediate, opt for borrowing, whose burden though the citizens would still bear, but only in the long run. It was against this background that the administration including the state governments, has been borrowing for public financing and has been, pari passu widening their revenue nets through diversification and tax net catch, tagged Strategic Revenue Growth Initiative(SRGI). The recourse to borrowing by this administration nay the states, has on the face of it, presented a worrisome statistical trajectory, though the official debt managers keep on intoning “calm down” and no cause for alarm. To be sure, by December 2019, Nigeria’s external debt had reached a 16-year high of $27billion higher than the $20.8billion level in 2005. At the inception of this administration, the country’s external debt stood at about $10,718.43 million, but within a spate of five years it has climbed to over $22,071.91 million. According to the Debt Management Office, between a short span of January to March 2020, the country had spent a total of N791,545, 016,039 billion on debt servicing. This humongous amount it is said is nearly six times higher than the N139.7 Billion capital expenditure for the first quarter of year 2020; 15 times higher than N51Billion earmarked for Universal Basic Education and 30 times higher than the sum of N25 billion voted for Universal Basic Health Fund in the revised 2020 budget. This trend cannot but attract criticism coupled with the obvious past and present monumental corruption which has partly led us to this debt cul-de-sac, and which has paled and shortened the debt relief to which Nigerians had shouted eureka few years back. Further anxiety has been heightened not only by the growing volume of Chinese loans,  which is currently put at 11.28 per cent of the country’s total external debt stock of $27.67, but also by the terms of Chinese loans which seemingly  constitute threats to the sovereignty of the country and national assets. As adumbrated earlier, there is nothing bad in external borrowing for public financing if productively and prudently deployed; and this administration has been pushing for that through its commitment of the loans to infrastructural development. Yet Nigerians are worried on the following grounds which our debt managers and funds drivers should be mindful of: one, although it has been said that Nigeria is still within acceptable debt to GDP ratio, there is still the fear that the pace at which the debt is growing is too phenomenal. Certainly, this fear cannot be dismissed with the wave of the hand or statistical rhetoric. There is therefore, the need to look inward for capital for survival instead of growing debt. For, it is true that, a nation that goes a borrowing will inevitably go a sorrowing. This is not only now showing in the debilitating quantum of money that goes to debt servicing, but is also manifesting in the hanging huge amount of dough that we will have to  repay in the future even by  yet unborn generation. Second is the issue of transparency in the utilisation of the loans both at the federal and state levels. At both levels of government, we have seen budgets loaded with frivolous expenditures such as procurement of consumables, unnecessary and bogus capacity building programmes among other numerous unproductive public expenditures. A nation that expends its loans on consumption and allows them to be wrongly canalised is unarguably, destroying its present and eating it future in terms of growth and development. Third, the evolving framework for obtaining Chinese loans which has generated public outcry across Africa and has seen some lose their vital national assets and almost  stripped a few of their sovereignty, call for caution and proper scrutiny by the policy makers conducting our economic diplomacy. Aside the need to engage competent hands to scrutinise the terms of any loan agreement with a view to determining areas that can   hamstring the country economically and politically, and consequently nip it in the bud, there is also the need to ensure that such competent hands are equally patriotic and are Nigerians of integrity who will not compromise the process for their selfish ends. Finally and back to the issue of looking inward for capital to drive the economy, government needs to drive its Zero Oil Revenue Initiative, as enunciated in the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan(ERGP) with more vigour. And for its taxation drive, there is the need for all levels of government to demonstrate good governance and much more accountability. No doubt, people will be willing to pay tax if they can in the immediate feel the impact of government in their communities and lives. For example, in the community where I have lived for 10 years, we have been responsible for the provision of the water we drink, electricity complemented with generators and maintenance of transformers, and of security among others. Yet, we have governments coming around asking for tax of different forms apart from the income tax a number of us pay as government workers. Certainly, people in this circumstance will not be encouraged to pay tax, for where there is no responsibility there can hardly be obligation.