Operatives of the Lagos State Police Command have arrested suspected gunmen who kidnapped a Syrian man, Lungyn Camal, at Eko Atlantic City in Lagos on April 12. The suspects, John Ayeni, 45, Tijani Gafari, 38, Ojonla Oyetakin, 30, and Paul Orimisan, 38, were arrested around 2pm on July 24 by operatives attached to the Anti-Kidnapping Unit. According to the police, the gang was responsible for series of abductions and armed robbery on the waterways including the March 15 kidnap of Salisu Mansur and Christopher Chinda at Landmark Beach. Parading the suspects yesterday, Police Commissioner Hakeem Odumosu said the gang which operated with a speed boat, usually targeted wealthy individuals in Lekki and other rich waterside neighbourhood. He said detectives arrested another syndicate whose specialised in kidnapping, armed robbery and snatching of vehicles around 1pm on August 8. The suspects identified as Stanley Ugochukwu, 25, Ayodele Ismaila, 28, and Elochukwu Nwabuwa, 28, would kidnap their targets, rob them of their valuables and still demand ransom from their relatives before they are released. “Their major targets are the luxury vehicles which they mostly moved to Benin Republic to sell. The recent incident occurred on June 24 at about 2pm. The suspects monitored one Denise Chukwueke, a white Lady around Lekki and abducted her with her Range Rover sport car. “They released her after ransom was paid. They took her gold chain, rings, phones and the Range Rover. They were arrested at Falomo Bridge Ikoyi by Anti-kidnapping operatives and the stolen items were recovered. They confessed to the crime. All the suspects will be charged to court,” he said. Ayeni, a boat operator, told reporters that he was lured into the crime by the gang leader, Job, who he claimed offered him N50, 000 to move them about. “I met Job at Liverpool jetty where I work as a boat, operator. He told me that I will take him in my boat along with three others to Lekki. On the night of March 15, we left for Lekki. On arrival at Lekki, Job and four others disembarked from the boat and headed into Eko Atlantic. He asked me to wait for a while. “They came back with a white man and hastily entered the boat. The white man’s head was covered. Job asked me to move immediately they boarded. We left for a creek at Epe that night. He paid me N50, 000 for my service and I left. I was arrested at Liverpool.”