It is no news that our power supply is abysmal. This has been a recurring problem that has defied solution since independence. However, some engineering students across tertiary institutions have suggested sustainable alternatives, reports TUNDE ADEBAYO (IBADANPOLY) Power supply has become to youths what oxygen is to humans. Basically, it is part of our life. Students are conversant with technology, and the soul of this technology is power. Every day, we use different electrically-powered devices, facilities, equipment and machines on the campuses. Students live in a society that is strongly dependent on constant power supply. Moreover, some facilities and equipment needed for academic trainings are electrically powered. Without power, technicians often complain that practicals cannot hold. This thoroughly affects students’ academics. For instance, a mechatronic or electronic engineering student would need adequate power supply to work on some practical or project works, or probably the serious-minded ones want to sharpen their practical knowledge of things learnt or videos watched on YouTube relating to their course of study but are often discouraged to do this because of irregular power supply. This reduces the quality education and advancement in knowledge one is entitled to. Some students often complain of having power supply for as low as one hour per day. Most students possess one or more electronic devices (Smartphones, PCs, Televisions and Bluetooth devices) which they use for different purposes, some to study privately, others for e-learning. Basically, they are used for communication, and some students research for their assignments or project on their phones. Students lament inadequate power supply A HND2 student of Electrical Engineering at The Polytechnic, Ibadan (TPI), Taiwo Esther said: “Personally, I believe stable power supply is one way the burden on students can be reduced. Most students depend on power supply to prepare meals, charge phones, torches and laptops, especially when working on assignment with deadlines and projects. When power supply is not stable, the effect on students is increased cost of living in form of paying to charge phones, fill gas or stove used to cook instead of electric cooker. Some students even go hungry till whenever there’s power supply.” Zainab Ahmad, a 400-Level Mass Communication student in Ado Bayero University, Kano explained that students needed stable power supply because of technological advancements. Most study materials are now in electronic form which would be inaccessible without power. Physical libraries are not only expensive but outdated. E-libraries on the other hand are easier to use and filled with mostly updated books. So, lack of power hinders this. Sunday Adeniyi, a 200-level student of Electrical Engineering at the Federal University of Technology, Akure (FUTA), complained that inadequate electricity remains the bane of learning in the country. “I can’t practise what was taught in class if I have to depend on rechargeable lamps. I still believe the use of rechargeable lamps is a limiting factor on the study rate of average Nigerian students; once the lamp is dead, so is the will to study,” he said. Temidayo Babajide, a 300-level student of Chemistry in Olabisi Onabanjo University (OOU), said without constant power supply, it is difficult to get water and do other things that require electricity. They have suggested a sustainable alternative source of power supply. Abokede Segun, a 300-level Electrical Engineering student of FUTA, said: “By using geothermal energy conservation, we convert natural gas from decomposed waste to run the turbine blade which in turn generates electricity for us to use.” He  further explained: “We have a lot  of parcels of land in the West, what we need is conversion companies willing to build their power system underground or better still run pipes with pump machine to extract the natural gas (methane). He continued: “The sun in the North is very useful. I don’t see reason why we cannot have roofs made of solar panels or maybe walls with solar panels inbuilt. It’s not so difficult for the Ministry of Power to sponsor institutions to build something in those areas to enjoy sufficient amount of electricity from their innovation. Just recently, I saw a tree of solar panels. This kind of innovation is very possible, it’s not until we build ship-size solar panels before we can acquire the amount of energy we need. “Then the South is windy, thanks to the riverine areas and all. I don’t know if the wind rate is much but at least we might be able to build a propeller and an amplifier attached with the propeller so that in case of small wind speed, there will be ways to improve the performance of the wind turbine.” Corroborating, Crown Polytechnic ND2 Mechanical Engineering student, Adedeji Victor, said: “We have to be flexible as we have numerous sources. In the North, for example, the sun is readily available so they can invest in solar. Wind energy is also possible, but it might be more expensive to acquire its facilities and it’s cumbersome to maintain. In the South, with the rivers available, schools can build dams. Even two schools can share that burden, like in Lagos, UNILAG, LASU and LASPOTECH can engage in a joint venture to build a dam that would provide for them. It’ll be cost effective and very efficient. He continued, “At the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, an organic waste plant was launched several months back. Apparently, it can generate 100KW of power. Also, the University of Ibadan also boasts of a solar plant that costs billions of naira. It was inaugurated in 2016, and said to have a life span of a century. Another 7.1 megawatts solar hybrid power plant has been built at the Ado Bayero University, Kano. At the Obafemi Awolowo University, a gas-powered turbine is being constructed with a power capacity of 8.0 megawatts.” On her part, Blessing Efemena, an HND 3 Electronics Engineering student of Auchi Polytechnic, noted that  solar panels could be installed on rooftops of school buildings to give power when needed, coupled with a standby generator. Solar panels can be used for a wide variety of applications, including remote power systems for cabins, telecommunications equipment, remote sensing, and of course for the production of electricity for residential and commercial purposes. Halimah Johnson of the University of Jos, a 100-level student of Electrical Engineering, wants the government to pursue more targeted steps to grow alternative power sources such as renewables and to increase overall electricity supply. She said: “An example is the obvious solar system. I heard the World Bank gave us a huge sum to resolve our power problems. Such fund is enough to fund construction of solar panels. In schools, for example, you can just put enough panels on roofs. There are two forms of solar energy source. One requires accumulator to store energy, the other provides directly. The latter would be cheaper and also go a long way by relieving the national grid. Then an agreement would be made with power distribution companies to supply light only at nights, considering the solar will only power during the day.” In agreement with the above, Samuel Utiwoma, a 400-level Electrical Engineering student of Ado Bayero University, Kano suggested: “My school uses a hybrid-solar source. Most schools can adopt that as they only have to invest. Solar power is the most viable and on a long run cheaper than the rest of all sources. Schools could have electrical students work on solar panels/inverters as final year projects. That means they will not have to pay external Chinese technicians for service readily available. This will also educate students on solar installation.” Akinpelu Ahmed, a final year Mechanical Engineering student of The Polytechnic, Ibadan (TPI), noted that the usage of waste energy is a recent development which, if adopted, would help in solving electricity problems in the country. Dorcas Samson, a 300-level Electrical Engineering student of Ladoke Akintola University of Technology, Ogbomosho, said the privatisation of the power sector was supposed to yield positive results, however, hydroelectric and even gas could prove a remedy for the power sector. She added, “If all major educational institutions construct their own power source and are removed from the national grid, there would be a slight improvement in power supply to residential communities and this can force industrial and commercial sectors to provide theirs too.”