 Christians at a prayer meeting have declared that God will fight all perpetrating unwarranted attacks on Southern Kaduna communities. The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) Kaduna State chapter had commenced a one month interdenominational prayers every sunday tagged ‘Black Sunday’ against the continued attacks and unwarranted killings in Southern Kaduna. The prayers, which held at the Evangelical Winning All Church (ECWA) Narayi High Cost attracted Christians in thousands, all adorned in black attires. They engaged in fervent prayers for peace in Nigeria, Kaduna State and Southern Kaduna. Various pastors took turn to lead the congregation in sessions of prayers against the killings. They asked God to intervene and restore peace in all the troubled areas and fight the battles of the helpless.  President of the United Church of Christ in Nigeria (HEKAN) Rev. Amos G. Kiri, who took his reading from Psalms 46 vs 1- 11, charged the congregation not to be weary with the happenings but raise their voices to God in prayers. He noted any government that is not worried about the well-being of her citizens does not deserve to be called a government. He challenged Christians in government to speak against all forms of injustice against the church in Nigeria. “Insensitive government and leaders must wake up from their slumber, government must listen to our cry, the killings in southern Kaduna must stop, enough is enough and what is good for the goose should be good for the gander,” he said. Chairman Kaduna CAN Reverend Joseph Hayab urged for continued prayers for God to expose those behind the killings. He called on Christian leaders with specific mention of Bishop David Oyedepo, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, Pastor Dr. Paul Eneche and many others to speak up and not keep quiet against the killings. President Southern Kaduna Peoples Union (SOKAPU) Hon. Jonathan Asake thanked the church for standing with them in prayers. He said the killings must not be given political colouration but condemned as a crime against humanity.