 Their huge sizes are quite intimidating, yet several of these dot the skylines in the Ijegun-Egba-Kirikiri and satellite communities In Lagos. While these facilities remain a good source of revenue to drive the economy, for the residents, it is a kill joy as it portends a huge threat to their lives and properties. But a midpoint settlement seems to be on the horizon for the communities and the promoters of oil and gas farm tanks. The residents claim the tank farms are a nuisance to their neighbourhood, danger to public life, damage to public utilities like roads and other government facilities, including posing a serious health challenge to the existence of residents in the area. Following a petition by the residents for the relocation of the facilities from their environment, a House of Representatives Ad hoc Committee last week visited Ijegun-Egba-Kirikiri for an on-the-spot assessment of the tank farms and LPG facilities.The committee, led by Sergius Ogun, included the member representing Amuwo Odofin Federal Constituency of Lagos State, Mr. Oghene Egoh. Ogun said the purpose of the visit was to assess the impact of the facilities on the people and make appropriate recommendations to the House. He further noted that the exercise was also to verify the approvals the owners of the facilities obtained before constructing them as well as the safety measures put in place by the depot operators. The facilities visited in Kirikiri area included Techno Oil and Gas Depot, Bovas Depot, Index Petrolube Africa Depot, Fagbems Petroleum Depot, Chisco Energy Depot and Swift Oil Depot. Those inspected in Ijegun-Egba were Emadeb Depot, A. A. Rano Oil depot, Wosbab Depot, Mao Petroleum Depot, Rainoil Depot and First Royal Depot. A resident, who simply identified himself as Mr. Imitiri, regretted that the lackadaisical attitude of the owners ofthe facilities had degraded the area and taken it backwards. According to him, businesses are beginning to take a downward turn as most are closing their business and relocating to other areas because of the state of infrastructural decay in the community. Buttressing his position, Imitiri wondered why a certain firm recently inaugurated an LPG facility, with others on the queue. For instance, it was gathered that one of the major players in the petroleum product and LPG business, Techno oil, would be inaugurating its LPG facility. The site engineer, Yaro Balami, said Techno LPG was one of the new generation firms  with the best safety guidelines. The Managing Director, Techno Oil and Gas Company,Tony Onyeama, said his firm is more concerned about the safety and health hazards of the community, that is they are putting safety measures to contain whatever that may arise from spillage of explosion. He said his company had done lots of CSR services to better its host community. Similarly, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Emadeb Energy Limited, Mr. Debo Olujimi, while conducting the committee members round his 65 million-litre  facility, said it sits on a five-hectare land and was constructed in 2013. At a stakeholders’ interactive session, the Controller General of Fire Service of Nigeria, Alhaji Liman Ibrahim, said there was the need for establishment of a central fire service station in Satellite, Kirikiri and Ijegun-Egba communities to promote safety. Ibrahim, who was represented by the Assistant Comptroller-General, Abdulganiyu Jaji, promised that the agency would provide personnel to support the tank farm operators,  urging them to put in place the needed infrastructure. “Tank farm operators should focus on training of personnel and infrastructure. There is need for synergy between tank farm operators and Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR). In Apapa axis, there are some tank farms that are very close to the residential areas which the House of Representatives should consider critically,” Ibrahim noted. The Lagos State Commissioner for Town Planning and Urban Development, Lagos State, Idris Salako, expressed the dissatisfaction of the state government over the unregulated siting of tank farms in Lagos. According to him, eight years ago, the state government stopped giving approval for siting of tanks farm, except they are to be located at Ibeju-Lekki free trade zone. Salako, however, regretted that eight years on, the ministry has been inundated by complaints by host communities about the activities of tank farm operators, which prompted the state government to ask the ministry to engage the host communities on how to manage the situation. He said: “The tank farm owners should be responsive to the needs and plights of the host communities. Most of the tank farms at Kirikiri don’t have approval permits. The infrastructure of Satellite Town has been run down by the activities of tank farms. Even if the tank farm operators relocate to Ibeju-Lekki without proper planning, the whole thing will be a failure. “We have lifted the ban on construction of tank farms and we urge them to improve on their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). The Lagos State building agency is compiling lists of those who have approval.” The Deputy Director, Oil and Gas, Ministry of Environment, Nafiu Akinpelu, said the tank farms should upgrade their oil-water separating system. Akinpelu expressed the need for tank farms operators to have a global Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) with the host communities. “There should have been an audit report that will cover a lot of issues, such as health and safety, agitation of the host communities not to sabotage the facilities,” he added. The Alahun of Imoore and Apapa Kingdom, Oba Taofik Akeju-Awojo, said the people agitating for the relocation of the tank farms did not want the community to move forward, adding that those writing petitions to the Federal Government do not want the community to develop. He added: “Since, the tank farms started operations in the communities, crime rates have dropped and employment opportunities have been created. If you move the tank- farms away, there will be untold hardship and poverty.” The Chief Executive Officer, Emadeb Energy Services, Debo Olujimi, affirmed that the tank farms in Ijegun community have created 3000 jobs, promising that they would do more CSR activities. He said the tank farms are worth over N400 billion.