The Nigerian Military has said that the Wednesday night attack on Kukawa town in Borno State where 80 villagers were abducted and three soldiers killed was “vehemently” resisted by troops. Scores of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) who were recently resettled in their villages by the Borno State government were attacked by Boko Haram fighters. Unofficial reports put the figure of kidnapped villagers at over 80. According to sources, the terrorists obviously irked by the return of the IDPs attacked the village. Three soldiers were also reportedly killed in the attack, two others were injured. But the Nigerian Military said the terrorists were vehemently resisted by troops who killed eight of them and wounded many. It described the attack as a deliberate attempt to reverse the achievements recorded in resettling the IDPs. According to a statement by the Coordinator Defence Media Operations, Major General John Enenche, “as part of the Boko Haram (BHT)/Islamic State of West Africa (ISWAP) elements campaign of terror and destruction, the terrorists on 18 August 2020 attacked troops’ location in Kukawa town in Borno State where the attack was vehemently thwarted. “During the incident, eight BHTs were neutralized and unconfirmed number escaped with gun shots wounds. Unfortunately, 3 soldiers were fatally wounded and later gave up at the military medical reception station at Kukawa military location. Two others also sustained injuries and are currently receiving treatment at the military medical station.” The statement added, “it could be recalled that on 29 July 2020, the Executive Governor of Borno State, Professor Babagana Umara Zulum flagged off the re-opening of Munguno-Cross Kauwa-Kukawa Road which was followed almost immediately with the resettlement of some of the displaced people from Kukawa and life was already picking up in the town. “The attack by the terrorists was therefore a deliberate attempt to reverse the milestone achievements recorded regarding IDPs in the areas of; peace building, reconstruction, rehabilitation and resettlement efforts by the government. “The situation in Kukawa is now calm with troops in full control. The Nigerian Armed Forces wishes to assure the general public that there is no going back in its struggle to see to the rebuilding and resettlement efforts for the displaced people. The futile attempt by the terrorists to thwart it only spurred the gallant troops for more decisive action. “The people of Kukawa are therefore advised to go about their normal lawful businesses without any hindrance. They are also enjoined to always avail the troops and other security agencies with credible information about the terrorists and any suspicious persons accordingly.”