 Almost half of humanity will face water scarcity by 2030 and strategists from Israel to Central Asia prepare for strife–Chris Arsenault  Unequal power relations within states and conflicts between ethnic groups and social classes will be the greatest source of social tensions rising from deprivation…Water too often is treated as a commodity, as an instrument with which one population group can suppress another…. Water scarcity is an issue exacerbated by demographic pressures, climate change and pollution—Ignacio Saiz  NIGERIA with its controversy-breeding bill on ownership and management of surface and underground water has started to act as if it is a helpless victim of water stress. Instead of adopting an approach of problem identification and search for sustainable solution that have worked in other climes, members of the House of Representatives have chosen to use a military-authored approach that had hobbled development in the country for the past half a century: obsession with centralization of governance processes and domination of subnational units by the federal government. As this column had argued since the first appearance of a bill in the 8th National Assembly  to take control of management of water resources away from the states and transfer it to federal government’s long list of exclusive functions, the re-presentation of the bill in 2020 has failed to do the rigorous strategic thinking that finding solution to any form of water stress in any part of a country requires. The Executive Bill on federal take-over of management of all sources of water—ocean, rivers and streams with their banks, and underground water across Nigeria–suggests an effort to remake Nigeria into an over-centralized unitary state: “As the public trustee of the nation’s water resources the Federal Government, acting through the Minister and the institutions created in this Act or pursuant to this Act, shall ensure that the water resources of the nation are protected, used, developed, conserved, managed and controlled in a sustainable and equitable manner, for the benefit of all persons and in accordance with its Constitutional mandate.” Another clause: “States may make provisions for the management, use and control of water sources occurring solely within the boundaries of the State but shall be guided by the policy and principles of the Federal Government in relation to Integrated Water Resources Management, and this Act.” These two clauses and others including the power of a federal department to issue permits for use of water in individual states to be controlled by federal principles (whatever that phrase means) seek to threaten the fundamental character of any federation. Where are the data to confirm that the current management of water in individual states violates the principle of rational use of water? What in the history of public administration in the country confirms that the federal government has what it takes to manage water more effectively than the communities that had housed and managed such water resources for centuries? What data confirms ineffective or inefficient management of water available in each state of the federation to make this ’emergency rule’ approach to water in a federation justifiable? It is befuddling that lawmakers in the 9th House have chosen to ignore the importance of data and knowledge that approval of a bill to remove control of water from governments closest to the people to a central government distant from citizens (not subjects) requires. Rather than a law to increase the functions of a central government that is distant from where water is used to sustain life, what other countries that have data-driven recognition of water shortage have done is to use scientific knowledge to solve a problem that political engineering cannot solve. State representatives in the national assembly should not have the power to surrender water that subtends and sustains the land in their constituencies to the central government without full consultation with subnational governments and citizens at the level that the law is designed to dispossess of the water that subtends the land. This bill is too fundamental to the essence of Nigeria as a federal republic. Like the Land Use Act, it should be a matter for constitutional amendment that state legislators after due consultation with their constituents would have a proper voice in turning into a part of the country’s Basic Law. Where is the wisdom that came from citizens when the bill was first introduced and defeated? When the executive bill first surfaced in the 8th Senate, citizens openly advised the federal government to use the route of constitutional amendment to determine the wisdom of withdrawing power over management of water from subnational governments that have constitutional power to manage use of land—the Siamese twin of water in human experience. Undoubtedly, water is acquiring by the day the force to threaten political stability in many countries that prefer political engineering to the power of knowledge. As Anders Berntell has once acknowledged, the Boko Haram and Al-Shabaab terrorist groups owe significant part of their radicalization to growing lack of natural resources, including water that has reduced chances of people to make a respectable living in the countries affected by Boko Haram and Al Shabaab. Nigeria as a country below the Sahara Desert ought, in the interest of sustainable development, to think proactively about the future of water supply for its teeming population, but not through disempowerment of communities that house rivers, streams, aquifers, and boreholes, as there are more effective and more sustainable ways to solve the problem of water stress in parts of the country. A bill that is likely to overheat the polity and stoke the flames of ethnic and inter-regional tension is not the way to solve a global problem: Water Stress. Instead of a bill to politicize the growing water scarcity in Nigeria, the thing to do is for Nigeria to ‘technologize’ this challenge, by applying benefits of new knowledge to solving water scarcity and stress in all parts of the country. Making management of water resources an exclusive federal function does not guarantee an end to water stress, especially in the context of rising population that is projected to make Nigeria the third most populous country in the world by 2050. This kind of law can be a source of strife rather than a solution that many other countries have tried to solve. What is needed is for the central government to think out of the box and strategically, like Israel, Morocco, UAE, Brazil, Australia, India, and Peru, to name a few.   For example, India and Peru are increasing their water supply by capturing rainwater and storing it for agricultural purposes. Israel uses ‘Osmotic System’ of de-salination that makes sea water good for human consumption. Many countries modernize the traditional method of groundwater re-charging, a process that collects water during the rainy season to store underground for future use. In a situation in which sea water occupies about 70 percent of the  human planet and use of international water resides with national governments, a new method of de-salination made possible by scientific innovation is a proven way to end water stress, without stoking the flames of regional or inter-state tension and political instability. Transferring management of water resources to the federal government, instead of looking for solutions to water scarcity where it exists, is choosing an oppressive political solution to a problem that requires scientific solution, proven to be effective in other countries. Water stress is a global problem that can be solved with technology, not political domination of subnational units. Providing adequate power for over 400 million Nigerians by 2050 is not likely to be achieved by pushing management of water resources to the central government in a federation. One advantage of technology is that, when wisely used, it can remove many issues that spark conflict or tension in traditional or pre-modern societies. Nigeria is already fighting on too many fronts: Boko Haram, Islamic State of West Africa, internal banditry with assistance from foreigners according to the Inspector General of Police, kidnapping, and the pandemic that has pushed the country in the direction of recession. It is foolhardy for the executive and the legislature to foment wittingly or unwittingly another crisis in the guise of search to solutions of national water stress that is yet to be determined scientifically.  Nigeria is not alone in the world; it should not be afraid to benefit from best practices  on a global problem in other countries.