The Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Ebonyi State chapter, Chika Nwoba, has been suspended indefinitely by the party for alleged anti party activities. The suspension was handed down by the executives of his Ekpelu ward in Ikwo local government area of the state. In a statement signed by the ward Chairman, Mr Ikechukwu Onweagu and Publicity Secretary, Nwali Augustine, the ward executives expressed disappointment at the nonchalant attitude of Mr Nwoba towards the party and stakeholders including President Buhari. “The Executive members of All Progressive Congress Party APC in Ekpelu Ward in Ikwo Local Government Area, Ebonyi State have observed with total disappointment the nonchalant attitude of Publicity Secretary of APC, Mr Nwoba Chika Nwoba.” “It is very regrettable rather than face the legitimate duties attached to his office, Mr Nwoba deviated and engaged in act capable of bringing crisis divisions into the party including antiparty activities, pointing accusing fingers on Mr President and all leaders of the Party at all levels,” they said. This party said these actions and too many more numerous to mention are not in consonance with the provision of the constitution of the party which Mr Nwoba swore to protect and accord with integrity. “Accordingly, Mr Nwoba Chika Nwoba is hereby placed on indefinite suspension pending the determination of the issues raised against him” “The Local Government and State executive of APC as well as security agencies should please take note and act accordingly”, they said But Nwoba in a swift reaction said he remains the Publicity Secretary of the party. He urged the general public to discountenance the said report of his suspension even as he blamed his travails on a National Assembly member from Ebonyi State. He, however, did not disclose the identity of the lawmaker who orchestrated the suspension. “I got intelligence about a plot to drag my name to the social media and on air on Wednesday of this week and pronounce me suspended from APC in my ward. “A House of Representatives member from Ebonyi State hosted a cross section of party loyalists in his Abakaliki residence, gave them N35,000 to pay to Unity FM (a radio station in the state) to declare me suspended. “Ordinarily, this should not have bothered me as I am in good terms with the leadership and the constitution of our dear party,” Mr Nwoba said. He warmed that ‘anyone convening people to take my name to air is doing that on personal conviction and should be ready to face whatever comes out of it’. “This same lawmaker who wants my head at all costs without any reason gathered his social media foot soldiers this morning and gave them instruction that immediately the announcement was aired, they should take to the Facebook and broadcast it. “I want to warn that anybody who is signatory to any fake report about me is contending with the laws of the land as I am not aware of any rift between me and anybody in my party, as no such issue was drawn my attention to”. “So, discountenance such a report if it comes,”Nwoba added