360° Towers has joined the pack of pricey abodes for the super rich on Bourdillion in Ikoyi, Lagos. The three 15-floor towers, which host smart homes and other features for comfortable living, are laid back from the busy and noisy traffic on Gerald Road, Okwy Iroegbu-Chikezie reports A new establishment – 360 Degrees Towers – has come to roost on Bourdillon Road in Ikoyi, Lagos. Comprising flats,  the three towers are an improvement on other structures in Ikoyi. The towers, which make up 360 Degrees, host serviced flats, which will offer residents a stress-free lifestyle. It was conceived to offer residents a seven-star hotel-like experience in their smart homes, which are fitted with accessories controlled with artificial intelligence (AI). It encompasses virtual offices for homeowners and five-star board rooms, among others. It is the baby of Four Square Homes, led by Olufemi Adegoke Osibona, as the Chief Executive Officer (CEO). Unlike houses on Gerald Road, which suffer from noise pollution, Osibona said 360o, built on 44B, C and D on the road, has setback of about 200m from the road, hence the residents would not be affected by noise. It is targeted at people with very busy lifestyles, who barely have time for the mundane.“So, the development will give peace of mind and comfort to its residents, because everything works,“ he said. It will offer security with access control from the entrance on Gerald Road and another post at the entrance into the buildings. It will boast 24-hour electricity daily with cleaning, gardening as well as housekeeping/concierge services, Osibona stressed. “On the first floor is a suspended platform that will serve as a recreation area, where residents can unwind and hold a small party. Also, there is a five-star lobby, where residents can host friends and family members, without compromising their privacy. The towers have various house types: Maisonettes of about 420 square metres each on three floors; penthouses on two floors; and four-bedroom flats on one floor, with each flat as large as 400 square metres,” he said. He said the flats would be sold  off-plan and directly to intending residents. Osibona said: “Ninety per cent of people who have bought from us are those that own houses. However, what is happening is that most people with big, single unit dwellings are cutting down for several reasons: Their children have left the nest, most of them are in their 50s and they want to really enjoy their lives and are looking for a place that is secure with no headache. Imagine living in a hotel where your money works for you.” About 50 per cent of the apartments, Osibona said, have been sold. He explained that many features stand  360 Degrees out: “You need to understand something. Anywhere in the world, nobody wants to live on a very busy road, but we also understand that Gerald-Bourdillion Roads are some of the most expensive locations in Africa. So, we are very lucky that we are on Gerald Road. We have a very long setback of about 200 metres. The implication is that you’re living in a place where you can open your windows and take in breathtaking views without noise because the building is not on the road. Our entrance is on the road, but you will need to drive for about 200 metres to get to the parking lot, the setback is our main selling point.” The towers have scenic views of the Lagos Lagoon and the Atlantic Ocean. Its neighbours are Banana Island and Parkview. Osibona said another unique feature the development boasts of is a huge aquarium on the driveway that can be seen from both entrances and exit gates. There are water fountains at strategic positions, too. It will also have about 160  parking spaces for residents’ vehicles  and those of their visitors.There is also a provision for the hosting of small parties within the towers which boast of beautiful landscape with rich green areas. “The advantage of buying off-plan is that you’re buying at a discounted price and it always appreciates. You have to understand something about Nigeria; people say the market is not moving, but if you do something that is interesting and unique,  people will buy. I guarantee you that. The market doesn’t bother us, we have always been selling. Remember: this is not my first development. I did Nos. 2 to 4 Mosley Road, The Shalom Apartments in Ikoyi, which we built in 2010. It has 40 flats with common facilities like a swimming pool, gymnasium, and the estate is powered 24 hours with tight security. The low-density facility is occupied by high net worth personalities and it was sold out,” Osibona added.