The implementation of good policies is accelerating the growth of Lagos economy. To sustain the growth, the government needs to keep the jobs engine running. A mentoring forum for unemployed youths organised by the Ministry of Wealth Creation and Employment in Lagos at the weekend focused on this, DANIEL ESSIET reports.  Youth unemployment is growing. Yearly, thousands of youths enter the labour market and compete for the few formal jobs. There seems to be no solution to the enemployment crisis. Declaring open a workshop in Abuja,  the Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr Chris Ngige, said   the increase in unemployment in the country was alarming. He said unemployment rate is expected to hit 33.5 per cent this year. Like other states, Lagos has shown concern. It has a young population with a large number in the labour market. One of the most defining challenges of the state government is to provide productive and decent jobs to thousands of youths who enter the labour market every year.  For the government, this is a race against time. This challenge is well acknowledged by the state Commissioner for Wealth Creation and Employment, Mrs Yetunde Arobieke. Addressing a mentorship seminar for youth that had: Agripreneur: Strategy  for wealth creation as theme in Alausa, Lagos, Mrs Arobieke said the dream of a 21st Century Lagos  could only be achieved with the engagement of youths. She said the agricultural sector has the potential to offer this to the youth. One of the government’s initiatives is to bring together the innovation ecosystem, startups and the private sector, to accelerate the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which include achieving food security and promoting agribusiness entrepreneurship, she added. She said the Ministry wants to take action to make agri-entrepreneurship attractive to youths. To this end, she said the government would support collaboration that will produce youth-led opportunities, supported with mentorship from private and public sector experts. The commissioner, therefore, called for stakeholder collaboration to address the challenges facing youth unemployment and create decent agri-business jobs for the youth and emphasised the need to put the youth at the centre as agents of growth. To demonstrate this, the government brought accomplished agri- entrepreneurs to address the youth at the forum. One of them was Kofo Durosinmi-Etti, a management accountant, who returned home from the United Kingdom (UK) and started her business in 2015. She owns the Next Generation Innovative Farm in Lagos. A thriving farm, she has adopted drip irrigation and greenhouse technologies to grow a various vegetables for sale, including tomatoes, habanero peppers, okra and kale. She confirmed that there were opportunities in the agricultural value chain and called for incentive schemes to ensure that the youth are gainfully employed. Despite this, she said the challenges in the space are many, but it was  heartening to see the passion and ability of the young  entrepreneurs   accomplishing  so much  in agribusiness. She was not alone. The Chief Executive, Spectra Industries Limited,   Duro Kutaisi, was there. Kutaisi’s forte is food processing and packaging. He started his plantain chips business in 1992 with little capital. Having achieved success, he began to produce Suco Cocoa Drink in sachets, tins and refill packs. Other products, including cocoa in sachets and tins, soya flour, sesame oil, pineapple juice, Fast-O-Meal and Hyfiba, were later added. He said agriculture offers tremendous opportunities for youths to start small scale businesses. The Manager, Bank of Agriculture (BoA), Lagos Branch, Mrs. Tokunbo Afolabi, said agriculture is a remunerative and profitable sector. She said investing in youths and encouraging them to grow their own businesses was a key to dealing with the unemployment situation, along with motivation from successful start-ups. She urged the youths to take advantage of the collateral-free funding opportunities provided by the bank to empower themselves. According to her, youths between  18 and 35, who engage in agribusiness, can access up to N1 million loans without collateral. She, however, added that youths applying for the loan must provide two acceptable guarantors one of which must be a civil servant. The Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Ministry of Wealth Creation and Employment, Mrs. Bola Dapo-Thomas, said one of the initiatives  of the ministry was to organise mentoring sessions that would lead to the creation of  sustainable micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) among youths. By doing so, she said the government will be able to facilitate decent jobs creation for youth in the different sectors of the economy. The forum brought together government representatives, private sector and youths. The objective was to promote youth entrepreneurship, providing youths and agri-preneurs with a platform to share knowledge and present their initiatives.