 THIS is your second tenure at the House of Representatives; how has it been so far? It has not been easy. I was somewhere two hours ago and I met a man who accosted me; he said he has no money and he’s starving. I said let’s pray to God. Aregbesola when he was a commissioner in Lagos says the whole money of Lagos State cannot fix the roads in Lagos State. The money I have, if I should distribute wisely, no one will get up to five thousand naira. We can only give our best. What laws and oversight functions have you been involved in from inception up until now? Oversight functions are too much, they are over one hundred. I don’t go to oversight functions unless it is important. I belong to over three committees. I’m in House Services Committee, Petroleum Down Stream, Public Accounts, Industry/Niger Delta etc. As a member, you cannot say anything different from that of the Chairman, you cannot argue with him. Recently, I moved a motion on machines that destroy human beings. Most trailers that are brought into the country are obsolete. When a container falls, the flat belt is not there. Our roads are very bad and trailers fall when roads are not good. Government should not allow any truck beyond ten years into the country. A woman lost her life at Iyana-Ipaja, Lagos recently because the flat belt was not properly locked, so, customs shouldn’t clear all trucks above ten years to come to Nigeria. I appreciate Dangote. I lived in USA for 17 years and there’s no problem of such there. Do you see the presidential ticket of APC coming to the Southwest in 2023? By God’s grace, it is coming to the Southwest. Can we still have an election in Nigeria like June 12? Yes, “Abiola was the voice of the populace but not of God” If God had destined him, he would have been the president but it was not meant to be. What is your opinion on the issue of godfatherism? In Nigeria we call them godfathers, in American, it is called super delegates. If you can convince the Super Delegate, fine, if you can’t, then, you get yourself into trouble. As a politician, you are loyal to your party. Not everything you see that you say, or else, you are in trouble. If you can manage human beings, you manage your mouth. Are you in support of Amotekun? I support Amotekun; it’s just that I see no difference between OPC (Oodua Peoples Congress) and Amotekun, unless they employ good hands and take them to training, they will be 75 percent illiterate. I support it but I don’t see the way they are going about it if they have to be trained by security agents, without training, they will mess up. Yorubas need protection, agreed but they have to be trained. When you acquire men, you must train them just the way you train the Police, Army, Airforce, Navy, etc. You must train Amotekun personnel that way. The most difficult thing about security is corruption. Few days ago, you showed up at the year 2020 constituency first meeting in Alimosho your constituency; what was the outcome of the meeting? First of all, we do that meeting regularly at the end of the month due to circumstances; it’s always regular. This time, we distributed money so that people in our constituency can feel our impact. We also do free medical checks for people and they are given free drugs; there are so many other things. Can you give us an appraisal of your first tenure in office as the Alimosho Federal Constituency’s rep? Number one law is the budget, in any legislature, that is number one law. We passed bills that became law. I have constituency budget. What we can bring to our constituency; we have done. I have given out tricycles, grinding machines, sewing machines and so on and distributed them to my people. I have dialogued with PHCN or Ikeja electric officials over transformers. We need 250 transformers and in that meeting they were blunt with me; in Ghana, if you go there, they have metre in huts. I went to Fashola last week over the issue and he told me bluntly that some of the contractors will not have their contract renewal. In Abuja, I fought with electricity officials over estimated bills. Every three months, my bills run into fifty thousand naira, you wonder how this electric company comes to such figure every month because as we speak, government is forcing them to produce details of data they use. Talking of Obasanjo regime, damage was done to Nigerians; they did not give it to people that will generate light, transformers were taken elsewhere. I want to bring transformers to my constituency so that my people can power their homes and machines. Not less than N100m will go into the project. What is your advice to the youths in your constituency? First, they must pray for this country to get better. Very soon, I will leave office. Our youths need to pray. The C.Vs I have is more than 500. Maybe in a year, I can only help five; so, five times four equals twenty in four years. When you give me your C.V, I will tell you to fast and pray. Only God can do it, let’s cry to Him.