 Text: “….. If ye have faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye shall say unto this mountain, Remove hence to yonder place; and it shall remove… this kind goeth not out but by prayer and fasting.” (Matt. 17:20-21)  It is an axiom of faith that a deviation from God’s order or demand, which is a prelude to the fulfilment of His pledge, weakens the potency of His promises because He is a God of order and set patterns. It, therefore, behoves on anyone who desires to enjoy full value of God’s promises to follow strictly His commandments. His promises are not free as they are predicated on fulfilment of certain terms and obligations. To eat the good of the land for instance, is not free, but is grounded on first, willingness and then obedience to His command – any action to the contrary is an invitation to destruction (Isaiah 1:19,20). The pervasive lethargy across the length and breadth of the body of Christ to critically study (and not only read) the Holy Scriptures has, however, led to a gradual erosion of truth of His word and permanent tenancy with ignorance and falsehood (2 Timothy 2:15). There  are lots of facts of the Scriptures that have been distorted by ‘microwave Christians’ – people that are desirous of having the shortest cut to everything in life. To receive anything from God beloved, obedience to His order or command is very key (Is. 1:19; Deut. 28:1-13 cf 1 Sam. 15:1-23). If you want to enjoy your marriage as an example, submission to your husband in everything, and loving your wife with all you are endowed with, are non-negotiable (Ephesians 5:22-28). And, if you want to live long and be prosperous as a child, you must honour your parents (Ephesians 6:2-3) – any deviation from set pattern is an invitation to crisis! One of the maladies of the Christian faith is with regards to fasting, which is now being bandied as a mantra to resolution of problems or challenges. It is very common nowadays for certain people in the body of Christ to quickly recommend fasting whenever any ignorant person comes up with an untoward issue of life. Not only that, lots of congregation’s spiritual ego is massaged and lifted to high heavens when long days of fasting is declared, either for a specific programme, to climax a year or at the start of a new year, among others. There is no gainsaying the fact that fasting has been since time immemorial, it has the support of our Lord Jesus Christ, it activates miraculous happenstances and very necessary for Christian growth. It is, however, important to note that its effectiveness is hinged on compliance with a set order. From the passage where we picked our text, a man brought a report to Jesus Christ concerning his son who was a lunatic and would usually fall into fire and water. The man brought his son to His disciples to heal him but all their efforts were in vain. With a word, Jesus Christ rebuked the demon and the son was healed instantly. The disciples now asked Jesus Christ why they were unable to heal the boy. Jesus said unto them: “Because of your unbelief: for verily I say unto you, If you have faith as a grain of mustard seed, you shall say unto this mountain, Remove hence to yonder place; and it shall remove; and nothing shall be impossible unto you. However, this kind goes not out but by prayer and fasting. (Matt. 17:20-21). For your fasting to have an effect on any mountain, and not serve as merely a hunger-strike, weight reduction tool or a means of detoxification, it is imperative to first belong to Him by accepting Jesus Christ as your Lord and Saviour, have faith in His name and acknowledge that He has power to save and deliver, for “..without faith, it is impossible to please Him” (Heb. 11:6). Then, you can embark on the fasting and it’s imperative to lade it with regular and serious prayers. It is very necessary to note that for fasting to be effective, you must ensure that you don’t have sin in your life and you must have also genuinely forgiven all that have erred against you ( Is. 1:15-18, 59: 1-3; Matt. 6:12-14). When you have done these, whatever mountain before you shall be lifted up at your command. And, this shall be your portion, as you embark on this fasting, in Jesus’ name. As the fasting season continues, kindly ask yourself if you are merely observing a religious ceremony or you are on a personal hunger strike, or you don’t want to eat to cut down on your excess weight or you are fasting? If your intention is to fast, please take note of the fasting requirements and it shall be well with you in the name of Jesus Christ. Prayers: Oh Lord, help me during this time of Lent to do your will and do not allow me to fast in vain, in Jesus’ name.