With Pastor Faith Oyedepo  Dear Reader,  I hope you have been blessed by God’s Word that have been coming your way on How you can have a great start by developing yourself? Last week I taught on spiritual development which is the first and most important dimension of development.  Today, I shall explore Mental development. Mental development is all about enhancing your mental output. It is the development of the mind. Next to the spirit in order of importance is the soul; it is sometimes referred to as the mind. In order to make the most of the year 2020, your mental output has to be enhanced. The following will help you tremendously:  As someone rightly said, reading is essential for those who seek to rise above the ordinary. If you want to develop mentally, you must develop interest in educative materials that can illuminate your mind. Don’t wait for them to be given to you by someone, rather invest in them by purchasing them yourself. Stop looking for an easy way out in life. No matter the situation you or your family may be in today, rather than looking for someone to help you out, just take up the challenge. Go in search of knowledge and you will be surprised that the solution is closer than you thought. The Bible says: For there is no difference between the Jew and the Greek: for the same Lord over all is rich unto all that call upon him (Romans 10:12). As you read, you think and believe God to illuminate your mind. When confronted in the pursuit of your God-given assignment, or with a challenge in your family, believe God to illuminate your mind so as to deliver the required solution. When your mind sweats, it will deliver results with speed! Resourceful thinkers talk less. Thinkers are usually men of honour. Someone has said, “Great people talk about ideas, average people talk about things, and small people talk about others.” Great people talk about ideas because they are thinkers, while average people talk about things – clothes, shoes and events. Those who talk about other people end up as small people. Ideas answer only to thinkers; so, talk less and think more! Remember I pointed out in the first segment of this teaching that the greatest room in the world is the room for improvement. Clearly, no matter your level of education right now, you can get more education and thereby sharpen your mind. Refuse to allow opportunities to keep passing you by, with your eyes wide open while you do nothing about them. If you trained as a secretary in the days when the Olympia typewriter was in use, you certainly can no longer be relevant in that profession today, because no one uses Olympia typewriter anymore. I remember an 80-year-old grandmother who testified of being able to read and write after attending an Adult Education class. By the time she was giving her testimony, she could read her Bible by herself. You are probably not 80 yet, so what is stopping you from educating yourself more? By the grace of God, I was the first full-time typist of our ministry. All I knew then was how to type with the typewriter. But, as the ministry is moving forward, in order not to lose relevance, I had to learn how to use the computer. That has enhanced my relevance in no small way! You must understand, however, that getting education involves investment. You invest money, time, energy, mental resources, etc, to acquire knowledge. Many of us are more interested in buying things we can show off, than investing in educating ourselves.  As I read about great men and women, I observed that no mention was made of the type of clothes or shoes they wore or had; the stories were all about the impact they made. To improve your educational base, consistently you have to relate with sharp minds; move with people who have aspirations for growth and development. Someone said, “You will be the same person you are today in five years’ time, except for the books you read and the friends you keep.” No wonder, Proverbs 27:17 says: Iron sharpeneth iron; so a man sharpeneth the countenance of his friend. To have a renewed mind, you must accept Jesus Christ into your life. If you are not yet born again and you desire to do so right now, please pray this prayer with faith in your heart: Dear Lord Jesus Christ, I come to You today. I am a sinner. Forgive me my sins and cleanse me with Your Blood. I accept You as my Lord and personal Saviour. Make me a child of God today. Thank You for delivering me from sin and satan to serve the living God and thank You for accepting me into Your Kingdom. Congratulations! If you prayed this simple prayer of faith with me, you are now born again and a child of God. He loves you and will never leave you. Read your Bible daily, obey God’s Word and seek Christian fellowship (John 14:21). With this, you are guaranteed all-round rest and peace in Jesus’ Name! Call or write to share your testimonies with me through oyedepofaitha@gmail.com, 07026385437 OR 08141320204.  For more insight, these books authored by me are available at the Dominion Bookstores in all Living Faith Churches and other leading Christian bookstores: Make your Life Count, Marriage Covenant, Making Marriage Work, Building a Successful Home and Success in Marriage (Co-Authored). 