 THE Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege, has been lauded for the proactive steps he took towards the resolution of the crisis that initially engulfed the national leadership of the All Progressive Congress (APC). An Asaba-based legal practitioner and member of the APC in Oshimili South Local Government of Delta State, Larry Olisa, gave the commendation in a statement at the weekend. In the statement, Olisa lauded the steadfastness, loyalty and respect of Sen. Omo-Agege for National chairman Adams Oshiomole and President Muhammadu Buhari, which ensured that the Southsouth Caucus of the party was not misdirected as was initially intended by the anti-Oshiomhole forces. Olisa described Oshiomhole as a go-getter, adding that the party has achieved greater excellence under his leadership as exemplified in the various positions it won in the last general election. He said: “This is one man whose sagacity and administrative prowess has helped the party not only to win the last presidential election but has also helped to unite the platform, particularly in Delta State.  This created room for the emergence of a chieftain from the Southsouth in the person of Senator Ovie Omo-Agege as the Deputy Senate President. “For me, as a member of APC in Delta State, the role played by the Deputy Senate President helped to stabilize the APC in the Southsouth, so much so that all through the crisis period, the APC spoke with one voice in the region. As a result, we remain loyal to the National Working Committee (NWC) led by Oshiomhole. “Now consider, if Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege had not stood firm by observing the supremacy of the party, you will agree with me that the APC in Southsouth would not have been united in its resolve to distance the regional caucus from those who wanted the national chairman removed.” Olisa said Omo-Agege’s conduct portrayed him as a true leader. He added: “A true leader is one who can, at any given time, differentiate between good and bad, right and wrong, and possess the ability to make the right decisions to unite the people rather than polarise them.” He called on Delta APC faithful and those of the Southsouth region in general to rally round Omo-Agege and Oshiomhole “as they both work towards ensuring a stronger APC in the country and Delta State in particular.” 