 THE American Society of Safety Professionals (ASSP) Nigeria Branch has volunteered to assist in the ongoing investigation of the fire incident, which rocked Abule Ado,  Festac, Trade Fair axis of Lagos State, last Sunday. In a statement, its President, Nsikak Ekam, said ASSP urges Nigerians to learn from tragic occurrences and to understand that all accidents are preventable. He said: “We offer to serve in ongoing investigation invited. Let us learn to respect safety rules and signs. Material things can be replaced but human life can’t be replaced. Human loss and suffering is immeasurable. Let us respect petroleum pipelines’right-of-way and stop encroachment. A designated pipeline area is not a road or alternative roads or free land. Ensure that certain businesses, such as gas plants, petrol stations etc are safely situated outside residential area.” The ASSP, which holds its conference on “Productivity and Profitability Matrices in HSE System” this week in Abuja, commended the emergency services, firefighters, The Red Cross Nigeria National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), Lagos Safety Commission, for their prompt response, and the public for giving free passage to responders. The society urged government at various level and the public to proactively, evaluate settlements and provide access for emergency response vehicles and fire water hydrants. Ekam  advised that new settlements and  estates  should be properly planned , ensuring access for emergency response vehicles and fire water hydrants. furthermore, he suggested that  Fire station/Emergency Centre provision should be added during conceptual planning and area development.” They also advised people to stay clear fallen petroleum tanker, and not to attempt to scoop spilled product but to report incident immediately to nearest Nigeria National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) office or Fire Station. He said: “Explosion and fire usually is the end result of scoping of product from fallen Tank. Do not continue to occupy houses marked unsafe for awaiting demolition. Do not go across Safety barriers and warning for flood, bad road section or ongoing demolition exercise.” The association urged members of the public to conduct proper Risk Assessment/Environmental Impact assessment of business premises or sites, stating they should ensure premises or plants are constructed according to designs/standard specifications. The Society, which condoled the Governor of Lagos State, Sanwo-olu and the families that lost their beloved ones and those injured due to Sunday’s explosion, said it was deeply saddened at the tragic loss of lives and sufferings that Nigerians have been experiencing because of petroleum pipeline vandalism, petroleum pipeline fire, Liquefied Petroleum Gas explosion, Tanker spill/fire incidents, buildings collapse and floods. The society invited industry stakeholders and Public to their professional development conference holding this week at NAF Conference Centre, 496 Ahmadu Bello Way, Garki 2, in Abuja.