Last week, The Nation took a tour of Lagos waterways, from Marina to Apapa and Ijegun Egba in Ajeromi Ifelodu  Local Government Area, to examine the state of the navigational route and how secure the two ports responsible for over 80 per cent of cargoes coming to the country are. OLUWAKEMI DAUDA reports that over 100 abandoned ships, wrecks and barges lay on the waterways, damaging the environment and the beauty of the coastlines. The abandoned vessels also serve as storage facilities for stolen oil as well as shelter for other criminal activities.   No less than 100 ship wrecks and vessels have been abandoned on Lagos waters by unidentified shipping firms and individuals, The Nation has learnt. The wrecks, derelicts and abandoned vessels litter the waterways and need to be removed to stem criminalities on the territorial waters and around the port, stakeholders have said. It was discovered that the back of Tin-Can Island port in Lagos has become a dumping ground for shipwrecks and abandoned vessels while the people living in Ogogoro Village at the back of the port and along the coastline say the vessels abandoned by local and international shipping firms are making their lives miserable. The two Lagos ports are responsible for the highest concentration of shipping traffic to country.  NIMASA steps in To ensure safe and secure shipping, the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) said it has warned all owners of abandoned ships/vessels to remove them or face sanctions ranging from forfeiture or removal by the agency at the owner’s expense. Its Director-General, Dr. Dakuku Peterside, told The Nation that it was instructive to ensure that our waters remained safe for navigation  to advance our interests. He, therefore, warned that all abandoned ships would be declared as wrecks and the agency would ensure that nothing impeded safe navigation in the country’s waters by removing them. “In line with our mandate on the protection of the marine environment and safety of navigation within waters and our powers as the receiver of wrecks; owners of all abandoned ships, vessels and derelicts are sternly warned to seek removal plan permits from the agency and ensure the removal of these wrecks and derelicts from our waters and failure of which would attract appropriate sanction,” he said. He also reeled out the sanctions to include removal of such wrecks at the owners’ expense as well as forfeiture of the vessels. He stated that the agency is empowered to do so in line with the powers vested in it by the Merchant Shipping Act 2007 and other enabling Acts and International Maritime Organisation (IMO) instruments. Nigeria is party to the Nairobi International Convention on the Removal of Wrecks (Nairobi Convention 2007). The convention is a treaty of the IMO which purpose is prompt and effective removal of shipwrecks located in the parties’ territorial waters, including its Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) that may be hazardous to navigation or environment. The convention gives states’ authority to remove wrecks. In the case of Nigeria, NIMASA is the receiver of wrecks. A resident of Ogogoro village, Mr. John Edward said the areas most affected are Tin Can Island, Kirikiri, Navy Town and Badagry creek areas of the channel. According to him, the community has identified over 80 of such abandoned ships and wrecks, which were submerged along the very busy Lagos channel constituting grave danger to ships and crew. “The hazards associated with the wrecks are that, most often, especially during high water, they are submerged and hardly visible to boat operators; therefore, they pose the greatest threats during rainy season that is fast approaching.  “Apart from endangering shipping, most of the abandoned vessels also constitute environmental pollution and hazards,” he said. Another resident of Imore, Mr Gbenga Owolabi, said the government has the responsibility to remove the wrecks. “It does not portray  our port well. It also does not show that  as a country within the global shipping community, there is respect for law and order. In addition to these reputational injury, there are several navigational aids such as the boyle, markings, light that are not functional or missing or have shifted from their original positions based on the abandoned ships that needed to be fixed by the relevant government agencies. “The absence of navigational aids also constitutes risk to shipping, especially at night or during restricted visibilities. We are hoping that actions would be taken to clear our channel of those abandoned vessels so that patrol ships can easily move in and out of harbour to respond to emergencies,” he said. Edward and Owolabi are not alone. A senior official of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), who craved anonymity, also admitted that the Lagos coastline is littered with abandoned vessels and shipwrecks. The senior official said some of the abandoned vessels have been there for over three years, adding that they are now being blamed for erosion that threatens homes and livelihoods of the people living in the riverine community. “They said the waves have eaten into their land at a rate of up to 20 miles a month. Because the ship is such a solid object being where it shouldn’t be, they said it causes a direct impediment to the natural flow of the current and stops sedimentation. “Worse still is that it causes these eddy currents that immediately start to chew up the entire shoreline. “It is terrifying when you listen to people living in those communities. In fact, at night, they complain that they  don’t sleep because they are always thinking that the water could come in at any moment during the rainy season. The problem has been there for more than two years and it is caused by the abandoned ships,” he said. He said dismantling ships becomes more complicated the longer they stay on the beach and blamed NIMASA for the number of wrecks and abandoned vessels on Lagos water. “NIMASA is  is responsible for the quality of ship that operates in Nigeria’s waters. The agency should take action to remove the abandoned vessels,” he said. He said though NIMASA could not be blamed because most of these abandoned ships  are owned by foreigners. “Foreigners are deliberately violating our laws and NIMASA needs to follow due process in removing these wrecks and abandoned ships because of litigation,” he added.  Ship owners responsibility Under maritime law, it is the responsibility of the ship owner to remove their faulty vessel from the coast. But with many of the vessels having been bought cheap and barely seaworthy to work in the nation’s oil industry, when trouble strikes, they are often abandoned mostly when the owner gets to know that they are no longer serviceable. Experts said the abandoned ships act as groynes, halting the flow of sand down the shoreline  and accelerating erosion. An expert, Mr Roland Samuel, said lack of regulation on the waters has also helped illicit activity thrive, turning the abandoned ships into hideouts for sea criminals. “Copper and bronze and the brass from the ship’s propeller could be sold for as much as N20 million. People will come and steal valuables that are still there because they are abandoned. “Section 381(1) of the Merchant Shipping Act 2007 empowers NIMASA on what to do.  Subject to the provisions if any other enactment or law relating to ports, where any vessel is sunk, stranded or abandoned in any port, navigable river or tidal water within Nigeria or in near any approach to any port, navigable river or tidal water, in a manner as in the opinion of the receiver if wreck, to be or to be likely to become an obstruction or danger to navigation, the receiver: The Act has made it the duty of the receiver of wreck to remove or destroy the whole or any part of the vessel when abandoned. The implication of abandoned wreck is dangerous for the water and the environment considering that they are on the navigational routes. Floods and erosion are imminent in Lagos communities if they are not removed before the rainy season sets in, an expert warned. Parts of the duties as a member of International Maritime Organisation (IMO) are to ensure protection of the maritime environment and its security among others. Therefore, it is important for NIMASA to clear the navigational channels of abandoned vessels that are hazardous to safe navigation. Clearing the wrecked ships will ensure avoidance of erosion and flood, which will prevent loss of lives and properties thereby preventing economic loss. 