The Niger government, on Tuesday, said it had set aside N100 million to tackle the Coronavirus pandemic and prevent it from spreading to the state. Dr Mohammed Sidi, the state Commissioner for Health, made this known during a press briefing in Minna. “The Niger state government has set aside N100 million to tackle any issue relating to COVID-19, including preventing the pandemic from spreading to the state,” he said. Although Sidi said that there was no confirmed case of COVID-19 in the state, he, however, added that there were seven suspected cases and that they had been placed on a 14-day quarantine. He explained that out of the six cases in Minna, five had contact with a confirmed case, while the other one came in from the United Kingdom. The commissioner said that the remaining one case in Suleja had contact with a suspected case. He urged the people of the state to maintain the social distancing of one metre (three feet) when there were more than one person in a place. Sidi also stressed the need to adhere strictly to the rules of personal and public hygiene in order to prevent the spread of COVID-19. He said that the government had strengthened its surveillance system to detect any case of COVID-19, including investigation and monitoring of any outbreak. “The Public Health Emergency Operation Centre is in watch mode and enhanced surveillance is already in place,” the commissioner said. He also said that government had reactivated the state isolation centre in the General Hospital, Minna and the isolation rooms in all the general hospitals across the state. “We have prepositioned drugs, medical supplies and personal protection equipment at the isolation facility in Minna,” the commissioner said. Sidi enjoined the public not to stigmatise any suspected or confirmed case, as government was on top of the situation. He said that owing to the proximity of the state to the Federal Capital Territory, government was collaborating with the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) and the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) on how to cater for commuters and vehicles as regards the pandemic.  (NAN)