The Ajia Balogun Olubadan, Chief Adegboyega Adegoke, has implored the government to show commitment to improve the tourism sector, in order to tap the benefits from it. He said there is need to develop the huge tourism potential for economic development. Adegoke spoke at the weekend at the ‘Abose Day 2020’, held at UMC, Ibadan, Oyo State. He described culture and tourism as a goldmine waiting to be tapped, saying the government should diversify from petroleum to culture and tourism, which is the source of revenue of some great nations. Adegoke said: “Government at all levels should explore the potential in culture and tourism for economic development and growth. “Tourism is a multifaceted and multidimensional activity. It is not just about fun, it is business and the government should look at the business aspect. It makes more money than most other industries. “Saudi Arabia has more oil than Nigeria, but what the country gets from ‘religious tourism’ is unquantifiable. I was in China recently. There is a place called Old City where their emperor used to stay. They have turned it around and they make huge money from it. “I want us to join hands to sell culture and tourism because oil is finishing. Nigeria is rich in culture and tourist destination that can yield good return on investment. “Every state should develop its culture and tourism. So, rather than wait for stipend from the Federal Government, they can make lots of money from it.  “Every local government you go in Nigeria, particularly in Oyo State, there is an investible tourist potential, culture and tourism is consumed at source. “Those sites, like hills, historical structures and other natural habitat cannot be moved to other locations. So, the communities will always benefit if the potential is well taped. “It is the only viable alternative to oil. The government should place more priority on culture and tourism. “Many countries, which Nigeria is even more endowed than, are earning immense benefits from tourism. Nigeria is so endowed in tourism, considering the cultural diversity and natural environment.’’ He said ‘Abose Day’ is an annual event, which initially was being celebrated at the family compound. “But we have decided to make it public and international. In September when Ibadan Day will be celebrated in the United States of America (USA), I will be there as an ‘Abose’ person to project my family’s name,” Adegoke said.