Onimisi Alao, Yola The Adamawa State Police Command has arrested 48 members of a notorious gang of young men called Shilla Boys. The boys are reputed for violent stealing of personal effects especially around the metropolitan local government areas of Yola North, Yola South and Girei. The 48 Shilla Boys were paraded Tuesday with 23 other suspects by the state Police Commissioner, CP Audu Madaki, who said the 48 were picked up for “criminal conspiracy and being in possession of hard drugs, public nuisance and armed robbery.” Shilla Boys who were on rampage during much of the tenure of the immediate past governor, Jibrilla Bindow, went underground the last half of last year on the coming of incumbent Governor Ahmed Fintiri but have recently been on the upsurge. The Commissioner of Police said during a press briefing preceding the parade of Tuesday that enhanced anti-crime efforts of the police which yielded so many arrests of the young elements would continue to ensure that they are kept out of their evil ways. Other suspects paraded included five men who, with six others at large, allegedly kidnapped five people in three different parts of the state late last year and collected a total of N3.8 million as ransom. The Police Commissioner, expressing joy that some self-confessed kidnappers were renouncing the act, presented 11 such people, who, according to him, “surrendered and submitted themselves to the state chairman of Miyetti-Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria who in turn brought them before the police.” The CP said the 11 repentant kidnappers confessed that they had been committing criminal activities but had decided to cease from such activities.  Also paraded on Tuesday at the state police command headquarters in Yola were four rape suspects of the names Mauro Yahaya (40 years old), Musa Gambo (20), Umar Adamu (48), and Julde Jatau (25). The CP also paraded one Sgt Abdulrazakq Dahiru for aiding and abetting crime, having allegedly been supplying kidnappers with ammunition. Exhibits recovered from the total of 71 suspects included 13 AK 47 rifles, 761 rounds of life ammunition, 18 magazines, five locally made pistols, 12 cutlasses, and large quantities of hard drugs.