  Christians and Islamic leaders in Lagos State have started announcing drastic changes to their programmes incompliance with the ban the Governor Babajide Sanwo–Olu administration imposed on religious gatherings involving more than 50 people. Leaders of the various denominations of churches yesterday instructed their clerics to comply strictly with the directive just as many Islamic faithful in the state stayed away from the Friday Jumaat service. Many event planners and event centres have also begun to cancel programmes they had earlier booked for in compliance with the directive. Many mosques which before now entertained large crowds of worshippers were not open for the weekly special service. From Mushin to Oshodi, Surulere, Eti-Osa and Ikorodu, many Muslims stayed away from the mosques for the Jumat Service. Both the mosque at the Lagos State Secretariat, Alausa, Ikeja and the one at the Old Secretariat, GRA, Ikeja were shut down. The Lagos State House of Assembly mosque was also shut. There was cancellation of Jumat Service at the Dawah Centre owned by The Muslim Congress (TMC) at Ijeshatedo. The Nation learnt that the leadership of TMC sent a message to their members not to congregate for any Jumaat service yesterday in compliance with the Chief Imam of Lagos’ directive. A senior staff at Nigerian Television Authority (NTA), Hajia Khadijat Jubril, said the Jumat service at the NTA Mosque in Tejuoso, Yaba, Lagos did not hold. Hajia Jubril said the decision was in line with the announcement by the Lagos State Government and the Lagos Council of Chief Imams and Ulamau. “In fact, the station is running a jingle to sensitise people on Coronavirus. Staying away from the mosque at this trying period is part of the teaching of Prophet Muhammad. We need to protect ourselves from the infection by not congregating. We need to consider safety first,” she said. The Chief Imam of Lagos State, Sheikh Sulaimon OluwatoyinAbou-Nolla, who met with imams on Thursday, said there was major compliance yesterday. “So far, so good, my brother,” he said. “I must commend the Muslim community in the state for harkening the restriction advice. We appreciate their support to curtail the spread of coronavirus. We urge them to continue to pray for the eradication of the virus in our country and the world at large.” Sheikh Abou-Nolla appealed to the few who did not comply to join others, saying it is for the good of the larger society. “We will continue to expand the scope of our enlightenment. It is about our survival. Hope by next week, those who observed Jumat service today would not do so,” he said. The Chief Imam of Lagos State House of Assembly Mosque, Dr AbdulHakeem AbdulLateef, announced on his Facebook account that “there will be no Jumat service until further notice due to the government policy on coronavirus.” Conference of Islamic Organisations (CIO), Sheikh DhikrullahShafi’I, hailed the compliance on the no Jumat service order. “I did not go to Dawah Centre at Ijeshatedo where I usually lead Jumat service. Many who called me were told to go and pray Solatul Zuhr. We need to be on the same page with the government and the Chief Imam of Lagos to curb the spread of the deadly virus,” Sheikh Shafi’I said. The Nasrul-lahi-li Fathi Society (NASFAT) Mosque on Anthony Enahoro Street, Utako in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) equally did not observe the Jumat service yesterday. Some members of NASFAT were rather surprised as they got to the Utako designated Jumat service centre and met a scanty number of persons briskly walking in and out of the mosque premises holding their prayer mats. Jumat service did not hold there, obviously in compliance with the call by the National Assembly to the Federal Government to take drastic measures to contain the spread of conoravirus in the country. It was a different scenario at the Ansarul Islam National Mosque which had the compliment of worshippers who thronged the mosque in defiance of the threat of coronavirus. Most of those who left (NASFAT) made their way to the AnsaruIslam National Mosque which was less than 150 metres away. At Oluwakemi Central Mosque otherwise called Gambian Mosque, Aguda, Surulere, Jumat service did not hold also. Many, it was learnt, only turned out for the Solatul Zuhr prayer instead. Jumat service also did not hold at the Ansar-Ud-Deen Society of Nigeria, Lekki Central Mosque owned by the Lekki Muslim Ummah (LEMU).’  Orthodox churches redesign programmes The Catholic Archdiocese of Lagos has expressed its readiness to comply with the directive of the state government. In a statement signed by the Archbishop, Alfred Adewale Martins, the church said: “The Coronavirus pandemic has continued to ravage the world and the number of people infected has increased at an alarming rate within one week in our country Nigeria. “This has made the government of Lagos State to put a limit to the number of people that can gather together in public at 50. As a church, we are concerned about public health and welfare as well as the protection of our faith and practices at the same time. “We have been rather appalled at the level of preparedness to confront the pandemic in our public health facilities, given the experiences related by some of those who have had the need to contact the facilities or have had to use them. “We worry that the areas that need to be addressed such as the land borders (through which an infected person was reported to have already arrived in the country), are still largely unattended to with regard to the coronavirus spread. “The public transportation system and other public gatherings that could be sources of the spread of the virus are still very much unregulated. “These make us fear that the measures we are to take with regard to public gathering to worship may be undermined by these other factors. “However, we have a responsibility to cooperate with government with regard to the welfare of citizens while also taking cognizance of the sacredness of our faith and practices. “For this reason, we are constrained to make some adjustments that would alter some aspects of our lives as a faith community.” The Nigeria Baptist Convention (NBC) ordered churches nationwide to limit worshippers to just 40 in every service. It also ordered the suspension of large gatherings and conference programmes. In a memo by its president, Dr Supo Ayokunle, the church also advised pastors to teach members on preventive measures against the coronavirus pandemic. The memo also added: “All pastors should preach and disseminate information online to members and use skype or any other online service provider to conduct services like naming ceremony or other similar functions. “On our joint contribution and faithfulness to tithes and offerings, offerings and donations should be done from the different small groups. “At the entrance to each worship centre, homes and offices, let there be sanitisers to sanitise all hands continuously. Physical contacts like hugging and handshaking should beavoided.” The memo dated March 19 also directed Baptist churches to join CAN to pray against coronavirus on March 22 and 29. For Methodists, the Secretary of Conference, Rt Rev Michael Akinwale, told members to comply with government directives on 50 worshippers for every service point. For house fellowship/class meeting, the memo recommended a maximum of 50 worshippers. It added: “Services or fellowships should not exceed one hour and under no condition must the gathering be more than 50 persons. “Members can equally worship through online services to reduce the risk of gathering together.” The Diocesan Bishop of Lagos, Rt, Rev. Dr. Humphrey Bamisebi Olumakaiye, directed all Anglican parishes in the Diocese of Lagos to ensure strict compliance with the Lagos State Government’s directive. He said: “All Vicars are directed to ensure strict compliance with these directives in line with the position of the church as a law abiding entity. All diocesan programmes that attract a crowd of more than 50 people have been postponed until further notice. “Vicars of congregation of more than 50 members are advised to increase the number of their services to give room for compliance as well as encourage other members to worship with congregations with less than 50 members located closest to their houses. “House fellowship and Bible study centres should be encouraged to serve as a place of Sunday worship for the time being.  Vicars should organize this. “Members are encouraged to also join online services on all diocesan online platforms such as Lagoon Radio, Lagoon TV and other existing online platforms of churches on Facebook and YouTube, ACNN, etc.” He added: “All members are strongly advised to maintain strict personal hygiene, including frequent and thorough washing of hands with soap and running water as well as use of alcohol-based sanitizers. Diocesan authorities will continue to consult with relevant stakeholders on fresh updates on the matter.  Kindly await further directives.“  Suspension of religious gathering not persecution against the church—PFN The Lagos State Chairman of Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria, (PFN), Bishop Sola Ore, appealed to Christians to take the recent ban by the Governor Babajie Sanwo–Olu led government on religious gathering of over 50 people within the state in good faith. He cautioned that the ban should not be seen as persecution against the Christian community. Ore made the appeal in a broadcast made available to The Nation yesterday in Lagos. He regretted that the Coronavirus is “unfortunately a pandemic that has taken its toll on over 150 countries of the world and our dear country has had 11 confirmed cases of the virus. “We are aware that the people of the world are afraid because of the strange nature of the virus. We must know that God loves us still and has not abandoned us and He will not let this virus take us or any member of our families out of the world. “God is not the author of evil.  He has equally not given us the spirit of fear but of power and of sound mind,” he said. While praying against the pandemic, the cleric said: “We urge everyone to observe all you have been told by the health authorities. We must wash our hands regularly with water, use hand sanitizers as frequently as possible and then we will be fine.” He posited that the recent suspension of religious gathering activities of 50 persons in close proximity is not an indication of persecution against the church but an opportunity to showcase a sense of responsibility to humanity and the state. He said: “It is better to save lives than to expose them to contagious disease. The PFN has put in place guidelines that will help churches navigate this one month period,” hesaid, adding that the guidelines will include but not limited to “creating home or small church service groups.  The government requires that not more than 50 people in proximity to each other should gather. “You can break down your services to groups of 50 people who will sit apart from each other five feet apart, practising social distancing. On the other hand, activate your home fellowship centres to be a place of meeting and keep practising the international health tips before entering the fellowship or service and maintain the distance.” Ore further advised that pastors can record their messages via social media and send it to the cell groups to beam it to their members. “These are the fundamental tools that must be adequately utilised in this season. Many of us will have to learn how to use any of these social media platforms to effectively reach our members and others with God’s message in your heart,” he said. He stressed that “good hygiene is a lesson which teaches us how to be clean and healthy. This is what we were taught in primary school. “It is critical that all churches should teach the culture of hygiene. Washing of hands with soap and water often is the most effective way, including after using the toilet. “Please, do not allow people to share towels. Rather, let the muse tissue paper or a blow dryer. Church leaders should remember Psalms 91 as saints of God. Your attitude will determine your people’s reaction. “Show them strength in this season and give them hope.”  Winners Chapel suspends Sunday, midweek services The spokesman of the Living Faith Church Worldwide a.k.a. Winners Chapel, Dr.Sheriff Folarin, said the church will comply with the government’s directive banning gatherings of over 50 persons. He said the instruction had been passed to the foreign and local branches of the church. Sources close to the church told The Nation yesterday that the church leadership had suspended Sunday and Wednesday services while the government’s directive lasts. The source, however, said the zonal district and provincial pastors of the church were as at last night still awaiting alternative arrangements being put in place by the church’s leadership to fill in the gap. Pastor Paul Adefarasin’s House on the Rock via its twitter handle @houseontherock, said: “Our church services will only hold online from this Sunday at 9:00am WAT & will be streamed on Facebook Live.”  The church must be part of the solution —Grace Missions International President The President of GraceMissions International, Pastor Adetokunbo Emmanuel, has urged church leaders to contribute in finding solution to the challenge posed by the Coronavirus pandemic and use their positions to allay the fears of the people as they are prone to anxiety at this time. According to him, “The church is the light of the world and the salt of the earth. The first response of the church is to take the position of helping to find solutions to stop this pestilence both spiritually, psychologically, socially and even physically. “People are prone to panic and be afraid under such situations. The church has the responsibility of making sure that the fear of people is diffused. And the church has enough scriptural resources to calm nerves and pump confidence and faith into people so as not to panic or be afraid. “We are told not to be afraid because God is with us even when we walk through the valley of the shadow of death. “The church would need to be at the forefront of debunking conspiracy theories and unfounded denials of the situation. Lots of unverified information about the situation and about the cure and so on, but the church being the ground and the pillar of the truth should not be part of the dissemination of fake news and superstitions that may lead to more deaths and so on. “The church must be part of the solution, both physical and spiritual. The church should help people stay with the measures that will delay the speed of spread of this virus by encouraging social distancing, the washings necessary and the hygiene that must be observed. “The church, particularly those with resources, can also help in sponsoring researches towards finding a vaccine to deal with the virus. “The church should help those who have been diagnosed with the virus and those who have lost loved ones. This is very crucial because people aren’t mere numbers; one person means more than the whole world to a person who has lost one person. “They need compassion and help and the church should encourage people to help. Same for health care caregivers who are exposed to the virus daily in taking care of people. They need support and the church would need to step up. “We need to also be conscious of the effects of the lockdown on homes. Lots of homes would need support at this time. They will need to stock up groceries and necessary items, and many don’t have such money for such at this time. “The church can help such homes either directly or indirectly. We should encourage people to show love and compassion at this time.”  Parents back schools closure Parents have praised the Federal Government for shutting schools to mitigate the spread of the Coronavirus. President of the National Parents’ Teachers Association of Nigeria (NAPTAN), Malam Haruna Danjuma, told The Nation that the government took the right step. He said: “I think it is the in order because it is being done in good faith.  During Ebola period, NAPTAN and the NUT reached out to the government to direct all schools to close until when it was safe. So, when we heard that government had closed schools because of coronavirus, we were happy. We are in support.” Danjuma said schools should be re-opened only when the government is sure diagnostic methods have improved. With some classes having up to 100 pupils, Mr Neye Solomon, a parent and member of the Community Surveillance Platform in Agege, said closure was the best course of action. Also speaking, Parents’ Forum Chairman’s, University of Lagos (UNILAG), Mr. Babatunde Majekodunmi, said the move was good. “It is for our own good. Let the government be able to contain the virus,” he said. However, with pupils missing out on classes during the long holiday, Danjuma called for an adjustment of the school calendar. “What I expect of government is that when they order the reopening of schools, they should look into the calendar and make necessary adjustments,” he said. While at home, the parents suggested that students be kept busy with tutorial classes. “Parents should enroll their wards for extramural classes. We are in the age of technology. Some tertiary institutions, especially the private schools, are able to offer classes online,” he said.  Pandemic paralysis social life as event planners, centers  cancel booked events Following the directive of the Lagos State government, many event planners and event centres have started cancelling programmes that they had earlier booked for. A top staff member at events booking centre section of the  popular five star hotel in the state , who did not want his name in print , disclosed  that some of the events earlier booked  have been cancelled. “This especially involves events that involved people who have to travel to Nigeria. For instance, there’s an event that we are supposed to host here on Wednesday but almost half of the people were to come in from abroad. So they had to call and cancel it. Before now,  an average, of five events were held on a daily basis here  but this time around, we hardly have  events. It was a similar story in a a popular upscale event centre located in Lagos Island. The event centre which was always well patronized by corporate organizations, has had a number programmes slatd to hold there cancelled. “This is not a good time for the industry at all. We are really running at loss because people are daily cancelling their events. We have to be refunding their monies but we took some percentage for the cancellation which is understandable. 