With a $10 million equity in-vestment by a German firm in Royal Exchange General Insurance Company Limited (REGIC), a subsidiary of Royal Exchange Plc, the group, has registered its presence as a key global financial investment in Africa and a strong player in the emerging climate change insurance market for agriculture in Nigeria, the Managing Director, Mr. Benjamin Agili, has said. Agili, who spoke during a media parley in Lagos, said the investor, InsuResilience Investment Fund (IIF) of the German Development Bank (KfW), is boosting agriculture on the continent. He stated that climate change or weather risks like flood, droughts, among others, remain one of the  perils plaguing small-holder farmers. He said 85 per cent of the farming population comprises  these vulnerable small holder farmer groups. It, therefore, he said, became imperative for Royal Exchange to use insurance to promote business and community resilience to the agricultural sector and rural finance ecosystem to avert the scourge of food shortages, food security issues, unemployment and host of other associated perils, that can affect the wider economy from the impact of not insuring agricultural production against climate change perils over the long term. He said it was their early foray into the agricultural insurance space and impressive works on the development, distribution and sales of climate risk protection products for small-holder farmers under the auspices of its index-based agricultural insurance solutions that attracted interests from the Kfw to the company. He said: “The IIF investment, being of social impact nature, comes with the trappings of technical assistance facilities to aid the company in scaling up her agribusiness risk portfolio alongside driving a social impact mandate of providing insurance inclusion to a minimum of one million small-holder farmers by the 2025. Our key social performance parameters include adoption and coverage of index insurance among identified farming population practising rain-fed agriculture in Nigeria as their primary means of livelihood against the perils of climate change and by extension provision of protection of their household. “In-house, we are channelling the facility towards growing expertise and core competences in climate-change insurance products design, marketing and distribution, education and awareness generation, training and capacity building, as well as sales support in delivering on our expected financial and social objectives. As mentioned earlier, the support makes provision for trainings of external stakeholders as well and we intend using these tools to champion education and advocacy on effective uses and benefits of Index-Based Agricultural Insurance solutions for tackling climate change in the agricultural upstream (i.e. crop or livestock farming), especially in areas of de-risking agribusinesses and unlocking flows of finance and investments to same industry. On the benefits open to businness organisations through their cooperation, he said: “Leveraging  the relationship established with the IIF, we opened our doors for business in 2019 with lofty expectations; courting a host of recognised farmer cooperatives, agro-centric financial institutions and agribusiness aggregators working with small-holder farmers with a sales objective of offering our agricultural insurance cover to protect their rain-fed agricultural production risks. We were soon to discover that the warm reception received from potential clients came with a great degree of scepticism as many still struggled with the tilt towards patronising private insurers to underwrite their agribusinesses.” He further stated that the company also realised a disconnect between their level of awareness and understanding of efforts being made by the government and the apex regulator, the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), in licensing private insurers to underwrite agricultural risks and equally approving use of index insurance products for agriculture in Nigeria. He noted that their reaction, nonetheless, is regarded as quite normal taking into consideration that only just recently the entire agricultural insurance market space was underwritten by the Nigerian Agricultural Insurance Corporation. However, I dare say the landscape is evolving! “A good level of market sensitisation is continually been done by NAICOM, in collaboration with the Nigerian Incentive Based Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL) and the Federal government under her various intervention schemes, such as the Anchor Borrowers’Programme in spreading the message to the market about a level playing field being created to allow for private insurance participation in the underwriting of agriculture as a measure to not only drive healthy competition in the market, but also create an environment that nurtures product innovations to match growing demands for insurance inclusion to a largely underserved and unserved farmer population. “We also witnessed several policy pronouncements in the course of the year in the areas of the land border closure by the Federal Government and the directives by the Central Bank of Nigeria instructing deposit money banks to comply with a Loan-Deposit ratio of 65 per cent; invariably pushing lenders to borrow to players in the real sectors of the economy of which the agriculture is one.’’ 