 THERE were conflicting reports on Wednesday on Boko Haram killings in Damboa, Borno State. While residents of the village claimed that an unspecified number of people, including security personnel, were killed, the Defence Headquarters (DHQ) said it was unaware of such attack. Four policemen and two members of the Civilian Joint Task Force (CJTF) were reportedly killed in the attack. A vigilante member told our correspondent that the insurgents wrote to the villagers of their impending strike which they carried out. It was learnt that the terrorists made failed attempts until yesterday. Some of the residents said the insurgents entered the village with about 30 mounted gun trucks and began to fire sporadically. “When they started shooting, the people began to run into the bush. The hunters and members of the Civilian Joint Task Force (CJTF), along with the soldiers, engaged them. But it seemed they were well prepared for a long battle until the soldiers got air support. And then, the insurgents started to withdraw,” a resident, Adamu Yusuf, said. A resident, Isa Adamu said the insurgents were expected on Tuesday night, but they did not show up until morning on Wednesday. They were said to have entered the village from three directions, which almost threw the soldiers into confusion. Another resident, Sanusi Ibrahim, said both the ground soldiers and the Air Force support helped the soldiers to overcome the attackers. “We were lucky because of the Air Force jet. It would have been worse without them. The soldiers on the ground also did well,” he said. Damboa is located between Alagarno and Sambisa Forest. It has been one of the vulnerable villages to Boko Haram attacks because of its proximity to the famous forest. The number of casualty could not be officially ascertained last night. AFP reported that Boko Haram Terrorists (BHT) launched an early morning attack on the military facility, which sparked intense fighting. The terrorists, according to the agency, invaded the base in trucks fitted with machineguns and rocket-propelled grenades. They were said to have attempted to overrun the community but were forced out by troops after about two hours of intense fighting. More than 50 residents were injured by shrapnel from grenades fired by the terrorists when some strayed into nearby homes, a local told AFP. Boko Haram has resumed deadly attacks on friendly forces and unarmed civilians despite proposed amnesty plans for terrorists by the federal government. 