 LAGOS State Government said on Thursday that it would position the Lagos State Polytechnic (LASPOTECH) for a productive future. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu said during the 27th convocation that proper positioning of the polytechnic would ensure the graduates’ preparedness to embrace opportunities of the 21st century. He said that education remained the greatest weapon for social, political and economic engineering of any society. According to him, no society develops without good investment in the education of its citizen, or without an enabling environment for innovative and progressive ideas to blossom. Sanwo-Olu said that the government was aware of this fact, and was investing in the provision of affordable and qualitative education in public schools. He said that education was one of the cardinal planks of his governance vision – the T.H.E.M.E.S Agenda. According to him, on the education landscape, polytechnics occupy a very important role, as the bastions of technological innovation and development. “Our polytechnics must therefore be properly positioned for these opportunities. “Technical education must never be seen as playing second fiddle to university education; both must be seen as equally-placed alternatives for young people on the journey to a productive future. “Let me assure you that the government will not allow the Lagos State Polytechnic to lag behind in any way. “Our vision is to catalyse the development of a world-class tertiary institution that will produce graduates who know and are confident of their place in the demanding world of the 21st century. “We will also support the teaching staff of the polytechnic to develop their skills and stay abreast of developing global trends and technologies,” he said. The governor said that his administration would support the polytechnic and other state-owned tertiary institutions, with a view to ensuring that its current high standards were maintained and improved upon. According to him, the government has tried to make employment opportunities available to young people, especially through the Ready-Set-Work programme. “This is an employability and entrepreneurship programme aimed at preparing final year higher education students for entry into the workforce as employees and employers of labour. “For the 2020 edition, the government has scaled up its target to accommodate 5,000 students drawn from nine tertiary institutions in Lagos State. “With specific regards to the polytechnic, I am pleased to note that the state government has approved the construction of perimeter fencing on the Ikorodu campus to put a stop to further encroachment of the polytechnic’s land.”