Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has lauded the United Kingdom based Nigerian and Chartered Accountant, Mrs Ibironke Adeagbo, and her Foundation – IA – Foundation, for mobilising funds for the education of out – of – school children back in Nigeria. Osinbanjo, who made this known in his goodwill message at Colliers Row, Essex, United Kingdom during the IA-Foundation’s Fundraising Dinner for “Children-out-of-school” in Nigeria on a Saturday, said the gestures would improve significantly, the target children’s access to education. The Vice – President’s goodwill message which was conveyed in a letter to the Foundation, noted that it is worthy of commendation that Nigerians abroad are “sparing no effort in investing in future generations” back home. Mrs Abike Dabiri-Erewa, the chairman of the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission said the foundation is complementing the efforts of governments at home to build a better future for the citizens. Abike Dabiri – Erewa, who was represented by Dr Dapo Williams, added that no country could be expected to go far on the path of growth and development if it leaves a significant proportion of its population uneducated. “The Commission is proud and supportive of the IA-Foundation, as no country can be serious with its future, if it leaves a sizeable number of its population uneducated,” she said. Similarly, the Nigerian High Commissioner to the UK, Ambassador Olusola Oguntade who was represented by Mr Paul Nwokolo, expressed the Commission’s support towards the success of the IA – Foundation’s goal. “The Nigerian High commission in the United Kingdom applauds the progress made in the enthronement of a broad learning culture which will in turn ensure successful accomplishment that guarantees full support for IA-Foundation in achieving its set goals,” he said. The IA-Foundation is a UK-registered charity that seeks to reduce the number of children ‘out-of-school’ in Nigeria, empower vulnerable Nigerian children and remove any obstacle preventing a Nigerian child from getting good education. It is founded by Mrs Ibironke Adeagbo, a renowned chartered accountant in the UK. Dignitaries at the Fund raising ceremony include the 55th ICAN President Mazi Nnamdi Okwuadigbo, the Special Adviser on Education to Governor Dapo Abiodun(Ogun State), Mrs Ronke Soyombo, who was awarded with the “Most impactful diaspora in the Nigerian Education sector while Mrs Bisi Akin-Alabi, former Special Adviser to the then Oyo state Governor, Abiola Ajumobi, delivered a paper on the surge of children-out-of-school in Nigeria among others.