 THE All Farmers Association of Nigeria (AFAN) has described the inauguration of a national caretaker committee for the body as illegal. Consequently, the body has called for the dissolution of a caretaker committee constituted by AFAN’s Board of Trustees’ (BoT) Chairman, Admiral Murtala Nyako (rtd). AFAN  Southwest Chairman, Otunba Femi Oke,  said  the national executive  was unconstitutionally dissolved and a caretaker committee was inaugurated by Nyako. He said the BoT chair dissolved the body without o due process. Oke said the association was not carried along in the process and therefore, would not support or recognise the caretaker committee. “At a meeting of the National Working Committee (NWC) held recently in Abuja for the conduct of national executives, a request was made to nominate members to act on electoral committee from the six geopolitical zones of the federation. However, most states have already conducted their elections, leaving only five states remaining due to nonpayment of election fees to the national body of AFAN,” Nyako. The states, which elections did not take place included Bauchi, Edo, Ogun, Ebonyi  and Kaduna. Oke said none of the stakeholders was carried along, except members that were expelled for non performance in their various states. He claimed the members were sworn in unilaterally without consultation of other BoT members like Senator Abdullahi Adamu and  Hon Shettimah Mustapha. He appealed to the BOT Chairman to reverse his decision and embrace other BOT members as well as other stakeholders in AFAN. Also, the National President of AFAN, Malam Kabir Ibrahim, decried the dissolution of the national executives without due process. Ibrahim said this in a letter he addressed to the Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Agriculture,Muntari Dandutse, which was made available to journalists in Lagos. He urged the House Committee chairman to wade into the situation and save the truncating agricultural agenda of the Federal Government. “We write to inform you that our national executives has been unconstitutionally dissolved and a caretaker committee has been inaugurated by the chairman BOT without querying us or hearing from us,” Ibrahim stated. He said in conformity with the dictates of the association’s Constitution, the union has been conducting elections from the wards, local government area to the state chapters of AFAN since July, 2018. 