• Says no foreign lender will lose money over Nigerian deals
• More loans coming for drug manufacturers The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has asked correspondent banks and creditors to Nigerian lenders not to panic over Letters of Credit and other obligations extended to Nigerian businesses in this period of economic crisis triggered by Coronavirus  (COVID-19) pandemic. The bank has also identified a few key local pharmaceutical companies who shall be granted naira and forex funding facilities to support procurement of raw materials and equipment required to exponentially increase local drug production in the country. CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele who broke the news at the Special Bankers’ Committee meeting in Lagos yesterday, said the apex bank will guarantee all Letters of Credit from Nigerian banks  (on behalf of their customers) to their correspondent banks abroad. The Bankers’ Committee meeting was called by the CEOs of banks and the CBN Governor, to deliberate and operationalise the decisions reached in the last one week on how to deal with the economic and financial implications of COVID-19. Emefiele said engagements will be held with correspondent banks, trading partners, regarding Letters of Credit and Trade Commitments with Nigerian banks on behalf of Nigerian companies. “We will be holding engagements with our correspondent banks and trading partners. In 2016, when we had same incidence, we held engagements with our trading partners, with our correspondent banks, who provide credit lines to customers through Nigerian banks. During those engagements, we told them there was no need for everyone to rush to the door at the same time. We were very clear, that inasmuch we agreed that the Letters of Credit and Trade Transactions have been conducted by Nigerian banks on behalf of their customers, those obligations will be met,” he assured. He said the obligations will be met though slowly, but the important thing is that they will be met. “Those were the commitments we made in 2016, and I am happy to say that as at today, there is no trading partner or correspondent bank, that will say that in 2016, the outcome was that they lost money. No correspondent bank lost money, because we were able to deal with issues concerning those Letters of Credit, bills for collection conducted in orderly manner, to ensure they got all their monies paid.” Continuing, he explained that even at this time, there was no need for anybody to panic, as the CBN has responsibility and will be dimensioning the size of all those commitments and obligations. “All those creditors and counterparts, I use this opportunity to say, once again, they will be paid all their obligations, no need for any of them to panic. Just as we succeeded in ensuring they were all paid in 2016, I say once more they will be paid, but we need to be orderly in this process. The industry is committed to resolving these commitments in a comprehensive and orderly manner. There will transparency and open communication with all parties.” The Bankers’ Committee also advised Nigerians to begin prioritizing their import needs, and focus more on sourcing raw materials and inputs locally. “In deed, there is no choice than to source raw materials locally. From the information available to us, the various lockdowns in different parts of the world, all counties are locking their borders, and making it difficult for even raw materials and inputs to leave their borders.  So, it means we have no other choice than to look inwards, especially now we can say that those inputs and raw materials can be sourced locally”. The Bankers’ Committee noted the gains of the CBN’s 43 items forex policy, and encouraged it to strengthen it and other measures to support import substitution, and position Nigeria as a key producer, and self-sufficient economy. According to Emefiele, the Bankers’ Committee discussed the significant health and economic crisis caused by the COVID-19 which has resulted in escalating worldwide infections, deaths, disruptions in global supply chains, travel restrictions and turmoil in the international financial markets. It further noted the policy responses across governments and central banks around the world including the CBN was  resolved  that  the  CBN  and  banking industry will collaborate at this critical moment – with one coherent strategy to provide confidence to  the  customers, counter parties, the public and most importantly, put Nigeria first. “The industry has learnt lessons from previous crisis including the 2008 global financial crisis and the oil price slump of 2016, which will be applicable and position the industry to better deal with this  crisis. The industry resolved that profit will not be the primary motive at this time. Rather, preserving confidence, financial stability and support for the economy will be the overriding objectives,” he said. Among the few key local pharmaceutical companies to be granted naira and forex funding for procurement of raw materials and equipment required to increase local drug production in the country are Emzor, Fidson, GSK, May & Baker, Unique Pharma, Swiss    Pharma, Neimeth,   Sagar, Orange Drugs, Dana Pharma, among others.