Nigerians need to pay  adequate attention to personal financial planning and management to avoid the risk of being stranded in latter years. Finance and investment experts, who spoke at a breakfast session on retirement, tax and wills organised by Meristem Wealth Management Limited in Lagos, underscored the importance of comprehensive financial planning and wealth management to improve incomes, savings and investments that could sustained one through working life to retirement period. Deputy Group Managing Director, Meristem Securities Limited, Mr. Sulaiman Adedokun, said people hold on to the idea that they could live on their children, their pension, their savings or their personal income without adequate planning for retirement. He noted that people often fail to pay attention to retirement planning because of the illusion of being ever-presence or the pressure of time and the illusion of retirement being a far-away period. According to him, the four big risks about retirement planning include longevity, the risk of outliving one’s assets, flexibility, the risk of not being able to access one’s assets at required or on death; inflation, the risk of one’s income falling in real terms and volatility, the risk of volatile investment returns impacting one’s income. He stressed the need for people to understand their assets and future sources of income including pension, investments, real estate and equities and develop a comprehensive plan to optimise these assets for desired retirement life. According to him, people need to assess and articulate their needs through retirement and make choices about which objectives are most important and understand the risks they are willing or need to take in order to have the best chance of meeting these objectives. He advised that retirement planning should not be treated as an activity for the old or about to retire, but rather as a starter pack for a fulfilled career. Managing Director, Meristem Trustees Limited, Mrs Mercy Edukugho-Aminah, underscored the importance of proper estate planning, to avoid dispute when the owner of the estate is no more. She urged Nigerians to engage experts in the management of their estates, noting that undertaking estate planning does not mean the person is thinking of imminent death but a preemptive step to leaving a good legacy of peaceful and harmonious co-existence among the heirs of the estate. She pointed out that proper planning will ensure that the right tools are deployed, having considered unique individual and family circumstances.