 A student of Abraham Adesanya Polytechnic (AAP), Ogun State Fanika Olatunde, has been appointed the Ogun State Director of Media and Publicity by the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) Southwest (Zone D). This is coming 37 days after Fanika lost his ambition to become the Students Union president of AAP. A copy of the appointment letter signed by NANS Zone D coordinator Kappo Samuel, was made available to CAMPUS LIFE The letter reads: “The coordinator, National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) Southwest (ZONE D) in a bid to further deepen effectiveness of service delivery has resolved to make appointments into certain offices. “We humbly write to inform you of your appointment as Director of Media and Publicity (Ogun State) National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) Southwest (ZONE D)” “We are hopeful of your best contribution to the success of the team’s quest for new possibilities. Fanika describe the appointment as another opportunity to achieve his desires.  “The appointment is well appreciated. My motivation to have vied in the capacity of SU president of my school in the first place was to see student unionism live up to its definition as a body that influences policies of decision makers at various level. This is to ensure that the rights and privileges of students are duly attended to. “Since I couldn’t get that, I see this as another opportunity to still achieve my desire even at a higher level. I also see this as an opportunity to give our fledgling polytechnic meaningful representation externally,” he told CAMPUSLIFE. When asked if the appointment was a consolation for his loss at the SU election, he said:  “Honestly, that is what it is. But I’m not taking it as that. It is another platform to still achieve my desires” Speaking on how he intend to use his appointment for the benefit of Ogun State Students, he said: “Serving the interest of my school is core to my acceptance of the position. I shall also be ensuring a timely and effective flow of information so that all stakeholders are carried along with respect to the activities of the current administration.” “That way, only one legitimate student union authority is recognised and faction system will be completely eradicated in our zone. I shall be working on a model of information gathering and dissemination that will make NANS Zone D a force in student unionism.” “I believe the phenomenon of factionalisation in students unionism is one of the major scourge to our progress and effectiveness. “Above all, I shall seek every medium to make prominent the virtue of genuine and selfless service to humanity.