  2018 Commonwealth Games 100m finalist, Enoch Adegoke will be seeking his third consecutive win in the Nigerian athletics circuit today at the Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN) ‘Test The Track” meeting in Benin City, the Edo state capital. Adegoke emerged winners in the 100m race at the Akure All Comers competition last month and the Ekiti Classics at the start of March and the 20 year old who celebrated his birthday at the start of this week wants to make it a hat-trick of wins in Benin to lay down the gauntlet ahead of the athletics event of the 20th National Sports Festival (NSF) which starts later this month. The meet in Benin is designed to test run the brand new tartan track at the ‘brand new’ Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium ahead of the Festival and Adegoke, the fastest home-based athlete in the last two years will have to contend with perennial rivals Jerry Jakpa, Emmanuel Arowolo and Alaba Akintola who will be looking to upstage him. Also on the prowl to cause what would definitely amount to an upset are Uremu Idjesa and Ogho-Oghene Egwero who have impressed so far this term in the local athletics circuit. While the battle for the top spot will be among as many as six sprinters, all eyes will be on three women in the 400m event as the duo of Favour Ofili and Praise Idamadudu will have to be super ready for ‘old war-horse’, Patience Okon-George who will be making her debut in the circuit this season. Ofili and Idamadudu got the crowd on their feet in Ekiti a forthnight ago when they ran neck-to-neck in the quartermile race at the late Kayode Oluyemi Stadium with the former winning by the narrowest of margins (52.54 and 52.55 seconds respectively). Ofili, the national leader in the event last year with the new 51.51seconds personal best ran at the World Athletics Championships in Doha, Qatar will have not just have Idamadudu to contend with but Okon-George, a member of Nigeria’s bronze winning 4x400m relay team to the IAAF World Relays in 2014. Another event that will surely get the crowd emotionally charged is the women’s 100m where Joy Udo-Gabriel will be hoping to get back to winning ways after faltering in Akure and Ado Ekiti in the past one month. Udo-Gabriel was fifth in Ekiti (11.84 seconds) and faces what looks a herculean task with the devasting form of Grace Nwokochawho has shone since the beginning of the season. The Ekiti AFN Classics best overall athlete ran 11.38 seconds to win the race and looks set to make it a hat-trick of wins. Nwokocha will face familiar foes like Blessing Ogundiran who ran 11.65 seconds in Ekiti, Anita Taviore and Amarachukwu Obi to battle for the top spot. In the men’s 400m, home boy Orukpe Eraiyokan will be banking on the support of the crowd to outrun the duo of Samson Nathaniel and Sikiru Adeyemi, two men who have broken 47 seconds barrier this term. Eraiyokan will also be seeking to return to the form that made him the seventh Nigerian to duck inside 45 seconds in the 400m at the African Games in Brazaville, Congo in September 2015. Meanwhile, the AFN says it is ready to organise another hitch-free, top class event following the successes recorded in Akure and Ekiti. “We are set. Everything administrative and technical logistics have been taken care of and what we are waiting for is to have the athletes run on the brand new track at the Ogbemudia Stadium,” said Olamide George, President of the federation. George is full of praise for the Edo State government led by Governor Godwin Obaseki and his deputy, Philip Shaibu for the putting up a world class stadium for the NSF.