 TAIWO Oyedeji, an Ibadan-based vehicle dealer, on Tuesday told a Mapo Customary Court in Ibadan to dissolve his 17-year-old marriage to his wife, Aminat, because he could no longer afford to share her with other men. Giving testimony before Chief Ademola Odunade, the President of the court, Taiwo, a resident of Fatusi area in Ibadan, said that he filed the suit because he could no longer cope with a wife “who had made herself a public tap from where all men fetch water. “When I suspected that Aminat was engaged in extra-marital affairs, I made her understand that I knew, but rather than stop, she had more confidence. “She continued to return home deep in the night and one day I caught her red-handed. “That night, Aminat put her mobile phone on silence and went away but a certain number called her phone over and over. “I realised that it was the same phone number I had always warned her about. “Then, I told our son who was there with me to bring the phone. “In a disguise, I changed my voice and spoke like Aminat and the man believed that he was talking to his concubine. “In the conversation, the man said that since the last time he and my wife enjoyed each other, he had travelled down to Ile-Ife and that he would soon be returning to Ibadan so that they can both continue their escapades. “In fact, when I confronted her, Aminat smashed a stick on my neck,” Taiwo said. He added that his wife went as far as reporting him to a radio station in Ibadan so that the presenter of a certain program could help to beg him. However, the respondent denied the allegation leveled against her and consented to the suit. Aminat, a trader, argued that her husband was instead, an unrepented cheat. “In spite the fact that Taiwo cannot substantiate any of his allegations against me, he is still doing everything possible to eliminate me. “I don’t know where he got the evidence he is talking about from. “On that day, I just saw that he came rushing into the house from the venue of his birthday ceremony, violently destroying things in the house and even breaking the ceiling to gain access into my room. “Worst still, Taiwo attempted to axe me to death, were it not for the timely intervention of people around. “Taiwo is too troublesome for me and I am equally frustrated,” Aminat stated. In his judgment, Odunade dissolved the union and granted custody of the first child to the plaintiff and the  last two to the defendant. He directed Taiwo to pay N10,000 as the children’s monthly feeding allowance, in addition to being responsible for their education and other welfare. (NAN) 