The Boomplay office in Lagos, on February 24, received Aduke,  singer and songwriter, who recently released her debut album amidst excitement and hearty cheers. The afro-soul, world music singer who was scheduled for an interview with Excel, upon arrival to the office, was treated to a surprise. One interesting thing  about the action of the company is the extra effort that had been put into the event, scores of staff members were spotted wearing the brilliant merchandise of the album with inscriptions like Imole, Ibale okan, Ominira and Alaafia, all these  are themes that can be found in the peace and light album. Boomplay is a music and video streaming and download service developed by Transsnet Music Limited with the vision to build the largest and most reliable digital music ecosystem for artistes and content creators in Africa. One might wonder why such an establishment will invest so much time and effort in an artiste, listening to the album and reading several reviews that have been churned out in the last one week since its release. An exclusive pre-release listening party held on February 20 was well attended by friends, patrons in the arts and colleagues in the music industry. Aduke treated the audience to performances and conversations about the album and all its back story. The people who have listened to the album and experienced the wholesomeness of Aduke in performance have these to say. “Once again congratulations on the wonderful work! With each song, the hope for a better future is renewed. You managed to translate in each song that wish that many of us have kept in our hearts and we want to shout to the world! I wish you much, but much success! May you be able to touch people to make them rethink what really matters in life. Thanks! I haven’t listened to compositions full of a feeling for a long time that is contagious and encourages us to be the best we can be!” – Heitor de Jesus Kaczmarkiewicz (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil) “Peace and Light by Aduke is akin to a thesis project that has taken 10 years to complete. Aduke demonstrates her theatrical background and every piece a narrative on life’s lessons. She has tacitly brought drama into lyrics and presentation, not only in the prelude and epilogue tracks, but throughout the body of the work. Aduke is a storyteller and a poet, perhaps even a Griot as she tells of our social ills and calls on divine intervention through Peace and Light.” – Theo Lawson  “In an overflow of Soul, Afrobeat, Reggae, Jazz, Highlife, … we discover autobiographical lyrics dealing with freedom of expression, self-acceptance, hope, peace & love, where Aduke keeps returning to the subject of how hard she has had to work to forge her musical identity. Peace and Light is just a starting point for a rich musical career ahead; an album that wets your appetite and makes you want to discover even more of this talent of Nigerian & African soul”. – Pascal Ott. Boomplay believes it to be a wave of rare and captivating sound from Africa. The culture custodian describes it as an offering of comfort, hope and tranquility. And many have said it is rich, superb and powerful. All these are a few of the many vocal accolades that Aduke’s debut album, Peace And Light has received. Aduke is a breath of fresh air, even though she has been in the music scene for about 10 years, one cannot but wonder why much of this brilliant and conscious musician has not been heard of since her breakout in 2012 during the occupy Nigeria protest, when she lent her voice to the struggles of the movement and Nigeria as a whole. In the years following,  Aduke has carved a niche for herself as a conscious artiste and global art ambassador, performing at several notable events alongside artistes as Femi Kuti, Seun Kuti, Ade Bantu, Nneka, and more. In 2019, the multi-disciplinary performing artiste was named 2019 shining star in Lang Fang, China where she performed at The Shenmo Education Centre. She was also made a honourary member and international consultant of the Shenmo Women’s League. However, after a seeming endless hiatus and playing music underground for years, Aduke is ready for the entertainment industry as much as she believes it is also ready for her. Aduke says she has spent the last 10 years sharpening her skills and getting ready for the world stage. After releasing singles like Made-in-Lagos, Far away, Leke Leke (a prayer for Nigeria), Iso Kekere, Ade Ori and Ori Taiye, Aduke’s debut album ‘Peace & Light’ has been released this February and according to the artiste; she has come to a point where she feels she has clarity about her artistic journey. Aduke’s deep commitment to the Yoruba language and culture is apparent from her music, lyrics and how she carries herself, and her songs are filled with parables and proverbs – What informs her creative use of the language? “My first language is Yoruba and I think with it. It is easier to process my thoughts with Yoruba, then complement with English when writing. I am very intrigued by the Yoruba culture, the depth of Yoruba culture provides for all spheres of life, the adage, proverbs are all there to guide us. The philosophy of Yoruba decodes most, if not all, the coded secrets of the universe and puts navigating through the journey of life in the hands of the sojourner. This album appears like the beginning of great things to come for the afro neo-soul singer and we are following keenly.