Operatives of the Special Armed Robbery Squad (SARS) of the Imo Police Command have arrested two notorious kidnappers, who are the remaining members of the millionaire kidnapper and former police officer, Coporal Collins Ezenwa(aka E-money). The suspects are Asiatugbulam Ifeanyi, 34 and Kingsley Udo Johnson, 20. According to a police source, the suspects were arrested at Ikot Akwa in Nsit Atai LGA Akwa Ibom state following a coordinated operation by the SARS Commander in the state, CSP Victor Godfrey. The source said the arrest followed a tip-off that the last suspects of E-money was still operating from Akwa Ibom State. It would be recalled that Ifeanyi Asiatugbulam was the only surviving kidnap suspect who escaped while E-money and two others were gunned down in gun duel with SARS operatives on January 27, 2018 at a kidnap den at Atta Ikeduru, Imo state. The four kidnap suspects on sighting SARS operatives opened fire, but were overpowered by SARS operatives where three of them were gunned down while Asistugbulam escaped. But on April 20, 2018 the same Asiatugbulam fled and was arrested in another kidnap case where one Onyia Destiny Chinyere was kidnapped and driven to their kidnap den at Oru East, Imo state. They were intercepted by SARS and Ogbaku police operatives along Owerri/Onitsha road and one of the suspects known as Mopol was shot dead and Ifeanyi Asiatugbulam was arrested with one AK47 rifle with 54 live 7.6mm ammunition which was recovered from him . The Nation learned that Asiatugbulam mysteriously escaped from police custody to unknown destination but great resilience the suspects were trailed to Akwa Ibom where they were arrested in their hideout in a remote village. The source said the suspect, Asiatugbulam had confessed to the crimes, disclosing that he worked with the late, kidnap kingpin, E-money. The police spokesman in the state, Mr. Orlando Ikeokwu confirmed the arrest of kidnap suspects saying that the police had commenced investigations on the matter.