Manchester United face a potential headache as Odion Ighalo’s loan deal from Shanghai Shenhua only runs until the end of May. With the Chinese Super League postponed as the country attempted to deal with the COVID-19 outbreak that originated in Wuhan, the 30-year-old was allowed to make a shock deadline-day move to Old Trafford  in January. Ighalo underwent a 14-day quarantine period before linking up with United, who are unlikely to be playing anytime soon as the coronavirus pandemic has seen Premier League action suspended until at least the end of April. Few expect play to resume then and plans are afoot to extend the 2019-20 season, although whether the Nigeria international will be able to be a part of it remains to be seen. The PA news agency understands Ighalo’s loan deal expires on May 31. United reportedly hold the option to make the move permanent, but the transfer windows and player contract situation remains up in the air as FIFA look at solutions. Ighalo has certainly impressed the club with his attitude and aptitude since making the loan switch. The former Watford striker has scored four goals in three starts for the club he supported as a boy, including a stunning opener in the Europa League last-16 first leg at LASK the day before football was suspended. But in a related development,  English tabloid Daily Mail claimed Manchester United are ready to sign Ighalo from Shanghai Shenhua for up to £15million this summer. United may have to negotiate an extension with the Chinese club if the Premier League season — on hold until the end of April —continues into June, although world players’ union FIFPro is working on a solution to the contract uncertainty caused by the coronavirus crisis. Either way, there is already a willingness at Old Trafford to sign Ighalo permanently after the former Watford striker scored four goals in his first eight matches. Discussing his contract situation at the weekend, Ighalo said: “Talking about other things now would not only be selfish but terribly insensitive.  The challenge before us is not a football one, but a global one. You can’t put football before health challenges.”