No fewer than three persons including were crushed to death on Saturday near Wazobia motor pack along Gwagwalada/Kwali express way by a trailer conveying cows to the southern part of the country. A three years old baby is said to be under intensive care also as a result of the incident. Eye witness account said the incident created panic and confusion as well as traffic hold up along the express way for several hours when a part of the articulated trailer fell on some artisans working by the road side. Their cries for help created panic amidst the confusion that enveloped the scene of the incident. The eye witness who spoke to our correspondents said about seven people who sustained injuries from the incident were conveyed to the teaching hospital in Gwagwalada after a rescued operation by the police and personnel of the Nigerian Road Safety Corps. Though as at the time of filing this report, the identity of the owner of the trailer with registration number Yobe FUN 209XA is yet to be known, but the driver was among those taken to the Teaching Hospital in Gwagwalada for treatment. The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) through its Public Education Officer, Mr Bisi Kazeem later confirmed the death of three of the victims. He said the accident occurred at about 08:50 a.m at Wazobia Park. Another account by eye witness said immediately the trailer fell, some sympathizers quickly moved the cows and their feeds out of the vehicle, while three of the cows that were at the points of death were slaughtered. “Our officers arrived five minutes after the crash and immediately swung into action to ensure those involved were rescued”, Kazeem told journalist. “This situation caused a fatal accident involving 10 persons; eight male adults and two female adults, while seven male adults were injured, two female adults and one male adult were confirmed dead,” he added. The Nation gathered that the trailer had been moved by the Road Safety Command in Gwagwalada to the police area command. But when contacted the spokesman of the FCT police command, Anjuguri Manzah said he is yet to be briefed on the incident.