 We thank God for you as you add another year to your enchanting and wholesome life. After years of toil in building political empire that can stand the test of time, you deserve to take respite from work and spend your birthday in the company of your family and loved ones The national leader of the APC (All Progressives Congress) is a real and true definition of a hero. He has been one of the greatest leaders Africa has seen since independence. He is charismatic, ingenious, focused, kind, passionate and compassionate. There is something integral to his character; it is an attitude that has propelled great and successful men. A visionary who often sees further than human eyes can comprehend. He, nonetheless has had to battle adversities as his brilliant ideas were turned down by mean men with little minds. To him, winning is not something that happens suddenly on the field; not by accident. You must plan to win. In the end his activities and his dreams come together to construct a beautiful reality of accomplishment Asiwaju pragmatist and not a philosopher. He is more of a statesman than a politician. He has consistently been a progressive. His sophisticated approach to politics stands him out even amongst his contemporary political rivals. He has a rare ability to spot talents and raise leaders. His greatest achievement is raising achievers. To him, the people you make today will make things happen tomorrow. To him, to make people valuable makes your life more honourable. To him, to invest in properties is good but to invest in people is far better. To him, the people you help today become your soldiers in the battle of life tomorrow. However, it is paradoxical, that some of his thoughts don’t often work positively as he feels. Some of his beneficiaries often turn against him. Asiwaju, don’t be perturbed, don’t let other peoples ingratitude stop you from making others great. There lies your strength. I have seen the best and the worst of humanity. This man Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is one of the finest I have encountered in life. 