By Tokunbo Ogunsami  A chieftain of the All Progressive Congress (ÀPC), Prince Tajudeen Oluyole Olusi, has called for local government autonomy. This, according to him, would enable grassroots people benefit from the dividends of democracy. Olusi, a member of the Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC), spoke yesterday during a familiarisation and working visit of the Commissioner for Local Government and Community Affairs, Dr. Wale Ahmed, to Lagos Island Local Government and Lagos Island East Local Council Development Area. He was accompanied by the Permanent Secretary in the ministry, Dr. Taiwo Salaam, Special Adviser to the Governor on Chieftaincy Affairs Prince Bayo Oshiyemi, Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Local Government and Community Affairs Prince Olusi and other senior government officials. Olusi described Lagos as a resourceful state where all tiers of government exist to complement one another, saying if local governments are given autonomy as it is being clamoured for, they will help the people at the grassroots to benefit from the dividends of democracy. Dr. Ahmed said his visit to local governments would enable the state government know how each local government has performed, which projects they are embarking on and what are their challenges. He said that beginning the working visit with a visit to the Lagos Island Local Government was deliberate, being the premier local government in Nigeria and particularly the area where elders and chieftains of APC and Oba of Lagos, Oba Rilwan Akiolu, live. Dr. Salaam thanked officials of the Lagos Island Local Government and Lagos Island East Local Council Development Area for their warm reception. The chairmen of Lagos Island Local Government and Lagos Island East Local Council Development Area, Tijani Adetoyese Olusi and Kamal Bashua, hailed the visit of the commissioner and his team to their local governments, saying it would strengthen the relationship between the executive and local government administration. The chairmen appealed to the state government to fix the dilapidated roads on Lagos Island. 