 SCHOLARSHIP awards up to PhD level, to Nigeria’s three most promising young scientists, underscores the imperative of encouraging science education. It should be cheered by all. But the awards were much a triumph of the often maligned public school system (where the overall winner, from Osun State, came from) and the success of specific state developmental policies, often cynically derided in partisan loose talks. Clearly: there is no alternative to a vibrant public education system, which delivers sound education to the greatest number of kids. The scholarships were the grand prizes of the 2020 Young Nigerian Scientists Presidential Award Competition, otherwise tagged 774 Young Nigerian Scientists Presidential Award (774 YONSPA).  The top three, in their perking order: Akanbi Abdullahi Akintade (Osogbo Government High School, Osogbo, Osun State), Kamsiyochukwu Nelson Uwakwe (British Spring College, Awka, Anambra State) and Sigmus Eshiobomhe Aimofumhe (School of the Gifted, Gwagwalada, FCT, Abuja). Two of the top three came from public schools. That is highly welcome, when you go with the Jeremy Bentham quip, pushing the greatest happiness of the greatest number. Public schools are where the majority will access for their education. It makes common sense, therefore, that that segment of the school sector be fortified with quality investments. From this philosophy of making public schools better is the Osun State success story. In 2020, a boy from an Osun public school has emerged the country’s best scientist; and you could share the pride of a happy Governor Gboyega Oyetola who, at the awards, shared the winners’ podium with President Muhammadu Buhari and science and technology minister, Dr.  Ogbonnaya Onu. Yet, by 2010, the Osun public education system was in a near-complete shambles. Indeed, Osogbo Government High School, from where the winner emerged, is one of the quality and futuristic public schools, built during the Rauf Aregbesola years, despite Osun’s patchy purse. The former governor, now interior minister, would feel vindicated, at what clearly is good return, on qualitative social investment of his governorship years. The Osun sitting governor would eminently share in the honour, as he was Governor Aregbesola’s chief of staff.  Still, to cement and consolidate this new breath in Osun public school system, Governor Oyetola must work extra hard to deepen and routinise this worthy legacy. Osun, and its teeming school age youngsters, would be the better for it. The Osun template should commend itself to other governments in the federation, starting with the Federal Government. Social investment, particularly in education and health cannot wait, even if the benefits take time to manifest. So, a harsh economic climate should be no excuse to abandon, or even slow down on that front, because therein lies the secure future of Nigeria’s teeming youth. That means not even the current negative effect of the global pandemic, Covid- 19, should excuse massive cuts in social infrastructure. That strong showing, of public schools among the top three, should encourage other state governments to plough more resources in the educational sector. Building a scientific base, in the public schools system, is a sustainable strategy, in cementing Nigeria’s improved competitiveness, in a globalised world, getting even more yoked together by the day. But, even as federal and state educational authorities follow this path of strengthening the very base of science and general education, the government and the media must collaborate to report quality developmental news, instead of the media wasting its essence on controversial, titillating and sensational news that raise much adrenaline, but pretty little value. It is, for instance reassuring that, given data from the National Office for Technology Acquisition and Promotion (NOTAP), an agency which the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology supervises, patents from scientists and engineers are notching up. From six in 2015, the number has increased to 16 (in 2016), 50 (2017), 55 (2018) and 57 (2019). Compared to more science-driven advanced countries, these stats may appear a drop in the ocean. But their regular and persistent tracking is necessary, if only to relate the investments at the base of the public educational system, to the scientific and innovative achievements, at the peak of the system, in scientific and engineering patents.