Adebisi Onanuga  Magistrate Yetunde Ekogbulu of a Lagos Magistrates’ Court sitting in Ogba on Monday ordered the remand of nine suspected cultists operating in Ikorodu area at the Nigeria Correctional Services (NCS) Medium facility, Kirikiri, The suspect will remain in the custody of the facility pending the conclusion of the police investigation. The nine suspects, who were apprehended on the March 16, are: Ayoola Quam, Oluwafemi Kolawole, Peter Adebayo, Oladunni Abiodun, Opoola Quadri. Others are Akarakiri Suleiman, Oyenuga Gafaru, Mufutau Mustapha and Busayo Akintan The suspects, alleged to be members of Eiye and Aiye Confraternity were arraigned by the state government for disruption of public peace before Magistrate Ekogbulu a three-count charge bordering on disorderly conduct, posing a threat to the society and unlawful assembly During arraignment yesterday, Deputy Director, Department of Public Prosecution (DPP), Dr Jide Martins told the court that the suspects were caught fighting each other with various dangerous weapons in Ikorodu. Dr Martins said the suspects allegedly took advantage chaotic situation they created to attack and rob some residents of the area. He urged the court to remand the suspects pursuant to Section 264 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Law of Lagos State 2011 pending the outcome of the DPP’s advice. The court did not take the plea of the suspect. Magistrate Ekogbulu adjourned the matter until April 21. In a release by Director, Public Affairs, Ministry of Justice, Kayode Oyekanmi stated that the arraignment was done following the arrest of the suspects by the Police based on intelligence report received March 10 that the suspected cultists were on rampage around Solebo Estate, Ikorodu. It was gathered that the suspects were reportedly in search of one Femi, also known as FM, with the intention of killing him. On receipt of the information, the Ipakodo Police Division sent a signal to the Anti-Cultism Unit, Gbagada for the immediate arrest of the cultists. One of the suspects, Opoola Quadri allegedly confessed to have also killed several people during their cult operations and activities.