Last week’s discovery of Corona Virus  index patient – an Italian flown in by Turkish Airlines – has spiked screening and containment measures at airports nationwide as aviation regulatory agencies rework emergency management procedures for airlines, flight crew, air navigation services providers, passengers and other airport users, KELVIN OSA OKUNBOR reports  Passenger screening at airports nationwide has received a boost following the discovery of a passenger testing positive to infection of Corona Virus. The passenger, an Italian, was flown in by Turkish Airlines into the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos last week. Though the passenger went through screening at the points of entry using thermal body and infrared scanners, aviation and Port Health Unit personnel, said nothing unusual was detected. But, news of the passenger manifesting symptoms of Corona Virus and, ultimately, testing positive a few days after has spiked efforts by relevant agencies to intensify screening and other containment efforts at airports nationwide. Investigations by The Nation revealed that the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) Port Health Services and other agencies have begun investigations on profiling of passengers on the manifest of the Turkish Airlines flight. Besides profiling passengers on the flight, other personnel who had contact with the index patient at the Lagos Airport, including Nigeria Immigration Services, Nigeria Customs Service and others, were being profiled. In an interview, Regional Manager, Southwest, MMIA, Mrs Victoria Shin-Abah said FAAN was working with the relevant agencies, including airlines, to step up efforts on passengers screening and other measures needed as containment strategy for any form of virus infection. She said while FAAN was working with relevant health agencies more personnel were being deployed in airports nationwide as part of a national strategy for containment. Also, FAAN General Manager, Public Affairs, Mrs Henrietta Yakubu, said the authorities were leaving nothing to chance to ensure both arriving and departing passengers were screened in line with best global practices unveiled by global regulators in containing any spread of Corona Virus. Since January 7, when corona Virus broke out in Central City of Wuhan, Hubei Province in China, it has triggered a deadly blow against global air travel forcing regulatory bodies to unveil containment measures. Global bodies, including World Health Organisation (WHO) , International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) and others, have escalated containment measures to avert possible spread of the virus and its debilitating effects on global air travel. Global airports have ramped up their screening. International travelers arriving in some International Airport have signage on electronic arrival screens informing them of a multi-layered government response. Nigeria has  urged  passengers and other airport users to comply with all quarantine procedures at the nation’s airports.  FAAN had taken proactive steps by ensuring that equipment and personnel used in combating the deadly Ebola virus in 2014 were still in place at airports. Yakubu said FAAN had  always had thermal scanners in her airports that monitors the temperature of passengers as well as  capture their pictures. She said:  ”When passengers walk pass the scanner, it registers their temperature and If too high, they are pulled aside for observation.” Mrs Yakubu said: ”The authority, in collaboration with the Federal Ministry of Health, has confirmed the adequacy of the facilities at the  airports to prevent the importation of the virus through the airports. “Passengers are, therefore, advised to submit themselves for routine quarantine checks whenever they are asked to. On its part, the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has  put airlines operating into and out of Nigeria, the Air Navigation Service Providers (ANSP) and Aerodrome Operators on alert. Its spokesman, Sam Adurogboye, said the regulator took the steps to inform aviation stakeholders on the effects of the virus. In a letter dated January 23, and signed by the Acting Director-General of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Capt.Sidi Abdullahi  called for a high level of vigilance by airlines, especially those operating international and regional flights designated point of entries (POEs) and travelling public. In the letter to  airlines operators, the NCAA said they were required to take some measures. According to Captain Abdullahi,  Pilots in Command (PIC) of aircraft are to report to the Air Traffic Control (ATC) any suspected cases of communicable disease onboard an aircraft in line with Nigerian Civil Aviation Regulations (NCAR).