Ogochukwu Anioke, Abakaliki  Ebonyi State Governor David Umahi had said that five persons are under self-observation in the state. Among the five is an Indian who arrived the country recently and staff of First Bank who had contact with a returnee. The Governor stated this while briefing Journalists on recent developments in the state on the Coronavirus outbreak. He said that 4 persons(including the Indian) came into the state from different countries that have outbreak of the Coronavirus while one person was said to have had contact with a retunee. He said that the Indian citizens are a staff of Royal salt Ikwo. Hé said the staff of First Bank in Abakaliki visited his mother in Anambra, who just came back from one of the countries with the outbreak. He, however, said there is no cause for alarm as the self-isolation is precautionary adding that all the 5 persons are doing fine. “We send health personnels to check their vitals everyday and so far they are not showing any symptoms. The Indian also has a nurse staying with him and monitoring him, so far his vitals are normal”, he said He revealed that he has directed the Ezza South and Ikwo Council Chairmen to liase with security agencies and ensure the immediate arrest of families that conducted burial in the state yesterday. He said that the arrest would serve as a deterrent to other families that would disobey government order. It would be recalled that the State government had last week Monday gave a directive banning burial, wedding ceremonies, conferences and other social activities in the state. Governor Umahi who expressed his displeasure by the disobedience to the directive insisted that all those behind the conduct of the burial no matter how highly placed must be arrested. The State Governor also ordered for the immediate arrest of the mortuary attendant at the Alex Ekwueme Federal University Ndufu Alike Ikwo who released the corpse to the family for burial. Governor Umahi ordered the 13 council Chairmen alongside Development Center Coordinators to move round the rural communities and all the nooks and crannies of the state to ensure that no burial or wedding is conducted in the state on Saturday. He warned that he would not hesitate to sanction anyone that allows or compromise to the directive adding that there must concerted effort by all to ensure that the state does not with an outbreak of the virus in the state. The State Governor also said that from Saturday, it would take over some hotels in the state to enable the health workers reside there for optimum productivity adding that government would pay all accrued bills generated while the period last. He further pointed out that all the staff of the hotel that would be taken over by the state government would be relieved of their duty while the health workers would employ cleaners and ensure that the hotels are fumigated. Similarly, Governor Umahi has disclosed that about 5 persons are currently on self isolation in the state. Reacting to the stoppage of release of corpse to families for burial, the Chief Medical Director, Alex Ekwueme Federal Teaching Hospital Abakaliki, Dr. Emeka Ogah said that the hospital management has directed that no corpse should be released to anyone except as directed by the Governor.