Kunle AKINRINADE  His apartment was empty. His mobile phone was placed on the bed. Keys to his car parked in the compound laid on the table. But the owner, Iskilu Adio was nowhere to be found. His mysterious disappearance without a trace is causing ripples at Abimbola Awodeyi Estate, New Oko Oba. The 35-year-old cab operator on the platform of a technology-driven cab hailing firm, according to family sources left his home on January 21 and has since not returned or sighted. It was said that Adio left without telling one of his friends whom he shared the three-bedroom apartment with where he was headed. His distraught family members had reported the matter to Abattoir Police Division at New Oko Oba near Abule Egba, Lagos State. His uncle, Najeem Fadare said Adio used to work in one of the new generation banks before his friend’s brother based in Canada sent him a Toyota Camry car for cab business. “Iskilu is my nephew. We were called on the phone on January 21 that he was missing from his apartment at Abimbola Awodeyi  Estate, New Oko Oba, Lagos. From what we gathered, he left home after answering a phone call from someone we don’t know. “We met his phone on his bed, his car keys on the table while the car was still parked in the compound. He was working with a commercial bank and the job was stressful. He complained to a lot of people about the rigours and stress he was going through everyday. His complaints prompted the man who owns the house he was living to send him a Toyota Camry car from his base in Canada. ”We reported his strange disappearance to the Abattoir Police Division from where it was transferred to the State Criminal Investigation Department(SCID),Panti, Yaba, and subsequently handed over to the Anti-Kidnapping unit of the Lagos State Police Command in Surulere,” he said. Another dimension was added to the matter, when it was discovered that the Owu, Abeokuta, Ogun State born youth had been having issues with a certain girl, who was said to have recently jilted him.  Iskilu was said to have played prominent roles in seeing the girl through her studies and mandatory national youth service a few years ago. But trouble started shortly after he helped the lady in question to secure job in a commercial bank and she broke his heart. Iskilu was said to have persistently pacify the lady to have a rethink but she reported him to her brother, who sent a text message to Iskilu threatening to deal with him for disturbing his younger sister. Fadare said: ” Also, from our findings, there has been a kind of disagreement between him and his girlfriend following the decision to quit the relationship. Actually, he had done a lot for the lady in question. After she finished her studies in a tertiary institution of higher learning, she lived with Iskilu for one year and four months while undergoing her national youth service before our son got her a job at a popular commercial bank. ”But the lady subsequently quit the relationship while Iskilu kept appealing to her to change her mind. It was in the middle of the disagreement that the lady reported him to her older brother, who threatened to deal with Iskilu for troubling his sister. ” The police have since arrested the lady and her brother for questioning and they have been freed. Fadare said the family was told by the officer in charge of the case at the Anti- Kidnapping Unit that it was against the law to detain them outside of the provisions of the law. The stage the case is now is that police have been able to identify his last caller on phone and have promised to apprehend the person. What is somehow baffling to the family is that the strange caller is not known to Iskilu’s friend who shares the apartment with him as well as family members. He added: ”We were later invited by the head of the anti-kidnapping squad, who explained to us that the person who called our son on phone when he left home. We are hoping that apprehending the said caller would lead us to the whereabouts of our son, whom we believe is still alive.”