By  Murtala Abdullahi  Geography has proven it that it is just once in a century! Calendar has shown that the second day of the second month of the decade 02-02-2020, makes similar meaning when read forth or back. It is an exciting day to be remembered; and the next to happen would be in another 907 years. According to English dictionary, the aforementioned an an adjective is called ‘palindromic’ meaning any word that can be read forward and backward with similar meaning respectively. There is a lot of meaning that need to be attached on this day because it cannot be seen any more. It will only be remembered in the book of history. Interestingly, the world will record many occurrences on this day. The day witnessed some births, while many others celebrated their birthdays.Some had funeral ceremonies. Some also bid the world farewell. Some hosted friends to lavish parties having built a home or bought exotic cars. Do not forget that yesterday would become your past and today would be referred to as yesterday. Tomorrow will continue to replicate till eternity.  Palindromic day would be memorable when you make use of it well; try to hustle and strive hard to achieve so that you struggle would pay off eventually. This would be repeated tomorrow and statiscally could be up 907 years to come. However, my question is: ‘Can this contemporary generation live till that aforementioned year? Certainly not! Nonetheless, our deed and contribution toward the development of humanity and the world itself would be registered in the book of history and forever remembered and celebrated. Gear up and work so that when another palindromic day 03/03/3030 hits the world, you wouldn’t be forgotten in the history of mankind. I know it not everyone that would certainly be remembered.  Therefore, strive hard to be among those that will be reconised, like the great prophets in the holy books, as well as renowned  scientists whose inventions registered their names in the world consciousness many years after they had gone.