The body of a yet-to-be-identified woman wrapped in a sack has been found in Amachara community in Umuahia South Local Government Area of Abia State. Sources in the area said that frightened members of the community, on sighting the bag, called the police. A source from the area who gave his name as Gilbert said that the body of the deceased was found near Amachara General Hospital, Opposite Assemblies of God Church, Umuokpara in Umuahia South council. “From what we were told, there was an unverified report that some herdsmen will be attacking some communities (Amaogwugwu, Umuagu, Umudiawa, Ofeme among others) in Umuahia North Local Government Area of the state. “So, when the people saw the huge item near a field in the area, they were scared of the size of the sack. “They thought it was either a bomb or someone’s wares that fell off a moving vehicle, but because they weren’t sure and wouldn’t want to take chances, they called  the police who came and took away the body. In an interview, the Commissioner of Police, Ene Okon said the initial information the police had was that the people feared it was a bomb. Ene said that in response to the distress call from the area, the Ordinance Explosive Device (OED) were sent to the area to inspect the parcel, diffuse and evacuate the said item from the community, if found to be a bomb. Ene said the bomb squad on getting to the scene, and inspecting the item, discovered that it was not a bomb as the people had alleged. “When the bomb squad was sure that the item isn’t a bomb, they went ahead to open it. It was at that time that they discovered that it was the body of a woman that was wrapped in the sack. “From close observation, it is suspected that it is a case of murder. There were marks on her neck that showed that she may have been strangled to death and dumped in the community in a bag.” Ene said that the body of the deceased has been deposited at the Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Umuahia as an investigation into the matter continued.