Nsa Gill, Calabar The Nigerian Navy has recorded another success in combating crimes perpetrated along waterways as Naval operatives with the NNS VICTORY patrol team intercepted and arrested a wooden boat laden with Automotive Gas Oil (AGO) contained in 204 drums. The commander NNS VICTORY, Rear Admiral VC Okeke said the boat which was loaded from Ijaw Creek around Bonny Island, River state and was heading to Wovia in Cameroon with 4 Crew members. He disclosed to newsmen that on the same date and location, another boat laden with 105 drums of AGO was also arrested. However, the suspect in the second boat absconded on sighting the Base Gunboats. He said; “it may interest you to know that prior to this very arrest, on 4th March 2020 to be precise, the Based Patrol team arrested 3 suspects and 54 drums of suspected illegally refined PMS in a wooden boat at Agbana west point by Tom Shot Island Breakwaters.” “These were handed over to the State Commandant Nigeria Security and Civil Defend Corp by Capt. IA Gwaska at about 1330 Friday 6 March 2020 on behalf of the Commander NNS VICTORY.” According to him “on Saturday 7 March 2020, a wooden boat laden with 42 bags of rice was arrested albeit without suspects and the total market value of the arrested items is Twenty-two million Naira (22,000,000.00). Okeke assured that the command Area of Operation AOO will not condone all forms of illegalities and criminal acts and warned all would-be criminals to desist from illegal act but engage in legitimate business or face the wrath of the law. He said “in line with extant regulations, the 4 suspects, one wooden boat, 2x40HP, 1x90HP YAMAHA outboard engines as well as 204 drums of AGO are hereby handed over to the state Commandant NSCDC Calabar. Speaking after receiving the suspects from the Naval authorities, the State Commandant Nigeria Security and Civil Defend Corp, Elisha Danledi noted that due prosecution follow noting that within the last one year, his command has succeeded in the full prosecution of seven cases among the numbers that were handed over to them by the Navy.