  Worried by the rising new pattern of crimes,especially in the northern part of the country, the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu has kick-started the detailed assessment of the implementation of the Community Policing as approved by the Federal Government. While addressing senior police officers at their monthly meeting Friday in Abuja, Adamu called for collective re-evaluation of the Force’s strategies in the fight against criminal elements. He said: “The recent incidents of armed banditry, kidnapping, and armed robbery most especially in Kaduna, Niger, Kogi, Katsina and Zamfara States have prompted the need for the full and speedy roll-out of the Community Policing strategies across the country. “ Accordingly, as conceptualised, formulated , and approved by the government, the current effort will be citizen-centered and driven by each member of the community” Explaining further, the Police chief said the plan will involve the setting up of Community Policing Committee, CPCs, at the ward, local government, and state levels including the Federal Capital Territory. “The committee, when inaugurated, are to identify credible and suitable citizens from across each locality for appointment as Special Constables who will serve as Community Policing Officers, CPOs. “ The committees are also expected to identify the security challenges. The Community Policing Officers are to deal with and resolve low-level security issues without necessarily resorting to Police Stations unless the issues is of serious legal and security consequences and require Police intervention. ”The idea is to improve the capacity of communities to develop solutions to local security problems working closely with their local police,” he said. Adamu was optimistic that when fully operational, the citizens would be in control of their security with the guidance of the Police and the Community Policing Committees, while the Nigeria Police would then concentrate on the management of violent and other highly organized crimes with a view to pro-actively responding to them in a manner that engender public confidence, trust, and public satisfaction in Police service delivery. He further lamented the increasing sophisticated and enterprising criminal threats, noting that Police alone doesn’t have the exclusive capacity to solely manage the security threats. “ The success of the Community Policing initiative in Nigeria, like in other policing climes, depends largely on the extent to which strategic Police managers, particularly State Commissioner of Police, Arrest Commanders and Divisional Police Officers understand it’s concept and practice. “At no time had our nation require our dedication, commitment, resilience and professionalism than now”, the Police boss stated. Meanwhile, the Police hierarchy has launched the Annual Police Week schedule to take place in April, 2020, with the theme: Partnering With the Citizens for a Safer Community. 