The Association of Bureaux De Change Operators of Nigeria (ABCON) has assured the public of continued dollar sale at the official rate. ABCON in a statement on Thursday by its President, Aminu Gwadabe, urged forex users to patronise the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) licensed Bureaux De Change (BDCs) to purchase dollars at the official price so as to avoid falling victims of currency hoarders and speculators who are creating impression of dollar scarcity in the economy. Gwadabe said given the sharp drop in demand for dollars, caused by the impact of the covid-19 on global trade and travels, as well as the continued dollar injection by the CBN, there is no pressure in the foreign exchange market to warrant increase in the exchange rate above the official price. He said: “In recent times, governments across the world in a bid to stop the spread of the deadly Covid-19 virus, have imposed travel restrictions which have led to sharp decline in the volume of global passenger travel. “Trade is also at its lowest level globally due to widespread shutting down of businesses in most countries especially China which accounts for about 25 per cent of Nigeria’s import.” Gwadabe said one of the consequences of these developments is general decline in demand for trade and travel related services including foreign exchange. He said in recent times, ABCON has observed a steady decline in demand for dollars across the various categories of forex end users, saying based on this observation and information from BDC members, “we can categorically state that demand for dollars is at one of its lowest points in the market.” He said the CBN has sustained its weekly dollar sale to BDCs, hence keeping dollar supply constant and eliminating any apprehension of scarcity or rationing of forex. ABCON hereby appeals to members of the public that there is enough dollar supply to meet demand for any of the above eligible transactions at the CBN approved rate of N360 per dollar,” Gwadabe said. He said members of the public should be free to approach any of the  CBN licensed BDCs who are also ABCON members to buy dollars at the official exchange rate  to meet any of the eligible transactions stated above, urging all BDCs to ensure compliance to CBN regulations in all transactions with members of the public. Gwadabe warned that any BDC found selling dollars above the official exchange rate of N360 or violating any regulatory requirements will be severely sanctioned, and also stands the risk of the revocation of its operating license.