 The All Progressives Congress(APC) in Yobe State Chapter has frowned at the alleged attempts to impose Arch. Bulama Waziri as National Secretary of the party. In a statement titled ‘OUR POSITION ON THE APC NATIONAL SECRETARY’  signed by State Secretary of the Party, Alhaji Abubakar Bakabe, the chapter condemned what it termed as abuse and contravention of norms and established procedures and processes of the party in electing and choosing leaders. According to the Yobe State APC, the natural successor of Hon. Mai Mala Buni as the National Secretary having been elected as Governor should have come from Yobe State as it was in the past with Alhaji Lai Mohammed and his two successors. The statement regretted that Yobe is treated with “wanton recklessness” despite her huge electoral value to the party in all elections, while calling on the party to follow the established precedence. The statement reads: “Our attention has been drawn to media publications on the purported attempt to foist Arch. Bulama Waziri as National Secretary, through abuse and contravention of the norms,  procedures and established processes of the party. “The APC had in the last years been noted for its respect for rules and procedures, which made  the party different from others and  became a role model of due process in party politics in Nigeria. “The party in its wisdom deliberately adopted a zoning policy to accommodate and give every part of Nigeria a sense of belonging and participation. Hence, it zoned its national offices to the six geo-political zones. “The office of the National Secretary was zoned to the North east and Hon. Mai Mala Buni was subsequently elected as the pioneer substantive National Secretary of the party. At the expiration of their first tenure, Mai Mala Buni was re-elected for a second term of office in 2018 until his resignation when he was elected Executive Governor of Yobe state in 2019. “Following the established precedence and norms of the party, it is only right for Yobe state to produce an acting National Secretary  for the party pending the next convention, as it was in the case of Kwara state, when Alhaji Lai Mohammed was appointed as Honourable minister, he was replaced by Alhaji Bolaji Abdullahi as the party’s National Publicity Secretary. “Similarly, when Bolaji Abdullahi defected to the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), he was replaced by yet another Kwaran  Mr Lawal Issa for the same office. This has remained the norm and procedure in the party. “The purported reports suggesting Arch. Bulama Waziri as a replacement to Governor Mai Mala Buni for the office of the National Secretary, gives us a great concern as to why some people suddenly want to change the laid down procedures of the APC and to short change Yobe state in the national political equation of the party. “It is equally disheartening that, as a major stakeholder of the party and one of the leading states that had consistently produced mass votes to the party, Yobe should be treated with such wanton recklessness and in flagrant abuse to the existing procedure and practice. “It has become quite necessary to draw the attention of our great party not allow some forces filled with personal and selfish agenda to draw the party to the path of self destruction. We demand that what is due to the state should be given to the state in the interest of peace and unity of our great party. “We are optimistic that the leadership will not allow such brazen act of injustice to prevail and set a dangerous precedence in the affairs of the APC”, the statement reads. 