When Olarenwaju Ahmed, a lecturer at the Federal College of Education, Technical, Asaba left his base on February 3, 2017 he had no premonition that he was not going to return the same way he left. He was among those who were on their way to attend a colleague’s child’s wedding in Abuja when at about 4pm on the same day the Toyota Hiace bus he boarded had a burst tyre and somersaulted. That changed his life forever. Narrating the experience, he said: “We were close to Kwali, almost at Abuja when the tyre of the vehicle got burst. I was sitting in front of the Toyota Hiace bus and it tumbled and entered the bush. Thank God for the seatbelt that I was wearing but when the bus tumbled, it fell on my right hand. “Because we weren’t using the air conditioner, the windows of the bus were down and my hand fell out of the vehicle and got smashed. When people came around, they lifted the bus and realized that it was trapped from my shoulder down so I was rushed to the hospital.” At the Gwagwalada teaching hospital where Lanre was taken to, they met only student doctors on ground. “The consultants had left for the weekend as it was a Friday and the student doctors could not do anything serious until Tuesday when I stopped feeling the hand and was unable to use it for anything.” Lanre who is married with two beautiful children insisted that he was taken back to Asaba where he was later told that the hand had lost connect and would be amputated. “After the amputation I was given six months away from office to rehabilitate myself; during which I learnt how to use my left hand since I have to sign, write and teach. I did that for six months and went back to the office.” Lanre who has been teaching at the institution for seven years now said he has made contacts with some hospitals in India, UK and Germany so that he can get a movable hand. “I made effort and got the one that is not really appropriate but manageable because I can’t move my hand with it. That I got through my little savings but what I need is a moving limb that can write, hold, touch and do every other thing. What I am getting from India and UK is very expensive but very durable. The doctors and I had a chat and video call where the hand was assessed and I was given the options available but I don’t have the money that they are requesting for to put it in place.” To get a better use of his right hand again, Lanre is seeking donation from the public. The new limb has been put at N8million.  He is asking public spirited citizens to send donation to: Ahmed Olanrewaju Ajagbe Stanbic IBTC Bank, 0006593895.