A five-year-old victim of Sunday’s explosions in Abule Ado, Lagos, David Nnamdi, is in a stable condition at the Alimosho General Hospital, its Medical Director, Dr Madewa Adebajo, said on Tuesday. Nnamdi was taken to the hospital by the Lagos Ambulance Service (LASAMBUS) team after he was rescued. Adebajo said: “Nnamdi is conscious of his immediate environment and he is stable after 24 hours of the incident. “X -rays have been conducted along with various tests, as well as extensive treatment, which Mrs Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, wife of Lagos State Governor, benevolently supported financially, with cash for the caregivers.” The Senate on Tuesday directed its Joint Committee on Petroleum to investigate the remote and immediate causes of the explosions to prevent a recurrence. It commiserated with the victims and observed a minute silence in honour of the dead. The Senate resolved to send a high-powered delegation to Lagos. It urged the Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, to send relief materials to the victims and to offset their medical bills. The lawmakers urged the Federal Government and National Assembly members to contribute to the N2 billion Abule -Ado Emergency Relief Fund. The upper chamber directed the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) to enforce the rule of the right of way of pipelines. The resolutions followed a motion moved by Senator Solomon Adeola (Lagos West) on the “Urgent need to investigate explosions at Abule-Ado, Amuwo-Odofin LGA resulting in loss of lives and massive destruction of properties.” The motion was co-sponsored by Senator Oluremi Tinubu and Senator Osinowo Sikiru Adebayo. Senate President Ahmad Lawan urged the Executive to always take Senate resolutions seriously. “The executive should implement the resolutions we passed in October on pipeline fires in Lagos,” Lawan said. The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) President  Rev. Samson Ayokunle praised Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu for setting up of the N2billion relief fund. He called on the Federal Government to support the initiative. In a statement by his Special Assistant on Media & Communications Rev. Adebayo Oladeji, Ayokunle said: “It is our position that both the Federal and the Lagos State government should investigate the disaster to discover the remote and immediate causes of the incident to prevent a future reoccurrence of the disaster anywhere in the country. “The outcome of the investigation will, as well, allow necessary disciplinary action to be taken, that is if it is found that the avoidable disaster has any connection with an official act of negligence, complicity or criminality. “The lives of every citizen of this country are too precious to be wasted in this way. “CAN commiserates with the people and the government of Lagos State over the explosion which reportedly led to the painful death of not fewer than 16 people, including the Principal of Bethlehem Girls College, Rev Sister Henrietta Alokha, who reportedly died in the process of trying to rescue the students. “Our hearts go to all the bereaved families and we pray to God to console and comfort them all. “We at the same time pray for the quick recovery of those who are currently recuperating in the hospitals. We pray that never again will any part of the country experience such a disaster in Jesus Name.” Governor of Kogi State Yahaya Bello commiserated with Governor Sanwo-Olu on the tragedy. In a statement by his spokesman Onogwu Muhammed, Bello said: “We extend our wishes of quick recovery to all those injured and our condolences to the families and friends of those who lost their beloved ones and properties as a result of the tragic and unfortunate accident. ”Our prayers and thoughts go to everyone affected by this national tragedy. May the Almighty Allah comfort the affected families and rest the souls of the deceased at eternal peace.” Also yesterday, Lagos Deputy Governor Dr Obafemi Hamzat urged the Federal Government to ensure the security of pipelines across the state. He made the call while receiving members of the House of Representatives Committee on Youths Development, in Lagos. Recounting the state’s ordeal in the last couple of years over pipeline explosions, the deputy governor said many lives were wasted and properties worth billions of naira lost. According to NAN, he called for proper protection of public facilities in the state. “The situation could have been worse if it had not been a work-free day. “It is sad as our kids are dying because of our actions, which can be avoidable,” he said. The Supreme Head, Cherubim & Seraphim Unification Church of Nigeria, His Most Eminence, Dr Solomon Alao, described the explosions as tragic. He condoled with the families of those who lost their loved ones and prayed to God to heal the victims. The cleric, in a statement by the church spokesman Apostle Muyiwa Adeyemi, urged the Federal Government to conduct a forensic investigation to unravel the cause of the blasts. Also, the Nasrul-Lahi-L-Fatih Society (NASFAT) commiserated with victims of the explosion and praised emergency responders for their efforts. In a statement by its spokesman Akeem Yusuf, the Islamic group called on the government do proper diligence to forestall a recurrence. This as Prophet Jordan Kelechi Iwuala of the Redemption Tabernacle Church of All Nations said God had revealed to him that there would be a heavy crisis in Lagos. He said he saw a vision of Airforce fighter jets fill the state’s airspace. Yusuf told reporters in Akure, Ondo State capital, that Lagos residents should pray against what he termed “a dangerous attack that is coming very soon”. Some Enugu residents yesterday decried indiscriminate siting of gas and petrol stations in residential areas. A civil servant Mrs Uche Muoma told NAN that allowing gas filling shops to operate close to residential areas was unsafe. Another resident, Mrs Mabel Ozor, said gas and fuel stations should not be close to schools, hospitals, churches, mosques, markets and parks. A businessman, Okechukwu Obi, said: “The state government should relocate gas filling shops and fuel stations out of residential areas to avoid the type of disaster that happened in Lagos.” 