Former Head of State, General Yakubu Gowon, governors, Abuja market women, Presidency workers, among others, have honoured Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo on his 63rd birthday. In a statement on Monday in Abuja, the Office of the Vice President said some governors also worshipped with Osinbajo at the Aso Villa Chapel to mark his birthday on Sunday. Born March 8, 1957, Osinbajo turned 63 on Sunday. Immediate past Bayelsa State Governor Henry Seriake Dickson has congratulated Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo on his 63rd birthday. In a statement he personally signed, the former governor prayed to God for sustained good health to the Vice-President in the interest of the society. He said: “I congratulate my own special egbon, the Vice-President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, His Excellency, Prof Yemi Osinbajo, on his 63rd birthday in the service of this great country. “There is no doubt that Prof. Osinbajo has added enormous value to the Federal Government of which he is a critical part. In spite of the challenges, he has continued to play his sensitive role with equanimity. “My family and I felicitate with him on this special day and pray to God to sustain His blessings of good health and prosperity upon him in the interest of our dear nation.” Also, about 100 market women from Karu and Jikwoyi, Abuja suburbs, threw a surprise birthday reception for Osinbajo, whose birthday coincided with the 2020 International Women’s Day. The women sang birthday songs for Osinbajo as he joined them at the De George Resort in New Karu where they took photographs with him. Osinbajo thanked them for their solidarity and prayed for God’s continued blessings in their lives and families. “I want to thank every one of you for this wonderful surprise birthday party; those of you who are not yet 60 will be 60, 70, 80, 90, 100, in Jesus mighty name. “All of you and your children will prosper in this land and experience promotion. “Everything that you ask from God he will do for you, so my next birthday will be bigger and better than this and I will attend your own birthdays too,” he said. The Vice-President later proceeded to the Jikwoyi Mini Stadium where he met with the management and players of FC Liberty International. He spoke to the players about the importance of hard work as everything could be achieved by hard work. “Talent is good, but even if you have very little talent, with hard work, you can achieve what you want in life,” he said. Earlier at the Aso Villa Chapel, a Senior Secondary School (SSS) 1 pupil, Damilola Oriowo, who scaled a fence to meet Osinbajo during the 2019 presidential election campaigns in Kubwa, Abuja, joined other Nigerians at the service. The pupil and her parents were recognised at the service by the Vice-President and they joined him in the photo session. The Vice-President recalled how Oriowo had made determined efforts to personally meet him during the 2019 campaign. He lauded her resolve and welcomed the friendship.