Afro Hip-hop singer, Adeshile Oniwonlu popular known as Shyboss has revealed the only one person above others he would love to have a collaboration with in the music industry and is none other than the Mavins’ big boss, Don Jazzy. In a recent interview the University of Lagos alumnus expressed his fascination for the defunct Mo’hit crew consisting of Don Jazzy, D’Banj, Wande Coal, Dr. Sid, D’ Prince K-Switch and Ikechukwu, emphazing that Don Jazzy caught his attention the most while growing up and exploring into music. “My first is Don Jazzy, like I said earlier, he has inspired me in many different ways. What he has done for the music industry is huge. I will really love to feature him one day. I love D’Banj too and Wande Coal too, those are the people I really look up to and I wish to have collaborations with them,” he said. Shyboss, who was born in May 13, 1989 has been into music since 2006. He’s not exactly a greenhorn in the game, he had released 3 major singles to which he had released a video each. His first video “Kilode” was released in January 17, 2006, followed by the second “Luggage” with the co-owner of his record label, BNaira. The third video “Nene” was released in February 10, 2017. He also has an audio “My Love” which he produced himself. He’s a proud owner of a record label named “BNS” co-owned with his best friend, BNaira. He had a little break in his music career as he took time off to further his education by going for his Masters degree in Building after having the Bachelor’s at University of Lagos, Nigeria. He bagged the Masters degree at University of Sharjah, Dubai, United Arabs Emirates. Shyboss had confessed the price he paid to break into the music scene, saying the biggest sacrifice he had to make for his dream was trying to make it on his own without the help of any record label. At one time, he said he was with Olu Maintain but the association didn’t yield much even after trying to team up with the likes of P-Square. Luck didn’t come smiling at him until he partnered with his best friend to have a record label of their own. That was the birth of their record label named BNS, which literally means BNaira Shyboss. He said they worked with Orezi and Kiddominant. He was greatly influenced by the defunct Mo’hits crew, particularly, Don Jazzy and D’Banj but much earlier in his musical journey, it was Eedris Abdulkareem and Ruggedman who caught his fancy the more. When just fresh out of secondary school, he, his brother, and a couple of friends formed a music group called “Boys For Love” and their most memorable moment was when they could get Ruggedman to grace their carnival. Adeshile Oniwonlu known as Shyboss had his primary and secondary education at Specialist Primary School and Specialist High School respectively before going for his Bachelor’s degree in Building at University of Lagos. He’s the fourth of five siblings, consisting of 3 boys and 2 girls. He’s a native of Ibeju-Lekki local government on the Island of Lagos, Nigeria. He also has passion for construction, particularly Building which is his primary discipline. According to him, he was greatly influenced by his father who was also a builder. Two things are paramount in his mind, building construction and entertaining people. He is a recording artiste, a producer, a DJ and a professional builder.