Traditional Rulers from Arochukwu Kingdom have described the re-appointment of Dr Philips Nto as the Provost of Abia State College of Education (Technical), Arochukwu as well deserved given the academic and infrastructural feat he achieved in the last four years. They said by his re-appointment, Dr Nto has not only justified the confidence reposed on him by Governor Okezie Ikpeazu but made the people of Arochukwu Local Government Area proud as an indigene. Speaking when the re-appointed Provost paid them a courtesy call prior to his resumption of office, the Eze Eze Agwu, Mazi Okorafor Uror noted that the entire traditional rulers Council had predicted the coming back of Dr Nto because he performed creditably during his first tenure. Mazi Uror who was flanked by Eze Ibom Isi, Dr Kanu N. Kanu and Mazi Orji Kanu said Dr Nto had in the last four years transformed the College more than the previous Provosts had done since inception of the College in 1993. According to him, it was remarkable that Dr Nto judiciously applied all the money given to him by both Tetfund and the State government to execute the projects they were meant for without mismanaging them. Said he “we know those before him how they managed funds and the kind of projects they executed, but Dr Nto is different. We thank Governor Ikpeazu for recognising his sterling qualities and reappointing him”. They however pleaded with the Governor to assist the retrenched staff of the College by paying them both their salary arears and their entitlements. The Royal Fathers who performed a traditional blessing for Dr Nto pledged to support him in every way possible to realize the vision of the governor in a new ASCETA. Earlier in his speech, Dr Nto who was accompanied to the palace by the management of the College and other stakeholders explained that he thought it wise to first call on the royal father as a sign of respect to seek their support. The Provost expressed gratitude to royal the fathers and the entire Arochukwu Kingdom for the way they have supported both Governor Ikpeazu and the College in the last four years. He announced that he was kicking off his new tenure with a four-year programme anchored on infrastructure, academic development, sports development, and capacity building for staff. He diclosed that the college has attracted a N1billion fund from Tetfund for building of internal roads in addition to various projects that are ongoing. Dr Nto appealed to the royal fathers to assist the college in the area of students’ enrolment by spreading the news of the rebirth of ASCETA.