Police Affairs Minister Muhammad Maigari Dingyadi has said the Federal Government had resolved to hunt down killer bandits terrorising Kaduna and other states of the country. He was reacting to last Sunday’s attacks on Igabi and Giwa communities in Kaduna State. Fifty-one persons were reportedly killed and several property destroyed during the attacks. Dingyadi said the incident had strengthened the resolve of the police and other security agencies to continue the current offensive against unrepentant bandits and enemies of Nigeria as the government moved to restore peace and security. In a statement on Tuesday in Abuja by his Press Secretary, Osaigbovo Ehisienmen, the minister described the killings as senseless and acts of cowardice. He commiserated with the government and people of Kaduna State over the attacks. “It is also worthy of note that the ministry’s mandate to entrench the operationalisation of community policing will, in no distant time, culminate in people-centred, visible and deep-rooted policing that would deepen safety of lives and property in cities and deep rural communities,” the statement read. Also, the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) has urged security agencies to take proactive measures in their operations to avert such incident. Condemning the killing of the innocent lives and destruction of property, the forum said perpetrators of Kaduna killings were callous and inhuman. In a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Muhammad Ibrahim Biu, the North’s socio-cultural group also called for collaboration among security agencies and communities on intelligence gathering. The statement reads: “The ACF is deeply touched by the unwarranted killing of innocent lives and destruction of property by armed bandits in some communities in Igabi and Giwa local government areas of Kaduna State. “The heinous act by the bandits was callous and inhuman, considering the high number of casualties in terms of the lives lost and settlements affected. “ACF condemns in strong terms the killing of innocent people, for whatever reason, as this cannot in any way address the perceived concerns or grievances of the perpetrators of these crimes. “ACF, once more, appeal to all aggrieved persons to always channel their grievances through due process of law rather than take the law into their hands. “ACF equally condemns the spate of killings of innocent people by armed bandits and terrorists, not only that of Kaduna State but also the ones in other parts of the country. It, therefore, calls on the security agencies to always be proactive in their operations to avert such incident. “Furthermore, intelligence gathering and sharing should be a continuous and sustained effort by both the community and the security agencies to ensure security of lives and property within the communities.” It condoled with the affected communities in Igabi and Giwa local government areas, the government and good people of Kaduna State.