  Isn’t it time churches nationwide shut down services in the face of the coronavirus epidemic? There is need for much carefulness in handling this challenge. Therefore, in the face of the coronavirus spread, it is important for the Church in Africa, especially Nigeria to be proactive rather than reactive in taking measures to contain its spread. Measures are needed and I think that is what the focus should be not shut downs. Having said that, we live today in a way in the digital age and so exploring all possibilities to hold Church services and fellowships abound, especially for those with significant education. The main concern in exploring the digital option would be the majority of Church goers who live in the rural areas and villages. But back to your specific question in the area of remedial strategy, I would suggest the following: (a) Meetings in small groups of twos and threes, (b) house fellowship meetings, this time in family unites and two to three families at the most, (c) Online telecasts services – almost everywhere in this country there are television facilities – such should be per household and not like to football viewing centres which are crowded. The idea is to guard against crowd pulling events. Any church member who exhibits symptoms of the corona virus should immediately be self-quarantined or be quarantined while the medical authorities are alerted immediately. There should be nothing like taking such a person to the Church or Pastor or Elder for prayer. Your prayer can go anywhere is truly Holy Spirit led and guided. No barriers to our prayer. Is it fear or lack of faith for Christians to avoid public gatherings, including services? The question of fear or lack of faith in this issue does not arise at all. Avoiding public and social gathering is rather wisdom and an act of faith also rather than fear. Talking about fear in this case is the usual spiritualisation of things by Nigerian Christians. Faith and common-sense reasoning sometimes are always mutually exclusive. You do not jump on to a rushing traffic just to prove a point that after all when you get knocked down then a prayer of faith will heal you from any broken bones. Jesus applied common sense in the way He lived and remember He is the author and finisher of our faith. Never forget that when Church started at the beginning, it was not predicated on large public gatherings, no it was in small house fellowships. Jesus himself said ‘where two or three of you are gathered in my name, I am there in your midst.’ Let’s be guided by Scripture. When this season is over, things will normalised but it also poses a question which should propel us into the future. How really should Church be run in Nigeria? Developments in the world are changing and redefining everything we do including traditional office work etc. There is the work from home WFH emergence. The Church needs to be open to learn new ways of doing things. In some of the most persecuted contexts of the world, let’s ask ourselves how did Churches run then? Think of the Church in Ethiopia under the communist dictatorship of Mengitsu and in communist countries of the former Soviet Union (USSR) and Eastern Europe? You were recently in London with Leah Sharibu’s mother. Do you believe all hope is not lost on her rescue or return home? I commend the efforts of Leah’s mother Rebecca Sharibu, who despite her pain and emotional turmoil, was still able to travel to the US and the UK to appeal for the release of their daughter. Those trips have been planned with the Leah Sharibu Foundation and we are working in partnership to see Leah freed from captivity. The Para-Mallam Peace Foundation is very active in advocating for Leah’s release and we have been to both the US and UK also working in partnership. Dr. Gloria Puldu, who heads the Leah Sharibu Foundation, went with her to both countries. While they were in the UK recently, we collaborated with another group in the UK to encourage prayer and awareness on the issues. It is high time Christians and Muslims unite and cry out against all forms of social injustice and deprivations meted out to our citizens by all sorts of terrorist and militant groups. As to whether we should not lose heart, the answer is a capital YES!! Why loose heart and hope? In a video appeal interview I granted to the Netherlands based Open Doors International to mark Leah Sharibu’s 2nd anniversary in captivity, I spoke about hope and faith. I still believe that one day Leah will be out by the grace of God. The Sultan recently said reports of persecution of Christians in the north were false. What’s your take on this? I have the highest respects for the Sultan in our brief personal encounters and in public functions, he has impressed me personally. However, I disagree with him when it comes to this question of the persecution of Christians in the north. It is even more painful for me to read on the pages of newspapers the esteemed leader of the Muslim Ummah saying such. I want to state categorically that it is false to deny the persecution of Christians in Nigeria today and especially in Northern Nigeria. Christians must not be made double victims in their own country. They are persecuted and the proof abounds. For over three decades now, physical attacks have been meted out to Christians in Nigeria. They started in full force in Kaduna and Zaria as a fall out of the Kafanchan ethno-religious crises of 1987. Hundreds of Christians were killed and almost all the Churches were burnt down. The then Military President Ibrahim Babangida described it as an equivalent of civilian coup d’état.  Since 1987, such frontal attacks have continued unabated with impunity. Gideon Alaluka was beheaded in Kano; Mrs. Bridget Agbamin was killed by mob action – clearly because of her religious identity. Her husband is still alive if anyone cares to hear the full background of what happened. What about the Reinhard Bonnke crises in Kano in 1991? Christians killed Churches burnt down. Then the systemic persecution, which is more subtle, is always there. So many incontrovertible evidences and yet Christians are being put in the defence?  Such callous intellectual denial is part of the tragedy of Nigeria. Today Christians are targeted and killed. The Sharia crises are further proof. Around Easter in April 2012, gunmen burst into on-going Christian worship services at Bayero University Kano and about 40 Christian worshippers were killed – what name will the Sultan call that? Does the Sultan have any iota of sympathy in his heart for these many Christians brutally murdered in Nigeria by rampaging Muslim attackers? With the talk about NIREC inter-religious dialogue supposedly going on and we have such denials dished out to the public? How does the Sultan help promote such dialogues in all honesty? Government denies, a key Muslim leader denies, one is tempted to ask are they co-travellers in this journey of denial? One must also give it to the government who recently admitted that Boko Haram has changed tactics and is now targeting Christians. That represents truth telling and the beginning of admitting what has been the obvious. Is this coronavirus epidemic from God or the devil? It is very interesting to even suggest such notions by asking if this coronavirus is from God or the devil. We may also ask if Ebola was from God or the devil and similarly ask if HIV and AIDS was from God or the devil. Our degenerative human nature of sin and the pollution of the environment have combined to complicate the cosmos and climate. Things aren’t as straight forward anymore and the consequences of sin most severed on God’s creation: both human and the environment.  