Just back from France and the Netherlands, dancer Dayo Liadi speaks of his battle with symptoms he suspected were of the rampaging coronavirus, the porous nature of borders, including Nigeria’s, his self isolation and recovery. He shared his story with Gboyega Alaka. Five days before I left Europe, I started feeling serious throat pain, cough, sneezing and fever. I was in France and the Netherlands for meetings, holidays and work for about three months. I was always with my little son, taking care of him, performing my fatherly responsibilities. Unfortunately, he had fever and cold for about four days, and his mom had to go to work every day. However, following his recovery, I started feeling serious throat pain, chest pain, fever; general coughing and sneezing. I took the same normal medications (adult doses) as my son did and felt well. I later felt relieved of the fever, throat pain and chest pain but the cough, sneezing, chest irritation and spitting didn’t stop. “Thrice my efforts to have a quick appointment with the doctor in France were aborted because doctors were on vacation. When they finally gave me an appointment, it fell on a day when I would have arrived Nigeria. I became very curious, angry and frustrated with everything around me. But because I just finished fifty days fasting and prayers, I decided to hold on to my faith in God and rely on Him, believing He would take care of me. “While I was agitating, I went to pharmacist shops in Europe, told them my health condition, hoping they would give me something to cure my condition but they said they couldn’t give me any serious or strong medication, except I showed them a signed doctor’s directive and prescriptions. This was in the last three days of February. “About 30 minutes before landing in Lagos airport, the cabin crew gave all passengers a special Nigerian form to fill in respect of the Corona virus control. I filled the form truthfully concerning my health status, resolving to face any consequence at the border control. “We were at the control section for over one hour, with everyone on the queue sweating like Christmas goat. Finally, I was well checked but I wasn’t stopped. I said to myself, my God is at work. “The next day, I quickly went to see my doctor. I told him my condition and he gave me four injections, with lots of drugs. I stayed at home for two weeks, going out only on five occasions: first to see my doctor; and then to church at RCCG Beula Chapel on March 8 between 10am and 12.30noon; for special night prayer on March 12 between 6pm and 9pm; to church for all-night special non-stop praise and worship programme on March 13 between 9pm and 5 am, and to church again for special thanksgiving on March 15 between 9am and 1.30pm. Did he you take time to maintain enough distance from people at the church? Actually, I did everything possible to make sure no single person had a close contact with me. There were no handshakes, no hugs or close contacts with anyone at the church. I was far from people one hundred per cent. I kept myself active by dancing at home with the little strength I had. “Meanwhile, I was always feeling tired and seriously weak inside every day. I couldn’t do much or eat much but kept asking God to renew my strength. I also strictly followed all the instructions and directives I got online and on TV concerning COVID-19 virus. “To the glory of God, I can now say that I am completely okay, feeling extraordinarily strong and great with no symptoms. Did his doctor at any time confirm that he was battling the Covid 19 virus? Liadi said, “I would like us to leave that area between me, my doctor and God. The most important thing for now is that I am perfectly okay and doing great to the glory of God. “What I do know is that it was not easy for me staying indoors for three good weeks (about a week between France and Netherlands and two weeks in Nigeria). I took eleven injections along with several other drugs. I haven’t taken that many drug all my life. Amazed at not being stopped at the airport “However, it still baffles me that I was not stopped at any airport despite all my declaration of my health condition. I was very much expecting them to stop me because I was coughing seriously and sneezing almost every ten to fifteen minutes. So I think that was negligence on the part of the control officials. I arrived on 2nd of March at 8:15pm on KLM Airlines. I remember too well that I crossed three strong international borders within four days without any incident. That practically undermines all the tough talks about controlling the corona virus through border checks and closure. I believe God Himself wanted to reveal to me that He is the only one who can protect, heal, and set free of every sickness and bondage. Could the airport authorities in Nigeria have passed him because of his celebrity status? I don’t know and I’m not too sure. But I suspect that seriously – because some of them know me very well and we do joke a lot while they go about their duties. “This is my testimony, and this is why I have doubts about our immigration system truly and seriously preventing any dangerous virus at our boarder entries – whether land, sea or air. On his healing ‘I give all thanks and praises to God for my healing. I must let all Nigerians and the world, know that it is only God that can heal, protect and save. Closing boundaries can’t protect any nation from Corona Virus because the virus moves very easily and fast through the air and no one can stop or predict the air.