MOSES EMORINKEN writes on the avoidable lure of falling victim to Sickle Cell anemia through love and how to tackle the disease tagged: African burden.  There is nothing as intoxicating and refreshing as falling in love, especially among the young ones. Love, they say, is blind because it can easily blur a person’s sense of discernment and logical reasoning because of the ‘high’ level the love hormone called oxytocin, usually takes lovers to. Oxytocin plays a major role in bonding when released in a person’s brain during certain types of human contact. However, the ‘necking’ and loving can quickly turn sour when reality bites and irreparable mistakes haunt a person’s conscience every day. Such is the case of Mr. and Mrs. Oyelade (not real names), who daily see their beautiful daughter suffering from excruciating pains. The pains usually draw hot tears from their permanently tear-bagged eyes. Kemi, their only child, is fifteen years old and a sickle cell anemia patient. It was after Kemi’s birth that they bothered to do a blood test that revealed that they both have AS genotypes. This unusual combination produces one in four chances (not one in four children) of having a child that has the sickle cell condition. “Every day, I run from pillar to post, to families, friends and even enemies, to borrow money for the never-ending treatment of my beloved daughter. She falls ill very often, and the expenses myself and her mother incur every now and then are more than we can bear. I cannot remember when last we had peace of mind,” Kemi’s father recounted with a heavy heart. Sickle cell disease is a genetic blood disorders, which occur when a child inherits a trait from each parent that causes most of their red blood cells to form into crescents, rather than discs. The condition makes the blood less able to carry oxygen and flow smoothly, which causes a myriad of health challenges and a shorter lifespan. It occurs when the red blood cells contain an abnormal form of the oxygen-carrying protein haemoglobin S, and some less prevalent, but related conditions such as sickle haemoglobin C disorder (Hb SC) and sickle beta thalassaemia (Hb SBthal). Children, who inherit sickle-cell genes from both parents (SS), will develop sickle-cell disease, while those who inherit the gene from only one parent will have the sickle-cell trait (AS). Those with the trait have no symptoms, but can pass the gene on to their offspring. The recurrent pain and complications caused by the disease can interfere with many aspects of the person’s life, including education, work and psychosocial developments and interactions. Although there are no definitive statistics on the burden of sickle cell, however, reports from the World Health Organisation (WHO) and other credible sources revealed that Nigerian has the highest burden of sickle cell disease (SCD) not only in Africa, but in the world. The prevalence is highest in tropical Africa and, indeed, the country with the highest burden is Nigeria where the trait occurs in 25 per cent to 30 per cent and sickle cell anaemia occurs in approximately 2 per cent of all births. With an intimidating population of 200 million people, Nigeria has a very high number of people carrying the sickle cell gene. At least 150,000 children are born with sickle cell disease in Nigeria every year, while about 40 million Nigerians (which could amount to five African countries) are healthy carriers of the sickle cell gene. Forty million healthy carriers of the sickle cell gene in a population of 200 million people are like a time bomb waiting to explode.  High cost of supportive and definitive treatment The vast majority of individuals with sickle cell disease (SCD) are born in sub-Saharan Africa, especially those living in rural areas with little access to medical care. Majority is poor and cannot afford or have access to qualitative health care services. Recent research indicated that in high-income countries, the survival of individuals with SCD has been steadily increasing, often well into adulthood. In contrast, SCD-related childhood mortality in Africa, remains as high as 50 to 90 per cent, with fewer than half of affected children reaching the age of five. SCD contributes to 6.4 per cent of under-five mortality in Africa. The Consultant Haematologiost at National Hospital, Abuja, Dr. Tamunomieibi Wakama, explained that in manifestation, there are people whose main problem is shortage of blood because the red cells are being destroyed on a regular basis. There are also cases of excruciating pains, which always need pain relieving medicines. “Supportive treatment is key and blood supply is not readily available because we don’t have a well-established blood system. Although we have one national blood transfusion system, but it is not operating at the level it should to meet the needs of everybody. Most sickle cell patients need blood every now and then, so blood supply can be a challenge. “However, most importantly, the other aspect of the prevalent cases of manifestation is pain; most of them are constantly in pain every now and then. Most require very strong pain relieving drugs such as codeine, morphine etc., which are restricted drugs, and are not readily available. Because these drugs are restricted, some of them do not have easy access to them except they go to hospitals that have access to these drugs. Because of the issue of drug dependence and abuse, these drugs are restricted in a way to help to avoid abuse. “There is also the problems of infection and other diseases like kidney, heart and eye problems. In fact, every part of the body can be affected, including stroke. “Cost is a very big problem. Regarding accessibility, first, the drugs may not be readily available, and second, the patient’s financial status may not enable them to access these drugs readily as they wish,” he said. He added: “Of course, they are within drugs which they have to take every day of their lives, and the drugs are not free. Most of them have to access these drugs out-of-pocket because many are not covered under the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS).” The Programme Coordinator, Sickle Cell Foundation Nigeria, Ebenezer Adeleye, said supportive treatment is not cheap in Nigeria because it is a lifelong condition and patients have to take drugs every day. “We need a lot of support for affected persons to get these drugs free,” he said. Apart from supportive treatment for the management of their condition, information gathered by The Nation revealed that the only cure that exists for now is the bone marrow transplant and gene therapy – which apart from being extremely expensive, only Celltek Healthcare Medical Center in Edo State, has done the feat of bone marrow transplantation, which is a rigorous procedure. Traveling out of the country for the bone marrow transplant costs a fortune and it ranges between $150,000 to $600,000. Also, finding a donor for the marrow transplant is usually a challenge. In Adeleye’s words: “At sickle cell foundation, we are promoting the establishment of dedicated sickle cell clinics that will be solely focused on addressing the needs of affected persons. We have established these clinics in Lagos, Delta, Edo and Kano state, and hope to go to the rest of the country. We found out that when there are dedicated sickle cell clinics, affected persons do better. “Bone marrow transplant in the United Kingdom is about 500,000 pounds sterling. Those that go to India pay about N34m, and in the United States it is between $250,000 to $300,000 even a rich man in Nigeria might not be able to afford it.”  Prevention is better than treatment or cure If the Oyelades had taken the simple step of visiting a genetic counselor or walked into a health facility to do a genotype tests before courting or marriage, they probably would have been advised appropriately on the implications of their genotypes and in turn be able to make informed decision that would save them a life time of pain and agony. People who do not know whether they carry an abnormal haemoglobin gene can ask their doctor to have their blood tested.  Also, couples who are planning to have children and know that they are at risk of having a child with sickle cell disease may need to consult a genetics counselor. This way, they can get information about the risk and the choices that are available. According to Dr. Wakama, “If a person is AS and marries AS, there are one in four chances (not one in four children) that one of every pregnancy coming out will be a child with sickle cell. “Although counseling is important, however, it is not you forcing or coercing people to do what you want them to do. In genetics counseling, you give options in order to help them make informed decisions based on the information given. “Most times, counseling at the point of getting married is usually too late because you find people who have made commitments and plans to get married. It would have been better if such persons are educated even before they start courting, to know whether they are compatible. “We need to go down to the grassroots, motor parks, villages, schools (primary, secondary and tertiary institutions), to begin to enlighten people on the need to know what their genotype is and the implications. “Because the cost for transplantation is high and it is often difficult to get donors, therefore, it is important to emphasise prevention and management of the common complications that arise.” In a phone interview, a Haematologist, Dr. Ekaette David, said: “On what people can do, the first step is prevention, so the ‘know your genotype campaign’ is very important. As much as possible, we must make sure that people with genotype of AS do not get married to another with the same genotype, because once they have children and they have the sickle cell anaemia, they have to continue treatment which is usually expensive. “So it is important to avoid children being born with sickle cell. Those with sickle cell disease need to take time out to see a haematologist doctor, so that they can beat it and not just wait until they are sick,” he said. To Adeleye: “We have found out that when it comes to the issue of marriage, it is the couple that decides; you can’t decide for people who to marry. A normal person can decide to marry a person who is physically challenged. What we advise is for people to seek genetics counseling. At the end of the day, the decision will be theirs, once they have been counseled and all the information is put on the table”.  Stigmatisation and other psychosocial implications Stigmatisation is still a big issue because as social beings, we have the need to interactive with our environment and have the sense that we are contributing meaningfully to our physical, social, and economical space. However, because of the sundry challenges and manifestation the disease, SCD patient find it difficult to stay in school, keep their jobs and maintain stable romantic relationships. Adeleye added: “The issue of stigmatisation is there because a lot of people do not want to come out that they have the condition. The condition has many manifestations. There are also a lot of myths and misinformation about the condition because a lot of people believe people with the condition will not live long. “However, with appropriate care and management, they can live as long and normal like every other person, such that people won’t know they have the condition unless they tell them. “The oldest person in Nigeria with sickle cell is a 94-year-old woman. Sickle cell is just like any other genetic condition in the body that people are managing. For example, hypertension, diabetes, etc., and they are living very well with it. People with sickle cell can live very well with the condition.” Concerning the level of government funding and interventions for the management and treatment of sickle cell patients, Dr. Wakama, said: “It is not just for sickle cell, but the government is not doing enough for any other segment of health. Health care in Nigeria is very poor. 