 A new internet service provider, Fiam WiFI, has identified affordability and reliability as factors that will help deepen internet penetration in the country. Its founder & Chief Executive Officer, Akin Marinho,  in a statement, said access to affordable connectivity should be for everyone. He said the firm  has started with 25 hotspots in Ajegule with plans to install another 100 over the next six months. He said after its launch in Ajegunle, Ajeromi-Ifelodun Local Government Area of Lagos State, the team has put together a roadmap for its rollout plans in phases. According to him, Amuwo Odofin, Alimosho, and Apapa will be covered during the first phase. Surulere, Oshodi, and Isolo are billed for the second phase. Shomolu, Mushin, Kosofe, Ikeja, and Agege are scheduled for the third phase and Ifako Ijaye, Lagos Island, Badagry, Ikorodu, and Ojo will be added in the fourth phase of its  18-month rollout plan. Marinho explained that the Fiam WiFi network will be strategically built to hold concurrent users of about 10 per cent of the population of designated communities.  The company has partnered Dolphin Telecom and Vodacom who provide broadband speed bandwith. He said as part of the company’s community-driven policy, customer engagement and maintenance teams will be sourced from residents of the communities it serves, thereby creating employment opprotnuties for many. In addition, the company has partnered the local government to provide WiFi hotspots in every primary school in Ajegunle. Marinho said the firm’s pricing is its unique selling point adding that the pricing is targeted at making low-income earners have access to fast and reliable internet services at an affordable rate.  “The data pricing is simple, clear and transparent and starts at N400 for 1GB. The data prices come with one simple condition of no validity or expiration period, unlike some other internet service providers where subscribers may get 100MB for a day or specific validity period. Fiam WiFi does not restrict usage by validity, users need not worry about data expiration when not in use,” he said. He said the Nigerian Communications Commission  (NCC) policy on broadband expansion and access is clear and it is critical for the socio-economic development of the nation. Funke Okpeke, the CEO of Main One Cable Company  headed  the National Broadband Committee of the NCC which stated that the aim should be to  boost broadband penetration over the next five years (2020-2025) from 37.8per cent to over 70per cent. “Fiam WiFi is positioning itself to be a key ISP, to create access to affordable high-speed connectivity for all through wifi hotspots irrespective of ethnicity, class, gender, and age. We at Fiam WiFi intend to drive down digital inequality and ensure that Nigeria’s young and growing population are ready for the Fourth Industrial Revolution,” he said.