Nigerians from all walks of life have continued to canvass love, peace and unity as panacea for the country’s hydra-headed security challenges. GBENGA OMOKHUNU reports. The unity of Nigeria, as many would say, is not negotiable. The unabated killings in the country, especially in the northern parts are becoming alarming by the day. Christians and Muslims have been calling on the federal, state and local governments to, as a matter of urgency; find a lasting solution to the upsurge. From the look of things, crime and criminality is gaining ground with no clue on how to curb the menace. While the Federal Government claims to be on top of the situation, people are being killed daily for no just cause. The consensus opinion is that one of the key factors for achieving sustainable democracy is unity. Many have described ethnicity as a national problem around which all manner of crimes were being perpetrated against the nation. These are primordial considerations that have produced the “we want our man” syndrome in the nation’s political space. The Nigerian national space is replete with cases of inequalities, injustices and discrimination. It was for this and other reasons that religious leaders, government functionaries as well as other well-meaning Nigerians are looking at the factor of unity as solution. They converged on Abuja at the 5th International Conference on Love and Tolerance. The theme of the conference was “Countering Violent Extremism for Peaceful Co-existence.” It was held at the African First Ladies Peace Mission Conference Hall (IPCR Hall). At the conference, the Sultan of Sokoto, His Eminence, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar lll, assured that Nigeria will win the fight against insurgency despite the current situation. Abubakar III, who expressed displeasure over the killings and bloodshed in the country, lamented that the situation has gotten to a stage where the rich are avoiding the poor. Condemning the senseless carnage in the land, the Sultan urged everyone to live in peace and be their brother’s keeper. Sultan Abubakar is the head of the Jama’atu Nasril Islam (Society for the Support of Islam, JNI) and President-General of the Nigerian National Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA). The Sultan, who was represented by the Emir of Jiwa, His Royal Highness (HRH), Idris Musa, said it has also been observed that most Nigerians do not love one another. He called for prayers for both Muslim and Christian faithful for God to show mercy and restore peace and progress. His words: “We can win the fight against insurgency. Everyone is afraid of each other. I am sure we are going to win the war. At present, it has reached a situation where a senior citizen is running away from the common man, because he is thinking that he would lose his life, why? ” The security challenges are our problem. The Holy Koran is a message to mankind. The Holy Bible is a message to mankind. If we cannot listen to what the Bible and the Koran have thought us and we continue in our bad ways, what do we expect? It is part of the punishment we are receiving based on our sins. If we can stop committing sin and abide by God’s words, things will change. “I thank the UFUK Foundation for trying to unite the world to become one and love one another. Today, we are in a situation where most of us do not love one another. This is wrong. We are created in the same way and we are brothers, no matter the situation and religion. We are appealing to everyone to live together and be our brother’s keeper and live in harmony. We should not create problems for one another.” President of the UFUK Dialogue, Kamil Kemanci, said the UfUK Dialogue serves to stand by societal peace, love, respect and compassion in support of human dignity and the greater good by striving to preserve the common values of humanity; values such as respect, tolerance, peace and mutual understanding. Kamanci said in dialogue, it is possible to transform conflict into co-operation, adding that the most important factor in the creation and promotion of sustainable peace was the realisation of good governance, while promoting justice through increased transparency, accountability and rule of law and strengthening of democracy. He urged government to fight violence and terrorist recruitments with the involvement of local communities. He canvassed the setting up of the necessary framework for identifying deviant youths to prevent them from seeking self-destructive paths. He stressed the need to assist families with counselling and other support services. Kamanci advised that youth should be taught ways of expressing support and dissent through democratic channels. Government, he said, should incorporate democratic values into school curricula. Kamanci also called on religious leaders to critically review understanding and practice of faith in the light of the conditions. The Executive Director, Cardinal Onaiyakan Foundation for Peace (COFP), Rev Sister Agatha Chikelue, said there was need to emphasise peaceful co-existence right from primary school level. She said tolerance and love among Nigerians will boost security, promote peace and enhance development across the nation. Doing the opposite, Rev. Chikelue said, will produce social marginalisation, deprivation, segregation, exclusion, lack of access to justice and resources; repression, abuse, oppression and other societal ills. She said the result will lead to chaos, violent extremism, insurgency and even terrorism as the country is currently experiencing. A Nollywood actor, Kenneth Okonkwo called for oneness and peace, urging those who are bent on dividing the country to have a rethink to avoid crisis. The President, Muslim Students’ Association of Nigeria, Mr. Faisal Lawal, counselled that if anyone must fight at all, they should fight for peace in the country. He condemned the ugly trend of killings and bloodshed in the land and called on the perpetrators to embrace peace and turn to God.