It can be difficult to recollect that most of our favourite celebs were not born with a silver spoon. It’s, however, a well-known fact that many of our celebrities are extraordinarily wealthy folks.  While some climbed the ladders before getting to wealth and stardom, some are born into wealth and affluence; they are born and raised by rich and famous parents. Some celebrities grew up amidst real fortunes. So, many of our celebrities who found fame in their careers didn’t necessarily need the fortune that came with it; some are born into wealthy homes.  Most celebs at some points in their lives struggle to pay their bills, while some have been born into wealthy families, which have helped open doors for them throughout their careers. Here are some of them: DJ Cuppy We are taking a look at some of the stars who come from rich and famous families, starting with DJ Cuppy. The female disc jockey star us the daughter of oil business magnate and philanthropist, Mr Femi Otedola. Herl ate grandfather, Sir Michael Otedola, was a politician and the former Governor of Lagos State. Charlie Boy Charlie Boy, popularly known as ‘Area Fada’, is the son of the late former Justice of the Supreme Court, Justice Chukwudifu Oputa. He was meant to be a priest but left the seminary school after one year and he was sent off to the United States of America to study Law, just like his father had done but he ended up with a degree in communications and later veered into showbiz. Naeto C Kema Chikwe is a former Minister of Aviation and she currently holds the position of National Woman Leader of the opposition party, People’s Democratic Party(PDP); Kema Chikwe is also the mother of Nigerian rapper, Naeto C. Davido We all know that renowned singer, Davido, grew up in a ‘loaded’ family. The Omo-Baba-Olowo crooner is the son of Adedeji Adeleke, the founder and president of Adeleke University and CEO of Pacific Holdings Limited. Davido is a rave of the moment in his musical career. Falz Falz is the son of renowned lawyers, Femi and Funmi Falana. His father, Femi Falana (SAN), is a human rights activist and highly successful legal practitioner. Falz followed in his parent’s footsteps having graduated with an LLB honours degree in Law from the University of Reading, England. But rather than practise Law like his parents, he took to showbiz and within a short time has become a household name. Lynxx Fine lady crooner, Chukie Edozien, whose stage name is Lynxx, doesn’t need a day’s job but it turns out that he can live outside his father’s shadow. Lynxx’s father is Chief John Edozien, a former governor of Old Bendel and first deputy governor of Old Delta State. A corporate tycoon, he’s the chairman of a number of companies, including Jenkyns Consults Nigeria Limited and Mercedes Benz Automobile Service Limited. He has also served as director of Linkage Assurance Plc and Diamond Bank Plc. Kunle Afolayan Kunle Afolayan’s late father, Adeyemi Afolaya, popularly known as Ade Love, was a film actor, director and producer. He started cinematography business in Nigeria, organised stage exhibitions and educational projects for various governments, businesses and political figures. Kunle, his first son, resigned his banking job and went into acting. He is now a successful film maker. Shina Peller The CEO of Aquila Group of Companies and owner of upscale night club Quilox; Shina Peller, is one of the sons of Nigeria’s most famous magician, the late Professor Peller. Clarence Peters Cinematographer, filmmaker, music and video director, Clarence Peters, is the founder and CEO of Capital Dream Pictures. Clarence Peters grew up in the entertainment industry. His father, Shina Peters, is a popular musician and the creator of Afro-Juju music, while his mother, Clarion Chukwura, is the famous Nollywood veteran actress.