 Ahead of the July 2020 general elections of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), tensions rose recently in Lagos between the Chairman of Ikorodu branch, Mr  Bayo Akinlade, and his Lagos branch counterpart, Mr. Yemi Akangbe. Akinlade alleged that Akangbe  inappropriately ordered him and other lawyers out of the Lagos branch’s February monthly meeting, following political differences. The Ikorodu chairman, who is said to be aspiring for  the  office of  First  Vice -President of the association when the ban on campaign is lifted, made the claim on lawyers’ social media platforms. He said: “The chairman of NBA Ikorodu Branch and his members have just now been walked out of the ongoing Lagos Branch meeting by the Lagos branch Chairman. “Just before the meeting was about to commence, the chairman said he was informed that non-Lagos Branch members were in the meeting and since they didn’t follow protocols, they were to leave the meeting.” He said he and members of his branch, who had been exchanging banter with their Lagos colleagues, were shocked. Akinlade said: “It is not known in NBA that lawyers visiting from other branches are walked out of branch meetings.” In another post, he voiced his displeasure at the incident. “The traditions of this Bar have been eroded and nowhere have I ever seen guests treated the way I was today in the branch that I served and honour. “You cannot begin to imagine what Lagos branch means to me. It was my first NBA family and I still have many many fine colleagues I consider friends. “This should never happen in any branch, even to a member, let alone a branch chairman and some of his excos visiting. “This is the decay we talk about. In the days I served Lagos Branch, it never happened. I remember many visitors coming to our branch meetings and we honoured them. Till today, I honour every guest that comes whether by invitation or not. In fact, I stop the meeting if already in progress to give them audience. “Today, we went to visit Dr. Ajibade (SAN)  to honour him and invite him to our Law Week. After the meeting with him, he asked us to join him at the branch meeting where he is hosting and with respect [though reluctantly] we obliged him. I got to the meeting and greeted all senior members including the chairman himself” Akinlade stated. Responding to the development, Akangbe, shed light on the incident.  He said after the meeting started, he when was informed that some members that  were  not from  Lagos Branch were  in their midst. He stated that he made this known, stressing that, it was wrong to just barge into people like that since there are protocols to be observed. “Normally, people call to tell you they want to come for your meeting,” Akangbe said. He noted that the branch wanted to have some deliberation, hence, it was expedient to tell the visitors to excuse them, after which, they could come. According to him, this was normal. Aknagbe denied ever walking  them out of the meeting at any time. He said he only asked the Ikorodu branch members to excuse the branch so that the Lagos branch could have their branch deliberations,  especially since the election is around the corner. A member of the branch who spoke to The Nation in confidence since he is not the publicity Secretary of the branch, corroborated the Lagos Chairman’s explanation. He said: “The chairman only gave directives that non-members of the branch should excuse us for our deliberation and after that, they could come in. “At the time the meeting was about to start, a lot of people from other branches were in and sitting at strategic points. It was like bringing tension to the meeting. “He made the announcement that they should excuse us and that they would be invited at the appropriate time and they complied before I left. “The people who actually came were for a campaign not really for the meeting and coincidentally our meeting today was sponsored by one of the aspirants, Dr., Ajibade and those other people are supporting another candidate,” he said.