The Vice Chancellor of Federal University of Technology, Akure,  (FUTA), Prof. Joseph Adeola Fuwape, has urged newly matriculated students to contribute to national development through breaking  new grounds in research and innovation. He stated this during the school’s 37th Matriculation ceremony where  over 3,200 students got  admitted into various programmes of the university for the 2019/2020 academic session on Friday.He said that the university had enough resources and facilities to help the students achieve their  dreams. Citing John Richardson Junior, he said “When it comes to the future, there are three kinds of people, those who let things happen, those who make things happen and those who wonder how things happen”. Fuwape reiterated FUTA’s zero tolerance for all acts inimical to peace on campus, especially thuggery, disruptive fake posts on social media, vandalism, stealing, academic fraud, hooliganism and cultism. He stated that the university management will not hesitate to deal with offenders within the ambit of the university regulations. He implored the fresh students to imbibe the ethics of hard work, moderation and discipline  to achieve academic excellence. Fuwape encouraged the students to dress according to socially acceptable standards that instill a sense of integrity and appreciation of values and ethics as stipulated in the university dress code. He added that students should have respect for human dignity and learn how to relate with other people in a decent and acceptable manner. He disclosed that the School of  Agriculture and Agricultural Technology had  646 new students; School of Engineering and Engineering Technology (677); School of Earth and Mineral Service 385; School of Environmental Technology  420; School of Health and Health Technology 140; School of Computing  319 and School of Sciences 729. Principal Officers of the university, Deans of schools, school officers, parents of the matriculating students graced the ceremony held in the main auditorium with the Matriculation Oath administered on the new students by the Registrar, Mr. Richard Arifalo, in line with the tradition of formal enrolment into higher institutions. 