Church leaders across the country spent the weekend strategising on how to organise services within the limit of physical restrictions following measures by government authorities to contain the coronavirus epidemic. Lagos State Government on Wednesday restricted religious gatherings to 50 worshippers to contain the spread of the novel virus. Ogun State followed suit on Thursday while Kaduna, Anambra and Rivers State on Friday prohibited mosques and churches from holding services with above 50 worshippers. Other State Governments are expected to come up with similar preventive measures against COVID-19 in the coming days. Checks by our correspondent revealed the church leaders agonised over how the epidemic will affect the availability of members and worshippers in service centres across the nation. While a few of them agreed to completely cancel services, many of the church leaders devised strategies to hold services without dire consequences. Those in the latter group believe outright cancellation of services wouldn’t be fitting since government authorities already provided a window for the meeting. Most of the churches affected by the restrictions are mega parishes and assemblies with worshippers running into hundreds and thousands. Big denominational assemblies such as Nigeria Baptist Convention, Methodist Church Nigeria, Church of Nigeria Anglican Communion, Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Mountain of Fire and Miracle Ministries (MFM) and others already issued directives to ministers to comply with government’s prohibitions. While some suggested holding multiple services of not more than 50 worshippers at a time, others asked that home/ fellowship cells serve as worship centres for Sunday services. A cleric, who spoke with our correspondent on strict anonymity, said the 50-worshipper order shouldn’t affect churches that much. “I don’t see how it will hamper our services because it is not that we are closing. We are only taking measures. Besides, tithes and offerings will still be collected. “To me, it is even better because the logistics of crowd management can be daunting sometimes.” E-service to the rescue Checks revealed that some mega Pentecostal churches in Lagos and Ogun have decided to take advantage of technology to beat the physical restriction order. Many of them have opted for outright cancellation of physical services in place of online convergence. Daystar Christian Centre Oregun founded by Pastor Sam Adeyemi last week announced only online services will hold. Adeyemi, in a statement he signed, said services can be followed via the website, twitter, facebook and instagram accounts of the church. Other Pentecostal assemblies have put measures in place for similar service experience. Some of the affected members told our correspondent the decision was laudable and well-thought out. “I believe it is a nice idea because it means I don’t have to wake up early and rush to church. The traffic stress is also eliminated. “I can wake up refreshed and tune in online for service. It will be nothing lost as far as I am concerned,” Siju Ololade, a banker, said. A cell leader in Winner Chapels said the house centre option is in the best interest of worshippers. “If you consider cost of transport and logistics, you will agree with me this restriction is a blessing in disguise. People can arrive their centres earlier and fresher. “The human crowd is eliminated and the spirit of brotherliness is enhanced because it is a manageable size,” he argued. WHATSAPP congregation on the increase Churches without the wherewithal to hold online services are turning to WhatsApp for worship. “I believe that wherever two or three are gathered does not mean physical contacts necessarily. If two or three cannot meet in persons, they can meet on Whatsapp for service, impartation and everything else we do in physical church. “So, this Sunday, we are starting Whatsapp service for our church. We will sing, praise, worship and preach via the medium. We will take testimonies and offerings because God is anywhere we can gather,” Pastor Simon Okeke of Spirit of Life Church, Lekki stated. Pastor Leke Obadeji, who runs a Whatsapp service every Wednesday for a group of singles and couples, said the facility is actually an incredible medium to connect. “There is nothing we do in church that we don’t do on Whatsapp. We pray, chat, discuss and challenge ourselves on the platform. You leave inspired and challenged,” he shared. Time for tele-evangelism again Esther Ige, a facility manager, told our correspondent that she will simply hook up with services of her favourite preachers on television instead of going to church. “I could go to church but I won’t. This pandemic is an opportunity to try something different. I will just watch televangelists that I have not heard in years. “I believe the television will serve God’s purpose at a time like this. Many people will be looking up for answers to the pandemic. “It is an opportunity for televangelists to minister Christ and populate His kingdom at a time like this.” Church Growth expert, Dr Francis Akin-John, said churches should take advantage of the physical restrictions to devise means of reaching people. “We have been so used to seeing large crowds and congregations. But in these changing times, we should seek news ways of reaching out. “If people cannot come to church, we must take the church to them. Whether they come or not, the church must reach people. Head or tail, God must win.”