The Chairman, Badagry Local Government in Lagos State, Mr Olusegun Onilude, says the council has created an Emergency Isolation Centre located at St. Thomas Primary School, Badagry, for Coronavirus cases. Mr Sewedo Samuel, Media Aide to the Chairman, said in a statement on Tuesday that the centre would be headed by the Chief Medical Director of the council who would be addressed as Technical Director. Onilude said that the people of Badagry were expected to report themselves to the centre if they had the symptoms or had had physical contact with anyone confirmed positive of COVID-19. He urged the people not to be afraid of the condition of the centre as efforts were currently ongoing to make it home away from home. The chairman said the council would adopt the use of a town criers in disseminating information to people without internet access. “First on the priority is the adoption of ancient long means of communication; use of a Town Crier which will take effect from today March, 24. “The Town Crier is saddled with the responsibility of informing the general public, most especially those without internet access, with preventive measures, social distancing, isolation for those who have symptoms and doling out emergency numbers to reach. “The Town Crier has been mobilised to work with immediate effect,” he said. Onilude said that he had set up a Taskforce to enforce the Executive Order of Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu on limiting social gathering to a maximum of 20 people and to keep a reasonable distance of one metre. He said the taskforce would be headed by the Vice Chairman of the council, Mr Andrew Akotomeh. According to the chairman, he will be in charge until the pandemic has been declared under containment by the World Health Organisation (WHO)and the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). Also, Mr Kamorudeen Ajape, Secretary to the council, encouraged the people to wash their hands regularly with soap, drink water at intervals, keep their social distance and eat as healthy as they can. (NAN)