  Students leaders have been asked to exhaust the option of consultation whenever they have an axe to grind with their leadership. This is because violence is fast becoming obsolete and being supplanted by constructive negotiations. A Professor of Sociology and Dean, Faculty of Social Sciences, Lagos State University (LASU), Wahab Elias, said some students  engaged their leadership in their quest for demanding certain rights, only to discover that such bad attitude would haunt them at the point of graduation or better still, later in life. Elias addressed 26 members of the Students’ Union (SU) and Students Representative Council (SRC) of Osun State Polytechnic (OSPOLY), Iree, during a four-day training  organised for them by the management, in conjunction with Kasa, a management consultancy firm. The workshop had as theme: Producing proactive leaders for mutual understanding in tertiary institutions. Speaking at the Toll Plaza Hotel, along Lagos/Badagry Expressway, Elias recalled his undergraduate days as a former general secretary of Lagos State University SU in 1994. Although he eventually emerged the best graduating student in his department, his respect for constituted authority as a students’ leader, paved way for strings of opportunities that dotted his path later in life. “The narrative (of unionism) has changed from hooliganism to constructive engagements. You must learn to use tact and never get tired of consultation. As a student leader, try to leave good legacies because you don’t know where you will find yourself in the near future,” Elias said in his lecture titled: ‘Yesterday, today, and tomorrow.’ He continued: “A great future awaits you all. Tell truth to management without resorting to brigandage. “In life, there is a point your past will always meet today and tomorrow. Therefore embrace virtues such as honesty, integrity, openness, discipline, humility and trustworthiness. Elias praised the management of OSPOTECH for the initiative, saying they are indirectly reproducing those that would take over the administration of the school and country. Nonetheless, he equally admonished management to be flexible, have an open-door policy, as well as sincerity of purpose, saying that students often show great understanding once they have management that demonstrates integrity and openness.  Elias identified three categories of leaders- affectional, charismatic and rationale, challenging the students of the possibility to inculcate attributes that characterise the three leaders. “You must also stay out of cultism. As leaders, you subjects see you as role models. Nothing good comes out of bad associations; they will one day consume you,” he further warned. Similarly, Dr Ayo Oladejo who also teaches at Tai Solarin University of Education (TASUED) Ijagun, Ogun State, stated that conflict occurs when misunderstanding or  misconception or clash of interest or variations in opinions. Speaking on the topic: Alternative dispute resolution as a veritable tool for solving conflicts in tertiary institutions, Oladejo identified a ‘breakdown in communication’ as the underlining factor during crisis periods, urging participants to choose constructive conflict resolution over disruptive conflict resolution. While the former possesses some elements of force, the latter dwells on diplomacy and persuasion, Oladejo stressed. Oladejo urged them to embrace communication; sink every biases by being neutral; be good listeners and willing to shift ground and have  determination to take critical decision when the chips are down Similarly, Lead Consultant Kasa Management, Dr Kolawole Jaiyeola, who defined attitude as  man’s predisposition or mindset to issues, enjoined the trainees to embrace positive attitudes in order to minimse conflict. The high point of the event was the presentation of awards to the speakers and representatives of the OSPOTECH management, and trip to certain fascinating areas in Lagos. Earlier, Rector of OSPOTECH Dr Olawoye Olaniran, said management initiated the training to bridge leadership lacuna even in government circles. “Nigeria today is blessed with lots of resources but lack quality leadership. Therefore, the essence of this initiative is to ensure that these young leaders will henceforth adopt a different approach having learned from these resource persons. I enjoin you all to put into practice all that you would learn today,” said Olaniran who was represented by the school’s Director of Media, PR and Protocol, Mr Fadeji Joseph. Student’s Union president of OSPOTECH Comrade Raji Kehinde Ademola, recalled that the workshop which was once an annual exercise had been put on hold since 2013/2014 academic session. “When we came on board in October last year, we agitated for the revival of this training workshop, especially because of the management/student faceoff which led to the burning down of the school’s Health Centre last year.” “Now, we want to inculcate the culture of lobbying and consolidation, as well as constructive engagement with management on issues that affect our members.”