Happiness Adebayo, Chief Executive Officer of Glee Luxury Hair and Skincare, who is widely considered as number one in Africa in the business of human hair and skincare recently revealed what keeps her going and happy in her business. She said she’s into the business of beauty and nothing makes her happier than making women beautiful. “I love how excited they always look trying to look so beautiful. The joy for me is indescribable. I knew the calling for me is the beauty business. Basically, the joy of bringing in items and seeing people buy them in no time, seeing happiness radiating in them because they are getting what will make them beautiful , makes me extremely joyous. The Glee brand is built to meet the modern day woman’s hair and skin beauty needs, transforming them into glee queens . With a token you can get the least Glee hair, with about 20 thousand naira you become a yummy Glee Queen in no time. We have different ranges of hair bundles and wigs and we do total skin transformation, helping you choosee the right products to glow and nourish your skin. So it’s just total hair and skin pampering and when the hair is gorgeous with a sparkling skin you rule the world,” she said in a recent interview. The soon-to-be mother of three who has had passion for entrepreneurial excellence since her adolescent years established her business six years ago while still in the university. She explains what beauty means, iterating that making yourself beautiful is never an attempt to deceive others or look fake. “Beauty has different meanings to different people. It actually takes a happy woman to be beautiful. It takes happiness for beauty to radiate so much in you and of course, a touch of Glee Luxury Hair and Skincare products. Being really beautiful as a woman means appreciating your true self, never wanting to be someone else and having the mindset that there isn’t a better you. Enhancing one’s beauty for one’s satisfaction, happiness and self confidence shouldn’t be regarded as fake,” she said. And added, “Enhancing one’s beauty for one’s satisfaction, happiness and self confidence shouldn’t be regarded as fake. Even if you don’t wear wig or install weave-on, you would still tidy your natural hair which means you are enhancing your beauty. One shouldn’t be blamed trying to look their best. About being a ploy to deceive men, I totally disagree. How about the happily married women who still look good all day, everyday? Though every one has their different motives towards things in life but let’s look at the richest black woman, Folorunsho Alakija, she’s always looking her best and it’s very certain she’s not trying to deceive any man.” The Glee Luxury Hair and Skincare operates from two upscale locations in Lagos; Opebi, Ikeja, on the Mainland and Admiralty Way, Lekki, Island in Lagos. Happiness Adebayo was born on December 25, 1993. She was born of an Edo woman to a Yoruba man. She’s presently expecting her third child. She’s a graduate of Ladoke Akintola University, Ogbomosho, Oyo State with BTECH degree in Food Science and Engineering. She attended Multigrace Primary School and Tunyo Comprehensive College, both in Alimosho local government area of Lagos State. She grew up amonst two brothers and three sisters. She hails from Oriade local government area of Osun State. She currently has close to 300 thousand followers on Instagram where she tends to promote her businesses more. She calls her teeming customers Glee Queens because of her unique touch.