 The management of Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has directed all office-based workers below management cadre across all its formations to work from home with effect from today. It said it is in compliance with the Federal Government’s directive on the COVID -19. In a statement, its Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs Division, Dr. Kennie Obateru, said the directive was conveyed to the NNPC workforce via a message  signed by the state-run oil firm’s Group Managing Director, Mallam Mele Kyari. He directed all NNPC Strategic Business Units (SBUs) to activate their business continuity plans immediately to ensure minimal disruption to operations while protecting staff from exposure to the COVID-19. The NNPC leadership, since the outbreak of the Coronavirus disease, has been providing daily enlightenment to workers on how to keep themselves and their families safe from infection.  Among others, it has ensured a compulsory temperature check on all staff and visitors, frequent handwash and the use of hand-sanitiser at points of entry into the Towers and all other locations of the corporation and the maintenance of social distancing at all times. Meanwhile, the NNPC has condoled with the family of  Suleiman Achimugu, who passed on in the early hours of Monday after a bout with COVID-19. It said the deceased who was Managing Director of the then Pipelines and Products Marketing Company (PPMC), a downstream subsidiary of NNPC, went into self-isolation upon return from the United Kingdom on March 10, 2020. Consequent upon reporting palpable symptoms of Coronavirus disease, the NNPC Medical Services team collaborated with the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and the Public Health Department to ensure that all laid down protocol were followed in handling the case of the late engineer who retired on July 24, 2009 as Group General Manager, Renewable Energy Division (RED) of NNPC. The corporation in the release stated that its thought and prayers were with the entire members of the Achimugu family at this time.