 PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday called for an end to avoidable disasters in the country. The President said measures need to be in place “so that we don’t see this kind of unfortunate disaster occurring again in our country.” He spoke during an on-the-spot assessment of the Abule-Ado explosion in Lagos. Represented by the Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development Sadiya Umar Farouq, President Buhari promised that the Federal Government would support the Lagos State Government in bringing relief to the victims. According to him,“We will work closely with the Lagos committee to get to the root cause of the explosion. He commiserated with the people and government of Lagos State over the incident. President Buhari described the incident as very unfortunate and promised that the Federal Government would provide relief materials for the victims and assist in setting up a framework to ensure this never happens again. “The Federal Government would look into means of supporting the state government in rebuilding the area affected by the explosion and ensure provision of adequate medical supplies for those on admission at the hospitals.” He also commiserated with the families of those that lost their lives in the disaster and prayed for the reposed of their souls. “Your Excellency, this is a very unfortunate incident. They say that ‘seeing is believing,’ if we had not come here, we would not have understood the extent of the devastation here and the carnage. “I want to use this opportunity to tell you that I am here with the National Emergency Management Authority (NEMA) Director-Genera and other relevant agencies. We are going to join hands with you to see that we bring succour and relief to the affected victims in terms of food and non-food items, including medical supplies to the hospitals that these people are being admitted. Lagos State Deputy Governor, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, who conducted the minister around, thanked President Muhammadu Buhari for sending the Minister and other federal government representatives to see the level of the disaster and evaluate how the Federal Government could assist the state government in bringing succour to the victims. 