Onimisi Alao, Yola The North East Development Commission (NEDC) has distributed relief materials to victims of insurgency attack in Garkida, Adamawa State, with assurance that rebuilding of the Northeast will be thorough and will in the end make insurgency look like a blessing in disguise. Chairman of the commission, Maj. Gen Paul Tarfa (rtd), who led the distribution of the relief materials in Garkida on Monday, assured the victims of better structures in the rebuilding of structures damaged by the insurgents. He reiterated that the rebuilding is going to be blessing in disguise in Garkida and other parts of the Northeast affected by Boko Haram because structures of higher quality will replace damaged ones and youths will benefit from quality jobs both to mitigate the effects of insurgency and to discourage youths from social vices. Boko Haram insurgents had on February 21 attacked Garkida, a community in Gombi local government area of northern Adamawa, destroying churches, houses, shops and health facilities and looting food items and drugs. For interim relief intervention, the federal government on Sunday delivered eight truckloads of relief materials to Governor Ahmadu Fintiri for onward delivery to victims of the Boko Haram attack in Garkida. The items, as distributed in Garkida Monday, were 3,000 25kg bags of rice, 3,000 blankets, 2,000 mats, 2,520 bags of beans, 200 cartoons of maggi cubes, 100 bags of salt, 2,000 cartoons of spaghetti and macaroni, 500 bags of maize flour, 3,000 gallons of vegetable oil, 2,000 pieces of wrapper and 500 cartoons of tomato paste. Paul Tarfa said President Muhammadu Buhari was deeply concerned about the attack in Garkida and that the relief materials would enable the victims settle back in their houses. Tarfa said only few elements “from the degraded insurgents are still carrying soft targets attacks,” adding, “Government is going to rise up to their challenges.” In his own remark, Mr Elisha Tumba, the Adamawa State Commissioner for Rehabilitation, Reconstruction and .Reintegration who represented Governor Ahmadu Fintiri, said the state government is in synergy with military authority for deployment of more personnel to the area.