 Abuchi Vincent Iloanya started and established the Abutex Food Equipment company some four years ago, headquartered in Alaba International Market, Lagos State, after he gained ‘freedom’ or graduated from a master he served for six years. He was under his big boss as an apprentice, like many young Igbo boys do, learning the rudiments of the food equipment business. Of course, he wanted to be like his master but had a different idea on how the business could be fine tuned to keep in line with the demands and pace of the digital age. He knew to keep with the evolving markets, he had to employ the Information and Communications Technology approach which he embraced with both arms. Then Jiji and OLX presented him the opportunity he wanted. “My business expanded long time ago using Jiji and OLX for marketing tools. But it expanded and blew the moment I started using Instagram. Instagram has been a blessing to me, I won’t lie. Instagram brought my business out there and connected me to so many big people in the society. Celebrities and politicians all patronize me, all thanks to my mentor, Mark Zuckerbek,” he said in a recent interview. The business, grew in leaps and bounds because Abuchi Iloanya, beyond making use of social media tools applied the best ethics of business which is evident in their vision and mission statement. “A passion for professional equipment. We are passionate about our each and every piece of our equipment. Our highly trained technicians are constantly working to develop new and more
efficient systems and processes. All our machinery either meet or exceed international standards.
A long-term approach for our products. Each product purchased from Abutex comes with a long term commitment. We fully support all our machinery and back that up with warranties on all parts,” says a statement in their vision and mission booklet. Abuchi Vincent Iloanya, the Managing Director of Abutex Food Equipment company was born in Onitsha, Anambra State, Nigeria on March 11, 1992. He is a native of Awkuzu in Oyi Local Goverment Area of Anambra State. His company, Abutex Food Equipment company is Nigeria’s leading company in industrial kitchen equipment, with headquarters in Alaba International Market and an ultra modern showroom in Lekki Phase 1, all in Lagos. He has also won many awards as an entrepreneur, including Abutex’s 2013 quality system certification. His company, Abutex has developed competences in a wide range of world standard quality products,complete services and self-innovation. From mixers to ovens,cooking equipment to refrigeration, Abutex Food Equipment has carved a niche for itself, He finished his secondary school in 2008 at Showlight International School, Onitsha Anambra State but couldn’t go for university education because of financial difficulties. He has one elder sister and three younger brothers.