 The Federal High Court in Lagos will on April 9 hear a suit by Topwideapeas Ltd on the National Theatre concession. The firm is challenging the nullification of its concession right over the complex located in Iganmu, Lagos. The plaintiff said it earmarked $3.5million (about N1.2trillion) for the project development before the contract was allegedly breached. Topwideapeas, through its counsel Chijoke Okoli (SAN), is praying the court to declare the concession termination as unlawful. National Theatre and the National Troupe of Nigeria Board, Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC) and the Minister of Tourism, Culture and National Orientation are the defendants. The others are the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF), Central Bank of Nigeria, Access Bank of Nigeria Plc and its Group Managing Director Mr Herbert Wigwe are the defendants. The plaintiff wants the court to declare that it has a valid and binding contract on the concession of the fallow land surrounding the National Theatre Complex in terms of the updated draft Concession Agreement between it and the Federal government. Topwideapeas is praying for an order of perpetual injunction stopping the defendants or their agents from interfering with its right as the concessionaire of the fallow land. Justice Ayokunle Faji had ordered the plaintiff to serve the writ of summons and statement of claim through courier service and by newspaper publication. When the case came on March 10, the plaintiff’s counsel Mrs Perpetual Onwunma informed the court that parties were served on March 4. She said the proof of service was in the court’s file. She urged the court to adjourn to a short date for hearing of the plaintiff’s motion for an interlocutory injunction since the parties were still within time to respond. Mrs Onwunma prayed for a date before the court’s easter vacation. Counsel for the fifth defendant Mr Charles Nwabulu and that of the sixth and seventh defendants Miss Ibukun Owa did not object. Justice Faji informed counsel that there could not be a shorter date. He adjourned until April 9 for hearing.  In its statement of claim, the plaintiff contends that based on the fact that the National Theatre had fallen on hard times, there was a consensus to outsource the management of the unutilised land in the premises to private sector operators. It was for the building/development of large-scale hospitality and entertainment projects to facilitate the overall upgrade of the edifice and its environs. The facilities were to include an eco-friendly, ultra-modern virtual city consisting of two five-star hotels, theme park, water park, an art arcade, office complexes, shopping malls, and a high-rise car park. The concession also included an agreement for the plaintiff to fully refurbish and modernise the National Theatre Complex and hand it over to the first defendant as well as provide appropriate connections to the Lagos Light Rail Metro Blue Line. “The plaintiff had gone to great lengths and at tremendous costs – in excess of N1billion – to win the concession; assembling a team of multi-disciplinary professionals from Nigeria and overseas, as well as renowned international joint venture partners towards building and managing the facilities at the site for which $3.5million had been earmarked for direct investment within three years,” said Topwideapeas. It is praying for an order directing the defendants to ensure prompt handover of the fallow land to it for the commencement of the projects planned under the concession agreement. The plaintiff wants the court to declare that it is unlawful for the fifth to seventh defendants to purport to truncate and nullify its right over the concession of the fallow land. It wants a declaration that it is contrary to public policy and constitutes misappropriation of “scarce public funds” for the CBN to divert public funds towards any project concerning the National Theatre when the plaintiff and its partners had mobilised local and foreign private investment for the project. Topwideapeas is claiming N1 billion damages and N50million as the cost of the suit. 