THE discarded earthly remains of the departed senator that represented Imo North senatorial district at the National Assembly, Benjamin Uwajumogu was last Friday lowered to mother earth in his home town of Umuihi, in the Ihitte-Uboma Council Area of Imo State amidst torrents of encomiums. Political associates, religious leaders, captains of industries, friends and well-wishers attended the funeral service. It was a gathering of political heavy weights from the two main parties, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The late Uwajumogu passed on last year on December 18, 2019 in Abuja, few months after being declared winner of the Okigwe North senatorial election for a second term. The funeral ceremony was preceded with an open-air inter denominational church service conducted by the Saviours Evangelical Church Aba 2, at the Ihitte-Uboma council headquarters, Isinweke. The late senator’s wife, Mrs. Uwajumogu, children, friends wept profusely as the casket was lowered to the grave with a farewell wishes. Among dignitaries at the burial ceremony were President Muhammadu Buhari, represented by the Minister of state (Education) Emeka Nwajiuba, President of the Senate, Ahmed Lawan who led a delegation of 25 members of the National Assembly, members of the federal and states executive council. Lawan in a condolence message to the family on behalf of the National Assembly extolled the virtues of the departed senator as a loyal, quite, reliable and committed parliamentarian with a focus on his Imo North senatorial district. He said: “He worked meritoriously and his landmark achievements would continue to speak for him.” The Senate President said that the National Assembly would continue with the lofty ideals and principles for which the late Uwajumogu believed and died for, saying that he was “an active lawmaker within and outside the Red Chambers and a true representative of his people”. Governor Hope Uzodinma who spoke in tandem with his Abia State counterpart, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu, regretted that the Igbo nation had lost one of her best and brightest lawmakers. Uzodinma said: “His life although short, was action packed and he was a dogged fighter who fought many battles and won all, a goal getter, full of courage, well focused, a man who stood to be counted among men of courage.” The governor particularly recalled the journey of the late senator to the National Assembly, noting that at 55, he was able to achieve what others older than him could not achieve. Uzodimma also described the late Uwajumogu as a humane, but action-packed legislator whose contributions to the political development of his area, Imo and Nigeria would remain indelible. He said Senator Uwajumogu’s life and times are testimonies of what he represented, noting that even in the face of difficulties, “Ben survived political turmoils to return to the Red Chambers the second term but death did not allow him accomplish this desire to provide for his people effective representation”. Uzodimma used the occasion to immortalize the late senator, by renaming the state-owned College of Education, Ihitte Uboma to Benjamin Uwajumogu College of Education. Others who spoke at the occasion were Dr. Chris Ngige who recalled his late encounter with the late senator. The late senator’s burial ceremony was attended by Nigerians from all walks of life, including Deputy Senator President, Ovie Omo-Agege and about 20 serving and former senators. Others who graced the occasion were former Imo State Governors, Ikedi Ohakim and Senator Rochas Okorocha and former Deputy Governor, Dogulas Acholonu. The Deputy Governor of Abia State, Ude Oko Chukwu, represented Governor Ikpeazu. Members of the House of Representatives, the Speaker of Imo State House of Assembly Chiji Collins and members of House of Assemblies of Southeast and several notable politicians from across the country also attended. The roll call of dignitaries also includes Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu (Minister of Science and Technology), Chief Raymond Dokpesi, Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu, Dr. Alex Otti, Prof. Maurice Iwu, Prof. Anthony Anwuka and Dr. Uche Ogah (Minister of State for Mines). Other dignitaries from the APC include Emma Eneukwu, George Moghalu, Malcom Nlemigbo, Dr. Onyebuchi EJK, Uzoma Obiyor, Longers Anyanwu, Regis Uwakwe, Emma Ibediro, among others. The serving and former senators who attended include Enyinnaya Abaribe, Andy Uba, Uche Ekwunife, Mao Ohuabunwa, Sylvester Anyanwu, Ezenwa Onyewuchi, Victor Umeh, Rochas Okorocha, Ike Ekweremadu, Osita Izunaso, etc. Deputy Governor of Imo State, Prof. Placid Njoku, the Secretary to State Government, Maurice Iwu and Chief of Staff to the Governor, Nnamdi Anyaehie, were also present.