Realism and reason may well be in short supply in the Nigerian Senate.  This explains the introduction of a bill, on March 11, sponsored by Senator Birma Enagi from Niger State, which prescribes a 10-year imprisonment for importers and sellers of generators. Seriously, such a bill does not deserve the attention of a serious legislature. The bill states: “Any person who imports generators or knowingly sells generators shall be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction to be sentenced to imprisonment for a term not less than 10 years.” A report said: “The bill however excluded importers and sellers of generators meant to power essential services. The exemption includes generators meant to serve medical purposes in hospitals and nursing homes and healthcare facilities. Airports, railway stations, elevators, escalators, research institutions, and such facilities that require 24-hours electric power supply are also exempted.” The sponsor is said to have argued that the proposed legislation was meant to tackle environmental pollution, and was aimed at the development of the power sector. Only Senator Enagi can explain how making it difficult for Nigerians to buy generators would help to improve power supply in the country. It is obvious that if power supply were steady and reliable, there would be no need for generators. In other words, the solution is to fix the power problem, and not to further create a problem for Nigerians who are already faced with the burden of providing power for themselves through generators. The Senate should be more interested in getting the power sector to work as it should in normal circumstances. Senator Enagi’s proposal is a recipe for darkness across the country. That cannot be the answer to the question of electricity failure. The truth is that the President Muhammadu Buhari administration has failed to bring about the desired improvement in the power sector. It is noteworthy that some months ago Minister of Power, Saleh  Mamman, through his spokesman, Aaron Artimas, stated that  Buhari had “poured billions of naira and attracted huge foreign investments into the power sector with the aim of improving the generation and distribution of electricity to Nigerians.”  The question is: What is the result? The failed efforts inspired the kind of wrong-headed idea proposed by Senator Enagi. His proposal reflects a lack of creative and progressive thinking in the upper legislative chamber. The bill is not only unrealistic; it is also unreasonable.