Notable sex therapist based in Abuja, Elohor Ovite has highlighted the most common problem women have in their relationships. She said it is usually sexual problems, if not addressed, could lead to losing their men to other women who have answers to their own problems. The sex therapist, who is also the Chief Executive Officer of E and E Skincare, boasts in a recent interview that she has answers to all sexual problems most women suffer in silence. She said, “Most women have sexual problems, a lot of women actually, but they won’t say it. Like I said, a lot of them shy away from the conversation. Men also do not help matters in telling the women they, ( the women ) have problems . This is because they either do not want to kill their ego, or make them feel bad. In matters of sex everyone wants to have the mindset that they are giving their partner the best, but when you tell someone they aren’t, it becomes a problem. From my experience, most women suffer low libido or sex drive. Other sexual problems in women range from vaginal weakness, looseness, vaginal infections, vaginal dryness etc. I’m using this opportunity to call on every woman out there not to downplay their problems as this, may already be killing their relationships or marriage” Speaking further she explained what her product is all about and iterated that they are very potent in solving all sexual problems women suffer. “I am into Kayanmata business, this business deals with problems that concern women mostly. Most women have issues in their marriage and relationships that could be easily sorted out by this product but they don’t know. These products are purely herbal, no side effects at all, in fact in seeing them alone you know these are all natural products from herbs. But most women still shy away from their problems. Sex is very important in a relationship and marriage but most people ( women ) especially would act as if they are not interested in having that conversation. Kayanmata is a Hausa word, meaning ‘Women’s things’. They are herbs used to enhance sexual pleasure. Kayanmata is the same as aphrodisiac, anything that is used to stimulate sexual pleasure,” she explained, saying women who have used the herbs have amazing story of love and fulfillment to tell. “Kayanmata are natural products which could be in form of fruits, herbs or even seeds that help in resolving sexual issues, creating intimacy and love between women and man. With Kayanmata, we have products that help in different ways, such as vaginal tightener, which helps to tighten loose vagina caused by something else, say childbirth or natural causes. We also have products like sweeteners, that are lubricants that make a woman very wet and sweet. There are also products for libido booster that help a woman have a good urge for sex ( most women suffer from this everyday, especially those who were circumcised),” she added. Elohor Ovite was born August 17, 1994. She hails from Uwheru, Ughelli North local government area of Delta State. She had her primary and secondary education at Oxford Primary and Secondary School, Warri, Delta State. She holds a Bachelor’s degree in Public Health from Espan University, Cotonou, Benin Republic. She’s the Chief Executive Officer and Founder of E and E Skincare, situated in Abuja, Nigeria. She’s happily married with children. She founded her company December 19, 2016.