Kano Golf Club which was established in 1908 as one of the sports centres of the British Army after the conquest of Kano has gotten a new Captain. The new captain, Ali Magashi is an old Aeronautical and Telecommunications Engineer and a 13 handicap player who has participated in many local and international golf tournaments including the last Zambia Open. This was made known in a press statement made by his media consultant Abdulkadir Ibrahim who stated, “A new Management Committee has been elected last weekend to run the affairs of the over a Century old Kano Golf Club in the ancient city of Kano. “They include Ali Mohammed Magashi an old Aeronautical and Telecommunications Engineering graduate of the Nigerian College of Aviation Technology, Zaria who was returned unopposed as the Captain of the oldest Golf Club in Nigeria. “In his post election speech, the new Captain who is an Avionics Engineer, Flight Engineer and a former Instructor and National Examiner on Boeing 727 aircraft and now the Chairman of ASO Savings and Loans Plc, pledged to develop the game of Golf in Kano to the fullest and will immediately introduce a mandatory in-house weekly kitty and monthly competitions among members and make use of his contacts worldwide to organize regular national and International Pro-Am Tournaments at Kano Golf Club. “He said with the prevailing peaceful environment and the age-long hospitality of the people of Kano, professional and amateur golfers from all over the world will be coming to play at the historic golf course that will in turn boost the economy and develop tourism. “Ali Magashi, a 13 handicap player, participated at many local and international golf tournaments including the last Zambia Open where he shinned among the over 400 amateurs with an impressive 2-over score on the first day that qualified him for the next round. “Kano Golf Club was established in 1908 as one of the sports centres of the British Army after the conquest of Kano on February 3, 1903 by a detachment of the West African Frontier Force led by an adventurous Canadian Officer, Colonel Thomas L. N. Morland.”