 The  President, National Post- Graduate Medical College of Nigeria (NPGMCN), Dr Musa Mohammed Borodo, has promised to raise the standard of the college and fulfill the vision of its founding fathers. Bogoro made the promise during its investiture as the 21st president  at the college premises in Ijanikin Lagos. He promised to operate open door policy, attract investments, consolidate on linkages, improve on facilities and jerk up the college internally generated revenue among others. For instance, Bogoro promised  to consolidate on training across the college 16 existing programmes as well as a new faculty-Emergency Medicine, promising that the said training to resident doctors would be also undertaken at zonal level to save cost to students. Bogoro vowed to introduce clinical simulation materials as additional learning tools to supplement the rapidly contracting real life clinical disease scenarios in the training centers. He said: “One important way of bridging this gap as obtainable  in other climes is through the introduction of clinical simulation materials as additional learning tools to augment the rapidly contracting real life clinical diseases scenarios in the training centres. Accordingly, we would vigorously pursue a programme of developing a robust central simulation laboratory here at the college to be supported by modest ones at zonal locations in  the country to ease resident training at reduced transportation and accommodation cost obviating  the need of all residents to converge at the college simulation centre here  in Ijanikin.  Under his watch, Bogoro said the college would vigorously pursue new linkages, while consolidating on existing ones. “Already, initial exploratory efforts started in the regime of my immediate past president have started yielding results in the surgical specialty at the University of Colorado in the USA where we now have MoU for exchange of residents and young fellows. I can assure other faculties that we would explore additional areas of linkages,” he added. He thanked the Federal Government for enacting the Medical Residency Training two years ago and with the college as regulator, all in a bid to make residency training more available with adequate funding and improved exit time He assured that his administration would fast track the second phase of the college learning resource centre which he said, has dragged for nearly a decade owing to inadequate subvention from government. Bogoro gladly announced that the college is set to kickstart a pre-fellowship British type MD programmes with the cooperation of its regulatory body-National universities Commission. “I’m glad to announce that after a successful resource verification exercise, NUC has given approval for this programe late February this year. Accordingly, all hands must be on deck for the commencement of registration for the course this year for residents who are interested,” he said. In view of the expanding responsibility of the college, Bogoro equally harped on the need to recruit more hands with commensurate financial backing so as to allow it discharge its mandate more effectively. He promised to rejuvenate the almost comatose limited liability company established by the college founding fathers ‘NAPOSTMED Ventures’, three years ago, in the quest for boosting its internally generated revenue. He said his administration has floated the ‘President’s award for supervision and examination of research work’ which, according to him, aimed at motivating some of his colleagues that have displayed exceptional commitment to the often demanding task of supervision and examination of these works which is a sine quo non to the college fellowship. 