 Politicians, members of the civil societies, rights activists and youths from different backgrounds gathered at the Federal Palace Hotel, Lagos to come up with ideas to fix the country’s polity. The conference was sponsored by The Robert Bosch Academy, Germany, in partnership with former Minister of Education and the Convener, #Bring Back Our Girls, Dr. Obiageli Ezekwesili. The one-day conference titled #FixPolitics, Changing Politics Structurally for Prosperity, brainstormed on how to address the frailties in the polity and how to get all stakeholders to participate in elections by ensuring that the umpire, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) perform its duties expeditiously. Major players agreed things have gone awry and that the country’s ship has veered off the political course. The way political parties emerge and fizzle out from the space has continued to raise the dust. INEC recently axed 74 parties for non-performance. Observers are bothered about the rationale for their registration in the first place and why they should be relegated to the cooler within a very short moment. They are certain that new parties, likely in higher number, will soon emerge to replace them because no law precludes the registration of parties in the country.  Some of the affected parties threatened to go to court over the matter. There is concern that the manner politicians dump one party for others will never help the polity. In some advance democracies, members are loyal to their parties, whether they are in the government or not. They would remain faithful and work toward the building of their parties for electoral victory. But in Nigeria this is not the case; it has become a serious issue because the rate people cross-carpet to other parties at the slightest challenge is unthinkable and retarding the political process. Given how politics is played in the country, where any ruling party in the state commands political hierarchy, the opposition parties are always begging for relevance in such states. This too often leads to the extinction of other parties because they are a force to belong to the ruling party or face dire consequence.  Political scientists believe the electoral laws must be strengthened to address the anomaly. As a matter of fact, stakeholders say the apparent the lacklustre attitude by the youths in politics provided the leeway for the old brigade politicians to monopolise the system, this has equally emasculated them by relegating youths’ position to servitude and mere spectators. This, it is said, is responsible for the slow pace of development in the country. The tendency is that whenever politics consistently fumbles, society tends to severely wallow in poverty. This appears to explain why the country remains stuck in socio-economic and the political process. To speed up the process of political development and assist the country to gain momentum in its strides, The Robert Bosch Academy has promised to sponsor 500 Nigerian youths every six months for training in political education and how they can be relevant for the democratic process. Their training would be done locally for three years. During the period, about 3000 would-be politicians would have been trained in the arts of political lore and grandeur. In his opening remarks, Prof. Johann Lambsdorff of the Robert Bosch Academy said society could only be better when political expediency was galvanized to enhance economic growth. He said politics in Nigeria and other African countries is in dire need of structural change. He said the change, if experimented, would lead to the technological revolution and speed up development. This, he noted, will tackle mass poverty and the country will catch up with other prosperous regions of the world. He said co-sponsor and fellow of the institute, Ezekwesili would use the fellowship programme and collaboration of study component to design a structural change agenda for Nigeria and the rest of Africa. Lambsdorff said the conference will facilitate the opportunity for a wider audience to sharpen the groundwork that will mobilise citizens’ leadership to correct the struggling democracy in the country. All these put together, stakeholders believe it is time for the electoral system and enabling laws to be reviewed to make the electorate votes count, instead of depending on the courts of the land to decide who won elections. Ezekwesili said the country’s democratic practise is nothing to cheer about. She enjoined stakeholders to brace up to eliminate what is now known as ‘monopoly democracy’. She explained that monopoly democracy does not give room for development. It entrenched a situation where old politicians monopolise the polity without allowing others diverse interests to impact in electoral and political processes. The former minister said the deliberate efforts of the old brigade politicians, who are the brain behind monopoly democracy perpetually control the polity was retrogressive. They maintained that they are not willing to back out because of the gains they acquire from the fractured system. Ezekwesile who was Vice President, World Bank Africa’s Division said: “The experimental component of my fellowship will focus on initiating the experience of Germany, which successfully rebuild its politics and institutions from ground zero at the end of the Second World War in 1945 to become a global icon in all sphere of life”. She said from her study and diagnosis, Nigerians would gain from the collaboration with the academy, which is planning to train 3000 youths for a leadership position in the country. When you look at the degree of participation in a democracy, it will tell you whether such democracy is participatory or a monopoly. A monopoly democracy is dangerous than an economic democracy because to have a monopoly democracy is to retard the system.” Though Nigeria’s democracy is believed to be on course, fixing the country’s politics through the Germany model will face a herculean task. Analysts say when the youths eventually get the training, who will sponsor them? Playing politics in the country is capital intensive and for now it just the old brigade politicians that can finance the parties or sponsor candidates. And based on this, would-be trained leaders may have to tow the position of their sponsors, who will finance their political participation or bury the dream Pat Utomi, a professor of political economy, described the ebbing political climate as critical. He said most of those who find their ways into public office are lacking in virtue. He said when morally delinquent people occupy positions, where the affairs of the country are directed, such countries grope in the dark. He urged professionals to be involved in the democratic process, using their training and uprightness to energise the incapacitated democracy. He blames the shortcoming on politicians’ loyalty to their native background because the system prevents them from tampering with a local fund. Utomi said when such people play national politics and get into public office, they soil their hands through ill-gotten wealth and are tacitly rewarded at home with numerous chieftaincy titles for looting from the commonwealth. He said: “Those who should play politics are those consumed in the common good of all. The people who are full of virtue, but unfortunately we invested morality in the primordial realm, where you cannot steal a Kobo from the local treasury. But they can empty the national treasury and get commended by the local people. “Our challenge in the country is to bring into public life people of public virtue as espoused by Montesquieu in his theory of the state. He called people of morality, but I will call them people with value in leadership.” Former Minister of Information and Culture Frank Nweke Jnr. called on the electorate to rise above primordial sentiments and ensure the heed the call for national service. He said those who go into public office should not see it as an opportunity to steal from the national purse or get their own share from the national cake. Nweke said serving the people brings greater fulfilment and that those who steal from the commonwealth are likely to live a life of regret because they will be confronted by their conscience all the time after they quit office. He said the electorate is part of the blame for the fumbling democracy because if all contribute his or her part to the country’s political climate, things will soar better. He said those who believed political was for unprincipled people should shelve the idea and embrace the system for the betterment of the country.  Aisha Yesufu, a gender activist, said the task of fixing the polity is becoming cumbersome because of lack of interest by those who should be involved. She said for the country to advance and leapfrog from the crawling position, the right people who have genuine interests to serve must come forward. She noted that the more they stay aloof, the worse it becomes for the country that is now standing precarious on one leg. Reflecting deeper, the activist said the electorate must understand the system. She said the inability of the people to understand that power lies with them, make it possible for politicians to take them for granted. She said: “The people have power in their hands, but they do not understand how to use it. Nigerians are only interested in voting people they believe have the electoral war chest to win elections. They do not even give it a thought to vote those who do not have money to give them during elections and this is part of the major problems. “They believe that only certain political parties that can win elections and they end up perpetuating them in power even at the peril of development. So, every one of us must begin to change orientation and work toward making the country better. “They must begin to reflect on how governance affects their lives. On election day, many people do not go out to vote, as Nigerians, we must begin to take part in governance, we must begin to look at the records of those who want to lead us and if we are not part of politics, how can we get good government.” Former President, Committee for the Defence of Human Rights (CDHR) Mr. Malachy Ugwummadu said the project of nation-building is evolving and all Nigerians irrespective of political affiliation must submit to it. To achieve that, he said the people must continue to follow the path of dialogue to discuss how to fix the cracked political firmament. He said the middle class which used to play a pivotal role in political stability has been destroyed. He said because of the dilapidated class structure, the electoral system is left dehydrated and that the source of power booster has been confined to the wheelchair. Ugwummadu said: “As we made bare here, we no longer have the middle class that has the capacity that offers the skills of ensuring that society is better. The middle class was saddled with the ability to checkmate the elites but it’s no more there. As long as this is the situation, we are already facing an existential problem. “The one does not make room for change, except you, interrupt it, this why efforts at the #Fixpolitics is desirable and it is aimed at Nigerian people who are victims of bad leadership of the political elites. And I think that the consciousness, the awareness being created across the board will help the nation.” 