The Lagos Resilience Masterplan which documents the various challenges the city is facing and the strategies to resolve them, was unveiled recently ADEYINKA ADERIBIGBE who was there writes. Since the creation of Lagos State in 1967, the vision of the founding fathers has been the building of an egalitarian, inclusive and prosperous city-state. Successive administrations have continued to leverage on good governance for the provision of social amenities and infrastructure that will empower the people to thrive. Over the past 53 years, Lagos State has continued to surpass projections, becoming Nigeria’s fastest growing state, emerging as the nation’s commercial nerve centre and the fifth economy in the continent and Africa’s first megacity with a population of over 26 million people. These growth in an area considered as the smallest land size in the country has left on its trail a huge pressure on all social amenities, water, electricity, markets, roads, housing stocks, and so many more, with successive administration developing initiatives aimed at domesticating the challenges and developing local capacities to containing their adversarial potentials and consequential implications. It was in furtherance of this cause, that the State government recently made a public presentation of a Resilient Strategy (LRS), a master-plan detailing the various challenges and stresses prevalent in the state and the initiatives developed to put them in check. The LRS was the 77th of such document worldwide, and the first of its kind not only in the country, but on the African continent. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu who made the formal presentation of the document at a launch at the Adeyemi Bero Auditorium, Alausa, Ikeja, in February, described the document as the culmination of efforts of from cross-sectoral participants led by the representative of 100 Resilient Cities (100RC), the government, civil society, private sector, academia and residents to respond to “prioritised shocks and stresses that Lagos contends with on a daily basis.” Sanwo-Olu who was represented by the Commissioner for Economic Planning and Budget Mr Sam Egube, expresses hope that the LRS will help transform Lagos into an innovative, sustainable, smart and successful city. He said: “The document contains three pillars, 10 goals and 31 initiatives which aim to build the capacity of the state to respond to physical stress and challenges besetting its people. According to him, the government will adopt the solutions in the document as they are achievable and scalable. He assured that his administration will mainstream residents’ collaborative engagements and develop a strategic public private partnership campaign round all identified thematic areas. He disclosed that the LRO will have independent powers to implement all mandates in the strategic document. Beyond local partnerships and support, Sanwo-Olu expressed confidence that strategic international collaborations and partnerships such as the Resilience Cities Global Network would be willing to partner the government in the area of strengthening the resilience of the state and developing its peoples’ capacity to withstanding the shocks and stress of living in Africa’s most successful commercial megacity. The LRS, according to him, is a product of Lagos State’s membership of the 100 Resilient Cities network, established by the Rockefeller Foundation in 2013, to help more cities across the world build resilience against the physical, social and economic challenges that has become a growing part of the 21st century. The commissioner for economic planning and budget, whose speech was read by Adebayo Sodade, the special adviser on economic planning and budget, said the strategy document would help collate the various challenges the city experiences, opportunities for collaborations and actions to improve the resilience of the city of Lagos. According to him, the initiatives articulated in the Lagos Resilience Strategy are affordable, scalable, replicable and measurable. He added that the initiatives would support the efforts of communities in Lagos to adapt to global environmental changes towards surviving adversity, grow and to confidently thrive, resulting in a Lagos that is truly efficient, inclusive, enterprising and prosperous.” In May 2016, from more than 400 city’s applicantions across the globe, Lagos was selected to join the 100 resilient Cities (100RC). It launched its participation in the 100RC Network by hosting a Resilience Agenda Setting Workshop in February 2017, a forum which midwifed the Lagos Resilience Strategy (LRS) as a hands-on document to be implemented by the government. To drive the process, the government established a Lagos Resilience Office, headed by a Chief Resilience Officer (CRO) and officers posted from various ministries including Transportation, the Environment, Education, Water resources, Physical Planning and Urban Development, Economic Planning and Budget, Energy and Mineral Resources, Information and Strategy, Works and Infrastructure, Health and Finance. The Office through technical support from the 100RC, would drive all strategies enunciated in the document as well as other government initiatives. It is to implement its mandate in three phases – the first being the conduct of preliminary resilience assessment; the development of a policy document on the resilience strategy and the final stage, being the implementation of its strategies. In his review, the team lead, Professor Olanrewaju Adigun Fagbohun, listed some of the shocks with which the masses of the people are living in the state, to include; disease outbreak, flooding, economic downturn, major road accidents and building collapse. Others, according to him are; storm surge, riots and civil unrest, urban fires and forced evictions. Fagbohun, a Professor of Law, Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) and Vice Chancellor of the Lagos State University also listed among top stresses to which Lagosians are exposed to include; traffic congestion, erratic power supply, overpopulation/overcrowding and inadequate physical and social infrastructure. Other stresses are; unemployment and underemployment, inadequate health system, inadequate public transportation and formal and informal economic contestation. The scholar, added that the team, also identified for further research, areas such as informality as an enhancer of community resilience, Lagos as African Water city, population and congestion management, energy poverty and Lagos as a citadel of knowledge. Africa Global Resilient Cities Network’s Managing Director Dana Omran praised the commitment of the state government to finding solutions to the many chronic stresses and shocks the city of Lagos is experiencing daily. She expressed hope in the willingness of the people to survive, despite the challenges of urbanization and acute shortages of infrastructure that prolongs quality life. She expressed the hope that just as similar documents by city-members have led to landmark victories, the Lagos Resilience Strategy would in a short time transform Lagos State and give impact positively on the masses of the people residing therein. She charged the government to be unwavering in its commitment to improving the parameters of life of the people, adding that what is needed is the political will by the leadership to make the difference in the lives of the people. Dr Folayinka Dania, the Lagos State Deputy Chief Resilience Officer, said Lagosians despite the limited land size and attendant pressures have shown incredible capacity to survive. According to her the shocks, stresses and challenges that assail the state are stimulants for the people who have continued to uncommon resilience and willingness to support all government initiatives aimed at improving their lives. Dania charged the state government to implement the detailed initiatives contained in the document. She said much of the initiatives developed by the LRO would be driven by community participation through the various community leadership channels already developed by the government. The Chief Resilience Officer Architect Gbolahan Owodunni Oki, said his office was set up conduct preliminary studies, and to implement strategies to ameliorate the challenges. According to Oki, with the public presentation of the strategy document, the LRO is now ready to move into the third phase of its mandate, which is the implementation of all identified solutions articulated in the LRS. According to him, the vision of the strategy is to build a resilient Lagos which seeks the evolution of an efficient city, an enterprise city and an inclusive city. “It is a document that has 10 goals and 31 initiatives,” he said. He said the 31 initiatives identified in the strategy align with the Lagos State Development Plan 2012-2025, and the THEME agenda of the present administration as well as the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals 2030. “The Lagos Resilience Strategy provides a framework for protecting Lagos against present and future shocks and stresses,” Oki said. The CRO said implementation of all that is contained in the document will make a whole lot of difference, adding that mainstreaming resilience and strengthening institutional structures are critical to measuring the progress of the implementation. Oki said the Resilience Office will put in place interventions that will promote collaborative city governance, build resilience and realize resilience dividends on the social, economic and environmental fronts. He held that through the LRO, the state, would be open to new initiatives and ideas aimed at improving capacities and opportunities, adding that the LRS is not an exhaustive, static document, but one that would be reviewed from time to time in line with the needs assessments conducted with the guidance of the RC100 team. “We set out knowing and recognising that Lagos and its people are inherently resilient and the strategy merely intends to cultivate and harness this resilience in a more productive way such that it would boost the capacity of individuals, communities, institutions, businesses and sytems within the state to adapt to the stresses and shocks that are created in their daily lives,” Oki asserted. One of the participants, Engr Tade Bilesanmi said the future is promising if the state government can leverage on the wealth of experience and partnership of the RC100 network. “This administration must be commended for not dumping the programmes of its predecessors, because undoubtedly, this RC100 club to which the state has been admitted since 2017 is undoubtedly one of the ways to continue to grow its capacity to respond to the ever expanding needs of the state and her people.” He expressed the hope that if the government will faithfully implement all strategies enunciated in the document, it may not be long before the vision of a greater Lagos, the slogan of the present administration would become a reality.