 There is tension among top government officials in Kebbi state over the health status of Governor Atiku Bagudu after he came in contact with the Chief of Staff to the President, Abba Kyari who had been tested positive to the virus. Governor Bagudu held series of meetings at the Presidential Villa last week where he was alleged to have come in contact with the Chief of Staff. It was also observed that the governor had allegedly gone into self-Isolation in his private home in Birnin kebbi, a day after it was confirmed that COS Abba Khari was tested positive to Covid-19. Governor Bagudu after his return from Abuja few days ago held an emergency meeting with various stakeholders in the state including the Emir of Gwandu, Emir of Argungu, Speaker of the State House of Assembly, SSG,  Commissioners, special advisers, permanent secretaries, Directors and chairmen of local governments in the state, to chart the best course of action for the financial future of the state, and also ways to curtail the spread of the corona virus, that was the last public appearance of the Governor. Meanwhile he has since directed that civil servant in the state stay at home for two weeks except for the conventional workers. This development, our correspondent gathered has generated a lot of anxiety in the state, especially among top government functionaries and other critical stakeholders who have come in contact with the governor. Our correspondent contacted the Special adviser on Media to the Governor, Mallam Yahaya Sirki to Know whether the governor’s is on self isolation, he stated that “the governor is not on self isolation.” The directive to stay at home does not involve the media, the security agencies and those on essential services. What actually happened in Govt House on Thursday, is just to reduce the number of people entering the  government house including the media and security who were asked to go home until when needed. But even at this point, some journalist and security are still retained in Govt. House. I repeat my Governor is not on self isolation” he added.