 Since the inception of his adminisration, the Governor of the State of Osun, Mr Adegboyega Oyetola, has consistently sought to incorporate public interest into the government’s agenda. Several actions and interventions that have ensued within the first year of his administration were conceptualised from the yearnings and aspirations made by the people of Osun during his “Thank You Tour”. He had embarked on a “Thank You Tour,” shortly after he became governor. As a follow up to the Thank You Tour and validation of the conscious mandate to run an all-inclusive participatory government, Governor Adegboyega Oyetola, through the Ministry of Information and Civic Orientation, organised a discursive assembly and civic engagement rendezvous at Akinorun High School, Ikirun, for the citizens of Ifelodun-Boripe-Odo Otin Federal Constituency. The programme, tagged “Apero”, marked by jubilant crowd and theatrical renditions, was underlined by the need for the government and the people of Osun to rub minds about the journey so far and as well suggest ways forward. It had the objective of presenting the government’s stewardship account on one hand, and identifying critical development needs in the State through feedbacks from the people on the other hand. The privileged access to the Governor and the opportunity to present critical developmental issues saturated the atmosphere on the day as myriad  of citizens sought to have an audience with the Governor. The entries were scientifically reviewed using the simple random sampling method to draw the list of people that eventully aired their opinions, intent and petitions. Attended by different civil societies and citizens groups, the maiden edition of Apero, which was held at the Ifelodun-Boripe-Odo-Otin Federal Constituency, featured passionate discussions about the sundry issues in the State, characterised by both commendations  and petitions. The rendezvous was also attended by Monarchs within the Constituency, who registered their impressions in what seemed like the court of public opinion. Representatives of the Nigerian entertainment industry: Laide Bakare, Damola Olatunji and Adewale Elesho, all of Osun origin, were also in attendance. In her welcome address, the Honorable Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation, Mrs Funke Egbemode, congratulated the people of Ifelodun, Boripe and Odò-?tín federal constituency on the opportunity to interact directly with the governor and tell him their needs. She said the Governor is determined to improve the living standards in the state; hence, she counselled citizens to engage the Governor judiciously. In the accountability wing of the programme, the Commissioner for Health, Dr. Rafiu Isamotu; Special Adviser to the Governor on Public Health, Siji Olamiju; Commissioner for Education, Hon. Folorunso Oladoyin; and the Commissioner for Agriculture, Dayo Adewole; made remarks about the achievements and development plans of the administration through their respective ministries. For instance, the Commissioner for Health, Dr. Rafiu Isamotu remarked that the administration of Governor Adegboyega Oyetola has raised the bar of quality, functional and affordable healthcare delivery since assumption of office considering his administration’s intervention on primary health care, revival of general hospitals among others. According to Isamotu, “Government has also approved the payment of CONMESS and COHNESS to doctors and other health workers,”. For education, “A lot has been achieved in the education sector particularly in ensuring an improved welfare for the teachers. Half of the pension recently paid was given to teachers. Volunteer Inspectors of Education would be launched by the Governor soon. This team comprised the retired teachers and instructors to ensure that discipline is retained in our schools.” The Commissioner for Agriculture, in his own remark, explained the government’s support for farmers with fertilizer, building of rural roads through O’Ramp, and helping them to obtain loan through the Central Bank. These, according to him differ from the engagement of  over 1800 farmers in cassava planting with government targeting 6000 farmers. Also, the Commissioner for women affairs and child development, Hon. Olaboopo Olubukola Rihanat, drew attentions to the government’s intervention on the issue of female gender abuse, stating that the government is taking care of abuse victims both medically and through the services of social workers. She appealed to parents to keep a close watch on female children and warns that the government of Osun frowns at sexual or physical abuse of the female gender. The summary of their remarks showed that the administration of Governor Adegboyega Oyetola is committed to  the welfare and well-being of the people of Osun. His affective interventions in agriculture, health, education, works and infrastructure, and the ecstacy-commanding Staff’s salary payment lend credence to the people-centered agenda of this administration. Governor Oyetola also fielded  questions from citizens on various policies and programmes of government, providing answers as succinctly as possible with appropriate details. Apero afforded him the opportunity to clarify unclarified assumptions about the government and what it is doing on certain issues. For instance,  he said full payment of workers’ salaries and other emoluments remained one of the topmost priorities of the administration, adding that this would continue for as long as he remains the Governor of the State. While responding to the question on how the administration had managed to sustain full payment of salaries and pensions in spite of paucity of funds, the Governor maintained that his resolve never to toy with workers’ welfare was informed by the quranic and biblical injunctions that workers’ sweats must not dry off before they are paid their wages. Oyetola who attributed to God his numerous achievements across all sectors including health, works, education, security and agriculture, pledged to continue with the good works for the rest of the tenure. “Everything we have been doing has been possible with the help of God. We have ensured that we serve you with fear of God and that’s why God has been supporting us. The only thing I can say about finances is that as a government, we are very prudent with our spending. We release money only on things with pressing needs. But then, workers salaries and pensions are key while other things can follow,” the Governor stated. 