 The police in Anambra State have arrested two suspects for allegedly killing a Facebook friend and dumping his body in a bush in Nanka, Orumba North Local Government Area of the State. The two suspects were paraded on Friday at the state police headquarters alongside other suspected criminals by the Commissioner of Police, John Abang. Also paraded yesterday, were over 100 others suspected to be cultists  in Amawbia, Awka South Local Government Area of the state. Abang, who spoke through the Command’s spokesperson, Haruna Mohammed, said the suspects, Angus Chukwuebuka Nwankwo and Chidiebere Omeyi, lured the deceased, identified as Willswags to Nanka from Owerri, Imo State. He said the suspects allegedly dumped the body of the deceased inside the bush in the area after robbing him of his valuables. He said: “On the 9/3/2020 at about 3:45pm, following intelligence report, Puff Adder operatives in conjunction with the Command’s Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) arrested at Nanka, one Angus Chukwebuka Nwankwo, 30, and Chidiebere Omeyi, 20, respectively. ”Suspects had on 27/2/2020 lured a Facebook user simply identified as Willswags from Owerri in Imo State to Nanka. After robbing the victim of his belongings, suspects allegedly killed and dumped his body inside the bush at Nanka in Orumba North Local Government Area of Anambra State. “Meanwhile, suspects have confessed to the crime and led police to the bush in Nanka where the decomposing body of the victim was found. Corpse deposited at the mortuary for autopsy.” Abang further revealed that a Tecno phone belonging to the deceased was recovered from the suspects, adding that they would be charged after investigations were concluded. Other suspects paraded were 108 alleged Cultists arrested during a raid carried out in various parts of the state. CP Abang said 34 of the suspects were screened out, 20 were charged to court, while 54 out of which 21 were underage, were undergoing investigation after which they would be charged. “Exhibits recovered in their possession included, ten  locally made pistols, Eleven machetes , Nine cartridges, nine battle axes, one fabricated gun, three  cult regalia, eight  daggers, three barrets,  three swords, seven  improvised bunkers for inhaling substances suspected to be cocaine,” he said. 