 A Federal High Court in Lagos has adjourned till April 29, the Federal Government’s alleged N2.9 billion fraud case against a businessman, Kenneth Amadi and a firm, IDID Nigeria Ltd. Justice Mohammed Liman granted the adjournment at the instance of the government’s lawyer, Aderonke Imana, to allow both parties explore an out-of-court settlement. Imana told the judge last Friday that that discussions were on-going for an amicable resolution of the matter. “I was on my way to court this morning when I got an instruction that discussions were on-going. I was directed to ask for an adjournment to allow parties negotiate on a possible out-of-court settlement of the matter”, the lawyer said. Amadi’s counsel, S. J. Ogogoyibo, had earlier informed the court that the defendant (Amadi) is in talk with the Federal Government on the possibility of settling the matter out-of-court. He said the defendant had engaged the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF), Abubakar Malami (SAN) in that regard. However, a lawyer, A. Adeoti, who appeared in court to watch the brief of the complainant, said he was not aware that parties were seeking settlement. In the absence of any opposition to the request for adjournment by the prosecution’s lawyer, Justice Liman adjourned for report of settlement or defendant’s arraignment. Amadi had continuously refused to appear in court for his arraignment over the charge. The charges against the defendants include receiving and obtaining by false pretence, with intent to defraud, the sum of N2,900,000,000 belonging to Eunisell Ltd, from A-Z Petroleum Ltd and AMMASCO International Ltd; omitting making full and true entry thereof in the books and accounts; suppression of data in respect of the financial transfer to Eunisell Ltd; and converting same amount without authority to create sufficient deposits to promote the credibility of his own company (IDID Nigeria Limited). The offences are contrary to section 1(1)(a) of the Advance Fee Fraud and other fraud related offences Act, CapA6, laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004 and punishable under section 1(3) of the same Act.