The Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, has reiterated the commitment of the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) to defend the territorial integrity of the country. He charged troops to maintain the momentum of operations against armed bandits. Abubakar who gave the charge while commissioning a newly constructed and furnished block of 20 x single bedroom accommodation for personnel at the 271 NAF Detachment (271 NAF Det) Birinin-Gwari, Kaduna State, said the 271 NAF Detachment was established as part of the commitment to eradicate the menace of armed banditry, cattle rustling and kidnapping within the North Western part of the Country. He noted that since the establishment of the Unit, there had been remarkable improvement in the security situation around the Birnin-Gwari axis. According to him, “NAF was constantly reviewing tactics, techniques and procedures as well as emplacing additional measures to effectively add value to the operations being conducted so as to ensure the security of lives and properties of Nigerians.” He disclosed that NAF had embarked on the construction of befitting accommodation in all NAF locations within the six geo-political zones of the country. According to him, the 20 x single bedroom accommodation was built to provide befitting place of rest for personnel after a hard day’s job. “I am pleased to note that this building and other projects yet to be commissioned would be named after those personnel who paid the supreme price in the line of duty.  While we pray for the repose of their souls, I urge officers, airmen and airwomen to continue to display the values of selflessness, bravery and dedication in the conduct of their respective duties,” he added. The CAS stated that the ultimate objective was to emplace facilities to enable an increase in the strength of the 271 NAF Det to not less than 600 personnel, while also expanding the fuel storage facility to support more helicopters. Earlier in his remarks, the Air Officer Commanding (AOC) Special Operations Command (SOC), Air Vice Marshal Charles Ohwo, stated that the commissioning was yet another demonstration of the priority attention given by the current NAF leadership to troops’ motivation through the provision of enabling environment for effective and professional performance. He reassured the CAS of the dedication of personnel of SOC to ensuring that insurgency and banditry are defeated. Meanwhile, the Air Task Force (ATF) of Operation Lafiya Dole has destroyed the hideout of the Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) at Mina along the Gulumba Gana-Kumshe Axis in the Northern part of Borno State. Scores of the terrorists were also killed in the operation which was part of the ongoing Operation DECISIVE EDGE. According to a statement by the Director of Public Relations and Information, Nigerian Air Force, Air Commodore, Ibikunle Daramola, the operation was undertaken after a NAF Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) aircraft spotted the terrorist assembling in the vicinity of some compounds within the settlement. “Fighter jets scrambled by the ATF to engage the location scored accurate hits in the target area leading to the destruction of some terrorists’ structures as well as the neutralization of some of their fighters. “The NAF, in furtherance of the objective of restoring peace and security in the Northeast and operating in concert with surface forces, will continue to carry out air interdiction missions against the enemies of our Nation.”