My darling, precious, glorious, dignified, world-famous and heavenly celebrated Nigerian sisters, In the last 2 weeks, I’ve read so much on the social media on the struggles an average woman has to go through in a patriarchal society as ours! And I tell you, I read too many disheartening stories and even the poems meant to gear us up and motivate us more often than not bemoan our fate as women! Day in day out, we hear of grievous domestic violence and all forms of abuse, we generally hear about the victimization of females! A lot of you reading have been badly messed up by the sheer horror of what your dad meted out to your mum while a lot of you never even had the opportunity to have the love and protection of your father but instead fell innocently into the hands of men you trusted who eventually defiled you physically and emotionally and thereby weakening your spirit! So many girls/ladies out there have been raised consciously or unconsciously to be at the mercy of men and yet they come out crying for Equality! They can’t be serious! Girls…girls…girls, whether you believe me or not, our society is going to get more patriarchal and I dare say in a satanic manner as well! You may wonder what patriarchy is if your mum isn’t a feminist (smiles). Patriarchy is a system of society or government in which men hold the power and women are largely excluded from it! Patriarchy is the reason why a lot of  men treat their wives as objects and think they can treat them like children and batter them to a pulp in the process  not caring whose ox is gored! Patriarchy is the reason why a good number of sexually-abused girls/ladies out there are not bold enough to make a report at the police station because more often than not they get blamed! Patriarchy is the reason why a lot of single mothers who chose not to be “single murderers” are forever stigmatized and scorned even with all the pressure they have to face single-handedly raising their children and even when they became single mothers as a result of bolting out of a marriage that would have left their children motherless! Patriarchy is the reason why landlords would refuse to rent out a house to single mothers and would always ask for their husbands! I could go on and on! I don’t even want to go to the village setting where real patriarchy is practiced-embedded in their custom and a taboo to flout! This same patriarchy is the reason why many women out there would in spite all the abuse women generally have to suffer in our society still kowtow  shamefully with their bodies to men so they can have one favor or the other and also be a part of the polity! WHAT TYPE OF GIRLS/WOMEN WOULD THEY RAISE? And to think these girls would determine the lot of the society when they become women! Haa…hmm…there’s serious fire on the mountain! WHO SAYS WOMEN WOULD BE GIVEN HALF THE CHANCE IF WE DON’T REVISIT OUR MORAL VALUES AND ASSERT OURSELVES RESPONSIBLY? If you like prepare and arm yourself, if you like sit in front of your mirror and keep loading your face with make-up and fan-like eyelashes instead of loading yourself with brains and good morals- YOU WILL SURELY PAY FOR IT! Patriarchy would never bow for you or let you enjoy life until you are fully aware of who you are, what you’re loaded with and what you carry! As long as you’re still waiting for some guy or the other to meet your needs and fund you, you will always remain a football to men which they will toss in the air, bounce up and down- they’d in fact wear you out and render you useless! If you don’t spend the energy and time you have now to gather all the spiritual power you naturally have anyway and let it be your propeller- patriarchy will not only suppress you and your future dreams, it would make you cry and blame you for landing at the corner it chooses to box you into if you allow it! And let me add that the guys you’re drooling over now would be the ones that would trample over you in future if you don’t empower yourself! Girls…girls…ladies, Can a fortress, an institution or a spiritual house be pulled down easily? Believe me, if a lot of women were well-prepared-emotionally, psychologically, academically, financially,  spiritually, IT WOULD BE MOST DIFFICULT FOR ANY MAN OR A SATANICALLY-PATRIARCHAL SOCIETY TO ABUSE THEM! Spend all the time you have now learning life skills and not chasing boys/men or drowning in their fantasies! Spend your time learning one handicraft or the other and start making your own money! Use all the energy that comes with your adolescence to garner the SUPERNAL FIRE OF GOD! Read all the books you can now and acquire the knowledge that would place you many altitudes higher than a mediocre and shallow society and let’s see if any man or sick society would have the guts to harass you! May you be pampered by kings and may you live a better life than your mothers! And to every mother out there, may your daughters not suffer what you suffered and may your latter days be filled with great glory, great joy and happiness in Jesus name! Happy Mother’s Day!