 Vice-Chancellor of the University of Lagos (UNILAG), Prof Oluwatoyin Ogundipe has said the institution was ready to combat the Coronavirus as it holds the 51st convocation next week. Speaking Monday at a pre-convocation press briefing held at the Senate Chambers of the University, Ogundipe said hand sanitizers would be given to visitors, while health officials would be at the venue to attend to questions and issues. “We don’t have issue of community-acquired coronavirus in the university but we are already prepared for this. The Director of Health is on it. They will be on ground during the convocation with enough sanitizers and will provide any necessary information,” he said. The convocation will begin with a lecture titled: “The Role of Disruptive Technologies in Sustainable Economic Transformation” to be delivered by Minister of Communications and Digital Economi, Dr. Isa Ali on Monday, March 9, 2020 at the J.F. Ade-Ajayi Auditorium. The event is to be chaired by Prof. Nimi Briggs, an alumnus of the university and Pro-Chancellor, Federal University Lokoja. The award of degrees to 7,198 undergraduates of the institution’s 12 faculties, Distance Learning Institute and Diploma programme will hold Tuesday and Wednesday; while the award of postgraduate degrees to 6,291 Postgraduate Diploma, Masters’ and Doctor of Philosophy recipients will hold Thursday, March 12, 2020. This year, Prof. Ogundipe said the institution produced 281 graduates with First Class led by Ibrahim Adedeji Alimi of Mechanical Engineering who made a Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) of 4.98; and Victoria Opeyemi Popoola of the Economic Department who made a CGPA of 4.90. Faculty of Engineering had the highest number of First Class graduates, 70. “Let me congratulate Alimi, Ibrahim Adedeji of the Department of Mechanical Engineering, Faculty of Engineering who emerged the overall best graduating student and the best in the field of science with a CGPA of 4.98. He is closely followed by Popoola, Victoria Opeyemi of the Department of Economics Faculty of Social Sciences who is also the best graduating student in the Humanities with a CGPA of 4.90,” he said. Giving further breakdown of the grades of the graduating students, Ogundipe said 2,139 had Second Class Upper; 2,870 had Second Class Lower; 1,148 had Third Class; while 117 had Pass degree. Another 453 would graduate with unclassified degrees; while 159 would graduate with Diploma in Human Kinetics and Health Education; and Social Development and Administration (SDA). In the post graduate category, 112 will be awarded Ph.D; 5,550 will receive Masters Degrees, while 629 will get Postgraduate Diplomas. Award for the overall best Ph.D thesis titled: “Bio-Ecology, Immuno-Histochemistry and Genetic Heterogeneity of Portunid Species from the Coastal Waters of Lagos State, Nigeria” will go to Rasheed Olatunji Moruf of Marine Science. The university anthem, which was composed by a Committee headed by Prof. Adejoke Oyewunmi, was sung for the first time at the briefing by the university choir led by Prof. Albert Oikhileme.