 The management of Ondo Linyi Industrial hub, Ore, Ondo State, has debunked speculations that the site had recorded a death as a result of the coronavirus. This was contained in a statement by Chief Alex Ajipe, the Chief Executive Officer of Klick Konnect Networks International and made available to newsmen on Friday in Akure. Klick Connect Networks International supervises operations at the industrial hub. ” We would like to on behalf of our clients, the companies that make up the Ondo-Linyi Industrial Hub, state clearly and with all sense of certainty and truth that no death or Covid-19 related illnesses have been recorded at the Ondo-Linyi Industrial Hub. “About a week ago, the hub, under our management and supervision, received the staff of the Ondo State Government’s Centre for Disease Control and took them round the facilities. “We walked them through the procedures that have been put in place to ensure the health and well-being of all indigenous and expartriate staff. ” We have, even after their visit, adhered to these processes and recorded no illnesses or death and have also been in constant touch with them, and our gates remain open to receive them,” the statement said. According to the statement, the management is embarrassed by rumours that a lady, a member of staff who is of Chinese nationality has died. “This is not only false, but sad because it is rumour that can portray our clients in bad light, and it constitutes scare-mongering and stigmatisation. “Our clients have shown themselves to be socially responsible, and they will not put the lives of their host state and communities in danger. “Our clients reiterate that they have been in constant communication and under strict monitoring by the CDC and are contributing their quota to curtailing the spread of the pandemic as socially responsible investors. “We are all in the fight against this pandemic for humanity and must stand as one,” it added. The statement, which also said that the fight against the pandemic should not be politicised, appealed to the public not to partake in the disemmination of fake news. It further urged the general public to be fortright and virtuous in the collective efforts to contain the virus. (NAN)