 One of the civic responsibilities of every citizen whether as individuals or corporate entities, is to pay taxes, which, in all intent and purposes is a duty that should be fulfilled by all and sundry. But that otherwise simple act of patriotism is a source of nightmare to many Nigerians,who have continued to taste the bitter pill of taxation as the case may be. Enter new VAT rate Following the approval of the new Finance Act the new tax regime raised VAT from 5 percent to 7.5 percent commenced in earnest in February 1, 2020. It would be recalled that the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs Zainab Usman, had informed that the implementation of Value Added Tax (VAT) new rate of 7.5 per cent will commence on February 1, 2020, after all the necessary administrative procedures have been completed, especially the gazette of the Act by the Federal Ministry of Justice. Justifying the need for the new tax regime, the Minister at the time said the VAT was increased from 5 per cent to 7.5 per cent in government’s bid to boost revenue which is badly needed to close the deficit gap in the 2020 budget. According to the Minister, the standard rate of tax has now been raised to 7.5% of invoice value of goods and services except items specifically stated as exempt or zero-rated, for which small businesses with less than N25million turnover are exempted. The VAT system in Nigeria is administered by the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS). However, despite blessed assurances from the authorities that the after effects of the new tax regime would not pose additional burden on the taxpayers, there are fears that the implementation of the new tax policy is already taking a heavy toll on businesses. Tax burden borned by businesses Many business owners have continued to lament what they desc as excruciating burden of taxes that in recent times, one they say is detrimental to their well being as a profit-oriented venture. Speaking with separate members of the organised private sector they literally poured out their hearts as they lamented the pitiable state of their businesses. Firing the first salvo, Stanley Aghomi, a Warri-based manufacturer, who produces uniforms for off shore workers said, the new VAT increase has shoot update his operational cost and adversely reduced his profit margins. Based on the new increase already he says he have had to close down some of his production lines. Aghomi’s lamentations is not any different from Olawale Tijjani’s tales of woes, who is the head of manufacturing plant in fast moving consumer goods company in Lagos. According to him, the much touted ease of business policy is pure propaganda. As far as he is concerned, the government has a long way to go if it must achieve that laudable height. “We are involved in the manufacturing of food supplements, as such we have to import some of the components which we cannot source locally. The new VAT rate is already affecting our business substantially. Our continuous survival is not guaranteed anymore,”he said. Like Aghomi and Tijjani, not a few businesses are affected and already counting their losses. While addressing a selected team of journalists in Lagos recently at the company’s corporate head office, the Managing Director of Guinness Nigeria Plc, Baker Magunda had disclosed that the company is not immuned to the growing wave of incessant government policies which has huge implications for businesses. Specifically, he said taxes remains a major cause for concern. While noting that the government deserves to demand taxes required for the overall development of the country, he was however quick to add that companies operating in the country need to be factored into the scheme of things as they remained an integral part of the business ecosystem contributing to the economic well being of the country as a whole. Going down memory lane, Magunda who presented a score card of the company’s business during the financial year end, observed that Guinness Nigeria Plc as remained a formidable partner. Specifically, he said, the company paid over N1.6billion in taxes in 2019. This, he said, was despite the many challenges that confronted the business. Echoing similar sentiments, Colman Hanna, Supply Director at Guinness Nigeria Plc, while speaking on some of the challenges, said to the operating costs of the business. According to Hanna, logistics of the business is worst hit by the new regime of taxes. “Normally, we move a container from  the Lagos Apapa Port for N500,000+, the cost of moving the same container rose to about N800,000 within the space of three weeks and we had to pay to avoid further surcharges.” Incidental expenses such as this, he notes are disincentive to businesses. Speaking with a cross section of operators within and around the nation’s ports, the same complaints resonated as they all lamented the increasing burden businesses have to bear and may ultimately be passed to the final consumers out there. Tax aversion A lot of Nigerians are averse towards payment of any form of taxes because they feel governments at all levels are not accountable, according to a note by Lagos-based CSL Stockbrokers Limited. In fact, they disclosed that a few small business owners they engaged in recent times were apathetic toward taxes payments. According to them, the reasoning of the small business operators was that it would be pointless to pay taxes to an allegedly corrupt government that has proven itself incompetent in terms of providing critical infrastructure and basic amenities. Nigeria’s tax system has been described by experts as one with various forms of loopholes. As such, it is not inconceivable that the rate of tax underpayment by the upper class may be significant. ABC of tax There are a good number of taxes payable by persons doing business in Nigeria. These include companies’ income tax, personal income tax, capital gains tax, value-added tax, education tax, technology tax, stamp duties, and withholding tax. According to the extant laws, every business name owner who earns an income in Nigeria either from employment or from carrying on a business is subject to tax under the Personal Income Tax Act. It is however instructive to note that the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) has continuously stressed that it is determined to bring many people into the tax net especially high networth individuals and corporate citizens, most of who form the bulk of tax evaders and defaulters alike. Echoing similar sentiments,  the former Director-General, Budget Office, Mr Bode Agusto, while speaking at a public forum recently weighed in on tax evasion and default in payment that has been reported in the media space in recent times. While noting that some Nigerians are averse towards payment of any form of taxes because they feel governments at all levels are not accountable, Agusto however observed that over 200′ 000 wealthy Nigerians are the biggest tax evaders in the country. He also added that tax laws be made simpler. MAN’s position In the view of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) on the recent increase in Value Added Tax, there is an urgent need to look at the rippled negative effects of the policy. In a position paper signed by the Director General of MAN, Segun Ajayi-Kadir, and made available to our correspondent, M MrAmbrose Oruche, Director of Media and Publicity, who is also the Acting DG of MAN stated that the VAT increase of 50 percent would increase the cost of production. According to the media minder of the Association, “It is not all VAT that you can recover, people may argue that VAT is an input tax that would be recovered on your products, but the truth remains that it is not all VAT that is recoverable. But the FIRS do not want to take off such VAT away from the manufacture and such will hinder manufacturers greatly.” Plausible as the recommendation to increase VAT may look, implementing it at this time would boomerang because the timing is inappropriate, especially at a time when the minimum wage of N30,000 was just agreed upon, he maintained. Expatiating, he said, this could send a wrong signal that the government is not sensitive to the plight of the low- and middle-income earners, who are clearly in the majority. “A typical case of government simply taking back what was given with the right hand through the national minimum wage with the left hand through 50 per cent increase in VAT.” According to the document released by MAN on VAT, the following are possible implications of 50 per cent VAT increase. Economic realities of the proposed increase in VAT In terms of misery index rating, low per capita income, heavily lopsided income distribution pattern, the Nigerian economy will be in a more vulnerable state if VAT is increased. No controversy, the burden of the tax would be shifted to the Nigerian consumers that are already struggling, the economy would certainly experience demand crunch, inventory of unsold items would soar, profitability of manufacturing concerns would be negatively impacted, many factories will witness serious downturn or wind down operations. This would also worsen the already high unemployment position of the country which is above 23% as Nigerians currently employed by manufacturing concerns and other businesses may join the reserved army of unemployed and further bloat the unemployment rate in the country. MAN, noted that as a strategic stakeholder in the nation’s development agenda, which appreciates the need for government to generate more revenue to fund its developmental initiatives amidst declining revenue from oil. However, government should thread with caution in the drive for improved revenue for the following reasons The economy just recently exited recession with the fragile growth rate of less than 2% recorded in 2018 and should be delicately managed. The precarious macroeconomic condition of the country requires palliatives that would improve investment and not higher tax burden The prevailing high lending rate, double digit inflation, low per capita income, high unemployment rate and a low 1.91% growth rate amidst 2.6% population growth rate that are already cumulatively limiting competitiveness could be further worsened. Any increase at this time would not be in sync with the standard practice that expects the administration and implementation of VAT to be effected in a manner that distortion and possible adverse effect on the economy are minimised or avoided. An increased VAT will spur spontaneous increase in inflation rate occasioned by increased prices of goods and services The obvious resultant effects of implementing an increased VAT on the manufacturing sector includes lower purchasing power of consumers, sharp reduction in consumption, drop in sales, decrease in production capacity, lower government revenue, increase in unemployment and stifled economic growth. Unfair comparison of VAT rate in Nigeria and other countries in Africa forgetting the fact that macroeconomic dynamics and the level of competitiveness in these countries are not the same with that of Nigeria. The fact that many states of the federation also have other consumption taxes like VAT currently being levied on businesses should call for circumspection. Standard considerations for an ideal VAT tate for Nigeria There is no doubt that VAT is an important revenue source to the Government for running the affairs of the country. However, the principle of a good tax system is predicated on payment convenience, otherwise it could boomerang, leading to crowding out of businesses; more misery to the citizens and even lesser revenue to the government. The Nigerian economy has consistently ranked top in Africa with only South Africa presenting a fair challenge.   Years back, following the economic feat   and potential of the country, it assumed an emerging economy status like China, India, Malaysia, Turkey and South Korea. Only South Africa and Egypt made this economic bracket in Africa. It is important to state that on economic front, Nigeria should ideally be compared with the emerging economies and not just any country in Africa.  Comparative economic policies should be predicated on what obtains in this economic frontier. Therefore, an ideal tax policy should be such that takes into cognizance the status of the economy. An ideal VAT policy for Nigeria should take into account the current profiles of Nigeria’s per capita income (PCI), National Minimum Wage (NMW); and global competitiveness. PCI and NMW will help highlight what will be the implication of upward review of VAT on the already depleted wellbeing of majority of Nigerians, while global competitiveness will present insight on the impact of such review on the real sector, particularly manufacturing sector. A cross-reference of selected emerging economies in terms of PCI, NMW and GCI in the table below is revealing. From the cross-country indicators computed from the World Bank Report, it is quite discernable why VAT is high in these emerging economies including South Africa. The high PCI and national minimum wage  are able to adequately offset the impact of high VAT on growth and wellbeing of the populace, while the high global competitiveness ensures that the countries secure a fair share of global market – recently, Nigerian has been recording influx of businesses from South Africa. Conversely, given the low Nigeria’s PCI, NMW and global competitiveness any increase in VAT at this time, will further depress consumption, industrial production and wellbeing of Nigerians. In MAN’s previous position and recommendations, the Association advised government to widen the tax net rather than increasing the rate to meet the growing need for more revenue to address the development objective of the country. There is also the need to harmonize taxes/levies/fees payable by businesses in the country so as to attract more investment that would translate to higher productivity and more tax revenue for the government in the medium and long term. In consideration of all the above, MAN hereby implore Government not to increase the VAT at this point in time but consider the implementation of the afore-mentioned tax specific recommendations and continue to ramp-up support for the manufacturing sector in the best interest of the over 200million Nigeria. In search of tax policy with back human fac In the view of Mr Afam Mallinson Ukatu, the Chairman of Non-Metallic Mining Sector of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), “There has been a long drawn battle between tax authorities and manufacturers in the country over multiple taxation of our businesses and if the issue of multiple taxation is not urgently addressed by government, more manufacturing companies are likely to exit the economy.” As far as Ukatu is concerned, “The lamentations about all sorts of taxes are not yet addressed, now the government has come up with increase in VAT. The implication of this is that manufacturers would further be impoverished while most SMEs would be forced out of business because it cannot compete favourably with the imported goods that find their way into the nation’s market.” Government, he stressed,should look into multiple taxation and VAT. “I have always argued that taxes should be paid on your turnover, but what of a situation where a manufacturer is losing money. It is obvious that a manufacturer produces and still losses money and you are still expected to pay your tax.” In his honest opinion, he believes there should be a system whereby individuals are evaluated by the tax authorities just like China, USA and other countries. There is what they keep as special rebate for manufacturing companies, because this is what encourages people to go into manufacturing. Without manufacturing, there wouldn’t be any way to for high rate of unemployment to reduce.” Government, he insists, can only provide about 10 percent of the total job requirement of the population, whereas manufacturing can generate over 60 – 70 percent of the needed employment.