By James Azania, Lokoja  The Kogi State Government on Thursday ordered the immediate closure of the West Africa Ceramics Limited based in Ajaokuta. The government, through the Task Force it set up in the wake of the coronavirus epidemic, has also set in motion the machinery to monitor the health status of Chinese and other nationals working in the firm. It also placed them under compulsory isolation. The government in a statement by Commissioner for Information and Communcation Kingsley Fanwo, promised to remain on top of situations to keep Login COVID-19 free. The Task Force is headed by Deputy Governor, Mr. Edward Onoja. According to the statement: “The Squadron Team set up by the Kogi State governor under the chairmanship of the deputy governor of the state, Chief Edward Onoja, wishes to thank Kogites for their cooperation in government’s efforts at containing the spread of the deadly Coronavirus in the state. “We wish to assure the people of the commitment of Governor Yahaya Bello to the fight against Coronavirus. “The governor has also made logistics available for the set-up of a functional containment/isolation centre and also for aggressive sensitization on the health protocols that will stop the virus from spreading in the state. “The squadron team has already commenced full implementation of the directives earlier given to ensure the wellbeing of our people across the 21 LGAs. Sensitization is also ongoing across the state. “It is pertinent to note that there is no confirmed case of Coronavirus yet in the state. “The decision to close all land and sea borders in the state is in full force. Commercial motorcyclists have also been told to stay off the road and stay at home until further notice. Anyone found to be breaking these rules shall be made to face the full wrath of the law. “The squadron team on Coronavirus has also directed the immediate closure of a ceramics firm in Ajaokuta, while we monitor the health status of the Chinese and other nationals working in the firm. They have been placed on compulsory isolation. “The committee calls on Kogites to contact our emergency hotlines in case of any emergency as the committee is working 24 hours of the day. “We urge our people not to panic, but maintain simple respiratory hygiene and stay at home. “Market places, schools and some government offices remain closed. Social and religious gatherings also remain suspended till further notice.”