THE 75 Coronet monarchs demoted by Ogun State Government have dragged Governor Dapo Abiodun to court for reversal of their downgrading. In the suit, which joined the Commissioner for Local Government & Chieftaincy Affairs; Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Local Government & Chieftaincy Affairs; House of Assembly and the State Attorney General as Defendants, the aggrieved monarchs said their upgrading, which took effect from May 13, 2019, is pursuant to Sub-Section (1) & (2) of Section 25 of the Chiefs Law, Laws of Ogun State of Nigeria, 2006. Former Governor Ibikunle Amosun had upgraded the Baales as Coronet Obas of their respective communities at the twilight of his administration. But the Chieftaincy Review Committee set up by Abiodun recommended the reversal of their appointments. In the originating summon, a copy of which The Nation obtained, the monarchs are seeking an order of interlocutory injunction restraining the defendants either by themselves or through their agents, servants, privies or any other persons acting for them from preventing them from acting, parading or referring to themselves as Coronet Obas, having been earlier upgraded, appointed and promoted by the state government. The claimants are therefore seeking a declaration that the activities and recommendation of the review committee is an afterthought and a nullity. They also sought: “A declaration that the defendants are estopped from reversing or revoking the upgrading, appointment and promotion of the Claimants as Coronet Obas in Ogun State and/or preventing Claimants from acting, parading or referring to themselves and being referred to as Coronet Obas of their respective communities. ” A declaration that the Defendants cannot capriciously reverse or revoke the upgrading, appointment and promotions of the Defendants in the absence of any complaint against the upgrading, appointment and promotion of the Claimants duly brought to the attention of the Claimants for their defence/response. “An order setting aside the purported reversal or revocation of the Claimants upgrading, appointment and promotion as Coronet Obas in Ogun State; an order compelling the Defendants to rescind forthwith the purported reversal and/or revocation of the upgrading, appointments and promotion of the Claimants as Coronet Obas of their respective communities…” The monarchs are also seeking compelling the Defendants to pay all remunerations and entitlements due but unpaid to each of them over their respective communities from May 13, 2019, when their upgrading took effect till date and thereafter. It was gathered hearing has been scheduled for April 27 at a High Court sitting in Abeokuta.