Governor Dapo Abiodun has expressed gratitude to former President Olusegun Obasanjo, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, corporate organisations and religious bodies that donated funds and property to assist Ogun State Government’s fight against the spread of the Coronavirus. Aside Chief Olusegun Obasanjo and the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor Adeboye; Abiodun also identified the Chairman of BUA Group of companies, Alhaji Abdulsamad Rabiu; and the Founder of Fate Foundation, Mr. Fola Adeola as others who have given donations to assist the state over the dreaded disease. In a statement, he personally signed, he lauded these high net-worth Nigerians and organisations that had given property, financial and moral assistance to the State Government in the fight against COVID-19 under the aegis of COVID-19 Pandemic Support Fund. Describing them as “The Good Samaritans,” he said that they responded promptly and selflessly to the plea by the State Government for help from well-meaning Nigerians and foreign development agencies to aid the fight against COVID-19. According to the Governor, both Chief Obasanjo and Mr. Adeola donated their private residence and property in Abeokuta, the State Capital, for use by the Government as isolation centres for suspected patients of COVID-19 within the State, while Pastor Adeboye donated an Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds and ventilators for the treatment of patients and other equipment at Redeemer’s Health Centre, Mowe. Alhaji Abdulsamad Rabiu, the Chairman of BUA, donated the sum of 100 million Naira as relief support, and made a pledge of medical supplies to Ogun State. Governor Abiodun promised to ensure transparent use of all voluntary donations, while he urged other well-meaning Nigerians to emulate the kind gesture and
urged other well-meaning Nigerians to follow their lead and noble examples. “I want to personally assure the entire citizenry of Ogun State that I will ensure the judicious use of these donations of funds and property towards the containment of the COVID-19 pandemic,”he said. The Governor described the pandemic as a global challenge deserving of a cooperative front to stop the virus from further spreading. Abiodun said: “This pandemic poses a collective challenge and together, we must join hands in fighting it. We will confront it. We will slow it down (and) we will defeat it.”