Anglophone West Africa private equity firm, Verod Capital Management has offered N5.3 billion for the acquisition of the entire share capital of Law Union and Rock Insurance Plc in a major bid that signals the opening up of mergers and acquisitions in the Nigerian insurance industry. The board of Law Union at the weekend confirmed that it had received a binding offer from Verod Capital seeking to acquire the entire 4.296 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each of Law Union at N1.23 per share. The offer thus valued Law Union at N5.28 billion, 36.4 per cent above its market value of N3.87 billion at the weekend. Law Union’s share price closed weekend at the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) at 90 kobo per share. Law Union recorded the highest gain of 23.3 per cent at the NSE last week, rising from 73 kobo to 90 kobo per share. The offer price of N1.23 per share represents a premium of 208 per cent on the 60-day volume weighted average share price and 140 per cent on Law Union’s closing share price on February 26. The board of Law Union stated that it had considered the offer and would recommend the offer to shareholders of the company for their consideration and approval. However, the transaction is still subject to the approval of relevant regulatory authorities including National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Federal Competition an Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC) and the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). The board urged shareholders to exercise caution when dealing in the company’s shares noting that further details on the transaction will be communicated in due course. Verod Capital focuses on investing equity and equity-linked capital in growth companies across various consumer-driven sectors in Nigeria, especially the insurance sector. Insurance companies are in a hot race to raise new equity capital to meet new minimum capital requirements for various insurance functions as directed by NAICOM. NAICOM had last May released new capital requirements for insurance businesses with a 13-month compliance period for operators to shore up their minimum capital base to the required level. The minimum paid-up share capital of a life insurance company was increased from N2 billion to N8 billion, non-life insurance from N3 billion to N10 billion, composite insurance from N5 billion to N18 billion while re-insurance companies were directed to raise their capital base from N10 billion to N20 billion. The deadline was subsequently extended to December 31, 2020. Most analysts agreed that the recapitalisation would open up opportunities for mergers and acquisitions, putting the top insurance companies with large capital base in good stead to acquire other companies and build up their base. Two strategic investors had recently acquired 38.83 per cent major equity stakes in AIICO Insurance Plc. The acquisitions were consummated through a private placement. AIICO Insurance offered 4.4 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each at N1.20 per share.