The contest for Phenomenon of the Year 2020 has already been won by the novel coronavirus (COVID-19). So far over 90,000 cases and 3,000 fatalities have been recorded in 69 countries across the world. Compared to the swine flu outbreak of 2009 believed to have killed over 500,000 people, or the Asian flu that claimed the lives of millions in the 50s, the latest epidemic has been fairly restrained. Although, the pattern of spread suggests things could get worse before they get better. First noticed in a sea food market in Wuhan City, China, the coronavirus has embarked on a global hop, skip and jump that has millions shivering in their boots. It is no respecter of persons. An adviser to Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei died from the disease during the week. The country’s Vice President and Deputy Health Minister have also contracted it. Even Pope Francis has had a scare. After falling ill, he took a test which turned out to be negative. The impact of the outbreak across the world has been dramatic. It’s changing the way we live, work, socialise and bringing out the worst in us as humans. Sports events have been cancelled with the 2020 Summer Olympics in Tokyo reportedly under threat. In the UK authorities are contemplating shutting schools for two months. Countries have disallowed public gatherings above 1,000 people. Twitter just asked its over 5,000 staff worldwide to work from home until further notice. France has banned kissing – at least of the variety administered on both cheeks in public. In some places handshakes have been outlawed. These days, amiable people are taking to greeting each other by knocking feet against another. So the next time you get an overly enthusiastic kick in the shin, don’t get angry – your attacker is only being friendly! It is not just leisurely activity that has been dislocated, economies are in trouble. Oil prices are dropping, businesses are losing sales. However, experts say, the outbreak is unlikely to tip the world into a recession – at least for now. Death has always been unattractive but fear of the fatal consequences of coronavirus is driving people to do desperate and unkind things. A week ago, a Canadian family of five flying to Paris were thrown off a flight before take-off after passengers complained that their coughing daughter could be infected. This was despite two doctors confirming the toddler was safe to travel and only had a common cold. The coronavirus is a humbling phenomenon. It is showing up the limitations of leaders and countries. China with all her resources has thrown up its hands and called on the World Health Organisation (WHO) to declare a global emergency. Many economic and military powers who constitute the G-8 are battling to protect their populations. Other countries not willing to admit their helplessness have taken some very questionable actions. Iran, one of those worst hit, has been accused of a massive cover-up with one parliamentarian claiming that the real death toll from the disease was far greater than what the authorities have been putting out. He added sarcastically that the government could conceal figures but “you cannot hide graveyards.” China, the epicentre of the problem, has also been accused of a cover-up. One report said the government was warned by scientists about the looming crisis in December 2019 but did nothing. The crisis has become political football in places. US President Donald Trump initially dismissed it as a hoax peddled by his enemies – the Democrats. That was until an American died of the disease and 66 cases were confirmed. In Nigeria, the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), blamed the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) for its management of the outbreak. All that government spokespersons could do in reply was issue rebuttals denouncing politicisation of ill health. But questions are being asked as to how the Italian who fell ill during his visit to Lafarge Cement Company in Ewekoro, Ogun State, managed to import the virus into the country despite assurances about thorough screening at the airports. However, for hilarity, nothing compares with the intervention of Economic and Financial Crimes (EFCC) chairman, Ibrahim Magu, who declared that corruption was the cause of the coronavirus. As his remarks ignited Twitter, his spokesmen rallied to deny that he made that statement. Unfortunately, the video which captured the intrepid anti-graft warrior uttering those very words quickly went viral. So far we’ve not been told that the video was doctored in a clear case of corruption fighting back! A new report indicates that the virus may become a seasonal occurrence like the flu which makes an appearance every year. Disturbingly, the race to produce a solution is lagging behind the speed at which the disease is claiming victims. The good news is that there’s just something about Africa that the coronavirus doesn’t like. Maybe it is our genes, diet or weather. Global health authorities who had feared for the continent because of the weakness of her health infrastructure, are now scratching their heads trying to understand why the spread has been quite restrained here. But rather than just celebrate this as God’s providential cover for us – especially in Nigeria – it is important that we utilise the opportunity to build capacity for dealing with similar outbreaks in the future. Many states don’t have facilities to deal with the numbers if suspected cases multiply. The inability of the screening point at the airport to detect the infected Italian is not much of a confidence-booster either. So far, no decent explanation has been given for the failure of the checks. The process needs to be made more robust. It is equally alarming that many who were on the Turkish Airlines flight with the patient cannot now be traced. Health and aviation authorities must now work with airlines to gather detailed, authentic information about those entering the country as anyone could turn out to be a walking weapon of mass destruction.