 One of Nigeria’s brewing companies, Nigerian Breweries Plc, has restated its commitment to its business partners across the country. This was evident at the 2020 Distributors Award ceremony held at the prestigious Eko Hotel and Suites, Lagos, to honour and reward outstanding trade partners who excelled in 2019. The company gave out over 245 awards in various categories which included National Volume Champion, Achievers Award – distributors that meet delivery volume target, Millionaires Award, Premium Category – Heineken and Tiger, Funding Performance Award, Malt Category A, Malt Category B, Stout Category, Mainstream Lager Category A, Mainstream Lager category B, National Premium Category and National Key Transporter Award, among others. Speaking at the award ceremony, the Managing Director of Nigerian Breweries Plc, Mr. Jordi Borrut Bel, stated that the celebration is a clear demonstration of the company’s appreciation for the huge support, patronage and loyalty received from the trade partners throughout the 2019 business year. “We are delighted to express our profound appreciation to you, our esteemed trade partners for your commitment to our diversified portfolio of brands over the past 12 months. We are aware that this has not been an easy journey but we are happy that you have chosen to partner with us to achieve great results. Indeed, you are all great partners that we are proud of and we hope to further bolster this rewarding relationship with unparalleled support to ensure we achieve even better results in the years ahead,” he said. Bel further noted that the company remains irrevocably committed to providing the much needed backing to help their businesses grow exponentially. Also speaking during the event, the Sales Director, Nigerian Breweries Plc, Mr. Uche Unigwe, gave big kudos to all the trade partners for being an integral part of the success recorded by the company both in sales and volume growth. “We are extremely thrilled to have all our trade partners alongside their families and friends here to celebrate another successful business year. This award ceremony is solely designed to reward outstanding performance, especially to those who continuously remained dedicated.  We cannot appreciate you well enough on how you have impacted our business amidst difficult economic challenges. For us, we believe this is more than enough reason to celebrate,” Unigwe said. The major highlight of the award ceremony, however, came when some select trade partners were handsomely rewarded for their exceptional sales performance for the 2019 business year with each of them winning in different categories. Kenneth Maduakor (Ken Maduakor Group Limited) once again emerged as the National Volume Champion having recorded the highest depletion of cases, trailed by J. Ogungbola and Sons Limited and Chrisemua and Sons Limited who emerged second and third respectively. Similarly, ANCAPS Global Investment Limited from Kaduna once again reaffirmed its leadership status in the logistics side of the business as it won the National Key Transporter of the Year award, receiving a Mitsubishi Truck and plaque from the company. Other distributors who went home with mouth-watering prizes at the event included: Thames Aghedo Enterprise Limited, Retail Supermarket Enterprise Limited, among others. Speaking shortly after receiving the award, the National Volume Champion, Mr. Ken Maduakor, expressed his delight for emerging the best distributor on five successive occasions, noting that he is committed to growing the business even bigger. “Special appreciation goes to Nigerian Breweries Plc for recognising the impact of my contribution to the overall success of the company. This honour means a lot to me and would further help strengthen my resolve to expand more. It is my prayer that Nigerian Breweries Plc would grow from strength to strength,” Maduakor said. Nigerian Breweries Plc, the pioneer and largest brewing company in Nigeria was incorporated in 1946 and recorded a landmark when the first bottle of Star Lager rolled off the bottling lines in its Lagos Brewery in June 1949.