Though many people still have reserved opinions about insurance, it is important to remind us that there are some policies that are made compulsory by law in Nigeria and which must be obeyed, whether we like it or not. These policies are either for individuals or businesses and are legally required to be taken up by the property/business owner and occupier. As an individual or business owner, do you know these insurance policies? Are you aware of the penalties to be paid by defaulters? What are these compulsory Insurance policies? I am sure you will under some things better as you read further. Why Compulsory Insurances? You may wonder why the government will make some insurance policies compulsory. A comprehensive study of all these compulsory policies shows that the purpose is to protect the third party whether in the case of death, bodily injury or property damage. Hence, the government’s decision to make some insurance policies compulsory. For instance, how do you handle a situation in which a vehicle hits you or damages your property and the next thing is that the driver starts pleading for mercy. This has been the usual practice and can be avoided with an ordinary third party motor insurance taken by the liable person. Some Compulsory Insurance Policies In Nigeria And Their Penalties As required by section (53) the Motor Vehicles (Third Party Insurance) Act 1945, the minimum cover required for vehicle owners to use the road is third party only. This insurance is to protect insured’s liability to third party, property damage, bodily injury to, or death of third party. N200,000 or one year imprisonment or both(second conviction) Sec 65 of Insurance Act 2003, public buildings include schools, hotels, hospitals, recreation ceters, offices and are to be insured by their owners or occupiers against the hazards of collapse, fire, earthquake, storm and flood. -Penalty: N100,000 or one year imprisonment or both. Section 64 of the Insurance Act. 2003 requires every owner or contractor of any building un der construction with more than two floors, must take an insurance policy to  cover liability against construction risks caused by the negligence of the contractor, owner, servants, agents, consultants which may result in death, bodily injury, or property damage to workers or the public. The insurance should also cover collapse of the building. According to Section 45 of the National Health Insurance Scheme Act. 1999, all licenced health care providers (Government/private healthcare practitioners, hospitals and maternity centers) must have a professional indemnity insurance to compensate patient and/or their relatives in case of accidents or death resulting from professional negligence. Section 9(3) of the Pension Reform Act 2004 makes it compulsory for every employer of labour, with five employees or more, to maintain a life insurance policy in fvour of the employee for a minimum of three times the annual total emolument of each employee. The purpose is to make provision for the dependants of the employees who die in service. Penalty: N250,000 or one year imprisonment or both. Let me conclude on this note that if you or your business fall under any of these categories stated above, look for an insurance service provider to take up the applicable policy.