 The Lagos State on Monday showed leadership by example as it held a virtual executive council meeting. It was in compliance with the directive on social distance and to curb the spread Coronavirus (COVID-19). According to a statement from the Commissioner for Information, Strategy, Mr. Gbenga Omotoso, the meeting which started by 11.05am was “the first-ever virtual meeting in the history of governance in the state.” Also on Sunday, the 36 state governors, under the auspices of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF), held the meeting in the form of a teleconference. NGF spokesman Abdulrazaque Bello-Barkindo who said said the meeting mode was necessitated by the COVID-19 threat was the first in the forum’s history. In a statement, Bello-Barkindo said: “Finally, members agreed to hold weekly teleconference meetings to receive regular updates from all states and maintain a coordinated response to the pandemic.” Explaining how members of the Lagos EXCO met yesterday, Omotoso said the meeting was held via Zoom – a free HD meeting application with video and screen sharing for up to 100 people -, with members hooking on from their homes and offices. He said: “Banters here and there, waving of hands and laughter; can you see me? Am I connected?; Yeah, I’m here;, that was the excitement among the cabinet members as they hooked up to the platform before the arrival of Mr. Governor as Chairman by 11.05am and the meeting commenced. “It was all in compliance with the directive against gatherings as part of the anti-Coronavirus battle-plan. “The meeting was slated for 10.45am but almost all EXCO members had hooked up to the system by 10.00am, awaiting the arrival of Mr. Governor to kick-start deliberations for the day. “Governor Sanwo-Olu came online at about 11.05am. On top of the agenda was the review of the management of COVID-19, especially the provision of additional isolation centres; the fumigation of the State against the spread of the virus, and the package for the less-privileged and daily income earners, the indigent. “The Commissioner for Agriculture, Mr. Gbolahan Lawal, briefed members on the distribution of the relief packages to local government and local council development areas. Members reviewed areas where teething problems occurred and proffered ideas to solve identified problems.  “There were comments by some members. As the debates and clarifications went on, the chairman announced that those eager to speak should spend a minute each. “While acknowledging the excitement of members for being part of the first virtual meeting of the Lagos State Executive Council, the Commissioner said the feat affirmed that governance in Lagos will proceed seamlessly despite the 14-day restriction announced by President Muhammadu Buhari.” “Lagos and Ogun states as well as the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja are on a 14-day lockdown. “Members were in high spirits. Some of us were in our offices; others attended the online meeting from the comfort of their homes. With this historic achievement, residents are assured that governance in Lagos State will continue, irrespective of the situation around us,” Omotoso asserted. According to the commissioner, the idea of the online meeting was mooted by Sanwo-Olu, who directed the Ministry of Science and Technology to facilitate it. “The Special Adviser on Innovation and Technology, Mr. Olatunbosun Alake, moderated the meeting, reading out the dos and don’ts of the session which Science and Technology Commissioner, Hakeem Fahm described as “historic”. “We should let our people know about this,” Waterfront Infrastructure Development Commissioner, Kabiru Ahmed said excitedly after the meeting,” Omotoso said.