Residents of Lokogoma, a sprawling residential estate, a suburb of the Federal Capital Territory, live each day praying not to be their last. SANNI ONOGU reports. This may not be the best of times for residents of Lokogoma District, a suburb of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. Residents of the sprawling neighbourhood, out of fear for their lives, are devising ingenious ways to stay alive. Rampaging criminal elements have conspired with harsh environmental conditions to make life unbearable for them. They are forced to live in perpetual fear of killer tricycle and motorcycle riders, yahoo boys and burglars. For the residents of Lokogoma District, it’s one day, one trouble. Incidentally, the authorities of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) have chosen the district to experiment with mass residential housing. And like similar residential estates within the territory, daily influx of people into the area has continued to overwhelm security. Day and night, criminal elements are having a field day killing, maiming, stealing and terrorising the hapless residents unchallenged. Some of the terrified residents have since relocated to safer locations while those left behind have been devising their own survival strategies, individually and collectively. This, however, has not deterred the dare devil criminals who have also been changing their attack tactics. Only recently, a top civil female servant in the Presidency, Ms. Dagan Laetitia Naankang, was brutally murdered in her bedroom by a group of criminals. Her body was set ablaze by her assailants who were later identified as yahoo boys living in the same compound with her. Naankang, was an Assistant Director, Administration at the State House before her gruesome murder. The deceased civil servant was murdered in the night of February 17 shortly after she returned home from work. Perhaps, the most dreaded part of the sprawling Lokogoma District is Kabusa Village. Criminal gangs of all shades have chosen Kabusa as their hideout. Recently, a woman (name withheld) was reported to have been raped, murdered and her corpse dismembered by yet-to-be apprehended assailants. Also, a field worker with Abuja Electricity Distribution Company was attacked and killed by a group of hoodlums while on official disconnection duty. Almost on a daily basis, passengers of tricycles and motorcycles are being mugged on their way to work early in the morning or on their way home in the evening. They have constantly been losing their money, telephone handsets and other personal valuables to some criminal elements who operate these tricycles and motorcycles. A lady who spoke with our correspondent in confidence because of fear, narrated her ordeal in the hands of one of the tricycle operators a few months ago. She recalled boarding the tricycle alongside other passengers around 7.15pm that fateful day. “Midway into the homeward journey, a male passenger who I met in the Keke told the rider to stop. The place was surrounded by a thick forest and it was dark. After alighting, he gave the rider N100 and pretended that he was waiting to collect his N50 change. Before I knew what was happening, he forcefully grabbed and collected my handbag and dashed into a nearby bush. I could not pursue him. I was dumbfounded. All the other passengers started shouting out of panic telling the rider of the Keke to move away from the area to prevent further attack on other passengers in the tricycle. That was how I lost my only phone, money and the other with my purse. I was in shock for several days. Thank God that it was a Friday as I don’t work on Saturdays. I wouldn’t have been able to report for duty the next day. It is still like a dream to me up till this day.” The lady was later to learn that a day after her own attack, a pregnant woman was similarly attacked in the same manner at the same spot. According to her narration, the pregnant woman was stabbed by assailant while struggling to retrieve her handbag. The upsurge in violent and criminal activities in the area has consequently heightened tension and put residents on tenterhooks. Consequently, resident associations have commenced massive sensitisation campaign in the area. Pamphlets and leaflets conveying personal security tips and measures to stave off attacks are being circulated among residents. Those living in fenced apartments are being encouraged to raise their fence walls with extra blocks. They are also being advised to increase electric or razor security wires around their fence walls. The measures are meant to discourage criminals who sometimes scale fence walls to gain access to premises at night. A copy of one of such notices circulated among residents by managers of the estate facility was obtained by our correspondent. The message reads: “Further to our meeting with all the residents, we write to remind you on the need to increase the perimeter fence behind your property or re-erect a new and higher one with spiral wire within your property to avoid any form of theft or bugling. Also, we advise you to increase the lighting of your vicinity at night to reduce loitering of any unwanted person, if any. “Do not hesitate to escalate any suspicious movement noticed by blowing of whistle and call the security department immediately. Your safety and well-being are our goal.” On their part, the residents have learnt not to keep late nights to avoid being attacked. In some cases, the rule in force prescribes lock outs for residents arriving home late. Residents have also established coded methods of knocking at gates and doors known only to the occupants in the respective compounds. As part of the safety measures, visitors to the estates are thoroughly screened and identified by their hosts before they are given access. The resident associations have also deployed technology as one of the key security measures. One of the residents, who spoke with our correspondent, said there is an app device being used to identify individual residents of the estate. According to him, the app comes with a code containing information supplied to the association by every resident. The security code of every resident is scanned and analysed with hand scanners operated by private security personnel stationed at the main gate. The information on residents is then displayed on a large screen mounted within the security gate house. And while the residents are taking measures to safeguard the security of their lives and property, they have nonetheless continued to plead with the authorities to come to their rescue. Among others, they are calling on the authorities of the FCT to provide the estate with a police post and to deploy police patrol teams in the area.