Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) on Sunday urged airlines to assist in tracking passengers who may have come in contact with the Coronavirus index patient who flew into Nigeria from Milan through Turkish Airlines. In a statement released, the Director General, Captain Musa Nuhu said the authority was already working in line with guidelines rolled out by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) Collaborative Arrangement for the Prevention and Management of Public Health Events in Civil Aviation (CAPSCA), Nuhu said the NCAA was also working with the Federal Ministry of health and other stakeholders in the aviation sector to ensure all travelers coming into Nigeria are adequately screened. Nuhu said all contingency plans for public health events in Aviation have been activated including airport-specific Public Health Emergency Contingency Plans (PHECPs). NCAA has ensured that all measures adopted at Nigerian airports are in accordance to ICAO Standards and Recommended Practices (SARPs) and WHO International Health Regulations (IHR 2005). He said, “Airlines and other airport users are advised to heed the guidance of Port Health Services (a division of the Federal Ministry of Health and Competent Public Health Authority at Point of Entry) on the use of screening forms, assessment of suspect or ill travellers and any other measures they may adopt. Airlines, Airport operators, Security agencies and other aviation industry stakeholders are advised to take appropriate precaution to protect their staff. “We advise the travelling public to remain calm but alert and take necessary precaution in protecting themselves while traveling, including alerting crew members and airport facilitation staff to travellers that may look ill or showing signs and symptoms of the disease. Travellers returning from countries experiencing community transmission of the COVID-19 should present themselves to Port Health Services on arrival at the Point of Entry – International Airport. Travellers who develop signs and symptoms of the disease after returning from a trip abroad are to seek immediate medical attention at the nearest Health facility or call the NCDC on 0800-970000-10. “NCAA is committed to the safety of travellers and Nigeria’s National Health Security and will continue to do all that is necessary to ensure both.”