Access Bank Plc plans to aggressively grow its customer base over the next two years with a target to increase customer accounts from 41 million to 100 million by 2022. The bank at the weekend launched the 12th season of its DiamondXtra promo with a promise to splash more than N1 billion on more than 5,074 customers participating in the savings promotional campaign. The bank stated that the objectives of DiamondXtra remain encouragement of savings culture and reward of loyal customers. Speaking during the launch of the 12th season of DiamondXtra at the weekend in Lagos, Executive Director, Retail Banking, Access Bank Plc, Mr. Victor Etuokwu, said the bank has introduced additional incentives and initiatives that will make the new season a more promising one for customers. According to him, the new season will be exciting for the bank’s customers especially the ones who have DiamondXtra savings account. He said the bank’s savings and retail banking franchise aim at facilitating financial inclusion and access to finance by ensuring that every Nigerian has access to required financial products and services. He said every household in Nigeria should aspire to have a DiamondXtra account because of the exciting benefits of the account. “This new season we will have over 63 winners for rent for a year category, three people winning salary for life and we will introduce a free health insurance scheme that will cover the customer, spouse or husband and three children. We will have the same number of people winning N1 million as regards cash prizes like we had today. We also have a lot of loyalty schemes, we will introduce nine women winners who will be winning N300,000 each and we will be doing draws every month for the rest of this year and one of them will win a shopping allowance of N100,000. This year, we are introducing senior citizens, about nine of them will be winning N500,000 each and one of them will get a N100,000 a month,” Etuokwu said. Head, Products Insights and Capabilities, Access Bank Plc, Robert Giles, said since the inception of DiamondXtra, customers have won prizes worth more than N5.7 billion. He assured that Access Bank remains committed to impacting the lives of Nigerians through exciting products and services. “We said we will stick to this initiative and this season we have made it bigger and better for Nigerians to participate and we are excited about it because we are driving financial inclusion as well as savings in every household. This year, we will be crossing the N6 billion of prize funds which will be distributed to our customers and we have tripled the number of people who would win in DiamondXtra Season 12 and we are happy because we are still going to impact the lives of Nigerians in our quarterly and monthly draws,” Giles said. Head, Consumer Banking, Access Bank Plc, Adaeze Umeh, explained that the bank will be rewarding 5,074 customers with about N1 billion and about 21 customers with a health insurance package amounting up to N1.6 million. According to her, new or existing customers can either open a DiamondXtra account in any one of the bank’s branches across the country or fund their accounts with a minimum of N5,000 which then qualifies them for the draw. DiamondXtra is an interest-yielding hybrid account, which allows deposit of both cash and third party cheques. As hybrid, DiamondXtra combines features of both savings and current accounts. The DiamondXtra reward scheme was launched in 2008 and has been running till date