 GOVERNORS of the All Progressives Congress (APC) have been consulting President Muhammadu Buhari on his position regarding the controversial National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting of the party called for Tuesday. The state helmsmen are seeking to know the status of the meeting which many of them believe has been called illegally. They are also seeking to know from the President whether he is disposed to the meeting. The meeting, called by Deputy National Secretary Victor Giadom, does not enjoy the backing of National Chairman Adams Oshiomhole and other key members of the National Working Committee (NWC). Besides, it was learnt that the governors were worried about different injunctions or rulings obtained from different courts in Abuja, Kano and Lagos on the fate of the NEC meeting. It was learnt that 10 out of 19 APC governors are behind National Chairman Oshiomhole in the power struggle within the ruling party. Oshiomhole yesterday queried Deputy National Secretary Giadom for “illegally summoning” NEC session for Tuesday. Investigation by our correspondent revealed that as key stakeholders in the party, most of the governors were in the dark over the President’s disposition to the NEC meeting. While some of the governors met with the President for clarification, a few others were busy coordinating how the controversial NEC meeting will hold. Some others are on the sideline to read the body language of the President before deciding whether to attend or boycott the NEC meeting. A top source, who spoke in confidence with our correspondent, said: “Most of the governors are confused; they are looking to the President for direction in the light of conflicting rulings by FCT High Courts and Federal High Courts. ”Besides the legal factor, there are issues on the competence of the deputy national secretary to convene NEC meeting in violation of the APC Constitution. ”The conflicting roles of the Police have also created more confusion. Last Friday, Inspector-General of Police Mohammed Adamu locked up the National Secretariat to prevent pro and anti-Oshiomhole elements from gaining access. He said he was awaiting the decision of the Court of Appeal. ”The police, however, since Monday have allowed those anti-Oshiomhole, led by Giadom, to move into the secretariat and hold meetings. Other members of the NWC, who are backing Oshiomhole, have been barred from the party secretariat. ”Some of the governors do not understand why the police changed its position and on whose authority they acted. ”This explains why some of these governors have consulted with the President because they do not want to act in a manner that will undermine him as the leader of APC. ”They also sought to know where the President stands on the situation.” Although the President warmly received some of the governors, they kept what transpired under wraps. A governor, who spoke with our reporter, said: “I only went to compare notes with the President who is the leader of APC. We are waiting for his directive. ”Once we hear from him, we will know what to do. Going by the spirit and letters of the APC constitution, the procedures for summoning NEC meeting have not been followed.” A party leader said: “The picture is getting clearer, 10 of 19 governors of APC are behind Oshiomhole as at today (Thursday). More NEC members are also with the APC chairman. ”Those in the other camp are no doubt desperate, but they cannot go far.” Oshiomhole, in his query, gave Giadom has 24 hours to explain why disciplinary action should not be taken against him by the NWC. ”The attention of the National Working Committee(NWC) of our great party has been drawn to certain actions taken by you that contravene Article 21 of the constitution of our great party. ”You are by this letter required to explain within twenty-four hours: ”Why you wrote a letter informing the President and inviting him to an illegal NEC meeting  contrary  to the provisions of the APC Constitution. Article 25 B(i) and (ii) which states: ”The National Executive Committee shall meet every quarter and or at any time decided by the National Chairman or at the request made in writing by at least two-third of the members of the National Executive Committee provided that not less than fourteen (14) days’ notice is given for the meeting to be summoned. Without prejudice to Article 25(B)(i) of this Constitution the National Working Committee may summon an emergency National Executive Committee meeting at any time, provided that at least seven (7) days’ notice of the meeting shall be given to all those entitled to attend.” ”Why you issued a public notice to the same effect thereby exposing the party to public ridicule. “Furthermore, you fully know that neither the National Chairman nor the resolution of two-thirds of members of National Executive Committee (NEC) has directed nor made any request to summon a National Executive Committee (NEC) Meeting of our great party. “Accordingly, the National Working Committee (NWC) has set up an investigation Committee where you shall appear before the Committee to explain why Disciplinary action should not be taken against you for gross misconduct and for specifically breaching Article 21(A) I, ii and iv of the APC Constitution. “While looking forward to a timely response, please accept assurances of my warm regards.”