 RESIDENTS of six villages attacked at the weekend by suspected Boko Haram terrorists on Monday recounted their ordeal and cried out to President Muhammadu Buhari to save them. The villagers said they counted between 50 and 51 bodies after the mayhem. Some of the bodies, according to the residents, were burnt by the insurgents, who accused the villagers of providing  security agents with information Four houses and six vehicles were  also  destroyed in the attack that affected Kerawa, Rago, Marina, Zariyawa, Hashimawa, and Unguwar Barau  in  Igabi Local Government Area. Governor Nasir El-Rufai and  security chiefs visited the communities on Monday.  El-Rufai did not hide his anger over the killings. He declared that it was “our duty” to send the terrorists to “their maker.” He apologised to them for his administraion’s inability to protect them. A resident of one of the villages, who spoke for them, described the attack  as “unprecedented and horrific.” He said: “We have over 50 dead right now.   We are yet to bury them. It will take hours to bury them. “We are appealing to the Federal Government to please, pay attention to the situation in Igabi LGA, especially Igabi West. President Buhari should come to our rescue. Please deploy security agents that can do this work, those earlier stationed here never stayed. “We  know we will  all   die one day and return  to Almighty Allah.  Even the bandits were saying so. Therefore, the government should fear Allah. We are in a terrible situation. “If we start the funeral now, we will not finish it till midnight.  These killers are not just bandits, they are Boko Haram, they did not steal anything; they just killed and burnt our belongings.” Another villager said the bandits  had accused them of  reporting their activities  to security forces who, recently bombarded their  camps in  neighboring Birnin-Gwari LGA. He said: “If you remember, a few weeks ago, policemen raided the bandits’ camp and killed  many of them. Soldiers and Air Force men also attacked the bandits a few days ago and   killed many of them. “So, these bandits  believe we are the ones giving the security operatives information about their movement and camps. “Some of us  who escaped from the attackers said the bandits were saying it in Hausa language that, the villagers were the  ones reporting them to the security agents. “We have actually been suffering in the hands of the bandits for a long time. They invade our  villages and kidnap people unchallenged. That is why we became the first suspects of  the bandits.” The Hausa Service of the Voice of America(VOA) quoted another resident as saying that while the attack was on, a plane believed to be  on reconnaissance duty  flew past as if it was “going   to Makkah.” He said: “What happened was unprecedented. We have never seen such kind of horror in our lives. These killers are Boko Haram. They stormed our village killing indiscriminately, they spared nobody, the young, the old, even Almajiris were not spared. “They continued to shoot people, setting fire on the dead and property. It was extremely horrific.  They went from room to room killing; a man and his children were killed, even new babies. During his visit to Karewa and four other villages affected by the mayhem,Governor El-Rufai apologised for his administration’s inability to protect the people. He  said save for the intervention  of  security agents, the villages would have been completely destroyed. The governor, who ruled out amnesty for  the bandits, said: “If not for the security agencies prompt intervention, they would have wiped out the villages. “I also came to apologise for  our failure to protect you fully, we are doing our best to minimise such incidents, you should continue to forgive us. “But we are doing the best we can and we are hoping that this banditry issue will be addressed because security personnel are on ground to manage the situation. “In Kaduna we have a vast land, if the security agents close one area,  they attack another area. “But it is our duty to wipe them out and until we send them to their maker, the security agencies are taking the war to the forest and we are  eliminating them gradualy. “The security agencies are doing the best they can, but they find it difficult to get to remote areas in good time due to poor access roads. The natives on the other hand also find it difficult to get to the security personnel due to poor GSM network. “But I am grateful to the Air force, Army, Police and the DSS  for being always prompt otherwise it would have been worse.” He urged the people to continue to be patient, vigilant and  support the government in its efforts to win the war against the bandits. El-Rufai prayed for those who died and directed the State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) to provide relief materials for the victims. The governor was accompanied on the visit by the GOC, 1st Division,   Director the DSS  and Chairmen of  Igabi and Giwa LGAs. The Senator representing Kaduna Central, Mallam Uba Sani  described the Sunday  killings as merciless . Sani, in a statement  said, “cold blooded murder of about 51 persons in Kaduna villages has further deepened the pain of Nigerians and reinforced the imperative and urgency of reinvigorating the security architecture in the country.” *Bandits kill village head in Zamfara The Zamfara  Police Command  has confirmed the killing of Mallam Gambo Kujemi, the village Head of Kujemi in Dansadau District of Maru  LGA by bandits. It said in a  statement by its spokesman,   Mohammed Shehu,  that the bandits also killed another person. Shehu said the village head,   who was on a visit to Karauchi   was killed when the bandits attacked the village. He explained that the bandits stormed the village in large numbers on motorcycles at about 8.40pm on Sunday and shot sporadically. 