Registrar of Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education Oto Ijanikin, Muhideen Shehu, has described the allegation of financial impropriety leveled against him and the Bursar Adeyanju Adebisi by workers in the institution as ‘tissues of lies’. He said the unions did not conduct themselves in a gentlemanly manner interested in dialogue as a means of conflict resolution. Speaking with The Nation on phone Tuesday, Shehu said the management/union meeting which held yesterday went on smoothly until the unions started making certain baseless allegations which he had to correct. He said the unions were just being emotional, adding that their motive is to reverse the judgment of the immediate past Governing Council of some of their members. He said: “The (immediate past Governing) Council found some of them guilty of various infractions and demoted them.  After the Council wrapped up its term, they took their agitation to the SA (special adviser on education) who told them that he would not interfere in the matter and that they should take it to a new Council once it is inaugurated. “Tuesday’s meeting went on smoothly. All the questions they raised were adequately given due attention until they started making certain misinformation against my person and that of the Bursar. I cannot keep quiet against those allegations because I am the book-keeper of the college.  I had the opportunity to right the wrongs. “All of a sudden, they started shouting. One of them ordered that both of us should leave college immediately, but I stood my ground.  There was a commotion and the Provost had to adjourn the meeting for peace to reign. “They started chanting war songs. They went out and deflated my tires and that of the Bursar. When I realized this matter was getting messier, I reported at the Ijanikin Police station and they accompanied me back to the college to pick my things, only for me to realize that the unions had locked my office and that of the Bursar. “As I’m talking to you, some of my things are still in the office. Shehu said a similar scenario was first enacted during the school’s matriculation on Thursday when the unions challenged him on the allegation that he did not recognize them during the proceeding. Shehu absolved himself of financial impropriety, challenging the unions to put the allegations leveled against him in black and white if they are convinced they have proof. As the college bookkeeper, Shehu said he did not have any right to authorize cash or cheque except the Provost, adding that he is only a co-signee. He said he had already forwarded his position via a letter to the Lagos State government on the matter.