 Two Chadian terrorists fighting for the Boko Haram Islamic Sect, fighters Abu Abor (61) and Abubakar Hassan (51) have surrendered to troops of Army Super Camp 11 Gamboru in Ngala LGA of Borno State after sneaking out of Bagadaza in the Lake Chad. The two suspects confessed that they were in the Abubakar Shekau’s faction and had to escape following artillery bombardments and ground assaults by troops. The Nigerian Army Operations Media Coordinator, Colonel Aminu Iliyasu, noted in a statement made available to Defence Correspondents that “the surrendering of the two Boko Haram terrorists of Chadian nationality have further given credence to the presence of foreign mercenaries among the insurgents”. He said that the troops were committed to wiping out terrorism and banditry across the country. According to the statement, “in pursuance of their unwavering resolve and commitment to wiping out terrorism, banditry, kidnapping, armed robbery, cattle rustling and other sundry crimes across the nation, the gallant troops of the Nigerian Army continue to decimate terrorists and other criminal elements across the various theatres of operations nationwide. “For instance, on 25 February 2020, troops of 144 Battalion deployed in Madagali LGA of Adamawa State prevailed against and indeed decimates some Boko Haram criminals who attempted to infiltrate a defensive location occupied by the troops. “In the aftermath of the encounter, the troops neutralized three of the marauding criminals while many others are believed to have escaped with varying degrees of gunshot wounds. “Also, in continuation of their coordinated clearance operations, troops of Strong Response Area Ngoshe in Gwoza LGA of Borno State on 25 February 2020 effectively cleared Gava – Chinene Road and the surrounding Villages where they made contact with a pocket of Boko Haram criminals. “However, the cowardly insurgents fled in disarray abandoning a woman and her daughter who were hitherto held captives by them. Preliminary investigation reveals that the rescued captives have been in the Boko Haram captivity for 2 years. Rescued captives were handed over to Internally Displaced Persons’ Camp officials for further management”. In another development, “on 27 February 2020, while acting on credible information from the locals, troops of 271 Tank Battalion deployed at Kopa Village in Madagali LGA of Adamawa State mobilized to Maikadiri Village where it was reported that some Boko Haram criminals had abducted 3 women. The troops pursued the fleeing insurgents and established contact thus forcing them to abandon their victims and escape in disarray. Thereafter, the three victims were successfully rescued unhurt and reunited with their families. “Similarly, on same 27 February 2020, the combined troops of 19 Brigade, 127 Battalion, 130 Battalion, 707 Special Forces Battalion, 101 Battalion, Army Headquarters Strike Group, 375 Artillery Regiment and elements of Headquarters Sector 3 Explosive Ordnance Disposal Team under Operation AYISO TAMONUMA conducted a massive clearance operation to Baga and Doron Baga in Kukawa LGA of Borno State. “During the operation, troops engaged some plundering Boko Haram criminals who evidently could not match the troops’ superior fire power but rather fled in disarray with possible gunshot wounds. Nevertheless, troops recovered 111 rounds of 7.62mm NATO ammunition at the location. “Furthermore, an Improvised Explosive Device planted by the criminals along Mile 4 – Baga – Doron Baga Road was discovered and safely detonated by their Explosive Ordnance Disposal Team while troops also cleared Baga Town, Fish Dam and Doron Baga general area of any Boko Haram/Islamic State’s West Africa Province criminals’ presence. “Additionally, in continuation of the clearance operation, same troops rescued a septuagenarian and a mentally ill woman along their axis of advance. Troops also recovered one burnt G3 Rifle, 4 rounds of 7.62mm NATO ammunition, one cutlass, some pairs of military and Boko Haram criminals’ uniforms, one pair of desert boot, and 2 pairs of black military boots. Other items recovered include: one mobile phone, one bandolier, one water bladder, 2 damaged camp beds, 269 rounds of 7.62mm NATO ammunition, 2 Rocket Propelled Gun bombs, one 122mm Unexploded Ordnance, 3 Pressure Plates (vehicle borne Improvised Explosive Device) and a Boko Haram criminals’ flag. “Additionally, following the successful repelling of a Boko Haram attack on troops of 19 Brigade under Operation AYISO TAMONUMA in Baga Town on 1 March 2020 where the criminal insurgents were decisively dealt with by the courageous troops. “In the early hours of 2 March 2020, the daring troops conducted exploitation along the withdrawal route of the criminals and recovered three Boko Haram criminals’ dead bodies, two AK 47 Rifles, two AK 47 Rifle magazines loaded with 10 rounds of 7.62mm Special ammunition, 310 rounds of 7.62mm (PKT) ammunition, 173 rounds of 7.62mm (linked) NATO, two tails of exploded 60mm Mortar bombs, one Techno phone and 2 camel bags. Troops also observed blood stains, scattered human brains as well as signs that indicated dragging of several killed Boko Haram criminals’ bodies. “Regrettably, two soldiers were wounded in action during the encounter. The wounded soldiers were evacuated to a military medical facility and are positively responding to treatment.”