A charity organisation, the Mona Audu Foundation (MAF), has concluded plans to commence the distribution of N50 billion worth of relief materials across Nigeria, starting from April 3. Disclosing this in a statement in Abuja on Friday, the Convener of the Foundation, Princess Zahrah Mustapha Audu, said the effort is aimed at helping Nigerians live through the harsh conditions accompanying the outbreak of the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) Pandemic. According to the statement, the items for distribution would be packed up in bundles termed ‘care packs’ and would be available for all individuals and families in the 36 states and Abuja, starting with Lagos, Abuja and Kogi State. Among items for distribution would be masks and hand sanitisers, bags of rice and beans, cartons of Indomie Noodles, bags of tomatoes, cartons of Maggi, bags of pepper gallons of vegetable oil and other food items. “As a form of relief for Nigerians all over the country, The Mona Foundation will be putting together care packs which will consist of food and essential supplies to help Nigerians weather the storm of the looming global economic crisis due to the COVID-19 Pandemic. “So many individuals are confused about how to help while staying safe, we will provide an opportunity for everyone who would like to contribute their quota towards helping our nation through these trying times. “Distribution of relief materials will commence on the 3rd of April 2020, we will be working with existing local courier services and vendors to get supplies to Nigerians in need at their various locations. “We also welcome likeminded charities to come and join us on this. We will be getting all required clearances to allow our team free movement within each state. “The foundation is looking at raising N50 billion for the project that will generously affect the 36 States of the Federation, including the FCT. It will start with the three states of Abuja, Lagos and Kogi”, the statement said. The Mona Audu Foundation, which was founded by Prince Mustapha Audu and his wife, Zahrah Mustapha Audu, in 2016, had been involved in providing jobs, healthcare, education and other charity services to people across Nigeria, especially in Kogi State.