The eviction of Janet, Anna James, and Amarachi from the ‘Access The Stars’ Bootcamp left a bitter taste in the mouth of thousands of viewers. The three contestants left the show after an intense competition. Having scaled through the regional auditions, all 13 successful contestants were finally ushered into the Bootcamp in Lagos. The 13 finalists, hailing from various cities across Nigeria, were welcomed by hosts Darey Art Alade and Olive Emodi. Determined to get off the mark, the contestants toured the Bootcamp, before settling in for an all-inclusive orientation which included fun activities such as board games, PS4 contests, and an exclusive welcome party. With the Bootcamp in full swing, all 13 finalists received intense training and masterclasses from seasoned professionals including vocal coach Miss Ige and Access The Stars music director, Ben Ogbeiwi, popularly known as Uncle Ben. The training ran across voice and breath control techniques, as well as an exercise session and dance classes. Coaches also prepared the contestants for their crucial performances at the Judges Stage Show. Themed “Trading Places,” male contestants at the stage show performed hits by female stars, while their female counterparts were put to task by hit records from male artists. An outstanding performance was turned in by Promyze, who received a standing ovation from Seyi Shay following an impressive rendition of the singer’s hit, ‘Right now’. Ada Gold was showered with praises for her masterful delivery of Labyrinth’s ‘Jealous’. Gabriel Songz’s powerful cover of Adele’s ‘When we were young’ was redemptive, while Anderson blew the audience and judges away with a stellar performance which was deemed “too perfect.” Sadly, celebrity judges Seyi Shay, Kaffy, and Tee-Y Mix, each nominated two contestants based on their performance scores. This move left a bad taste in the mouths of Janet, Anna James, and Amarachi, who fell short of scores and ended their journey in the talent reality TV show.