 A LEADING player in the real  estate, Brains and Hammers Limited, has launched a private residential estate in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Built on a 107-hectare at the Life Camp Extension area, the estate comprises 3400 units. Known as the Brains and Hammers City, it is a spectacle to residents of Abuja who named it ‘A City Out of No Where.’ Previously, the major landmark in that neighbourhood was Stella Maris College, but with the completion of 27 hectares, featuring 1,300 units with 700 delivered, the city has become the reference point. The estate opening coincided with the 10th anniversary of Brains and Hammers. The company’s  Chairman, Mr. Adebola Sheidu, said: “Residents are guaranteed round-the-clock security, electricity, help desk, CCTV monitoring, dedicated transformers, 7.2-kilometre access road,   independent water supply and water treatment facilities, recreational area, filling station, school and theme parks and shopping centres. ‘’We also opened up the district by constructing a dual carriage way of seven kilometres with solar street lights and three roundabouts leading to the estate.” He added:  “We have a dedicated unit for landscaping. The service charge is very minimal.We provided a gated community where your children can go out of their house, play with their neighbours, ride bicycles and engage in fun games. There is a club house, swimming pool and tennis court. The 24-hour service line is dedicated to reach facility managers with complaints on routine electrical, carpentry and plumbing services. House owners at the different Brains and Hammers estates enjoy the benefit of skilled resident artisans who respond quickly to fix technical problems.” Brains and Hammers portfolio consists of over 5000 residential homes across Nigeria and ongoing work in over 10,000. Its residential projects are in Lagos and Abuja. Those in Abuja include Life Camp, Galadima, Gwarimpa, Apo 1, Apo 11, Apo 111, Apo IV, and Apo V. In Lagos, they are in Ijora and  the Lekki corridor. Development of the 3400-unit Brains and Hammers City is the firm’s major project to date. It is expected to cater to mid and high level residents at affordable prices. The houses include; Mulberry (one-bedroom), Coventry (two-bedroom), Tudor (three-bedroom), Windsor (four-bedroom terrace), Ascot (four-bedroom semi-detached with boys quarter), Fourzton 93-bedroom), Broughton (two-bedroom), Kensignton (six-bedroom terrace) and Dorchester (six-bedroom detached). Sheidu said: “People who invest in our projects enjoy a massive return-on-investment of over 80 per cent within 18 months. There is hardly any business you can do that will guarantee that kind of return-on-investment. Now, a lot of people try to key into our projects early.” Shiedu continued: “We catch them fresh from schools; so we can indoctrinate them with our own ideology. I will rather work with them than to hire consultants. We have 10 young persons who have supervised over 200 buildings from scratch to finish. At every point, we have between three and five staff members in professional building schools around the world. We also pay serious attention to in-house training.”