 As part of measures to curtail the spread of the coronavirus disease (COVID 19), the Kaduna State Government has announced the prohibition of mosque and church gatherings above 50 persons. This was even as the government directed immediate closure of all state-owned schools from nursery to tertiary. A statement issued by the Special Adviser to Governor Nasir Ahmed El-Rufa’i on Media and Communication, Mr. Muyiwa Adekeye, said the government took a cue to stop Juma’at service from the decision of the government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the cradle of Islam, not to hold such prayers except in the two holy mosques in Makkah and Madina. The statement, which also asked that church gatherings should be avoided, said pastors and congregants should learn from the experience of many Christian-majority countries like Italy, France and Germany to suspend church services. The statement said: “As part of measures to protect residents from and slow down the spread of the coronavirus disease, the Kaduna State Government is restricting religious services and all large gatherings. “While no case of Covid-19 has been reported in the state so far, the government has a duty to work with all our leaders and residents of our state to jointly ensure that everything is done to reduce the chance of the disease taking root and spreading in the state. ”Imams are advised not to hold Juma’at services today (yesterday). “In this regard, the government is taking a cue from the decision of the government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the cradle of Islam, not to hold such prayers in the two Holy Mosques in Makkah and Madina. “In many Muslim-majority countries like Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and the UAE, members of the public are encouraged to pray at home, and not congregate as is the practice in normal times. “The Kaduna State government hereby directs that all daily congregational prayers should be suspended until the coronavirus situation is clearly contained. “We should learn from the experience of many Christian-majority countries like Italy, France and Germany to suspend church services. Pastors as well as congregants are expected to abide by public health advice and avoid gatherings in churches. “Other means of worship and fellowship should be adopted in much smaller numbers of not more than 10 persons, for now. “Public health expert advice is that large gatherings of more than 10 persons are not advisable at this point, and any assembly of more than 50 persons is therefore prohibited in Kaduna State until further notice. “As part of the required containment measures, the state government has already announced the closure of all schools – all nursery and primary schools, secondary schools and all tertiary institutions effective Monday, 23rd March, 2020. “Accordingly, the state government has directed the immediately closure of the campuses of our KASU, Nuhu Bamalli Polytechnic, College of Education and of Nursing and Midwifery for 30 days in the first instance. “These measures to contain the spread of Coronavirus also known as Covid-19 mean that social gatherings in parties, bars, restaurants, night clubs, public parks and such places are suspended until further notice. “In light of the decision to close all of our schools for 30 days in the first instance, it is logical to discourage other large, high-risk gatherings. “Government urges all citizens, including religious and community leaders, to do their duty in supporting these measures which will help in significantly protecting the larger society from the negative impacts of Covid-19.”