Precious Igbonwelundu  A 16-year-old school pupil, Timilehin Taiwo has been arrested by the police in Lagos for allegedly stabbing her father’s friend to death. But Taiwo told detectives she acted in self-defense as the suspect identified as Babatunde Ishola, 49, attempted to rape her while she was helping him fetch water. It was gathered that the incident occurred on Saturday afternoon at Ogundele Street, Aboru, in Oke Odo area of the state. The deceased, it was gathered, worked as a guard at a school in the community and lived alone in his residence.
Being a lone occupant of her house, Taiwo, it was gathered, usually helped the man with house chores and to fetch water since he was her father’s friend. It was learnt that the deceased invited the teenager that afternoon to help him get water and while at it, he tried to rape her.  According to Taiwo, it was in that process she grabbed a knife from the room, stabbed him and fled to her house. Police spokesman Bala Elkana said information was received around 3pm that the deceased was stabbed by Taiwo, a resident of 10, Olalemide Street, Aboru and that homicide detectives from Oke Odo Division were deployed to the scene. “The corpse of the man was found lying in his pool of blood. The corpse was evacuated to hospital for post mortem examination. The suspect was arrested and the knife she used in stabbing the deceased person was recovered. “In her statement, the suspect said the deceased’s man invited her to his house to assist him in fetching water, as he lives in the house alone. That she has always been helping him with the house chores. “That while she was helping out with the water, on Saturday, he attempted to rape her. That she picked a knife from the room and stabbed him. “The suspect was taken to hospital for medical and forensic examination. The Commissioner of Police Hakeem Odumosu has ordered the immediate transfer of the case to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID) Yaba for discreet investigation,” he said friend to escape ‘rape’ attempt