 Any new visitor to the permanent site of the Olusegun Agagu University of Science and Technology (OAUSTECH) Okitipupa, Ondo State, will be impressed by its beautiful entrance gate and the newly constructed dual carriage way leading into the university. The first thing the visitor notices as he drives in are three new structures – the Senate building, library complex and auditorium. The institution formally known as the Ondo State University of Science and Technology (OSUSTECH) was established in 2008 but academic activities began in January 2011. It was meant to be a technology-based institution that provides manpower training to address critical areas of industrial and technological development in the country. However, students and host communities regard the institution as a university of abandoned projects. Many projects in the institutions that were started in 2008 are yet to be completed. The projects are two hostel buildings being financed by the Ondo State Oil Producing Development Commission (OSOPADEC) and the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Faculty of Science building, Senior Staff quarters, Principal staff quarters among others. The non-completion of the hostels by the NDDC and OSOPADEC has led to accommodation problems for the students who are forced to pay high rent in the communities. Besides the problem of accommodation, there is low enrolment of students in the institution, dearth of lecturers and non-academic staff and the businesses set up by the institution to boost Internally generated revenue have collapsed. Some students who spoke on anonymity blamed the low enrolment on high tuition fees, lack of practical teaching and lack of electricity in the community.  Vice Chancellor of the institution, Prof. Sunday Roberts Ogunduyile, in a chat with newsmen said he has achieved so much within the three years he has spent – including organising its maiden convocation this year despite graduating five sets since the 2014/2015 academic session. Ogunduyile, who said the non-completion of the hostels had caused serious accommodation problems for students, said he had appealed to the NDDC and OSOPADEC to complete the hostels but was told funds were not available yet. The VC said in three years, he had increased students’ enrolment from 2,134 to 4,393, completed  three new buildings, relocated to permanent site of the institution and constructed  drive way by Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu. He said: “This university used to be a bush. The road was not tarred but today we have three new buildings and well-constructed drive way. For a long time TETFund did not enlist this university but we have started benefiting from its intervention. “As part of our direct contribution to the growth and development of the university, principal officers and members of staff have started donating some amount of money to be deducted from their monthly salaries towards development of the institution.” He, however, blamed the low number of workers, 449, on poor funding. Speaking on the low enrolment and high charges, Ogunduyile said the university was a specialised one and could not take huge number of students. He said the fees were such because “university education is not cheap.” He however said the institution had gotten 80 percent of its targeted students population. Speaking on maiden convocation of the institution coming up March 21, Ogunduyile said 573 students would graduate with various degrees. He said 20 of them made First Class; 205 Second Class Upper; 274, Second Class Lower; and 84 got Third Class.  He said most of the graduands would be from the Faculty of Science being the pioneer faculty in the institution. 