 The greatest challenge now is survival. How will Nigeria overcome the scourge of Coronavirus that is threatening its health, peace and existence? When will scientists come up with universally acclaimed cure? When will the vaccines be ready? When will the ‘Corona war’ end? News across the globe are frightening. Humanity is united by a curious pestilence. The pandemic has locked down prosperous countries which could boast of well developed health sector. World economy is crumbling. The social order is being dislocated. The harvest of corps in Italy, Spain and United States are confounding. Reports said the cradle of the dreadful disease, China, is trying to liberate itself. There is no end in sight to the awful picture worldwide. Rich, powerful and influential citizens who often seek medical attention abroad are stuck at home. The emergency is a leveller. In Europe, America, Asia and Africa, the virus is no respecter of persons-royals, ministers of government, business mogul. Out of frustration, Nigerians are indulging in a blame game. Why did the Federal Government not make haste to close the borders to prevent the importation of the disease from the Western world? Is this the right time for the government to start pumping emergency money into the health sector that has become comatose for decades? Why is President Muhammadu Buhari not addressing the bewildered nation? Is it not evident now that the health sector in many states is a ghost, or a death trap? But, there is also the palpable shortage of patriotism among suspected carriers. Why did Nigerians who boarded the two aircrafts refuse to show up, thereby making contact tracing a difficult task? Why are they not emulating the daughter of the president, who decided to voluntarily self-isolate after returning from United Kingdom? How can 4,370 contacts be traced? Judging by the experience of devastated western countries, Nigeria definitely has cause to fear. Its economy is on edge already. This year’s budget now pales into an unintended declaration of deceit. A simple state-at-home directive is still being flouted by uninformed and careless people. Many who depend on daily income cannot cope. The entertainment and service industries are hit. Strangely, Coronavirus is still being trivialised in some quarters, particularly in beer parlours. Nigeria has recorded its first death from the virus. The statistics of infected persons are alarming. Now, the country is sliding into panic. Although Lagos State Incident Commander Babajide Sanwo-Olu snd his team have laid a salutary  example of combat readiness, not all governors are taking a clue. Those being quarantined are receiving medical attention. Yet, this has not motivated the ‘deserters,’ as if Coronavirus attracts stigmatisation like HIV/AIDS. Federal and state governments are now taking some difficult, but drastic steps to prevent its spread. The virus has crippled school calendars and the civil service. Multinationals are asking their workers to work from home. Big hotels are closing abruptly. Some bank branches have shut down. Social ceremonies-weddings, funerals, birthdays, anniversaries-are postponed. Lockdown is a plausible option.The fear of the virus has become the beginning of wisdom. Eminent cleric Dr. Enoch Adeboye, a scientist in his own right, declared last Sunday that the disease may not end; it may only subside. He said the whole world, and its arrogant leaders, will now acknowledge the existence of a Supreme Being. The lockdown in many states means that Nigeria is at a standstill. Schools-from nursery to tertiary-are under lock and key. Development and progress are arrested nationwide-no project initiation, implementation and monitoring. Company AGMs are put on hold, which means that shareholders will not get their dividends. Bank customers are withdrawing money in a hurry. Across markets, there is panic buying. On the road, in the bus, bus stops   at bukaterias, work places, Nigerians now suspect one another. Should the scourge persist, the political calendar will become ineffective. There may be no room for large scale politicking until further notice. Political antagonism will slow down. Reality will now dawn on politicians that the fight for power is inferior to the battle for health. Last week, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) suspended senatorial by-elections in the . Southeast. During the week, it announced the suspension of involvement in mandatory political party monitoring. The implication is that, unless there is a respite, the preparations for the proposed governorship polls in Edo and Ondo states will be affected. Humanity is enveloped in confusion due to an inexplicable experience. The whole world is united in agony and suspense. Two days ago, Information and Culture Minister Lai Mohammed cried out that rural communities are now at a greater risk. That is why the proposed ban on inter-state movement should not be delayed. The onus is on the government to intensify and sustain the enlightenment programme through radio jingo and television. Reality should dawn on all that refusal to observe ordinary social distancing may close the gap between man and grave. When bank customers struggle on long queues and multitudes now join house fellowship in lieu of church services, they breach the rule of the moment. All stakeholders should continue to spread the message that prevention is better than cure. The N10 billion federal assistance to Lagos is salutary because the state shoulders enormous national responsibilities in this period of distress. There may be need for special federal bailout for states to combat coronavirus. Some states can hardly survive on their own. The House of Representatives is proposing a Stimulus Bill. But, it is not know how public hearing will be conducted in this period of pseudo-institutional social distancing. In states where governors are testing positive, efforts should be made to avert the total collapse of administration. Power-loaded governors should not go into isolation with the entire gamut of power, leaving the state prostrate. The governors’ coverted security votes should now be deployed to mitigate public suffering in this period of emergency. What will government do to bail the private sector out? Production is at half, if not completely stopped. But, companies have mandatory legal obligations to fulfil, including workers’party salaries, taxes, pensions, injury allowances. The informal sector is under stress. People cannot work, but they have to eat and pay inevitable bill’s. The plan to provide foods and other consumables at highly subsidized price in Lagos State is commendable. Other states should emulate the example. Multinationals should be encouraged to plough back to society. In United States, some senators sold their shares and equities and distributed the proceeds to the poor and needy. Their Nigerian counterparts should emulate the example, realising that they can only represent the living in the National Assembly. Under the proposed individialised Stimulus Scheme, there is s proposal that families should have access to N10,000. How can it get down? Nigeria has no database. No accurate census figures. Leaders should also endeavour to resist the urge to toy with the Coronavirus support fund. Corruption is a disservice to the battle. The greatest lesson for government is that emergency should be prepared for. The first step is the resurcitstion, or repositioning, of the health sector. Health is wealth.  