Investment opportunities are becoming boundless in aviation industry. Regrettably, private sector players in Nigeria  are not taking advantage of existing windows. To reverse this trend, regulators and the airport authority  are meeting in Abuja next month to examine ways of unlocking huge investment windows for the sector, KELVIN OSA OKUNBOR reports.  Global aviation is becoming a huge industry with  massive investment opportunities spanning airport business, airlines,  ground handling, shuttle and hailing services, airline catering, tourism, leasing, financing and other  activities that  boost economic development. Studies reveal that public financing options are becoming inadequate to drive these chain of activities, thereby paving the way for massive private sector investment and other intervention models. To bridge this gap, a campaign is mounting among aeronautical agencies on the strategies to be adopted to attract private sector investors. The push for private sector investment continues to gain global traction as regulatory bodies, including Airports Council International (ACI) and International Air Transport Association (IATA), have endorsed the private sector investment model for countries, including Nigeria. According to the International Air Transport Association (IATA), the global aviation industry supports over $2.7 trillion of the world’s gross domestic product. On the African continent, operations of airlines and airports generate over $10.3 billion yearly to the gross domestic product. The global airline’s regulator said air transport supports over 6.2 million jobs and $ 55.8 billion in Africa. But, Nigeria is yet to fully plug into this window given the size of its aviation. To reverse this trend, the government, through the Ministry of Aviation and Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), will engage players and stakeholders next month in Abuja in discussions on how to pull investment into the  aviation industry at  the maiden edition of National Aviation Conference. In an interview with The Nation last week in Lagos,  Managing Director, FAAN, Captain Rabiu  Yadudu, said its proposed conference could not have come at a better time than when aeronautical authorities were thinking out of the box in  deepening the  space for greater private sector inclusion and investments in aviation and allied sectors. He said the conference would provide a window for Nigeria to interface global air transport expertise in navigating around issues on the implementation of single African air transport market in terms of its prospects and challenges.  The experts, it was learnt, will examine issues on “Challenges of route development in Nigeria’s aviation industry,” “Procurement and maintenance of safety critical facilities in aviation industry: Getting it right,” “Harnessing opportunities in Nigeria air cargo development through states, collaboration and partnership,” Nigerian airports gateway to development and managing tourists destinations in Nigeria “Special economic zones at the airports and trade facilitation: Growing revenue and the national gap,” ” Ease of doing business as a panacea for boosting investments in Nigerian airports,” “Consolidating safety culture in the Nigerian aviation industry,” “Aviation and national se-curity: emerging trends.” Speaking in an interview with The Nation last week in Lagos, President Top Brass Aviation, Captain Roland Iyayi, said limitless opportunities in the aviation sector has not been fully utilised by both private and multi lateral players saying the time for national conversation to attract investment in many layers of aviation value chain could not have come at a better time. Also, former Secretary-General,  Mr Nick Fadugba, said Nigeria should not isolate itself in the global move to attract investment and capacity building in the aviation sector. A source in the Ministry of Aviation said networking at high levels were ongoing to attract experts, including former Director-General of Nigerian Tourism Development Corporation (NTDC), Otunba Segun Runsewe; aviation security expert, Dr Anne Eyinnaya-Egbadon; Executive Secretary, Nigerian Investment Promotion Council (NIPC), Ms. Yewande Sadiku and ace aerodrome safety and fire fighting expert, Peter Onyeri, to offer their perspectives to the conversation. Aviation consultant and Chief Executive Officer, FCI Nigeria Limited and organisers of NIGAV awards, Mr Fortune Idu, said the time for discussions to expand  the investment and operational space of the sector was long overdue in view of lacunae not exploited by private sector and other players. Idu said: “There is need for the industry to access veritable solutions which have been adopted by other players relative to the future and growth of the industry. “There is need to discuss the future of airport vis a vis innovations , safety and security financing and leasing, sustainability , growth drivers , logistics as well as build indigenous intellectual capacity that is required to complement and effectively manage the infrastructural development in the industry. “The industry needs conversation for stakeholders to showcase commercial offerings at airports in respective states to attract foreign and local investors to drive efforts at boosting agricultural, solid minerals and tourism activities in these locations with its attendant chain effects signaling commercial viability.’’ Investigations reveal that leading industry lights, including IATA Regional Manager, West Africa, Dr Samson Fatokun, Chief Executive Officer, Landover Company, Captain Edward Boyo as well as Executive Chairman, Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON) Captain Noggie Meggison, will offer their perspective from the airline’s point of view.