The Osun State governor, Alh Gboyega Oyetola has urged the Federal Government of Nigeria to declare a state of emergency on infrastructure across the States. Oyetola said this while receiving the Minister of State for Works and Housing, Engr Abubakar Aliyu and his team at the Governor’s Office, Abere, Osogbo on Friday during a two-day working visit to inspect road projects. His word, “When it comes to the issue of infrastructure particularly road, the Federal Government needs to declare a state of emergency to achieve more.” “I appreciate the President for his commitment to improving the nation’s infrastructure and I want to also call for alternative funding for road projects. Private organizations should partner with the government to construct roads. Oyetola, however, commended Aregbesola’s administration for his painstaking steps to develop the state roads in his tenure. The Minister, Engr Abubakar Aliyu, who had earlier inspected the ongoing Gbongan/Akoda road project expressed satisfaction over the ongoing federal roads constructions undertaken by the State Government of Osun across the state. He said, “We are here to verify Federal Government works undergone by Osun State. The Federal Ministry of Works and Housing recently inaugurated a committee headed by the Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola to verify FG’s projects undertaken by State governments. “We can see that the projects in Osun are ongoing and I can express satisfaction with the way the works are being handled. I saw a well-constructed bridge at Gbongan and so far, with what I have seen, I think the state deserves commendations” He further, “President Muhammadu Buhari led administration is committed to improving road infrastructures across the country. Presently, over five hundred road projects are ongoing in the country and more will still be recorded before his tenure ends. “2020 budget prioritizes construction that is up to 75 to 80% completion. This is so because we are determined to deliver them before the year runs out. By 2021, those below that would have entered that stage and we can deliver them too” He urged Nigerians to join the government in maintaining infrastructures provided at their disposal at every point in time. We need to own our country. The way we take care of our houses and properties is the way we should be concern about infrastructure across the country. He added.