  Bola Ahmed Tinubu (aka BAT), an astute politician and elder statesman, was born on March 29, 1952. He was elected as Senator, to represent Lagos West at the red chamber (Senate) in 1993 under the platform of the defunct Social Democratic Party (SDP). The military interregnum short lived his tenure in December 1993. Subsequently, aftermath of the military interregnum, he was actively involved in the political activities and through his political prodigy and influence; he emerged as the civilian Governor of Lagos State, holding office meritoriously from May 1999 to May 2007. In essence, he was a two-term Governor of Lagos State. Presently, he is the National Leader of the ruling party in Nigeria, the All Progressives Congress (APC). Among several titles, BAT, is often referred to as Asiwaju and Jagaban; he is the Asiwaju of Lagos and Jagaban of Borgu Kingdom, Niger State, Nigeria. It is noteworthy to mention that Asiwaju’s political prowess, strides and sagacity cannot be rubbished or gainsaid by his opponents: doing so will be, succinctly stated, to their own peril. Pointedly put, Bola Tinubu is seemingly the foremost Nigeria’s living political strategist and elder statesman. In time past, Ahmadu Bello (Sardauna), Nnamdi Azikiwe (Owelle), and Chief Jeremiah Obafemi Awolowo (aka Awo) held sway politically like a colossus in the North, East and West respectively in the politics of the First Republic. Indeed, of the trio, Chief Awolowo, could be described as the stormy petrel of Nigeria’s first and second republics polity and politics. He was such a credible, albeit controversial leader, possessing a cult like followership in the West with many feats that made the spines of his ardent critics and opponents to shiver at the mention of Awo! It is instructive to point it out that Bola Ahmed Tinubu has always stood out throughout his political career as a progressive. He has never for a morsel of meat or pot of porridge crossed over to join forces with the conservatives. This is a plus and positive attribute that over the years boosted his political career as well as give impetus to his power and popularity, not only in Nigeria but in the African continent. In addition, to his credit, Tinubu has raised up many among his mentees or protégés to vintage positions of power. In the present government, one can mention Mr. Babatunde Raji Fashola, Minister of Works and Housing (erstwhile Governor of Lagos State ); Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola (former Governor of the State of Osun), Minister of Interior; Mr. Femi Gbajabiamiala, the Speaker of the House of Representatives; Mr. Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu, the incumbent Governor of Lagos State, just to mention a few. Moreover, the nation should not forget in a hurry the adroit and adept political engineering employed in the formation of the ruling party – the All Progressives Congress (APC). It took sagacious strategic steps of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu working in tandem with other progressives crisscrossing and traversing the length and breadth of the geographical expression called Nigeria to make it happen. It was historic as that was the first successful merger resulting in the emergence of a formidable opposition to the then ruling party, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). How did it happen? First successful merger in Nigeria: It would be a seeming overstatement to say that the then ruling party was drifting and the centre could not hold as the political storm and crisis that bedeviled the party, PDP, resulted in the emergence of a splinter group within the party. This splinter group was referred to as the new-PDP. In addition, the prevailing and pervading cluelessness of the soul of the then ruling party, PDP, ignited in the convergence and congruence of notable like minds in the opposition parties. These core crucial and cerebral minds began congregating days and nights while traversing the length and breadth of Nigeria. At the arrow head of these political jaw-jaw and maneuverings were the top leaders in Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), Congress of Progressive Change (CPC), All Nigeria People’s Party (ANPP), and a faction of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). Notably among these leaders were Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu (ACN), General Muhammed Buhari (retired) (CPC), Chief Ogbonaya Onu (ANPP), Owelle Rochas Okorocha (APGA) to mention a few. However, to many top notch of PDP, the political savvy, skillfulness and sagacity of the enigmatic and titanic Bola Ahmed Tinubu (BAT) is the nexus ensuring the huge success of the merger of seemingly rag-tag ‘strange bedfellows’ that later culminated as the APC. This happened in February 2013. Sagacious strategic steps: Jagaban, as Tinubu is often called by his political disciples and protégés, has for decades pitched his tent and spread his tentacles with the progressives. He played a leading role in the defunct Social Democratic Party (SDP) where he emerged as a Senator of Lagos West. He was foremost among the politicians in the trenches in the hey-days of the military. The overt and covert political activism of those glorious years led to the formation of the National Democratic Coalition (NADECO). The coalition was a thorn in the flesh of the junta at the helm of affairs until the democratic dispensation was restored in 1999. BAT aligned with the Alliance for Democracy (AD). It was on the platform of AD that he finally emerged as the Governor of Lagos State. Thereafter, due to irreconcilable differences and his strategic insight and foresight, he jettisoned AD to form the Action Congress (AC) which later metamorphosed to Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN). At that time, some people thought it was a political miscalculation on the part of Asiwaju to have seemingly abandoned the platform that got him elected. Candidly, he saw what many others, especially his peers, at that time, did not see! It is remarkable that Jagaban canvassed and campaigned on the ACN platform to win the second term ticket as Governor of Lagos State whereas none of his peers in the progressives in the South West was able to return as governor for the second term. He was subsequently tagged by his admirers and adherents as “the last man standing!” In comparison to his peers, Asiwaju Tinubu’s political career has witnessed a meteoritic rise like a titan. Many factors account for this which is a subject of discourse reserved for another day. Tinkering tomorrow: Any sin in aspiring? There is a water of Nigeria’s politics that Asiwaju Tinubu has not tested yet! Anyone wondering what could that be? It is on record that the Jagaban has supported, succoured and sustained many in their quest to the top whether as local government chairmen, House of Assembly members, National Assembly members, governors, presidents, etc. It can however not be controverted by anyone that Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has stood up at any time in Nigeria’s chequered history as a presidential candidate of any political party! I stand to be corrected by political pundits, analysts and scholars. However, to some political pundits, Asiwaju Tinubu has risen like a titan that he is to become a kingmaker. To them, he should remain so. Traditionally, a kingmaker is a life time job. However, in politics, it is not the same as the kingmaker of today could be the king of tomorrow. When has it become a sin to aspire to lead? At this juncture, it is salient and succinct to ask: When has it become a sin to aspire to lead? Even the Holy Writ (Bible) puts it simply and squarely, “If a man desires the office of a bishop, he desires a good work” (1Timothy 3v1). In essence, if you aspire to be a bishop or overseer, then, roll up your sleeves, it is a great work because you will become pastor of pastors and teacher of teachers! Hence, it is not a transgression or wrongdoing. However, are you prepared as there are set of conditions and/or criteria to confront and conquer? Truth should be told: Titanic Tinubu has paid his dues in the polity and politics of Nigeria more that many notable South West political leaders. How? More than anyone of them, he has uniquely been able to identify potential leaders, raise them up, empower, support and sustain them over a long time with majority having unfettered access to him. Moreover, he is gracious to forgive and receive into the fold errant ones once they retraced their steps. Most importantly and peculiar to Asiwaju than any South West leaders, he has been able, over the years, to build bridges across the Niger to the South-south, Southeast, North-central, Northwest and Northeast while many Yoruba leaders were castigating him for selling Yorubas to the northern oligarchy. Saliently and succinctly stated, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu is a foremost strategic leader who knows what he wants, where he is going, what it takes to get there and how to get there. Approaching 2023: What could make the race undemocratic? One of the most vitriolic opposition politicians to anything Asiwaju Tinubu stands for is Chief Adesegun Ogunlewe, an erstwhile Minister of Works during the Chief Olusegun Obasanjo presidency. He was a staunch member of the PDP. He opined, inter alia, that 2023 should be thrown open as narrowing it to some sections of the country could render the process undemocratic. To Chief Ogunlewe, Asiwaju Tinubu has paid his dues. He opined: “Tinubu is a dogged fighter. He has triumphed over many challenges. He has seen it all. He can do it if given the chance.” One will expect Tinubu’s disciples and adherents to be in the vanguard of vociferously voicing their stand and stake regarding the road to 2023. However, for a strong opposition voice vouching for the candidacy of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu to run come 2023 is remarkable. All said and done, Bola Ahmed Tinubu (BAT) is perceived variously as a political strategist, mercurial, mercantile, albeit, maverick. He could be described as enigmatic albeit sagacious in content, context and colour. Aptly depicted, Tinubu is titanic and the stormy petrel of Nigeria’s polity and politics. His trajectory is worth watching as it portends winning tendencies for a nation many wish could come out of myriads of socio-economic cum political doldrums. Tinubu laid the foundation for the winning streaks in Lagos between 1999 to 2007 and in the words of Chief Olusegun Ogunlewe, he can do it again at the centre if Nigerians give him the chance as 2023 beckons. The author wishes Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu a blessed and blossoming birthday. 