Amid inadequate capacity to combat fire outbreaks in different parts of the country, 10 fire-fighting engine trucks are left to rot away with no one taking responsibility for them. ANDREW ABAH reports. There are no fewer than 10 fire-fighting engine trucks rotting away inside the Abuja National Stadium (Moshood Abiola Stadium). The trucks were purchased in 2003 and moved to the sporting arena during the 9th All Africa Games that held at the Federal Capital Territory. Packed at the Package B section within the stadium, successive sports administrations in the past 16 years have watched the multi-million naira equipment rot away. It was gathered that the purchase of the trucks was in fulfillment of one of the safety measures given by the Supreme Council for Sports in Africa (SCSA) for Nigeria to host 2003 edition of the games. It was also gathered that the trucks were purchased from China by the defunct Presidential Tasks Force on Stadium Project. The trucks were acquired during the tenure of Dr. Amos Adamu as Director-General of the National Sports Commission. Adamu also acted as Chief Executive Officer of the Games, code-named COJA 2003. Adamu, who was a one-time Executive member of FIFA/CAF, told our correspondent on the telephone that fire engine trucks were part of the stadium project meant to be domiciled at the stadium in case of fire outbreak within the arena. According to him, the trucks had since been handed over to the Federal Fire Service for management and maintenance. Adamu said, “What I know is that the fire engines arrived in Nigeria six months after the 9th All Africa Games. They were commissioned by the then Sports Minister, Col. Musa Mohammed (rtd) in 2004. But authorities of the Federal Fire Service said they have no knowledge of the fire-fighting trucks at the stadium.” In an interview with our correspondent, Head, Public Relations of the Fire Service, Ugo Huan, said there was no record to show that the trucks were handed over to the Service. Huan said, “The trucks don’t belong to the Service and we have no knowledge of who and how they brought them into the country.” Continuing, he said, “I have made inquiries about the fire appliances at the stadium from my bosses and no one seems to have any knowledge of them. I have gone through our records from 2003 to date. There is no document or file to show that the Fire Service was in the know or in partnership with the Sports Ministry regarding the trucks. I can tell you in all honesty that the fire appliances don’t belong to the Federal Fire Service. If they do, we would have taken possession and put them into effective use. The only thing I can confirm to you is that the Fire Service has one fire-fighting truck stationed at the main-bowl of the Abuja Stadium. It is stationed at Package A and we have our office and personnel and office there.” No documentation for the trucks – Ex Sports Minister Immidiate past Minister of Youth and Sports Development Solomon Dalung said he had wanted to auction the trucks and pay the money into government coffers but discovered that there was no documentation for them. Dalung, who served as Minister from 2015 to 2019, said, “When I assumed office in 2015, my first visit and comment was the abandoned fire-fighting trucks. I asked questions but nobody came forward with any information on how they were acquired. I did my own personal investigation but there was no document or record found. I also went through the Tenders Board of the then National Sports Commission but there was no record or trace of such equipment till the day I left office. Honestly, I had wanted to auction them but there were no documents. It’s sad and it pained me to see such investment rotting away due to negligence. Also, I found out that each of the fire-fighting trucks cost between N220 to N250 million. What a waste and unfortunate situation.” Efforts made by our correspondent to speak with the present Minister of Sports, Sunday Dare through his media aide on the abandoned trucks prove abortive. Meanwhile, many lives and property worth billions of Naira are being lost to incessant fire outbreaks in many towns and cities across the country in the past few months. Not a few Nigerians would have wished that these trucks be overhauled and deployed for use where they are desperately needed.