Emma Elekwa, Onitsha  An Enugu- born prophetess, Mrs. Sun Okoye, has claimed she has discovered drugs capable of curing the deadly COVID-19 coronavirus disease ravaging the world. She said she was ready for invitation from the federal and state governments to confirm the authenticity and efficacy of her claims and to make the drugs available. Speaking to newsmen on Tuesday in Awka, Okoye said the solution came as a result of spiritual revelation from God but said she would not reveal the secret of the discovery. She claimed the revelation of the incurable disease came to her last year, maintaining that she needed not to test it on a patient before establishing the efficacy of the liquid medication. The prophetess also predicted another fire disaster would befall Onitsha, the commercial hub of the state, stressing the need to avert it. She said: “Let the governments call me to know the content of my secret power used in curing it. You can take me to any coronavirus patient and if they come in contact with me, they will be healed. “I cannot be contaminated by the disease. God has given me the secret that brought the power of corona virus on earth. God is the creator of our lives and not science. “God is the maker of everyone and has the sole power to save us from this deadly disease. He has revealed the solution to me and I cannot just let out the secret.” Okoye however lamented the frustration she had met from the state government in her efforts to introduce the drugs to the officials. She added: “It’s painful that all efforts I made to reach the Anambra State governor, Chief Willie Obiano or his commissioner for health, failed. “I am acting on God’s instructions. I don’t care what people will take me for or what they will say, but all I know is that the way of God is not the way of man. I listen to God and not men. “God has picked me and given me divine secrets to heal coronavirus patients in Nigeria, and the world over. Remember that God made science and can decide to eradicate the virus through anyone. “Let the government listen and pay heed to what I am saying otherwise some other countries will take the advantage. I am ready to work with Nigeria governments”, she added. Admitting that fake prophets abound, Okoye insisted that her product, christened, ‘Great Giant Stride’, would totally cure coronavirus with no side effects.