It is barely three months into the new year and Nigeria’s movie industry has recorded the death of three major players. The three deaths were recorded between January 2020 and March 2020. The deaths shocked fans and industry players as they were as a result of undisclosed ailment but suspected to be organ failures. Here are the three Nollywood stars that have passed away so far. Month: January 2020 Age: 61 Yoruba actor, Toyosi Arigbabuwo, was the first death recorded in the Nigerian film industry in 2020. Arigbabuwo died on Monday, January 13 inj his home in Ibadan, Oyo state after battling with an undisclosed ailment. According to reports, Arigbabuwo had been sick for over six months before his death. He became popular in the Yoruba-speaking films and featured in many productions including ‘Ogbori Elemosho’ and ‘Bashorun Gaa.’ Month: February 2020 Age: 51 February 2020 also recorded another death in Nollywood. This time, it was the death of a popular figure in the industry. Frank Dallas, a Nollywood actor and production manager died on Wednesday, February 19. Dallas’ death came as a rude shock to several practitioners as he was reported to have died in a hotel in Abia state, where he had gone for a seminar.  Dallas is none of the production team behind Africa Movies Academy Awards, AMAA and one of the recurring personalities in the Actors Guild of Nigeria. Month: March 2020 Age: 66 Veteran Nollywood actor, Olukayode Odumosu, aka Pa Kasumu, died on March 1.  The actor, who had been battling with undisclosed ailment gave up the ghost on the first day of the third month making him the third Nollywood star to pass away in 2020. Kasumu passed away in Abeokuta, where he was nursed by his family member after his health began failing. The Nollywood actor became a major star featuring in Yoruba-speaking movies before extending his expertise to Television series some of which include ‘Super Story’ and ‘House A-part.’ Kasumu first gained recognition when he played the fatherly role in Tade Ogidan’s ‘Owo Blow.’