 MANCHESTER United loanee Odion Ighalo will battle against OSC Lille of France striker Victor Osimhen and Leicester City’s Wilfred Ndidi for the King of the Pitch as organisers yesterday revealed the identities of its final three nominees for the 7th edition of the prestigious awards for outstanding footballers. The award presentation earlier fixed for March 27 in Asaba, Delta State after the now postponed 2021 AFCON qualifier against Sierra Leone would now be held at a later date due to the spread of Coronavirus. Speaking at the briefing, the award initiator Shina Philips expressed gratitude to the voters for doing a good job and for standing behind the successful hosting of the awards in the last unbreakable seven years. “The Nigeria Pitch Awards has grown to be an integral part of the nation’s football calendar since 2013, we have continued to sustain the tempo which rewards footballers, administrators, coaches, clubs, sponsors,” explained Phillips. “As organisers of this award, we remain committed to our core principles of credibility, transparency and integrity. Our partners, the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), and SIAO remained committed to the success of the awards.” Meanwhile, the trio of Francis Uzoho of Omonia Nicosia Football Club, Chiamaka Nnadozie of Paris FC and Daniel Akpeyi of Kaizer Chiefs of South Africa were listed for the goalkeeper of the year award. According to the organisers, William Troost Ekong of Udinese, Chidozie Awaziem of Club Deportivo Leganes and Kenneth Omeruo are to contest for the defender of the year award. Other nominees include, Oghenekaro Etebo (Getafe CF, Joe Aribo(Rangers FC), and Wilfred Ndidi(Leicester City FC are in the Midfielder of the Year category. For the Queen of the Pitch,  Onome Ebi of Henan Huishang FC, Chiamaka Nnadozie  of Rivers Angels and Asisat Oshoala of FC Barcelona were listed. Elsewhere, Samuel Chukwueze of Villarreal CF, will contend against Ighalo and Osimhen for the Striker of the Year award while Lobi Stars Football Club of Benue, Super Eagles and Enyimba International of Aba are nominees for the Team of the Year. Super Eagles Technical Adviser, Gernot Rohr, former Super Falcons coach, Thomas Dennerby and Usman Abdallah of Wikki Tourist are in the Coach of the Year category, as Sam Okwaraji award attracts Ahmed Musa of Super Eagles, Barrister Seyi Akinwunmi the 1st Vice President of the Nigeria Football Federation and Kunle Soname, Chairman of Bet9ja. Altogether, there are 16 award categories as organisers  equally revealed the three nominees  for Football friendly governor of the Year ; Corporate Sponsor of Football; Football Journalist of the Year(Print); Football journalist of the year(radio) as  well as Football journalist of the year(online). 