Eggheads and critical stakeholders have converged to seek a lasting solution to clearance of charitable cargoes at the country’s seaports. The meeting,  held in Lagos at the instance of the Deputy Senate President, in collaboration with the Nigerian Shippers Council, threw up germane issues believed to be crippling the clearing system in the maritime sector, reports MUYIWA LUCAS  It was not meant to be a ‘blame game’ meeting, but this did not fail to play out. It was at a gathering of critical stakeholders in the maritime sector, last week in Lagos. The meeting, tagged: “Ease of Shipping and Clearing Charitable Items In Nigeria”, was summoned at the instance of the Office of the Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, in collaboration with the Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC), sought to investigate and provide solutions into why items imported for charity organisations like orphanages, Non-Governmental Organisations (NGO) and Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) are always unnecessarily delayed at the country’s ports. Represented at the forum by his Special Adviser, NGO, Princess Modupe Ozolua, the Deputy Senate President expressed concerns that charitable items get entangled in high demurrage charges while their clearance is delayed due to denial of import duty waivers by relevant government agencies, and late application for necessary documents by non-profit organisations, among others. These delays, he noted, leads to unnecessary loss of items, financial losses and, in extreme cases, loss of human lives arising from not getting such items when needed. “It also extends to the denial of, sometimes life-saving relief materials to places they are needed, particularly disease-ravaged areas and Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) settlements. And given the IDP crisis Nigeria faces, the material and humanitarian losses can only be imagined,” he said.  Abuse of waivers The Chairman, Senate Committee on Health, Senator Yahaya Oloriegbe, noted that the health sector is the major beneficiary of charitable goods and that it is a matter of life and death. According to him, many Nigerians have lost their lives due to the delays in receiving drugs and other items meant for the less privileged. He asserted that the most important and immediate approach would be to have Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) that would put together the best processes and create ease in the procedure. “We want to see how we can better implement the existing protocols and laws as it relates to clearing charitable items at Nigerian ports. We want to deploy technology to make things faster and we also want to review areas that require legislative intervention in terms of new laws. We need to create an interim alternative to address the current emergencies we have in the country to get charitable items swiftly delivered to areas of conflict in the Northeast and the Northwest,” he said. The representative of the Chairman, Council for the Regulation of Freight Forwarders in Nigeria (CRFFN), Dr Kayode Farinto lamented that charitable goods are not usually given needed attention by Customs officers. He said the Customs, as well as other government agencies are more concerned about revenue generation and most of them do not implement their functions with human face. He therefore recommended that the new SOP for clearing charitable goods should recommend penalty for any officer or terminal operators that deliberately cause delay of the items. But regulators of the clearing process maintained that there is a gross abuse of the waiver system on goods as granted waivers by the federal government.  For instance, an Assistant Comptroller General, Zone A of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Catherine Ekekezie, noted with dismay the sharp practices being done by importers. Ekekezie, who had had the unenviable task of clearing the tag of the Customs being a stumbling block to efficiency at the ports, did not fail to present some of the sharp practices being perpetrated by importers and their agents. “We have seen several forgeries being done, and when we investigate they turn out to involve very high powered people; but we still go ahead to do our job as officers of the law,” she told the gathering. Ekekezie noted some of the challenges to include false declaration by importers, underpayment of duty, alteration in documents among others. She further explained that import waivers on charitable items have been misused and abused not just by businessmen but also by some non-governmental organisations and civil society organisations. In an emotion-laden voice, Ekekezie recalled that the NCS have been shocked to find businessmen hide under NGOs to import high duty accessories for sale, yet declaring them as charitable items. She cited the case of an importer who brought in over 100 pieces of high end  mobile phones but yet declared same as charitable goods. “Improper documentation has also been a major problem. NGOs must get the required documents outlined by the Ministry of Finance before they approach the Customs. Corrupt practices by importers and various port officials have also affected this process”, she said, adding that the major challenge of charitable goods clearing is lack of documentation and compliance by the beneficiaries. As if lending credence to the Customs ACG’s submissions, the Deputy Senate President observed with dismay that import waivers on charitable items have been misused and abused not just by businessmen but also by some non-governmental organisations and civil society organisations. He therefore admonished that all stakeholders including Civil Society Organisations, other not-for-profit organisations, in concert with the government, must comply with necessary application processes and ensure charitable items are not used for commercial purposes, but rather always get them across get to the targeted beneficiaries.  Other initiatives Executive Secretary and Chief Executive Officer of Nigerian Shippers Council, Barr Hassan Bello stressed that charitable cargoes must special SOPs in their clearance because most of these cargoes have expiry dates and shouldn’t be subjected to undue delays. “We have to come together to facilitate the clearance of these cargoes for Nigerians and other nations who use Nigerian ports for transit trade,” Bello said. Stakeholders called for installation of scanners at the ports which they reckon would make the job easier for all. But the Director-General of African Centre for Supply Chain (ACSC) Dr. Obiora Madu, advised that rather than scanners, the country should embrace the Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) technology at the port. The RFID is a technology, he explained, uses electromagnetic fields to automatically identify and track tags attached to objects including containers, vehicles, cash, clothing, and possessions, or implanted in animals and people for Automatic Identification and Data Capture (AIDC). He said most developed countries of the world no longer use scanners at the port; rather they use the RFID which would automatically collect all data on an imported consignment without causing delay. “RFID technology goes much farther and it cannot miss anything, if you get to those foreign ports, you would look around for the containers but they are all gone, there is no time wasting. So many countries, including Malaysia and other developing countries, are already using this RFID. The technology can resolve even the port congestion that we are battling with right now” he said.  New procedure The Minister of Finance, Zainab Ahmed, represented at the meeting by the Principal Administrative Officer, Technical Services Department, Mr Frank Oshanipin, revealed that the ministry has put in place automation processes and procedures for granting of import duty waivers for companies and NGOs, from March 1. She explained this is to automate the process to remove human contacts, abuses of waivers and ensure efficiency in issuance of Import Duty Exemption Certificates (IDEC) Oshanipin cautioned International Non-Governmental Organisations (INGOs) to stop donating rice to Nigerian IDP and orphanage homes saying that these products can be sourced locally. He said though textiles and other items are also under outright ban by the ministry, it still allows them into the country for the sake of NGOs. She, however, said rice would not be part of such imports. “The online application is expected to reduce the delays to the barest minimum. Within one week, the process of granting duty exemptions would now be completed. If the application does not have merit, the applicant would be contacted immediately,” she said, adding that the  lifespan of every import duty exemption is one year after which it must be utilised or the owner would have to come back for revalidation. 