 Kia Motors Nigeria has introduced measures to contain the spread of the Coronavirus among its employees and customers. Rooted in the practice advised by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), personal hygiene had been constantly reinforced in all their locations with designated handwashing places, deployment of the infrared thermometer for temperature checks at the points of entry into the facilities, hand sanitisers, nose masks, social distancing, among others. Kia Motors has also instituted a more precautionary operational practice in their showrooms and service centres to avoid contracting and spreading the coronavirus, as the country comes to grips with a growing pandemic. Further to the measures taken by Kia, the auto company has also restructured its workforce to a more dynamic operational base. In the meantime, some of their staff are advised to work remotely starting March 23 until further notice — “except those in business-critical roles that cannot be done away from Kia facilities. In addition, we join the WHO and NCDC to strongly advise anyone who feels like they are showing symptoms of COVID-19 — which can be as mild as those of a cold, or more serious, like the fever or flu — are advised to seek medical attention and self-isolate while they take care of themselves,” said the Chief Operation Officer, Sanjay Tatpati.  Tatpati further stated: “As a business that interacts with the public on a daily basis, we understand car servicing and repairs may seem essential in this period as health officials advise against public transportation. Thus, we are geared towards ensuring safe, secure and hygiene facilities as spelt out by the WHO. Although we are taking every precaution with our facility and staff, we also have an even better and alternative solution which centers on online booking for service and sales.” Kia Motors Marketing Manager Olawale Jimoh, said “a responsive customer care outfit is equipped to attend to the sales and service requirements of customers via phone, email, web live chat, WhatsApp & social media platforms to provide real-time answers to any questions the customers’ may have about a vehicle, repair, and servicing, financing or the Online booking tool. With our digital platforms, the power of car shopping and servicing are firmly in the hands of our customers and can save time at our locations, as well as, money in this critical time”. The company’s outlets will remain open for now and will be available to its customers for all their requirements. The company is ensuring deliveries are not delayed for its customers as well as service requirements, without compromising on the safety precautions sent out by the government.