 Following Allianz Nigeria’s promise to settle motor claims within 60 minutes, the company said it has received a total of 53 claims since the campaign launch of February 17. The company, which said she is making good her promise, has paid claims worth over N2.78 million in one month, all in less than an hour. A statement by the company reads: “At Allianz Nigeria, there is a complete understanding that complete customer satisfaction is not only about giving competitive rates or swift delivery of policy documents but also how quickly claims are resolved to get customers back on the road and on track to achieving set goals and objectives In a society as fast paced as ours where every other aspect of life maybe grappling for attention, Allianz Nigeria has surely begun revolutionising the Nigerian Insurance Industry. “The necessary requirements for prompt claims settlement are Filled claims; Estimate of repairs; Picture of affected parts showing a full view of the vehicle with police report in cases of theft, vandalism or multiple accident. Allianz Nigeria is  excited that numerous customers have benefited from the 60 minutes’ campaign. The company has also committed to continue to provide excellent service delivery of the highest standards. “The Allianz Group, based in Munich, Germany, is one of the world’s leading insurers and asset managers. Allianz customers benefit from a broad range of Personal and Corporate insurance services, ranging from Property, Life and Health insurance to Assistance services to Credit insurance and Global business insurance. The Allianz Group is one of the world’s largest investors, managing over 650 billion euros on behalf of its insurance customers, while their asset managers – Allianz Global Investors and PIMCO -manage an additional 1.4 trillion euros of third-party assets. In 2017, over 140,000 employees in more than 70 countries achieved total revenue of 126 billion euros and an operating profit of 11 billion euros for the group, the company noted. 