The Rivers State Government over the weekend clarified that nobody had tested positive to Coronavirus (COVID-19) in the state. The state Commissioner for Health, Prof. Chike Princewill, urged members of the public to disregard insinuations in some quarters that a COVID- 19 patient was identified by health officials in the state. He, however, explained that a man suspected to have contracted the Coronavirus later tested  negative. The man, 43, was said to have recently returned from Houston, USA, but surrendered himself for medical examination for COVID-19 at a private hospital in the Rivers State capital. He was reportedly referred to the University of Port Harcourt Teaching Hospital (UPTH). The State Emergency Response Team was said to have come to the rescue when UPTH informed the government about the suspected case. But Princewill, said that after testing the samples taken from the man, he tested negative. He said: “Let me begin by reiterating that as at today (Saturday), Rivers State has not recorded any positive case of COVID-19. However, on the 10th of March, the Rivers State Public Health Emergency Operations Centre was notified of a suspected case of COVID-19. “43-year-old male Nigerian, who had returned from the United States of America on the 22nd of February, 2020, through the Lagos International Airport, visited Port Harcourt for official duties. “He had earlier exhibited mild respiratory symptoms and was placed on treatment for malaria and respiratory tract infection. The Rapid Response Team was quick to react, investigate and self-isolate the patient, while nasal, oropharyngeal and sputum samples were collected for analysis and dispatched to the reference laboratory in LUTH. “As I promised to inform you, the result from the test is available and is negative. Therefore, the public should disregard every misinformation making the rounds on social media with names of individuals and facilities as untrue and totally misrepresented. “There are ethical principles, human rights concerns and standard protocols that guide outbreak declarations and decisions. We will abide by them in keeping the state safe, healthwise. The public is further enjoined to seek correct information only from official sources”. Princewill emphasized that COVID -19 pandemic remained a global challenge even for the best health care systems. But he said: “Consequently, as a result of international trade and traffic in and around the State, we are strengthening already enhanced surveillance measures to prevent importation of the virus into the State as much as humanly possible. So far, the effort of the team on ground has been effective and commendable”. He appealed to residents to maintain regular and thorough hand washing with soap and water; stay at least one and half meters distance from anyone exhibiting symptoms of the virus such as coughing or sneezing. “There are other means of greeting apart from shaking. These include nodding, smiling or waving. We can begin to learn them even as we ramp up preventive effort. Persons with persistent cough or sneezing should keep a social distance and not mix in crowd. “Endeavour to practice good respiratory hygiene: when sneezing or coughing, cover your mouth and nose with a tissue or your sleeve at the flexed elbow. Then dispose-off the used tissue safely, immediately. “Citizens are further advised not to abuse social media and indulge in spreading misinformation that can cause panic and lead to danger. The Rivers PHEOC will continue to provide updates and pursue all necessary measures to ensure public health safety”. To further prevent the outbreak of the virus in the state, the state Governor, Nyesom Wike, set up a committee to create awareness on the prevention of coronavirus pandemic in the state. The state Commissioner for Information and Communication, Paulinus Nsirim said Wike approved a five-member committee to prevent the pandemic. He said: “The State Executive Council reviewed the global pandemic and set up a five-member committee to carry out an aggressive awareness campaign on the prevention of coronavirus”. Nsirim said he was appointed to chair the committee that has the Commissioner for Health, Prof. Chike Princewill as a member. Other members of the committee are Commissioner for Environment, Dr. Igbiks Tamuno; Commissioner for Chieftaincy and Community Affairs, Olisa Tasie-Amadi and the Commissioner for Youth Affairs, Ohia Prince. “This committee is to ensure that citizens of the State in the 23 Local Government areas get adequate information that will stop them from contracting the virus.” “We also use this opportunity to inform members of the public that they need to practice elementary hygiene. They should use hand sanitizers to prevent contracting the virus.”