The rehabilitation of a sexually abused 15-year-old orphan, Chinagorom Peter, has begun in Abia State. Peter was reportedly sexually molested by one Emeka Nwogu, 52, who was said to have lured him to Lagos on the pretext of getting him a job. Peter, a native of Obokwe Asa in Ukwa West council of the state, was allegedly pushed around in a barrow, as though he were incapacitated, and begged for alms for Nwogu on the streets of Lagos. It was also gathered that at night Nwogu allegedly sexually abused the teenager. The state government has taken up Peter’s rehabilitation, with Governor Okezie Ikpeazu directing that the teenager be given the best medical attention possible. Nwogu is said to be in a correctional centre. He revealed that on getting to Lagos, the man started using him to beg for money, carrying him in a wheelbarrow in the pretence that he (Peter) was handicapped. According to Peter, his supposed benefactor, apart from using him to beg for alms in various places including churches, also subjected him to sexual abuse, by forcing him to bed at night within the one month he lived with his abuser. Master Peter said that it was after the man had slept with him on four different occasions that he summoned the courage to report the matter to the police in Lagos. He said that after reporting the matter to the police, they took him to the hospital (where it was discovered that he was being sexually abused). He added that the police later arrested the said 52-year-old Nwogu whom he said has been sentenced to Kirikiri Maximum Correctional Facility. He disclosed that the police equally took him (Master Peter) to a boys’ correctional center in Oregun, Lagos where he stayed for a year and eight months. Speaking on the issue, the Commissioner for Information in the state, Chief John Okiyi-Kalu said that the Governor has directed his medical team to take proper care of the boy and ensure that he is rehabilitated, informing that the boy is currently receiving adequate medical attention at the Federal Medical Centre, Umuahia. He disclosed that the government is building a new rehabilitation home to accommodate destitutes in the state, adding that a half-way-home facility built by Total Oil in the state is now ready for commissioning. Okiyi-Kalu pointed out that the state government cares about the welfare of her citizens, assured that the state government would do all that it could to cater for them. The Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Teenage Matters, Mrs. Chinemenma Umesiaka in her speech, called on those who are emotionally abused to open up to the government as the administration is committed to rehabilitating and taking care of such persons. According to the Director, Child Development, Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development, Lady Ijeoma Nwanosike, Master Peter was brought to the Ministry by the wife of the Governor, Deaconess Nkechi Ikpeazu after his return from Lagos and commended the wife of the Governor for being compassionate over Master Chinagorom Peter’s case.