Local Government authorities on Monday took over markets in Uvwie, and Udu council areas of Delta state in a bid to curb the hike in prices of food stuffs and other commodities by marketers. Traders had since the announcement of a lockdown, which includes trading activities, by the state governor, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, last Thursday, topped the prices of major food stuffs in markets across the state. Their actions which overwhelmed families, especially giving the need to stock homes for an initial two weeks in order to contain the spread of Coronavirus, did not sit well with the local authorities. The chairman of Uvwie council, Hon. Ramson Onoyake reportedly stormed Effurun Market early hours of Monday, alongside a task force team, to ensure market women were not selling their wares at exorbitant prices. Until his arrival, a bucket of garri was sold for as much as N2,000 as against N700. The prices of rice, beans, palm oil among other products were also increased. Witnesses claimed the council chairman ordered the market women to sell at the normal price, or else take their wares home. The traders were said to have succumbed to pressure and sold the product for N800. However, the traders reportedly increased the price to N1,200 after he left. A woman who did not disclose her name lamented thus: “these women are wicked. How can they revert the price, when a while ago the chairman warned them against doing that. I came to the market to shop, but I could not buy anything. I am going to buy tapioca and groundnuts. We will manage that and any other thing I can buy”. Other residents who spoke with this reporter urged the state government to prevail on all the market men and women to sell food stuffs at their usual prices. “Government has to intervene, unless we will die of hunger before the two weeks elapse,” one Miss Ofone stated. At Ubogo and Jigbale markets in Udu council area, the case was no different. But a task force team reportedly stormed the two markets to ensure goods were sold at normal prices. Efforts to get the council chairmen to comment on the development, were unsuccessful as at the time of filing this report.