IN a recent article, I stated: ‘I make bold to say that Nigeria will never, never, never break up.’ Some people rebuked and admonished me for saying Nigeria will never break up. As far as these people are concerned, Nigeria will break up; it is just a matter of time. Majority of Nigerians believe in the unity and indivisibility of the country. Chimamanda Adichie talked about “The danger of a single story.”  She said: ‘The single story creates stereotypes, and the problem with stereotypes is not that they are untrue, but that they are incomplete. They make one story become the only story.’ The press is abuzz with Obasanjo and Gowon calls for new constitution and restructuring. The statements from the elder statesmen create field day for the ethnic warlords to up the ante in their call for restructuring of the country. So, the sing-song of the single story ‘Restructure’ got a boost. A friend brought me his scripts for a Talk Show “Ujamaa” for review. The assignment entails detailed page-to-page critique of the scripts for each episode. The first thing that captivates me is the title “Ujamaa”, a Swahili word expressing ‘Brotherly Spirit of Communalism Deeply Rooted in Black Consciousness’. The program is aimed at supporting the one nation-one destiny Nigeria, emphasizing things that unite us, thereby promoting Unity in Diversity. What I find very interesting about the proposed Talk Show is that it avoids “the single story” as each topic is viewed and analysed from different perspectives. Let’s take a snapshot of one of the episodes: Ï%Politicians are the problems of Nigeria, because they are miss-leaders. They not only mislead but also misinform the hapless citizens. Politicians can lie, so much that even Steve Wonder and Andrea Bocelli could look into their eyes and see they are lying. — Ï% The electorate are the problems, as they vote for stomach infrastructure, if at all they come out to vote. Some of the electorates are people who want to reap where they did not sow. Ï%Civil servants too, as they can best be described as evil servants. Ï%Business people: These are undertakers working to bury the economy. That is the reason they flood our markets with fake and substandard goods including fake drugs to send the sick to early graves. Ï%1914 British amalgamation: How can you stitch over 250 nations with different languages and culture together? That is colonial misadventure. Let’s conclude this epistle by taking snapshot of the solutions proffered by the speakers: #Politician as the problem: A law requiring the mandatory public declaration of the assets of the “immediate family” (meaning husband, wife and children) of all specified public officers on appointment or assumption of duty as well as after disengagement. #Electorate as the problem:  We should introduce mandatory voting. #Civil servants as problem: Citizens should monitor the life style of civil servants in their neighbourhood and use social media network to expose officers suspected of living above their means. — #Business people as problem: Create very strict law to curb the influx of fake and substandard goods. #1914 amalgamation as problem: Nigeria should imbibe and assimilate the African Spirit of “Ujamaa Socialism” as propagated by late Julius Nyerere. This brotherly spirit of communalism will help to eliminate every form of division along tribal lines and foster that brotherhood that is deeply rooted in “Black Consciousness.”  