 Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi on Monday signed a bill to establishment the State Security Network Agency and Amotekun Corps. into law. The House of Assembly, on February 14, passed the bill and forwarded it to the governor for assent. The security outfit was initiated by the six Southwest governors to tackle insecurity. Speaker of the House Funminiyi Afuye, who presented the bill to the governor at the Government House, said the House had fulfilled its fundamental responsibility of making people-oriented laws to guarantee protection of life and property. Afuye hoped the bill would stem kidnapping, banditry, robbery and other criminalities hindering people’s social and economic life. He said the homogeneity of Yoruba race, in terms of politics, culture and history made Amotekun gain traction in Southwest. Fayemi warned criminals to steer clear of Ekiti as ‘Amotekun Corps. will get you wherever you hide’. The governor said the outfit would not be politicised, but strengthened to ensure criminals have no breathing space.  He added: “Since the advent of democracy in 1999, this is the first time Yoruba people will speak with one voice without political or religious consideration. As a responsible and responsive government, it is our belief that security is significant and we won’t toy with it. “The current challenges of proliferation of small arms, ritual killings, banditry, youth restiveness, cattle rustling, insurgency and terrorism are daunting. In tackling some of these menaces, the governors officially launched the Western Nigeria Security Network in Ibadan on January 20, and a bill to form the legal framework was passed by state Houses of Assembly. “Amotekun will help the police to arrest, gather intelligence and information; arrest and prosecute criminals; tackle illegal mining; land trespass; cattle rustling; destruction of crops; trespass into farmlands; cultism; robbery, among others. Amotekun is not a substitute to the existing security networks, but a complement. It is not for Ekiti people alone, but for everybody. As long as you are resident in Ekiti, you enjoy the right to be protected; it is not for the indigenes alone.”