From Frank Ikpefan, Abuja  About 22 per cent of men in Nigeria aged 15 to 49 and nearly one-third of women aged 15 and 49 have no education, the 2018 Nigeria Demographic and Health Survey, has revealed. The NDHS revealed that the Northwest and Northeast had the highest percentages of both females (55 per cent and 57 per cent) and males (40 per cent and 47 per cent) with no education. The survey was carried out by the National Population Commission in conjunction with the National Malaria Elimination Programme of the Ministry of Health. It was funded by the United States Agency for International Development, Global Fund, Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, United States Population Fund and the World Health Organisation. The survey revealed that 14 per cent of women and 13 per cent of men have attended primary school. While analysing the survey in Port Harcourt during a media workshop on data driven reporting, the United Nations Children Fund’s (UNICEF) Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist, Maureen Zubie-Okolo, said only 11 per cent of women and 17 per cent of men have more than secondary education.  The dialogue was organised by UNICEF in collaboration with the Child Rights Information Bureau (CRIB) of the Federal Ministry of Information and Culture to discuss the 2018 NDHS report. She said education was one of the most important aspects of social and economic development. The survey reads: “Nearly one-third of women age 15-49 in Nigeria have no education, compared to 22 per cent of men aged 15-49. Fourteen per cent of women and 13 per cent of men have attended primary school. “Four in 10 women and 48 per cent of men have attended secondary school. Only 11 per cent of women and 17 per cent of men have more than secondary education. “Education is one of the most important aspects of social and economic development. Education improves capabilities and is strongly associated with various socioeconomic variables such as lifestyle, income, and fertility for both individuals and societies. “Urban residents are much more likely than rural residents to be educated. Twenty percent of females age 6 and older in urban areas have no education, as compared with 49 per cent of females in rural areas. “The proportions among males are 13 per cent and 37 per cent. “Twenty-four per cent of women in the highest wealth quintile have more than a secondary education, while only 7 per cent have no education. “On the contrary, 75 per cent of women in the lowest quintile have no and less than one per cent have more than a secondary education.” 