Being the world’s deadliest infectious killer, Tuberculosis (TB) causes devastating social, economic and health problems in the country, killing 18 people every hour. By implication, TB kills at least 432 people daily and about 160,000 people yearly in Nigeria. Nigeria is one of the countries with the highest burden of the disease globally; the country is ranked sixth in the world and first in Africa among TB burdened countries. According to the 2018 Global TB Report, Nigeria is among the 30 high burden countries for TB, TB/HIV and MDR-TB. This was disclosed by the Country Director of KNCV, Dr. Bethrand Odume, during a press briefing on the Pre-World TB Day by the Stop TB Partnership Nigeria, on Tuesday in Abuja. According to him, “Despite significant progress over the last decades, Tuberculosis remains the world’s deadliest infectious killer, and require acceleration of efforts to end TB epidemic globally and in Nigeria. “Each day, nearly 4,500 people lose their lives to TB and close to 30,000 people fall ill with this preventable and curable disease. Global efforts to combat TB have saved an estimated 58 million lives since the year 2000 and reduced the TB mortality rate by 42 per cent. However, the emergence of drug-resistant TB poses a major health threat and could put at risk the gains made in efforts to end TB. “In 2018, about 1.4 million people globally died of TB-related causes including over 205,000 children. And over 95 percent of TB deaths occurs in low and middle-income countries especially Africa. READ ALSO: ‘Tuberculosis kills at least 432 people daily in Nigeria’ “Nigeria is one of the countries with the high burden of disease globally. According to the 2018 Global TB Report, Nigeria is among the 30 high burden countries for TB, TB/HIV and MDR-TB. It ranked 6th among the 30 high TB burden countries and first in Africa. “TB kills 18 Nigerians every hour. Also, forty-nine Nigerians develop active TB, seven of which are children, every hour. One of the major challenges of TB response in Nigeria is attributed to low TB case findings both in adult and children. This is as a result of low TB treatment coverage and poor knowledge about TB that influence the health seeking behaviour of people. “To accelerate the TB response in countries to reach targets Heads of State including President Muhammadu Buhari, came together and made strong commitments to end TB at the first-ever UN High Level Meeting in September 2018.” In line with this year’s theme: It’s time to end TB in Nigeria, Odume, therefore, called on all stakeholders to come together and collaboratively work towards ending the TB epidemic in the country. Also, National Coordinator, National Tuberculosis and Leprosy Control Programme (NTBLCP), Adebola Lawanson, said: “TB burden is so huge in Nigeria and a lot of efforts have gone underway in the past to see that we fight this disease. The federal government in collaboration with partners provided quality patient-centered prevention treatment care and support that is totally free for the control of TB. “Specifically, we have increased the number of diagnostic facilities which we call the gene Xpert machine, which has the capacity to diagnose not just the simple TB, but the complicated one which is called the drug-resistant TB. “Over the years we started with a few numbers and right now we have over 399 scattered all over Nigeria. We know that Nigeria is big so our aspiration is to have one machine per local government. “Right now, we have 40 percent of our local government covered, however, right now there are efforts by donor organisations and the Federal Government to increase this number so that we can get to the universal health coverage that is being at articulated by the health sector. “We have expanded the treatment of TB services to 12,254 healthcare facilities around the country – public and private. in addition TB services have been included in the primary health care minimum Health Care package to ensure achievement of universal health care to ensure access to care,” he said.  