The Nigeria Police and officials of the Nigeria Geological Survey Agency have begun investigation into last Saturday bomb explosion that occurred at Eleyewo village, Akure North local government area. Report of the investigation is expected to be submitted next week. The team is to unravel cause of the explosion following claims by NASRDA that it was a meteorite that dropped from space. Speaking to journalists after meeting with Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, Deputy Inspector General of Police (Operation) Abdulmajid Ali, urged Nigerians to be patient until the report is out. Ali stated that the high powered team set up by the Inspector General of Police, Adamu Mohammed, to investigate the blast is working in collaboration with the NGSA. “We are going to carry out discreet and forensic investigatiin to ascertain what went wrong. By next week our report will be out.” On the activities of scavengers at the bomb site, Ali said the experts knew what they are looking for. Director-General, NGSA, Dr. Kaka Imam, said his team has been on ground since Saturday picking evidence. “The police team were on ground. Our team were also on ground that Saturday to collect samples. All the items we have collected will be subjected to forensic analysis. At the end of the day, scientific report will be produced.” A statement by the State Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Donald Ojogo, said the team informed Governor Akeredolu that they have taken sample of the soils and that the committee would come out with acceptable report. The Commissioner quoted the Governor Akeredolu as saying while he was not against other views, particularly that of a university Don from OAU, who claimed that the incident was caused by an Asteriod, he is still relying on the initial information he got from the Commissioner of Police, Undie Adie. “I am not saying the Professor was right or wrong and I am not making any conclusion. I have been speaking with some experts and they said if we were unable to found debris of the shattered truck within one kilometer radius from the spot of the incident, that shows the incident was not caused by explosive devices. “Already, the debris of the truck that was carrying this explosive devices that created a very large crater on the Express road, have been seen. This is not new, there are similar incidents with pictorial evidences. “I am also relying on eyewitnesses’ accounts, particularly, the driver, who drove the vehicle and who is currently recuperating at our State Teaching Hospital, Akure. “I am very sure that if it was asteroid, the NASRDA would have picked this when coming to earth. This is not what we can hide. I am already in touch with the Minister for Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu.” The Governor, however called for calm, urging the people to wait for the results of tests being carried out on the site of the blast.