  There are indications that Governor Darius Ishaku’s long absence from Taraba State may have caused deep disaffection both within his party, the ruling Peoples Democratic Party and the opposition which recently threatened to initiate an impeachment proceeding against him. It would be recalled that Ishaku returned to Taraba State on Thursday, March 19, 2020, after 87 days absence, a development that created so much political tension in the northeast state. On his arrival in Jalingo, the state capital, Ishaku however explained that his prolonged absence was due to the injuries he sustained in a domestic accident he had when he fell down from the staircase in his house in Abuja. Prolonged tension, verbal crossfire As would be expected, the long absence caused political tension in the state. According to reports, Ishaku was last seen on December 19, 2019, when he presented the 2020 budget to the Taraba State House of Assembly. He was believed to have left the state on December 22, 2019. The opposition therefore expressed concern that the governor moved the machinery of Taraba State Government to Abuja FCT for such a long time without transmitting power to his deputy, Engr. Haruna Manu. This, they alleged, affected governance gravely in the state. For example, the main opposition party in the state, All Progressives Congress (APC), through its leadership, called on the governor to hand over to his Deputy, and continue with his medical attention in Abuja. Bar. Ibrahim’s Elsudi, the party chairman in the state, also accused the governor of delaying governance in the state due to his absence even as he alleged that nothing was functional in the state during the absence of the governor. As more Tarabans echoed APC’s concerns, leading to threats of impeachment of the governor, analysts said even the ruling party in the state may have had a major crack. Reacting swiftly however, Manu, the deputy governor, dismissed as “mischievous,” APC’s concerns and threat. A press statement signed by his Press Secretary, Mallam Lawan Sani Kona, said: “The Taraba State Deputy Governor, Engr. Haruna Manu, has noted with dismay the smear campaign being orchestrated, especially in the social media by some mischievous persons that Governor Darius Ishaku should handover to him as Acting Governor”. “Deputy Governor Manu has dissociated himself from such agitators and condemned their actions in the strongest possible terms,” he said. Ishaku’s political party, the PDP and the state House of Assembly also came to his defence. The party described the call by the opposition “as baseless.” In a press statement signed by the PDP State Publicity Secretary, Inuwa Bakari, the party said the claims by the state chairman of APC that nothing is working in the state was “diversionary and a figment of imagination.” In its reaction, Taraba State House of Assembly swiftly passed vote of confidence on the governor and his deputy. The Speaker of the House and member representing Lau State Constituency, Hon. Joseph Albasu Kunini, while reading the resolution which was signed by two third of the house said “By every standard, the governor and his deputy have performed above average within the present circumstances; this house, as a representative of the entire people of Taraba State, hereby move and let be resolved by honourable members of the house that a vote of confidence be unanimously passed on the governor and his deputy Haruna Manu”. The house also debunked any alleged claim of non- performance, due to absence from Jalingo, the state capital, by the governor. Acknowledging the tension his long absence has caused in the politics of the state, Ishaku, on his return did not waste time before explaining why he refused to transmit power to his deputy. According to him, “it was not necessary because I came back to the country without any waste of time.” Reacting to the explanation, Yukubu Ibrahim, a political activist and retired teacher told The Nation this week that “Ishaku’s prolonged absence amounted to infraction. It will take more than defensive denial to mend the walls that his absence created. How can he stay away from the state he was supposed to govern for so long and simply claim that he was receiving reports? A leader is supposed to stay with the people in order to feel their pulse. That is what his absence denied us. Even the lame excuse that his critics are not sympathetic to his health conditions is incredulous. Why are they afraid of transiting power to the Deputy Governor during that period since they claimed that all was well between them? Even a fool can read in-between the lines. Does it not seem reasonable to say the governor would have rested better if he had allowed the deputy to act with full powers? We all know why he refused that. To all of us here, staying back in Abuja was just like being abroad? Have you asked yourself the huge cost of relocating Taraba Government House to Abuja and subjecting government officials and everyone that wanted to see the governor to the risk of traveling to that distant land,” he asked, adding that “within the 87 days, governance truly suffered in Taraba State.” But Ishaku, on his return rebutted the claim that governance in the state suffered setback during the period of his absence, even as he expressed thanks to the forces and institutions that came to his defence. They included his deputy, Manu, and the state House of Assembly, under the leadership of Speaker, Hon. Joseph Albasu Kunini. On the allegation that he abandoned governance of the state, he said “It is not true that nothing was working during my absence. “I was getting reports everyday about what was going on in the state and everything was working correctly in spite of my absence.” Between PDP and APC It seems the intrigues that trailed Ishaku’s absence are true reflections of the politics of Taraba State, where the ruling PDP and the main opposition, the APC, have been engaged in a prolonged power battle. Our source, Yakubu Ibrahim, said the power game between PDP and APC in the state, which can be traced to the intrigues that led to Hajiya Aisha Alhassan’s resignation of her position as the Minister of Women Affairs and the maneuverings of 2019 Governorship Elections, “was heightened when President Muhammadu Buhari chose Engr. Saleh Mamman from the state as the Minister of Power. The game gathered momentum when the APC-led Federal Government decided to resurrect the Mambilla Hydro Power project located in Sardauna Local Government Area of Taraba. Since then, PDP and APC in the state have been locked in the frenzy battle of getting the credit for the progress so far made in the project. While followers of APC in the state praise Mamman, who reportedly redesigned Mambilla Dam from 2,000 megawatts to the present 3,050 megawatts capacity, PDP supporters said nothing tangible would have been done on the dam if Governor Ishaku had not thrown his weight on the federal government project. Given the power game, a concerned observer and stakeholder of Taraba State politics, James Tyopuusu, told The Nation that “if Ishaku wants to douse the tension and the cracks obviously created by his prolonged absence, “he should avoid fault finding, self-justification and the blame game. That way, he can use the opportunity created by the unfortunate incident, the accident and his return to re-unite political forces so as to move the state forward,” said Tyopuusu. It remains to be seen how far Ishaku can go in this delicate task. 