A Lagos-based lawyer, Mr. Ehis Omoijiade, has petitioned Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and the Commissioner of Police (CP), Lagos State Command, Hakeem Odumosu, over an imminent breakdown of law and order at Ishefun in Ayobo/Ipaja Local Council Development Area (LCDA). In the petition titled: “Possible Breakdown of Law and Order at Ishefun, Ayobo over Street Naming”, Omoijiade said that he was acting as a solicitor to his client, Mr. Tony Amokeodo, on whose express instructions, the petition dated February 20, 2020 was written. The lawyer, in the petition, alleged that the Ayobo/Ipaja LCDA Chairman, Yusuf Sakiru Adisa, ignored a directive from the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs over street naming controversy at Ishefun. According to him, the street in dispute, Tony Amokeodo Street, was duly registered by his client since 2011 and has remained the same name until sometime in August 2019 when he (Amokeodo) received a call from an official of the council informing him that the council has no record of his registration and that the street belongs to Mr. Olamilekan Ola. “Our client immediately took steps by writing a petition to the Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, being the supervising ministry. In response to the petition, the ministry invited the stakeholders for a meeting at the ministry. “At the end of the meeting, the council was directed by the ministry to restore the street to Mr. Amokeodo. Surprisingly, Your Excellency, the council in a complete disregard to the directive of the ministry, invited our client to another meeting vide a letter dated February 10, 2020 through his lawyer. “The Executive Chairman, Alhaji Adisa, was reminded by Omoijiade, who stood in for Mr. Amokeodo and other workers of the council of the decision reached at the ministry, but the LCDA boss insisted that the council would carry out its own investigations. The LCDA boss told the stakeholders of his decision to visit the street in dispute and another meeting was thereafter fixed for February 19, 2020 as the date for the visitation. “After the visit to the street in question, the council chairman invited the traditional rulers of the two communities – Ishefun and Ijon Camp David- for a meeting with the stakeholders, which further gave credence to our earlier claim that the street registered by our client is under Ishefun community not Ijon Camp David where Mr. Olamilekan Ola’s house is situated. The traditional rulers identified two letters both given consent to by Mr. Amokeodo and Mr. Ola and for the registration of the street. “Surprisingly, the executive chairman in a most bizarre and one-sided posture awarded the street to Mr. Ola. “Your Excellency Sir, we hold the view that the executive chairman’s decision to carry out a separate investigation outside the one already conducted by the ministry was just to formalise a premeditated decision. “We state further that the chairman turned logic on its head when he awarded a street belonging to two communities to one person without the consent of the traditional ruler from the other community, which can result in a communal clash between the two communities if not properly managed. “We have since been informed that Mr. Ola has boasted that as an official of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), they controlled things in Lagos and there was nothing they could not achieve in Lagos. “We, therefore, urge you to urgently intervene, as possible breakdown of law and order is imminent on the grounds that a chairman of an LCDA lacks the power to impose one community on another,” the petition read. Some of the residents, who sought anonymity because of the sensitive nature of the matter, confirmed to reporters that the street in question was indeed named after Tony Amokeodo, but the pole indicating the name was removed by unknown persons. They also confirmed that the two communities (Ishefun and Camp David Ijon) were separated by a gorge, serving as the boundary between them, which was later filled in order to close the boundary. Contacted, the LCDA boss, Adisa, denied having any interest in the street, saying that all he wanted was for the two parties (Amokeodo and Ola) to appear at a meeting with the LCDA officials. Adisa admitted that the traditional ruler at Ishefun issued a consent letter to Amokeodo, but claimed that Ayobo Ipaja LCDA had no record showing that Mr. Amokeodo paid into the LCDA’s account. He, however, appealed that Amokeodo should make himself available for the issue to be resolved, to avoid a breakdown of law and order in the community.