 This is the most effective and curative solution for those diagnosed with fatty liver disease and any type of Hepatitis. It has helped more than 13,694 Nigerians. Hepatitis is a liver disease caused by the hepatitis virus which could be easily contracted from a victim through contact of body fluids. This could be either through sexual contact, blood contact or even saliva. It could also be contracted if by chance a person consumes the waste passed out from a carrier. Slight contact with these fluids can transmit the disease. For some people, hepatitis B infection becomes chronic, meaning it lasts more than six months. Having chronic hepatitis B increases your risk of developing liver failure, liver cancer or cirrhosis — a condition that permanently scars of the liver. If not treated with caution, this hepatitis virus would gradually grow into a more severe state which is known as the Hepatitis B. This is the state which results in scarring of the liver, abnormal functionality of the liver and in due time, liver cancer. These symptoms would only show after the hepatitis A has developed into hepatitis B and I’ve had my own share of it. So if you value your health, I’d suggest that you take a few moments to answer the following questions: · And finally… · If you answered “YES” to any of those questions, then you’re exactly in the right place… Because you could be suffering from the effects of a “FATTY LIVER” or HEPATITIS And …if not treated fast may lead to liver cancer or liver failure  Hi, my name is Mr JOHN AKINTOLA and I’m a Nutritionist, Author and Expert on the subject of Fatty Liver. I’m also a Former sufferer of Hepatitis And Fatty Liver,But Thank God I overcame this Virus With The Help Of This Wonderful Product, And I Now Have A Testimony To Share, Click The link>>>www.solutionstore.info and you’ll see more details you need to know.   It’s time to STOP treating your body like you don’t care about it. Your liver is the second most important organ you have, carrying out over 800 vital functions all day, every day! But right now, your liver is not working as it should, because it CAN’T… It’s full of fat, toxins and inflammation – and this is causing all of your current symptoms, like tiredness, muscle fatigue, headaches, brain-fog, skin discoloration, difficulty sleeping, abdominal pain, weight gain, bad skin, jaundice, and much more! And it’s no use wasting your time and money trying to treat these symptoms with painkillers, medication, caffeine or energy drinks to get you through each day. These things MASK your symptoms and alleviate them for a few hours ONLY. They do nothing to fix the underlying cause – which is your fatty liver. Right now, I’m giving you the chance to reverse your fatty liver, claim back your health and start enjoying your life again! So the next question you’re probably asking yourself is this… “How Much Will It Cost Me To Get My Hands On Fatty Liver Remedy/Hepatitis Remedy?” Well, before I answer that, let me first ask you a question. How much would you pay to look and feel better and healthier than you have in years? How much would you pay to finally say goodbye to your current health complaints, and feel like your “young” self again? How much would you pay to have a perfectly working liver that guarantees your health for years to come? … To potentially add years to your lifespan, so you can watch your grandkids grow up and ENJOY your retirement in excellent health? Would you pay N150,000  to achieve such transformational and life-changing results?
What about N100,000? That’s an absolute bargain, right?   2 Bottle of Hypoglycemic Herbal Capsules and 1 Bottle of MEBO GI Capsule 4 Bottles of Hypoglycemic Herbal Capsules and 2 Bottles of MEBO GI Capsules 6 Bottles of Hypoglycemic Herbal Capsules and 3 Bottles of MEBO GI Capsules If you know the cost of liver transplant you wont say this is costly The Most Recommended Treatment Is the Complete Treatment Pack, You’ll Get Your Desired Result with That… I encourage you to order the complete treatment pack of either of Fatty Liver or Hepatitis Remedy because you’ll get the desired result with that and you won’t have to keep spending money on this again. Complete treatment is the BEST for either Fatty Liver or Hepatitis  EXAMPLE OF THE SMS:  Please in case you call and the number is busy, kindly send me a text message and i will reply you. Due to demands, the phone number is always very busy.