 The Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB) has introduced its Online Assets Declaration System (OADS) for public servants. It said the platform was created to ease the rigours involved in assets declaration by public servants and to avert corrupt practices in the public sectors. This measure is in line with the review of the Bureau laws by the National Anti-Corruption Strategy (NACS) 2017 to 2021 to ensure that the anti-corruption drive of President Muhammadu Buhari’s campaign is sustained. The Chairman, CCB,  Prof. Isah Muhammad, who spoke at a forum to sensitise stakeholders on the efforts made so far in Abuja, said the efforts had yielded positive results with the new initiative. He said: “Technology advancement has been prominent for the past two decades. Today, the world is transforming from analogue systems to electronic processes to enhance efficiency and better results. Therefore, the Bureau is doing everything possible to ensure administrative bottleneck is reduced to the barest minimum which will further instil transparency and confidence in our process.” Isah further said the CCB has put in place strategies to ensure this initiative succeeds. He promised that the Bureau will not relent in its efforts to curb corruption in the public sector and will not rest in its commitment to achieving its mandates. He stressed that the Bureau is ready to entertain contributions from stakeholders to ensure the country’s global corruption index ranking improves and the administration’s objective of a corruption free public sector is ultimately achieved collectively. He said the CCB is building stakeholders synergies that will further help win the nation’santi-corruption fight. Also, the Director-General, National Information Technology Development Agency, (NITDA), Mr Kashifu Inuwa Abdullahi, said considering the enormous nature of the mandate of the Bureau and work it has done so far and the demand of keeping the records of over five million public workers, there is need for all stakeholders to support the Bureau in order to enable them proactively tackle corruption in the country. He said the new initiative would enable public servants to declare assets from the comfort of their offices or homes and for the Bureau to have public servants records intact hence NITDA was partnering with it to build the right capacities and appropriate technology use to achieve the government’s desires. He however advised the CCB to adopt emerging  technologies, such as blockchain, cloud computing, geo mapping, and other cutting edge technologies for proper documentations, litigations, integration to other services.  According him, the adoption of Online Asset Declaration is a further testament of NITDA’s quest to ensure e-government services. “I urged the Bureau to go ahead with this project. As a regulatory agency, we are going to give you all the necessary supports to make sure you succeed on this project,” he said. He further admonished the CCB to ensure they make the application easier for people to have access to fill necessary informations. Also at the forum, the President of the Senate, Senator Ahmed Lawan, represented by Senator (Dr) Ayo Akinyelure commended the CCB for undertaking this novel initiative. He also applauded the partnership with the European Union (EU) Rule of Law and Anti-Corruption (ROJAC) project, saying it will no doubt aid in the fight against corruption in Nigeria. “The campaign against corruption is certainly not a days job. Problems that have eaten deep into the fabric of nations are always challenging to tackle. This is why we have to be meticulous in approaching it from the point of view of awareness creation and through the criminal justice system,” he said. Senator Lawan stressed that the bigger focus on the National Anti-Corruption strategy has given the country the opportunity to adopt tactics from different positions and these tactics will add up to tackling the menace. “I am confident that curbing or eliminating corruption is only a matter of time, going by the synergy of purpose. I do know that this is not an easy task to achieve but with collaborations such as this with relevant multi-lateral organisations like the European Union, United Nations, amongst others, it can only remain a boost and an added advantage”, he emphasized. The Senator then called on the President Muhammadu Buhari administration to consciously pay attention to improve the funding and budgetary provision of the principal anti corruption agencies in other to help them meet up with their set mandates. Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB) is an anti-corruption agency established in 1979. It is the first anti-corruption agency that was setup in Nigeria with the core aim of battling corruption in the Nigerian public service.