 A total of 1,885 new students of the Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education, Oto, Ijanikin, took the oath of matriculation. Addressing the students at the college premises last Thusday, the Provost, Prof Bilkis Lafiaji-Okuneye, thanked the government for finding her worthy as the ninth Provost of the oldest tertiary institution owned by the state. She also thanked her predecessors and the immediate past Governing Council for leaving behind legacies upon which she could consolidate. She promised that her administration would be anchored on openness and an all-inclusive government. “The fulcrum of our administration shall be effective leadership that is participatory and transparent. With this, the administration shall drive promotion of innovative teaching and learning, encourage research-based development, provide conducive learning and teaching environment and create adequate welfare for the staff, and improve on financial sustainability of the college. Further, it is our determination to promote result-based management and evidence-based accountability through sustained policy dialogues and more enduring partnerships among stakeholders. This is because strong internal coherence is sine qua non to quality performance of the college and its successful transformation into a globally competitive teacher institution. According to her, the matriculation ritual is to familiarise the new students with the dos and donts, as well as highlight the core values that define the institution’s vision. She urged them to fastract all process of registration, attend classes regularly, stay out of trouble and exhibit a high sense of discipline. “I congratulate the matriculating students of today.  It is not a coincidence that you are the first set of the matriculation oath before me as Provost. It is a new beginning of greatness and good things for you all, so keep the matriculation oath you have just taken which is an evidence of your promise to be of good behaviours. “I assure that you have come to the right institution. As students of this great college, the development of all your potentials to become the best you can is our desire.  Make the best of this rare opportunity. Attend lectures, tutorials and other academic programmes at the appropriate time.” 