 A leading brand in alternative power and consumer electronics products, Blue Gate, at the weekend showcased its Online UPS Series to dealers and stakeholders across the country. Speaking on the occasion in Lagos, its Executive Director, Amauche Chidozie, said the company has paid a lot of attention to processes and quality control mechanisms and built a track record of excellence, durability, and reliability through its quality assurance procedures. She said: “We are constantly pushing ourselves, engaging in robust research and re-engineering our processes to fully meet all the standards and trending power backup lifestyle needs of our customers. We are passionate about what we do and love to be of service to our dear customers and business associates. So, we are here as part of our service delivery to meet directly with our partners, show them more capacities of our Online UPS Series, and get their feedbacks on how we can serve them better.”  Its Product General Manager, Rolland Emuobor, also said  Online UPS Series are of advanced power backup technology that supplies and maintains continuous electricity supply direct from batteries at zero transfer time to connected equipment, while allowing users ample time to switch to preferred power source. Emuobor said: “Our Online UPS series are rightly pocket-friendly, easy to use, maintain and a necessity for mission-critical equipment used in our diagnostic centres and hospitals. No one would want the equipment in a hospital theatre, for instance, to fail because of little time lag in power outages or changeovers during surgical operations. The UPS ensures that there is no nano-second time lag when changing to any power source. The product further provides assured guards to other industries and sensitive appliances such as digital printers, automated teller machines (ATMs), servers, PCs, Air Traffic Control  Rooms, elevators/lift/escalators, among others.’’ The products, he said, range from 3 KVA to 100 KVA with  designs that caters to modern living, convenience, and durability. Unlike other UPS products in the country that offer less in terms of customer after-sale services,  Bluegate products are very friendly and offer customer-centric after-sales services with guarantees, he added. 