 An indigenous firm, MG Vowgas Limited, based in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, has been commended for building a specialised airboat that has the capability to move on land and on water. The boat, known as air ballistic boat, can be fitted with arms and ammunition to fire on land or sea. It was built with local content. This feat has won the company  the “Local Content Company of the Year” Award, at the just-concluded Nigeria International Petroleum Summit (NIPS). This achievement has made stakeholders to clamour for government to support indigenous companies to do more. One of such calls was made by Lawrence Nwachukwu, a player in the oil, gas and maritime industries. According to him, if indigenous firms are supported by the government and its agencies, they would be in a position to provide the much needed employment opportunities for many Nigerians presently roaming the streets for non-existing jobs. “If in its own little way, this company can do this, imagine what it will do if it is given the desired support by the government. I can tell you without any fear of contradiction that not only MG Vowgas Limited but other firms would be in a position to address the numerous challenges posed by unemployment in the country. It will also address the issue of insecurity in the country. This is due to the fact that anyone who is fully engaged in any meaningful venture will not be readily available for insurgency, banditry, terrorism or any other form of criminal activities in the country.  That is why I am of the view that the government should do everything possible to build indigenous capacity in all sectors of the economy especially in the oil and gas industry, as well as the maritime sector of the economy,” he added. The Group Managing Director of MG Vowgas Limited, Mr. Godwin Izomor, said firm is ready to partner with the Nigeria Army to produce some of the equipment the military procures from overseas for its operations. He maintained that the firm has what it takes to deliver on its mandate, particularly in the production of the much needed specialised equipment for the military. The firm is also working closely with the Defence Research and Development Bureau (BRDB) of the Ministry of Defence to build ballistic missiles, submarines, satellite rockets and other specialised equipment for the military. His words: “We have what it takes to deliver. We have the facilities. We also have the personnel, Nigerians and expatriates. What we need is the support and encouragement of stakeholders particularly the government. I can assure you that when we get the support from all stakeholders, the sky is the limit for what we want to achieve in the months ahead.” To ensure the sustainability of the company’s operations, Izomor revealed that the Nigerian personnel in the company are already understudying some of the expatriates so that with time, they would be in a position to effectively take over their present roles and responsibilities in the firm. According to him, some military chiefs have also visited the company’s facilities and were impressed by what they met on ground. “We demonstrated what this boat can do on land and water to his entourage. The military chief and his entourage saw what we have on ground at our facility and they were impressed by the strides we have made so far. Remember, this is a wholly indigenous firm. In line with the provisions of the Local Content Act, we source most of our materials locally,” he said.  