 It is possible to use bitter kola to improve several medical conditions for a short period. This might work for depressions, fatigue problems, atonic diarrhea, migraine, and other disease conditions.  Osteoarthritis is the degeneration of joint cartilage and the underlying bone that causes pain and stiffness, especially in the hip, knee, and thumb joints. It is a common form of arthritis. Bitter kola has also be deduced to be a potent antibiotic that could be effective in the treatment of HIV and AIDS due to its antibacterial, detoxification, and cleansing properties Since the emergence of sexually transmitted diseases, reputable scientists have been battling day and night to bring a permanent solution to the disease. Bitter kola provide the immune system with all the needed supports in order to protect one from attacks of harmful toxins and effective immune response against strange particles. This high amount of antioxidants found in bitter kola does not only help fight bacteria and other illnesses, it also helps the body to increase its immunity levels. With bitter kola impotent is an history because studies have shown that when it comes to the improvement of sexual performance, especially among men, bitter kola is king among all other suggested herbs. Bitter Kola does not only increase sex drive, it also improves the sexual performance of men who consume it. Research indicate that for the seed to be effective, it is advisable for the seed to be chewed some minutes before the intercourse. The fibers and lung tissues are not only strengthened when bitter kola is consumed regularly in a considerate amount, it also stabilises any other counter effect.  In addition, it helps in the maintenance of good respiratory tract as well as treating chest cold. It has a favourably high antioxidant content for a healthy body. Bitter kola’s benefit to lung properties are attributed to its high antioxidant content. Bitter Kola has been revealed to be a natural hunger suppressant and also increases the urge to drink more water. Regular use of bitter kola can help you reduce your weight faster than gym could. People that are placed on a special diet and wish to lose some weight can add bitter kola nuts to their meals and experience fewer food cravings throughout the day; using nuts as a snack can also help reduce hunger between meals. Kolaviron is an anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory phyto-chemical. Kolaviron is a major constituent of garcinia seed which helps in treating malaria. Studies have also shown that chemical constituents in bitter kola have anti-malarial properties. This is why traditional healers have for many years prescribed bitter kola for the treatment of malaria infections.There are no definite side effects of having this naturally occurring blissful plant. Glaucoma, known as eye pressure is a condition of increased pressure within the eyeball, causing a gradual loss of sight. Glaucoma could result in permanent blindness if left untreated. However, bitter kola has been found to be an amazing remedy for the eye. This is stated according to Lagos State University Teaching Hospital journal, “when bitter kola is eaten, at least twice a day, it could successfully reduce the eye pressure”. Kola nut functions as a dietary fibre in food as it helps in the prevention and treatments of health conditions that relate to the digestive system which includes but is not limited to bloating, constipation and other conditions that disrupt the bowel movement. Bitter kola have been found effective in stopping growing of tumours and cancerous disease in human body. Researches show that the presence of a chemical compound known as phytoestrogens in bitter kola is used for cancer treatment and reduce the growth of tumour cells. The caffeine content in bitter kola makes it a good stimulant or psycho-stimulants for the central nervous system; as it helps to improve awareness, mood and elevated mood. Nigerian women who experience infertility problems sometimes eat bitter kola to improve fertility. One of the things bitter kola is commonly abused of is its intake to prevent sleep which is possible because of its rich caffeine content, and when it’s taken regularly and in excess can at a point cause insomnia including other related problems such as stomach irritation, nervousness, restlessness, and more. This is one of the ancient uses of bitter kola which extend till the recent times. These nuts have been found to be medicinal since the olden days as natural remedy for chest cold. Bitter kola help to enlarge the alveolar sac and duct thereby providing relief for chest cold and prevent the symptoms of cold. The presence of caffeine in bitter kola also contribute to this effect but always consult the doctor before using this therapy because excess caffeine can cause adverse reactions. Bitter kola isn’t just useful for treating malaria. It can also be effective for individuals who have type 2 diabetes as a means of keeping their blood glucose levels stable. Studies have found that the seeds from the plant are capable of reducing elevated blood glucose levels. This makes it ideal for both treatment of type 2 diabetes as well as for any complications that can arise from the condition. Source: .concise.ng a