 The Vice Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos Central Senatorial District, Hakeem Bamgbola, has launched HAB Foundation. The launch was part of activities to mark his birthday at Ijeshatedo, Lagos. Bamgbola said the foundation was to give back to the society and bridge the gap between the rich and the poor. “HAB Foundation was founded about two months ago and I am very sure it will be more than this. We want to build a legacy that will outlive us. By next week, we are starting with health care, education and empowerment programmes. The health care project will be our starting point, while other projects will come afterwards,” he said. He urged youths to be upright and do away with cultism and thuggery because they are leaders of tomorrow. “The nation needs new ideas for the country to succeed and only the youth can provide that. They need to come forward and take over the mantle of leadership,” he said. Senator Oluremi Tinubu described Bamgbola as an amazing man, who is ever ready to serve his community. Represented by APC Lagos Central Senatorial District Women Leader Fadekemi Otitolaye, Senator Tinubu praised the dedication of Bamgbola to the well-being of the society, saying she is ready to support the foundation with an undisclosed amount of money. Former lawmaker Kabir Lawal described Bamgbola as a friend, a leader and a loving person. He urged youths to emulate him. “Fortunately enough, he was once a chairman in this local government and we all saw what he did when he was in office. If not for his good deeds when he was there, definitely most of us will not be here to celebrate with him. So, it is advisable that no matter the challenges you’re facing as a youth, you should have it in mind that there’s light at the end of the tunnel,” he said. Dr. Rasak Balogun of the Lagos State Security Trust Fund  described Bamgbola as a dependable person. “He’s a very honourable person. I find him very helpful to the community. When you are representing a community, it is important that you continue to give back and even on his birthday that is what he’s trying to do. I believe strongly that setting up a foundation is a very Herculean task and it’s not a one-time donation, so we will continue to support him because the gain is for the good of our people,” he said.