Following the declaration of two weeks complete lockdown of Ekiti State in order to contain the spread of Coronavirus pandemic, residents of the state on Monday embarked on panic buying of food items. The residents in numbers thronged the popular Bisi Egbeyemi and Erekesan markets, both in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital in order to stock up food and household commodities in the home. The sit-at-home order, which will take effect from Tuesday and lasts till April 14, has also prompted the sellers to hike their prices as there was higher demand for food items. Fayemi had on Sunday announced the directive, which will force the residents to stay indoors for 14 days with total restriction, except those on essential duties. At Erekesan market, prices of goods like pepper, tomato, fish, rice, meat and other essential commodities have soared, as residents rushed to buy the commodities and stock their homes while the restriction lasts. A bag of rice that was sold for between 17,000 and 17,500 has risen to between N19,500 and N20,000, while a fish that went for N400 per one now sells for N600. The costs of soup ingredients experienced the worst case scenario, as all their prices have gone up while the transport fare was also not left out. Those who spoke with The Nation correspondent in the markets said they engaged in panic buying in anticipation of uncertainty ahead of the initial 14 days of lockdown. An artisan, who spoke in confidence groaned over the high prices of food stuff, urging the government to do something to cushion the harsh economic realities occasioned by the pandemic. He said that she came to buy essential food items and other commodities, lamented that traders took advantage of the situation to increase prices, while traders described the situation as a blessing in disguise for them. Meanwhile, the senator representing Ekiti South Senatorial district, Mrs Biodun Olujimi, has appealed to Ekiti residents to comply with the order in their own interest. Olujimi expressed support for the Ekiti State Government’s dusk-to-dawn curfew imposed to prevent further spread of coronavirus in the state. Olujimi, in her solidarity message to the people of the state on Monday, while distributing palliative materials to government health centres, motor parks, palaces and other strategic locations across the state, said: “As government imposes a curfew, I want to ask our people to comply strictly with the dictates of government, adhere to proper hygiene, wash hands every time and maintain social distancing.” Items distributed included hand sanitizers, anti-bacteria soaps, anti-virus/bacteria soaked wipes and copies of educational handbills among other relief materials. Olujimi said: “This is beyond political affiliation, it is about life. Hence, to maintain a decease free environment, the order is necessary and mandatory. The essence is to help prevent further spread of COVID-19 in Ekiti and protect our friends, neighbours and vulnerable populations, please stay at home.”