  Continuous spread of COVID-19 across the globe is affecting the aviation industry as passenger traffic into Nigeria is dipping, The Nation has learnt. Investigations by revealed that of the 30 foreign carriers flying into and out of Nigeria, passenger load is on the decline with some of the terminal buildings becoming empty. A source hinted that some foreign carriers, including Qatar Airways, Turkish Airlines, Emirates, and Air Meridien are adjusting their flight schedule to avoid flying half-filled aircraft as passengers are staying off some destinations rife with the spread of the disease. An Immigration source hinted that data on movement of passengers into the country through the window of Visa-on-Arrival shows reduction in numbers of foreigners; either as visitors or tourists. The source hinted that between January and February a paltry 440 and 265 foreigners entered the country using the Visa-On-Arrival window. These numbers, the source hinted was a far cry from the number recorded in the past months before COVID-19 started ravaging global travel and by implication passenger traffic into Nigeria. The source confirmed: ”That is the implication of Covid 19 to business investors to Nigerian or ease of doing business in Nigeria. “Imagine statistics on visa on arrival is declining. We recorded 440 in January and 265 in February. These figures compared to what we had in the past shows fewer foreigners are coming into Nigeria using visa on arrival. “The traffic has been slow compared to before; so many airlines have communicated to us that due to technical issues, they are reducing or not flying, for example, Turkish, Qatar Airlines  and others for a while. That is what we are experiencing, you can see the hall is empty now. “The influx of our guests, the number is not much as before.” The source hinted that Federal Government’s curtailment and containment measures at airports was paying off. He said besides stepping up screening facilities for airport personnel enlightenment by Port Health officials has been ramped up. The source said: ”With the support the Federal Government gives us here, the awareness is always on the high increase both the officials and passengers at the airport, everybody is aware, port health services have been giving us professional support on how to implement the preventive skills and so on. “They always sensitise us and FAAN, too, as regards to these issues. In fact, the officers in the airport are properly informed and it is a continuous matter and everybody is alert. “Initially, when the Coronavirus  started there were agitation between the passenger and officers in the airport but now it is seamless, everybody is cooperating to fight that, formerly the passengers where looking at it, they are humiliating them here and there so because of the awareness that come all over from the government, the officers and the passengers are on the same page to fight that.’’ The source continued: ”Our embarkation form, the information there is very reliable and that is the bulk of the data for the passengers, one passenger manifest, so these are the raw data that give us a trace  to the passenger in line and it is really helpful. “We synergise with port health and other agencies that need that information on the passenger. The effectiveness of the report or the data is as a result of the migrants information data system implementation in the airport, very accurate and timely,with a touch of buttons, we get individual passenger details, their passport, their address and hard copy, everything tallies.” Besides efforts by the airport authorities and Port Health personnel, domestic carriers at not leaving anything to chance in protecting passengers and their crew. To spike this, Air Peace at the weekend introduced temperature checking for passengers before boarding its aircraft for any flight. The airline said the move became necessary as part of containment measures for the spread of deadly Coronavirus. Besides temperature checking for passengers, the airline said it is  disinfecting any aircraft before any flight, warning that passengers who refused to cooperate will be declined boarding and their fare refunded. Speaking in an interview,  its Safety Manager,  Captain Godfrey Ogbogu said the airline also introduced measures for protecting its numerous passengers and staff against the spread of Coronavirus. Ogbogu stated that all passengers of Air Peace would be subjected to a thorough hand sanitisation at the boarding gate. He revealed that any passenger whose temperature reads above 38 degrees, will not be allowed to board while a refund will be issued. According to him: “We wish to state categorically that any passenger who fails to cooperate will be declined boarding on any of our flights”. Assuring the passengers that these exercises will be seamlessly carried out, Ogbogu hinted that the passengers will not be inconvenienced in any way. The Captain enjoined all passengers to cooperate with the airline to this end, as the World Health Organisation, WHO, has declared COVID-19 a pandemic. He disclosed that the airline’s aircraft is extensively sanitised before flying each day.  Ogbogu said Air Peace is cooperating with the Federal Government in fighting the incidence of the pandemic. “We use this opportunity to thank all our customers for making us their airline of choice; the safety of our passengers and workforce is our priority, and this we shall pursue vigorously,’’ he said. On the foreign front international carriers including Turkish Airlines said it has taken steps to prioritize safety measures to minimize the effects and spread of COVID 19. Towards this end,  all Turkish Airlines planes , the carrier said are  now disinfected with substances approved by the World Health Organization (WHO) and aircraft manufacturers.The airline disclosed this in a statement. It reads : “ All surfaces passengers come in contact with, go through extensive cleaning processes by a dedicated special hygiene team. “We have taken extra measures since the beginning of the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) epidemic to minimize both its effects and spreading. Our foremost priority being the safety and well-being of our passengers and crew members”, a statement on the airline’s Website reads It went  on :” At the  point of passenger boarding, crew members monitor passengers while welcoming them on board and throughout the flight. In the case of a passenger showing symptoms of the disease, the passenger in question undergoes a medical check with the directives of the host country’s health authority. During flights, the cabin air  is repetitively purified with hospital-grade High-efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) filters. “The filtration system constantly disinfects the air of any harmful substance in the air during flights. “ All passengers are also required to complete the passenger self-reporting form distributed by the Federal Ministry of Health. “Items such as forks, spoons, glasses and plates used during meals, are also disinfected asides the regular washing routine. All fabrics and devices used onboard, go through an extensive cleaning process and are replaced with fresh sets for each flight. Since the epidemic, the Airline has increased the number of face masks, disposable gloves, sanitizers, and other disinfectants on its fleet of aircraft.” The statement also revealed that the airline prioritizes travel safety and is unwaveringly committed to working with local and international authorities to contain the spread of the virus. The airline’s statement further  reads:  “As the airline that always puts the travel security at the forefront, Turkish Airlines will continue to monitor the latest developments on the situation with the national and international health authorities and take appropriate precautions. As the World Health Organization declared the potential risk of the virus, we have been acting per the recommendations and instructions of the World Health Organization, IATA, and related national and international authorities since the first week of January 2020. “ In regards to flight schedules affected by the outbreak, the airline is determined to compensate customers. The statement read: “We would like to inform our passengers that due to the lowered load factors caused by the suspension of other routes, several of our flights to/from Nigeria will be undergoing cancellations in March. “