For the embattled embattled Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II, it would appear a season of probe without end. After a February 21 voiding of a recommendation to suspend the Emir, following  a probe by the Kano State Public Complaint and Anti-Corruption Commission (PCACC), the Kano parliament on March 4 raised another probe, as a news report in The Nation of March 5 put it, over Emir Sanusi’s “alleged violations violation of cultural, traditional religious norms and values of the people.” On the old PCACC charge, the Emir got off the hook.  The Federal High Court in Kano ruled that the Emir was not given an opportunity to defend himself.  But it appears the new parliamentary probe would likely not suffer such technical impairment. The Emir’s new accusers, the Kano State for Promotion of Education and Culture, a state parastatal and Mohammed Mukthar Ja’en Yamma, a goodly citizen — of culture and tradition? — from Gwale Local Government area, came prepared with videos to underscore their royal allegations.  Except the Royal father stayed off the House probe invitation, the charge of natural fairness might not be available to save the Emir, should the probe return a verdict of culpability.  It has only one week for its assignment. Aside from the rather strange allegations that an Emir, the custodian of culture and tradition falling short on traditional matters, the Kano PCACC is also bristling with a fresh charge.  It is hauling in a charge of alleged misappropriation of N3.4 billion, by the Kano Emirate Council under Sanusi’s watch. A Kano palace source told The Nation, on the Emir’s likely disposition to the twin-probes: “That I may not confirm to you, but you know that Emir Sanusi is a law-abiding leader.  He has not discussed the development with anyone of us; but I believe he may honour the invitation in person or send a senior palace chief who is capable of standing for him.” Now, given the apparent no-love-lost between the Emir and Governor Abdullahi Ganduje, are these fresh charges the real deal or only the voice of Jacob complementing the hands of Esau? Hardball is all for probity, integrity and accountability but it’s rather difficult not to regard the latest probes with a pinch of salt.  First: what would appear a rather flexible charge of “cultural offences” (Hardball’s own coinage) that on the surface appear neither here nor there; or the PCACC encore, which eerily looks like reopening a case a court had flung out. But whatever it is, Governor Ganduje will do well to stop distracting himself, with this ding-dong with Emir Sanusi.  This is because Ganduje, like Governor Rabiu Kwankwaso before him, is doing much to upgrade Kano’s physical and social infrastructure.  He should focus on that line. On Emir Sanusi’s side, the spectre of deposition by political authorities, appears real — the same fate that befell his grandfather, in the hands of the Northern Region government of his time. Should history repeat itself?  That would be a pity and tragic too.  This is because Emir Sanusi, outspokenness and all, is perhaps the most piercing traditional voice the North needs now, to always remind it; and help galvanize the region from its dire developmental deficits. Let the governor work with the Emir.  But let the Emir too be more sensitive in his outbursts.  Both Ganduje and Sanusi can form a winning developmental pair for Kano.  That would be a big deal for the North. 