A former Director-General of the Nigerian Institute of Advanced Legal Studies (NAILS), Prof. Epiphany Azinge (SAN), has said the country does not have enough lawyers to serve its population. According to him, the legal and other related services required by the nearly 120 million people cannot be met by the about 120,000 lawyers in the country. Azinge spoke during the ground breaking of the late Justice Chike Idigbe Law Faculty and eighth convocation of the Veritas University, Abuja. He said: “Nigeria is grossly under-prepared for legal litigations and other related services when the statistics of about 120,000 lawyers are compared to the nation’s population of nearly 200 million people. “There are so many yearning gaps here and there that I believe the law faculty through serious research can feel and we are happy that this is coming up. “Generally, we feel the more lawyers in the system the better, not just because they want to go to court to litigate but because there are so many areas lawyers can be useful in life. “Whether in the court system, whether in the academia, whether in the corporate world, whether in the administrative enterprises, whether in governance or in the National Assembly where you have so many of them holding sway.” According to him, the faculty would not only churn out lawyers but also give them a good moral quality in line with the Catholic university’s nature. He noted that Nigeria’s judiciary is passing through difficulty times and expressed confidence that the third arm of government with its in-built correctional mechanism and coupled with fresh law graduates with innovations, there is hope for the nation. “This is epical, memorable and historic in many ways, many burning issues would be interrogated and addressed because many young people in their formative stage would have their minds shaped for the future and of course some of the burning issues of our time would be addressed,” the senior lawyer stated. The head of the Idigbe family, Professor Oni Idigbe, commended the Veritas University for naming the law faculty after the late jurist, whom he noted contributed in so many ways to the growth of the judiciary. He said: “It is a honour to the family, an honour to the entire Asaba people and to those he impacted on when he was alive. Justice Idigbe was a reknown jurist and a very brilliant lawyer. So it is just fit that he is being honoured in the area that was so dear to him and had spent most of his life”, he said. He further stated that the faculty will help train young lawyers that would go back to practice law and make sure that justice is done in the country. “With time some of them will grow to become magistrate, judges at the High Courts, justices of the Court of Appeal and of the Supreme Court. So, everything starts with a little beginning and I am sure this will serve as a foundation to train more lawyers that would grow to strengthen the judiciary of Nigeria. “With the kind of training that they would have they would be forthright in whatever they do”, he added. Professor Idigbe noted that the gesture by the university is a call to the family to give more to the legal profession. He disclosed that the family boasts of two lawyers, one of them, he said, is Chief Anthony Idigbe (SAN)  and head of Punuka  Chambers with offices spread across Nigeria. “He has regular training for his lawyers. He has a team of lawyers in his chambers, well over a hundred all over the country and we are very well aware that he gives them adequate training and some of them have been elevated to judges and so in that little way, he is also contributing to the judiciary. “The Veritas University had named the late Justice Chukwun-weike Idigbe after its law faculty in recognition of his achievements as a Catholic jurist. The late Justice Idigbe was appointed a judge at the Eastern Nigeria High Court in 1961 and elevated to the Supreme Court in 1964. In 1966, while still serving in the Supreme Court, he was appointed the Chief Justice of the then newly created Mid-Westem region. However, in 1967 when the civil war broke out, he was caught up in the Biafra side having fled his home town which was under attack and ceased to be a Nigerian judge.