President Muhammadu Buhari has reaffirmed his administration’s commitment to ensuring that permanent peace and stability return to the Northeast. Speaking at the inauguration of the National Humanitarian Coordination Committee (NHCC) in State House, Abuja, yesterday, the President said the rehabilitation of devastated communities would soon begin. According to a statement issued by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, President Buhari praised the armed forces for their effort in tackling insurgency. “As a result of the mindless actions of the terrorists, many of our compatriots have been killed, maimed, or displaced from their communities. “This necessitated the efforts of this Administration to develop immediate interventions and measures to alleviate the sufferings of those affected, and to ensure their proper resettlement,” he said. President Buhari noted that the need to harmonise all humanitarian activities in the region for greater effectiveness informed the establishment of the Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development last year (2019). The President praised local and international partners for their assistance over time, assuring them of continued government commitment. “This government will continue to evolve ways of ensuring that all humanitarian actors receive the necessary support to carry out their activities safely, in line with established principles and taking cognizance of our national security imperatives,” President Buhari assured. The Nigerian leader added that it was in realisation of the need for a smooth working relationship that government, through the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, approved a “Civil – Security Coordination workshop to provide a platform for all the stakeholders, to deliberate and agree on frameworks and guidelines for civil security coordination in humanitarian action.” The President also praised the Armed Forces for their efforts so far, calling on them to intensify actions to bring an end to the insurgency in the country. “I wish to commend our Armed Forces for their commitment towards eliminating the remnants of Boko Haram terrorists and securing the affected communities for the resettlement and rehabilitation of affected populations. I urge our Armed Forces to put more efforts to bring the insurgency to a speedy conclusion.” Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajia Sadia Umar Faruq, who is also the chairman of the committee, said an estimated 2.2million people have been displaced in the Northeast. “This crisis coupled with coordination gaps in the humanitarian sector in Nigeria and clashes between security and humanitarian actors have brought about the existence of NHCC as one of the mechanisms of Civil-Security Coordination,” she said. The National Security Adviser, Maj. Gen. Babagana Monguno (rtd) will co-chair the committee.