Born into a family of a mix of politic and football, current chairman of Surulere Local Government Honourable Tajudeen Ajide found football first before politics, like his frontline grassroots politician father Yussuff Ajide, arrested him. Speaking exclusively in Lagos with Taiwo Alimi recently, Ajide explained why football will always find expression in his daily life and activities. “Football is my first love and though I have chosen politics to follow in the footstep of Alhaji (as he fondly called his late father), I will always be around football and do everything to support the game and its actors.” Ajide, who, made the declaration during the just concluded Hon. Ajide U21 Football Championship in Lagos, noted that football thought him the lessons he needed to learn as a youngster on the streets of Lagos and t better understand his community. “If you see the people that are around me and my friends, aside from politicians, you will see many ex-international and footballers. Most of them are my playmates and up till now we are still friends and they support me politically and I support them too.”  In truth, during the maiden edition of Ajide U21 Football Championship powered by Association of Proprietors of Football Academies of Nigeria (APFAN), scores of ex-footballers graced the event’s final led by President of National Association of Nigerian Professional Footballers, Tijani Babangida. Others are former Abiola Babes captain, Tajudeen Disu, Toyin Ayinla, Bremner Aladah, Abiodun Odejimi, Akeem Ishola, Harrison Jalla, Ganiyu Akanni, former Stationery Stores stars, Wakilu Oyenuga, Olumide Banjo and Ganiyu Ajide, Hon. Ajide’s younger brother and former Super Eagles’ defender. Former Eagles and Julius Berger coach, Joe Erico was also in attendance. Eagles’ ex-winger Babangida was full of praise for the Surulere LG chairman, commending him for his selfless contribution to the development of grassroots football in the country, as well as, his concern and supports for the welfare of Nigerian footballers. Ganiyu Ajide described his older brother as a kind hearted politician that has kept faith with his childhood friends and constituency and ready to support young players in his community. Ajide said the championship which he hopes to make an annual event is his little way of bringing smiles to these young players and expose them to competitive events. “Many of the ex-internationals and players are club owners, player agents and coaches and they must have seen a youngster that fits what they are looking for. I was able to go abroad because of my playing ability and that changed my life forever. That is the kind of ambiance I want to create for these young people to achieve their dreams; a chance to be somebody in life and change their family story for good.” At the end of the two weeks tournament with 12 teams and hundreds of players involved, Ify Babes emerged winners in an interesting final that went into penalty shootout after 1-1 draw with Puma FA. It ended 5-3 in favour of Ify Babes. Banjoh FA, a team owned and tutored by ex-Shooting Stars winger Kamilu Banjo,  won the third place match, defeating Phoenix FA 2-1 courtesy of a brace from one of the tournament’s revelations, 17 year old Ibrahim Omoola. The final match watched by an impressive crowd had the winners taking the lead early in the first half while Puma FA piled up pressure to equalize through the spot kick. Puma, however, had themselves to blame as they failed to take repeated chances begging for conversion. In the ensuing penalty kicks, Ify Babes converted all their kicks while Puma captain, who had earlier scored from the spot, threw away his second spot kick of the evening. “Football is my first love and I will depart from it. As a grassroots politician I have create opportunities for the youths in my constituency and football and sports in general is one way to go. Like I said, I am a living testimony of how sport can change the life of a young man coming from a humble background.” He added that he has other plans to revive the glory of sport in Surulere, home to two notable stadia in Lagos. “When I was growing up, Surulere is called ‘Sport city’ due to the avalanche of sporting events that happen here every day. The Surulere National Stadium hosted many international competitions as well as the Teslim Balogun Stadium. Surulere was the centre of sport in Nigeria and many youths like myself, Tajudeen Disu and his siblings as well as my own siblings benefited from it. I want to bring back that glory and my plans are well thought out.” Quietly, Ajide has also become the umbrella and meeting point for ex- Nigerian players. He has seen to it that ex-footballers who have fallen on bad time and battling fatal ill heart are provided with moral, health and financial support. Late Stationery Stores top player, Peter Anieke, Raymond King, Peter Fregene, and recently he supported Kadiri Ikhana to get back on his feet after hip surgery. “It is the least I could do. These are older colleagues that I looked up to in our days. We call them ‘senior’ and if they need my help to get back on their feet I cannot look the other way.” As a patron of NANPF, Ajide has also become a unifying factor for all players. “What I have been preaching to my colleagues is the importance of unity among Nigerian players. I tell them that disunity is partly responsible for the downward trend of football in the country and the need to come together to build the sector. Sport is the only sector where Nigerians coming from poor and middle class homes can make fame and fortune. The likes of Teslim Balogun, Segun Odegbami, Austin Okocha, Tijani Babangida and many more can attest to that. See what Anthony Joshua has achieved through boxing. There are many more like that looking up to us to create a conducive atmosphere for them to excel. And that is what posterity will judge us for,” added Ajide.