Birthdays bring back memories. Retired diplomat Dapo Fafowora’s 79th birthday on March 29 drew attention to his multidimensionality. An old boy of CMS Grammar School, Lagos (1954 -58), Fafowora had joined the Nigerian Diplomatic Service in 1964 after graduating in History from the then University College, Ibadan.  He earned a master’s degree from University of London in 1966, and a doctorate from Trinity College, Oxford University, in 1972.   He served as Second Secretary, Nigeria High Commission, London, from 1966 to 1968.  He was Ambassador and Deputy Permanent Representative of Nigeria to the United Nations from 1981 to 1984. Fafowora is a former president of the Association of Retired Career Ambassadors of Nigeria (ARCAN), which is a testimony to his distinguished professional life as an ambassador. He is a former Director General of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria.  A Fellow of the Nigerian Academy of Letters, he is the author of   Lord Lugard’s Political Memoranda and the Development of Indirect Rule in Nigeria; A History of the CMS Grammar School, Lagos (1859 – 2009); A Venture of Faith (An Official History of the Cathedral Church of Christ, Lagos (1867 – 2007); and Lest I Forget: Memoirs of a Nigerian Career Diplomat (2013). Our paths had first crossed on the editorial board of The Nation.  I got to know Fafowora better when he agreed to deliver the inaugural Herbert Macaulay Gold Lecture in 2017. I coordinated the event. He helped to turn an idea into an event. He chose the topic: “Herbert Macaulay and his relevance to the excellence of Lagos.”  While we prepared for the event, which took place at the Lagos Country Club, Ikeja, Lagos, on May 25, 2017, we shared life beyond the boardroom.  It was an unforgettable time. I benefitted immensely from his immense experience. A man of striking decency and integrity, Fafowora deepened my understanding of decency and integrity. When he was leaving The Nation editorial board in January 2018, after 11 years of dedicated service, two months before his 77th birthday, Fafowora was the centre of attention in the newspaper’s boardroom at its head office in Lagos, which became a stage for valedictory tributes to him. Fafowora was also retiring from column writing. It is worth mentioning that Editorial Board Chairman Sam Omatseye had said to Fafowora on the occasion: “We have enjoyed your presence here over the years. You have enlightened us with your wisdom and taught us that age is not just a number. We cannot thank you enough. You have equipped us with your experience, we are going to miss you and please don’t forget us soon.” Fafowora’s autobiography, Lest I Forget, is worth quoting: “From 1991, twenty years ago, when I started writing with The Guardian, I have maintained a regular column in three different newspapers. In that period, I have written well over 300 articles, some of which were published by me in 2001 in my Selected Essays and Speeches on Nigerian Diplomacy, Politics, and Economics, to mark my 60th birthday. The publication was so successful that it soon ran out of print. “I have, on occasion, thought that I should stop writing as it is intellectually demanding. But I have not been able to do so as nothing gives me a greater pleasure than writing… Over the years, I have also had the distinct pleasure of being invited, both at home and abroad, to give public lectures on relevant public issues. In 1989 I was invited by the Confederation of British Industries (CBI) in London to speak on the Nigerian industrial sector. I have had the pleasure of giving public lectures at the University of Ibadan, the University of Ife, the University of Lagos, the Lagos State University (convocation), the University of Ilorin (convocation), the University of Benin, the Redeemers University, and the National Institute of Policy and Strategic Studies, at Kuru, in Jos, among several others, often freely. “I have also received invitations from the Foreign Ministry to attend and present papers on Nigeria’s foreign policy. When Ojo Madueke was Foreign Minister he consulted me often on Nigeria’s foreign policy. I have sometimes been paid some honoraria in appreciation of my efforts, although this has never been my main consideration in writing. Over the years I have had the privilege of giving over 100 such public lectures at various fora. “I have on occasion been offered gratification to present a particular point of view in my column. I have had no hesitation whatsoever in promptly rejecting these offers as demeaning and a gratuitous insult to me. I cannot assess the value of my contributions to public debates over policy in Nigeria. But my writings have helped me in clarifying my own thoughts about public policy in Nigeria… ”Early in life, I set myself some objectives, of which the most important were my intellectual and moral development. I believe that I have achieved those two objectives. I have also achieved personal success in my public career with which I remain satisfied. I have, of course, always been interested and committed to Nigeria’s political and economic development. I have tried through my public articles and lectures to influence public opinion in a positive manner.  When I have held high public office, I have tried to the best of my ability to act solely in the public interest. I detest tribal politics and have attacked it at every opportunity. I considered it bad for the country. “I believe that, on some occasions, I have, through my public lectures and newspaper columns, been modestly successful in steering some major public policies in the right direction. A former secretary to the federal government once told me that a policy decision by the government was reversed after he had read my newspaper article. In all the public offices I have held my aim has been to lift Nigeria to a higher level. I am proud of my public service record. I have not compromised my moral principles or pubic career in any way. This gives me enormous satisfaction.” As he enters his final year as a septuagenarian, and prepares for his years as an octogenarian, I wish him many happy returns.