Will Nigeria ever get out of the clutches of truck/trailer accidents? ADEYINKA ADERIBIGBE writes that only a holistic approach can bring the needed respite  FOR about 24 hours, between last Wednesday evening and Thursday, Lagos was locked down by a massive gridlock due to a petrol-laden tanker that fell and exploded on the long bridge on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. It was one accident too many. In the last three months, there has been an upsurge in the frequency of trailer/tanker accidents on expressways and major arteries not only in Lagos, but also across the country. The impact of the lockdown was so profound that the Lagos State Government directed its Vehicle Inspection Service (VIS) to step up its activities with the hope of ending the incessant carnage on the roads. Sympathising with residents on the discomfort resulting from careless and reckless drivers, the Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr. Gbenga Omotoso, said while the government would continue to encourage investors to come into the state, it would not tolerate anything that would not promote the safety of lives and property. The accident left traffic tailing on to the Third Mainland Bridge, Agidingbi, Ikeja, and even Oregun, with many living along the expressway sleeping overnight in the traffic. Often, gridlocks attending such accidents are as a result of the recklessness of road users, many of whom drive against traffic in their bid to beat the congestion, thereby messing up the entire routes. A road safety expert, Mr. Patrick Adenusi, who lauded Lagos for its readiness to cooperate with other state governments and agencies to arrest the rising incidence of truck accidents, said other factors outside regulations might be at the root of incessant truck/trailer crashes. Adenusi, founder of Safety Without Borders, said the age/maturity of most truck drivers were suspect, even as the equipment they use were aged and at best derelict. “You do not need to be a seer to know that some trucks are accidents waiting to happen. This is because most of the trucks on our roads are well over 35 years and have passed their age of usefulness, becoming instead carcasses on the road,” he said. For Adenusi, resolving the accidents involves a more holistic approach that will encourage truck owners to re-fleet in order to ensure the safety of all road users. Emphasising that the road is a shared asset, Adenusi said fleet owners needed to understand that their vehicles should be in top shape for them to continue to ensure the safety of road users. Hermonfield Limited, a logistics firm, Managing Director Mr.z Tunji Olaosun said a lot still needed to be done if we were to rid the nation of truck/trailer accidents. He said tthe accidents had become the most prevalent, especially in the last one decade because of aging vehicles. “What you discover is that freighting has become the most endangered sub-sector of the transportation chain because of the use of old and deprecating trucks and trailers being used by many logistics operators. Notwithstanding whether or not the goods are insured before leaving the point of departure or not, freighting has become a major issue as a result of the aging nature of the trucks/trailers conveying these goods,” he said. For him, an accident involving a trailer/truck causes immeasurable damage not only to property and lives of other road users, but to the economic; to the one who hired the vehicle and the owner of the truck whose means of livelihood may be irreparably damaged. The Lagos State Sector Commander Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC), Mr. Hyginus Omeje, said the situation could not be otherwise as the nation relies almost exclusively on the road mode as a means of transportation of goods and services across the country. Omeje, who noted that about 90 percent of transportation needs are done by road, further observed that about 90 percent of the trucks/trailers (for either dry or wet cargoes) are aged. He said we might just continue to live with incessant accidents because the vehicles deployed in the roads by operators had passed their usefulness. He said while the FRSC have succeeded by about 70 percent in enforcing compliance on commercial and private vehicle owners to comply with regulations, the same cannot be said of trucks/trailers who have always escaped the law because they ‘are performing critical roles which sustains the economy.’ He said despite the series of parley with fleet owners, operators and other critical stakeholders in the last one decade, poor enforcements have remained the bane and has informed the increasing wave of accidents on the roads. He disclosed that recently, the FRSC Corps Marshal, Dr Boboye Oyeyemi, ordered a full scale enforcement of transportation regulations, adding that the Corps is more poised to commence strict compliance to agreed safety plans and measures for all categories of truckers whether dry or wet. He said the Corps would no longer look the other side while those with rickety vehicles continue to cause havoc around the country, adding that operators and owners would be expected to comply to the minimum standards while the Federal Government firms up arrangements involving the refleeting of all old and rickety trucks in circulation. Besides the rickety state of most vehicles, another area needing urgent attention is the issue of little or no training by truck/trailer drivers. Findings, according to Omeje, have revealed that most drivers graduated from an apprenticeship or motor boy system. He said: “Many who end up driving trucks started as motorboy, who begins by watching their driver move the vehicle. Gradually, they would be asked to move the trucks when they get to the holding bays and from there the drivers begin to ask them to come behind the steering for sometime, from where he would be given a truck, or move to another truck owner. Only very few of them have gone through formal driving school, where they would be taught the rudiments of driving.  “Besides this evil, we have also discovered that many of them drive under the influence of alcohol, drugs and other substances. When the mind is hazy and visibility is blurred as a result of such influences accidents, are bound to happen.” He said the Corps as part of efforts aimed at sanitising the trucks sector of the logistics chain has made it mandatory for anyone who intends to be a professional driver driving trucks and trailers to undergo a FRSC approved drivers training institute. ‘’We equally made it mandatory for anyone after five years to come for retraining so that they could update their skills and knowledge about what is permitted and permissible, while it has deployed breathlisers to catch anyone who is operating under the influence of alcohol and other drugs. Omeje, however, noted that the end is almost in sight for trucks/trailers with Federal Government’s investment on the railway line. “With the eventual haulage of goods from the ports by the train when the project is completed, there would be  a remarkable shift in the over concentration on the road as the train would move those cargoes to the inland ports across the country from where trailers and trucks would take them from there to the warehouses or depots for which they are designated. What this means, according to Omeje, is that the trailers, which  run round the city and do inter-state shuttles, would be reduced to the last-mile shuttles – from the dry port or the owners’ warehouse. ‘’This will invariably reduce the pressure on the road and even on the trailers. With the eventual take-off of the inland waterways, there would be even more greater relief on the roads as people would be able to make use of barges to take their cargoes from the port and it can go by barges to the eastern and even to the Northern part of the country with ease. ‘’Before all these coalesce however, the Corps as the lead agency on road safety, has a very huge responsibility to sanitise the trucking system and ensure that the nation is rid of rickety vehicles, which he described as moving coffins on the roads,’’ he said. He said the Corps would continue to partner states like Lagos and others across the country with the purpose of ensuring that sanity is restored to the roads, thereby making the roads safer for all road users. He said the Corps would continue to rely on stakeholders to drive sanity on the roads, adding that the support of critical stakeholders which has driven sanity in the past would be further strengthened to ensure that road users, including the truck and trailer drivers, play their part is bringing  a lasting solution to the issue of trailer accidents on the roads.