Emma Elekwa, Onitsha  Chairman, Police Athletics Association, Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG) Zubairu Mu’azu, has adjudged the
2020 Nigeria Police Games in Anambra state as the best ever in the history of the games. Mu’azu made the ascertion in Otuocha Stadium, Anambra East Local government Area of the state during the just concluded games in the state. The AIG, who is also a member, Sports Planning Committee of the fiesta, said his team, on arrival, had expressed fears over the ability of the state to host the competition in view of the available facilities until the government intervened. He said: “When we first came into the state, we were skeptical of the state hosting the competition. “But you can see that Anambra state has successfully hosted the games because we’re having the best police games the force had hosted. “The football games have been completed by all the zones and so far so good.”  Mu’azu reiterated that the primary target of organising the games was to set new standards, stressing that such goal had been achieved. “I make bold to say that we’ve achieved the purpose of organising the competition in almost all the games. ” At the end, we’ll be expecting to produce not only national, but international players because the standard is very high,” he posited. He applauded the state government for the successful hosting, just as he commended the people of the state for their hospitality and cooperation. Commissioner of Police, INTERPOL, Garba Umar, said the biannual competition was a platform provided by the Force to fish out talents capable of representing the country both at the national and international fiestas. Umar, who doubles as Chairman, Football Association for the Nigerian Police and Security Adviser to the Nigerian Football Federation (NFF) said invitations were extended to various football clubs across the country to the games to hunt for talents. “Nigerian Police team has come of age and we have enough footballers including the likes of Julius Aghoghowa and Mary Onyeali. At the end of the competition, we’re sure to get those to represent the country,” he stressed.