Students and workers of Moshood Abiola Polytechnic (MAPOLY), Abeokuta are living in fear. Reason? Three students and a lecturer died within 20 days.This is worrisome. The fear created is making many to seek divine intervention FASILAT OLUWUYI, an HND 2 student of MASS COMMUNICATION of MAPOLY, reports:  Students and workers of the Moshood Abiola Polytechnic (MAPOLY), Abeokuta are in grief.The institution,  in an  unusual way, lost three students and a lecturer within 20 days. It is worrisome. The 2019 graduates – Stephen Soetan;   Muritala Olokode and Temilade Momoh – just completed their Higher National Diploma Programme (HND) and were waiting to be mobilised for the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC). First to go was Soetan,  a Computer Engineering graduate, who suffered a cardiac arrest while playing football with his friends. Soetan, who died on February 27, was a promising rapper and the former social director of his department. Next was another graduate from the Department of Accountancy – Muritala Olokode – who died on the fourth of this month, after complaining of headache repeatedly. Four days after, another graduate of Mass Communication, Temilade Momoh, bid the world farewell. Momoh died in the hospital after she was sick for about two days, CAMPUSLIFE learned. Like Soetan and Olokode, Momoh was also awaiting the defence of her final year project when she was snatched away by the cold hands of death. Momoh’s death brought her friends and colleagues to tears. She was described by many as ‘very jovial’. While the institution was still mourning the trio’s demise, hell was again let loose when, a day after, a lecturer in the Department of Architecture, Ajibola Oderinlo, kicked the bucket. Oderinlo, an architect, CAMPUSLIFE learned, was described as a father to many of his students. Lecturer speaks on Oderinlo’s death Oderinlo’s colleague in the same department, Peter Solanke, described the deceased as a great man who will greatly be missed by all and sundry. Solanke told CAMPUSLIFE that he was very close to the deceased whom he described as an upright man that upheld the truth always. “He was an upright man that detested lies a lot, “began Solanke, “by nature, he was hard-working, intelligent, dedicated and trustworthy, just name it. “Hardly will he hold any grudge with anybody. If he says it is over believe me it is over, unless that person feels somehow guilty again. In fact, he will be the one that would even say: “I have even put the issue behind me; let’s forget about this thing.” Solanke said Oderinlo was an alumnus of MAPOLY, adding that he was also one of the second set of students to graduate from the department. He said it would take a long time before the department could replace the deceased. “I don’t think we can ever have that kind of man again,” Solanke lamented. “He is more or less the oldest not in terms of age now but years he has put into the department. Solanke said the deceased was running his PhD programme when death came calling. He disclosed that the deceased was a father figure to him without whom he wouldn’t have had the opportunity to be educated and get a teaching appointment. “He was the one that brought me up to the extent of me being given appointment here,” Solanke said. Solanke continued: “Depending on what one does in line with God’s injunctions, even if the person dies his children will never suffer. That is what I believe his children will enjoy too. “His last two sons are still in school. How will they cope? Don’t be surprised heaven will raise people to favour them because of the good work their father has done. I remember last Monday when we got to his house I wasn’t surprised his landlord was not aware of his brief illness. You need to see the manner the people were crying, including those that were even older than him. He joined that community not even up to four years.  “In one way or the other, people will still remember him. His vacuum cannot be filled. We lost a great gem. We lost a great man. We lost a great icon.”  Mass Com students’ candlelight procession for late colleague It was all tears on Wednesday last week as the Class 2019 of the Department of Mass Communication held a candlelight procession for Temilade to pay their last respect. The mourners were led by the president of the 2019 set of the Association of Mass Communication Students (AMACOS), Wisdom Ogbonna. It was an atmosphere of grief! Many of the students were decked in black. They repeatedly broke down in tears and sang dirges as the candlelight procession coursed through Oluwo to Panseke area of Abeokuta. Some of the mourners said Temilade had a ‘heart of gold’. A colleague and close friend of the deceased Akapo Elijah, described his late friend’s death as ‘shocking’. Elijah, who said the deceased was like a sister to him, recalled how she chose to serve as his campaign manager during electioneering period. He said: “Temilade lived a life but she didn’t deserve this. She was my campaign manager during my aspiration for department election. “How do I explain to people that Temilade is dead? How do I tell my family that the lady I introduced to them as the first lady I met in MAPOLY is dead? “She told me to help her with her project. Temilade sent her boyfriend’s photo to me for an artwork. I told her I won’t charge her. I didn’t even know that she’ll not wait to see the work. “Her mother was not informed about her death because her mother has high blood pressure. Her mother saw her the day she came back from school but she didn’t know that was the last time she would see her.” Elijah described life as vanity, admonishing people to be good to one another in any position they find themselves. “We don’t know what tomorrow holds; even today is not certain. Let’s live our lives well. “Who are we to question God? I know that today Temilade is no more but her spirit lives on,” Elijah added. Similarly, a former public relations officer of MAPOLY Student’s Union, Johnson Idowu, also described the deceased as someone who longed for the good of others. Idowu said it is saddening that death took her away at her prime. He said: “It is so saddening that a young blood that the family is expecting to be a glory was untimely snatched by the cold hands of death.’’ Idowu continued:”Temilade is someone I will say has a heart of gold. We were very close when I was aspiring as AMACOS president even though the person with whom I was contesting was her cordial friend. “She told me categorically she does not play hanky-panky. “She is the type of person that freely expresses how she feels. “To the entire part of the class, this is something that is sad. We cannot but express how depressed we are, but above all, we thank  God on her behalf.” Campus fellowship body embarks on prayer session The Joint Christian Campus Fellowship (JCCF) MAPOLY chapter, has held a prayer session for the institution to avert further premature death. The prayer session tagged: MAPOLY prayer invasion, was held at the polytechnic Sport’s Centre. Addressing CAMPUSLIFE, the JCCF president Deborah Bankole, said the prayer was a call to all believers on campus to pray for the institution as well as the students. She stated that the prayer was also organised to underscore to students the essence of prayers at all time. “The prayer wasn’t held based on emotion for those that lost their lives; but as a call to all believers in the institution to gather and pray against recurring deaths among students,” Bankole said. Former president of JCCF Emmanuel Babadele, who was equally in attendance, noted that the death of the three students was not the will of God. Said Babadele: “It is not an agenda of God for young ones to die prematurely. All students irrespective of their religions, should pray fervently for the institution and its progress.” He urged the management to support the campus fellowship body and other religious bodies to hold prayer sessions always.  No prayer yet, says Muslim students group The Muslim Students Society of Nigeria (MSSN) Mapoly Chapter, has said no prayer session is being organised as regards the issue yet. “For now no prayer session is being organised. I’ll let you know if we later make plans for one,” said the female president of MSSN Azeezat Ahmod. 