The Imo State command of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency has arrested two suspects for allegedly dealing in methamphetamine also known as mkpuru mmiri, ice or guzoro and cannabis sativa (Indian hemp), cocaine and heroine in Owerri, the state capital. The first suspect, one Gasike Amadi(30), who hails from Uburu Okpala in Ngor Okpala LGA of the state was arrested with 26.2 grams of methamphetamine and 9.7 kilograms of indian hemp while the second suspect, Kingsley Ehirim (33) of No 7 Odeagu street, Owerri was arrested with 3.5 grams of cocaine and 7.2 grams of heroine. Briefing journalists on Friday, the NDLEA Assistant state Commander, Operations and Intelligence, Mr. Raji Kayode said that the suspects were arrested Wednesday evening at their respective residence, following a tip-off. He said, “We have been trailing them following the information gathered about them. We decided to strike on Wednesday around 6:00pm and we got them. Our intelligent officers really did a great job”. Kayode however, noted that the mode of concealment was interesting as he added the engine of a 40’’ TV set was removed including the back of the screen and the space used to carefully conceal the illegal and heroine products. He said that it took the dexterity of the intelligent operatives of the agency to spot out the product, concealed in the big TV set . He said that the second suspect, Kingsley Ehirim’s human right was taken into consideration because of the agency’s respect to the Administrative and Criminal Justice Act, adding that the suspect was not to talk unless his lawyer appeared. He said, “We only respected the Act because it was stated in Act that a suspect has right to talk or remain silence because anything said by him will used against him in the court of law”. Fielding questions from journalists, the first suspect, Gasike Amadi said he was arrested on Wednesday, not up to 10 minutes his consignment landed. “I reside at Glo mast area located at Site and Services World Bank Owerri. That was where I was with the goods they brought to me when the operatives of the agency swooped and arrested me”, he added. He said that the goods were estimate at N40,000 adding that at the end of the selling them that he would make the sum of N60,000. Gasike Amadi, who said he is a security man at the Glo mast area noted that he used the business to argument his N10,000 monthly salary from Glo. The father of three who stated that he smokes Indian hemp said that he had been in business for some time, but that the one he was arrested with was the first business he dealt with the supplier.