 WHEN did you first realise you wanted to pursue a career as an entrepreneur/ designer? It was in 2015 when I quit from my last job. I realised that I have a great passion for fashion; that there is something I can do to improve my passion. How did you get your unique start into the fashion industry? I started from fashion school (Needlecraft Fashion School) as a beginner and from there the rest is history. Where was your first internship and what were the most valuable things you learnt? My first internship was at Luminee Couture. At that place, I learned new skills and how to apply them; I also learned to work hard. Who have been your biggest mentors and what is the best advice they have ever given you? My mentor is C.E.O Luminee Couture, AbiodunFolashadeTokunboh. The best advice I have had from her is to be focused on creativity, how to create new designs and being trendy at the same time. If you could go back and tell yourself one thing before beginning your career, what would it be? If I could go back and tell myself one thing before beginning my career, it will be ‘Chase after your dreams’. What advice do you give those who want to join the creative industry? My pieces of advice for those who are looking to enter the creative industry are: To be creative, always try to do a lot of research and to try as much as possible to showcase their knowledge and portfolio. What role do you think the social media plays in fashion today? Social media plays major roles because the platforms can be used to interact with clients. It is also a means of networking with others in the industry. Social media can influence designers in unique ways and this is changing the way many designers create their fashions. What are some of your biggest fears starting all of these business endeavours? My biggest fears are my inability to handle major work, having discovered that something had gone wrong, not being there for my loved ones and lastly if my work is not attractive to my clients. Where do you go for inspiration when working on new designs? I derive inspirations either through fashion magazines or through Pinterest, among others. What is your favourite part about being a designer? The fact that I can create my own specialisms and designs and that I can find inspiration everywhere. How do you want women to feel when wearing your designs? I want every woman to feel stylish, adored, confident, glamorous and more relaxed whenever they put on my designs. What is the hardest part about starting multiple businesses in this industry? Hardest part about starting multiple businesses in this industry is that you have to be more focused; you will spend some time away from your family members, commitment in running businesses and running it well is enormous. Most times, spouses don’t often understand and children definitely don’t understand why we are so busy all the time. Another is getting the right support staff. You can have a great business, but if you don’t have the right support staff in place you will never realise your potential. How was your growing up like; your family, educational background? While growing up, life was fabulous and cool, because my parents were there for me throughout my primary, secondary and tertiary education. I have a degree in Biotechnology. I had a normal life. One thing I am proud of is my potential, self-esteem and determination. How has your growing up contributed to what you are doing today? It contributed a lot to my career. Each time I remember where I am coming from, I always focus on my dreams. Once I’m determined to achieve my goals, nothing can stop me. I have also learnt to work hard right from my teens. How do you relax? I relax to do something I enjoy most whenever I reach my target at work. What is your philosophy about life? My philosophy about life is that be wise today so you don’t cry tomorrow; because the only thing standing between you and your dreams is reluctance. How do you think government can assist the fashion industry? Government can assist by providing an enabling environment and the right equipment. What is your definition of style? My definition of style is an effortless confidence in being yourself or the way you comport yourself together, according to your mood and how you want to project yourself. What changes would you like to see in fashion industry? I wish customers would appreciate how much had work goes into every garment and see that clothing should be more expensive than it is. Tell us some of your success stories as a fashion entrepreneur I have launched a clothing label (Adoremefit label). I am the C.E.O Adoremefit label. My current projects are red carpet dresses, reception dresses, wedding dresses, casual dresses and native outfits. I am also a fashion tutor; I train upcoming fashion designers. I was opportune to style some Nollywood celebrities for many awards. I’m currently styling The Anchor for Fashmode reality TV Show. I am a mother of three kids and a wife of Mr.Tabuko Emmanuel. My style of designing is creative and unique. Adoremefit Label is a fast rising emerging fashion brand, it is a fashion brand with so much potential. The brand was responsible for the beautiful designs worn by so many celebrities. We are known for our timeless and unique designs in all kinds of jewelry accessories and African laces and foreign designs. What else takes your time aside fashion? Trying to review all my works and keeping up with the family and also sorting out new designs online. What has life taught you? Life has taught me a lot; perfection is a myth, looks do matters, you will regret every opportunity you miss, making goals and temporary motivation is easy. Taking action is difficult. Every winner has experienced lots of failures at one time. Never compare yourself to anyone else; you should be your competitor, compete with your previous version and upgrade yourself every time. Experience always beats intelligence. Everything is temporary, finally money matters. What are the things that you treasure most? Things I treasure most include my salvation, my family, my career and my friends. What is it you won’t do in the name of fashion? Dressing immorally is what I can never do in the name of fashion. What is your message to women as we commemorate the year’s International Women’s Day? The International Women’s Day is celebrated this month annually across the world. This year the theme for International Women’s Day is, I am Generation Equality: “the Generation Equality campaign is bringing together people of every gender, age, ethnicity, race, religion and country, to drive actions that will create the gender-equal world we all deserve. Don’t let anyone tell you you’re weak because you’re a woman. There is no limit to what we, as women, can accomplish. For women and the girl-child whose rights are being violated I will urge them to speak out so that they can get help and adequate support for their voice to be heard. To all women out there I enjoin you not to give up, individually, we’re all responsible for our own thoughts and actions – all day, every day. We can actively choose to challenge stereotypes, fight bias, broaden perceptions, improve situations and celebrate women’s achievements. Collectively, each one of us can help create a gender equal world. Your final word? I believe what you wear is how you present yourself to the world, especially today when human contact are so quick; fashion is instant language.