 THE number of persons being traced for having contacts with COVID-19 (Coronavirus) carriers has risen from 4,370 to 6,000. Also, the number of infected persons remained at 111 on Monday afternoon before Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde revealed his positive test. Director-General of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu, stated this on a television  programme on Monday. Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Muhammed last Thursday said  the country had “4,370 people of interest ,who are returnees from Europe  that submitted wrong addresses on arrival at the nation’s international airports.” Ihekweazu said:” “This few weeks will also help our team and the Lagos State team, to have access to the contacts that are living around Lagos and around FCT (Federal Capital Territory).  We are following over 6,000 contacts of these 111 cases across these two cities and others.. “Every time we have a new case, we had about 50 to 60 contact that we then have to follow every single day for 14 days. This is one of the reasons why the President  took the very difficult decision to lockdown some parts of the country. “It is not just to stop movement, but it is to enable us and our teams – the Lagos State team and FCT team, to reach the contacts, keep them at home, and make sure that they are supported. And it  also to see if you can buy more time to get ahead of the cases.” “We expect cases of COVID-19 to rise as we improve capacity to detect and test. Our laboratories are activated to function 24/7. “We appeal to Nigerians to work with us in compliance with the measures instituted by the President .” The NCDC boss, who stressed the  need to prevent further transmission of the pandemic disease, noted that the President’s  speech  on Sunday was  a call for Nigerians to come together. He expressed optimism  that the measures that have been implemented would work in curbing the spread of the virus. Urging Nigerians to bear the few weeks of pain that would come, Ihekweazu said the country had been lucky to not have had too many severe cases of COVID-19. He disclosed that NCDC has so far   tested well over 2,000 people and had also increased the number of laboratories in its network. He said: “Everyday, NCDC is improving the turnaround time. We are being bogged down by people who do not require the test. So we have to manage demand. We have to focus on those who need it the most. “The duration between testing and results depends on several factors. But, it is between 24 to 48 hours. Our target is to get results out in 12 hours The NCDC DG added that the success of the measures put in place to contain COVID-19 would depends largely on the willingness of Nigerians to work with his  team. “Our team is working round the clock to improve turn-around time for testing in all our six molecular laboratories” “We aim to scale up to 13 labs in next three weeks. In progress- Abakaliki, Maiduguri, Kano, Sokoto, Port-Harcourt, Jos and Kaduna States,” he said. Ihekweazu  said  the laboratories would also provide diagnostic support for a number of states in the country. He acknowledged not knowing if people who recover test positive again,adding that there were a lot NCDC does not know yet about the disease. He, however, added that the NCDC ability to flatten the curve of COVID-19 will  depend on all Nigerians. “Our goal is to mobilise all available resources to tackle COVID-19. We remain grateful for the support we have received so far from stakeholders and  partners,” he added. As of 9pm on Monday there were 111 confirmed cases of COVID19 reported in Nigeria with two deaths. Currently, Lagos has 68; Abuja, 21;  Ogun , three;  Ekiti, one; Oyo, seven; Osun, two ; Enugu , two;  Edo ,two; Bauchi, two;  Benue ,one;  Kaduna, one  and Rivers,  one  .