 The All Progressives Congress (APC) has warned the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to mind its business over the governorship case in Zamfara State. The party, in a statement yesterday by its National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, said: “We raise serious objection to the attempt by the PDP to interfere in the Supreme Court’s decision to reserve its judgment in the Zamfara State governorship election matter. “We state emphatically that PDP has no business in this matter, as it is clearly an intra-party affair in which the APC is asking the apex court to review its judgment. “Nigerians will recall that our party had disagreement over the conduct of our primaries in Zamfara State for which a member of our party instituted a court case. “This led to an unexpected judgment leading to the quashing of our overwhelming victories in Zamfara State in the 2019 elections. “Meanwhile, it is an established fact that the Supreme Court had declared that they could only review their judgment to correct errors. So, we wonder why the PDP is shivering over this matter as if it is aware there can be error. “Our suspicion is supported by the PDP’s well-known crooked tactic of always crying wolf when they perceive that the rule of law, rather than impunity, is about to take effect. “Let it be known that the justices of the Supreme Court have never lacked the courage to act rightly even in the face of the PDP’s usual intimidation and blackmail. “For the record, the public should note that the matter before the Supreme Court has nothing to do with the 2019 elections in Zamfara State that were won by the APC candidates. It is important that the public is reminded that the results of the elections were duly announced and our candidates were declared as winners by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). “We need to state that the matter in the Supreme Court has nothing to do with the outcome of the elections where the PDP was clearly defeated. In other words, the Zamfara State case shares no similarity with either the Bayelsa or Imo case. “It is, therefore, irresponsible of the PDP to raise infantile accusation against the Supreme Court and our party. In this matter, PDP is an interloper and a shameless busybody. “We call on the judiciary to ignore the PDP’s antics and focus on ensuring justice in its ruling.”