  With world football locked down due to the ravaging Coronavirus and many leagues forced into suspension across Europe, Asia, Australia and Africa, Nigeria international Moses Simon has been speaking on how he and his colleagues in Nantes have been coping with life sans football. French president Emmanuel Macron on March 16, 2020, officially announced full locked-down, declaring ‘we are at war with the Corona virus.’ The details of the lock-down outlined tight controls over residents’ civil liberties unprecedented in peacetime. Residents will be required to download and fill a form online each time they venture outside or risk 38 Euros fine if they were  caught outside without permission. Not since World War 2 had France experienced such locked-down. The French league also suffered immediate suspension on March 13 with players condemned into their homes and occasionally coming out to attend to basic things. On the last count, World Health Organisation (WHO) has confirmed 414179 corona virus cases with 18440 deaths globally. Meanwhile, Simon, who is on season-long loan from Levante to Nantes, has spoken of how he has been coping amid the pandemic which has forced the French top-flight to a stop. The Nigeria international said  he misses football but happy to be with his young family. Simon, who has been busy on the social media posting inspiring ‘stay home and be safe’ messages as a way to encourage his friends and family members to support the global lock-down, said family and the internet has become his companion since the shut-down. “It’s not been easy worldwide. We cannot just go out or train outside. Europe is in a lock-down and it means there is no football for some time to come,” he explained. “ I’ve spoken to some of my colleagues and it’s the same. We cannot even visit our friends. For us (footballers) I must say it’s not easy because we have to stay fit. It’s not easy to remain fit indoor and some of my colleagues have been finding it difficult. They are complaining of boredom.” He is however, taking solace in being with his family-wife and baby daughter in this trying period: “This lock-down is an opportunity to be with my adorable wife and daughter. Since I moved to France, I don’t get to see them physically as often as I would have loved because they are in Belgium. “I go home once every month, but the lock-down gave me the opportunity to move back to Belgium to be with them. We have been together and taking care of each other. It’s been an enjoyable moments.” While still savouring the family time, Simon further wrote on his social account: “Thanks my queen for making home the happiest place to be. We love you and to all the strong mothers in the world” to mark last week’s Mother’s Day global celebration.” Equally speaking about the allure of the home fronts away from Covid-19 catharsis, Simon’s teammate at Nantes midfielder Mehdi Abeid stated he misses football after Ligue 1 was suspended due to pandemic. The Algeria international revealed he is using the opportunity to spend some time with his family but admitted it has been difficult for him without football. “For everyone to have to stay at home without going out it is difficult, but necessary,” Abeid told France TV Sport. “A footballer is often far from home and his family, at least now I see them every day, they have fun with me when I do my training sessions, and I play board games with them. “We fear that it will be long but we will adapt, I miss football a lot already but life and health is much more important than everything. “Many are in Europe and are in the same situation, so we are talking, it is perhaps more important than usual to stay in contact. “We have a WhatsApp group with the medical staff [at Nantes] and must send data from our cardio watch every day, even during confinement we work hard to be ready when the league resumes.” Nantes was 13th on the Ligue 1 table with 37 points from 28 games before the league was suspended. Away from Corona virus, Simon said he has found home in Nantes since moving over on a season loan from Spain in August 2019. Since missing the 2018 World Cup thanks to injury, he has found his grooves back in France following the unimpressive time in Levante. He has played 31 times and scored nine goals in all tournaments with seven assists. He also recorded a hat-trick in the 8-0 win over Paris FC in October. He said: “I’ve had God smiling on me since arriving last summer in France. I met great guys here and I chose FC Nantes because I think I have a lot to learn here because there is a very competent coach [Christian Gourcuff]. “My relationship with Kalifa Coulibaly is great, we met each other when we played at KAA Gent, it’s the first person I asked for information before signing, he told me good things and he did everything for me to sign here. I’m enjoying my stay here,” he added as he speaks more on stints with  Levante, life in Belgium and  his continued mission with the Super Eagles. LEVANTE The Levante move was supposed to bring back the good memories and at first I had quite a great time playing alongside and against the best in world football. I did not start playing quickly because I had to learn their tradition and language and had to depend on people there to share some ideas and try everything possible to concentrate on getting the job done. In spite of everything that happened it is a thing of joy, I feel so happy and I thank God for the opportunity given to me. You all know that La Liga is one of the best leagues in the world, so I am proud that I can play in the league that host some of the best players in the world and I hope that I can learn more from them. Playing alongside the likes of Lionel Messi is unbelievable and a thing of joy for me. Before now, we only watched him play and he was a joy to behold but having him on the same pitch with me playing against each other at Camp Nou was very great. NANTES Moving to France was a great decision because I think I have a lot to learn here because there is a very competent coach [Christian Gourcuff. My relationship with Kalifa Coulibaly is great; we met each other when we played at KAA Gent. He’s the first person I asked for information before signing, he told me good things and he did everything for me to sign here. On getting here Nantes managers treated me well and gave me the opportunity to play quickly against Amiens SC. It was a great match and I have settled down nicely, scoring valuable goals. HAT-TRICK It was team play but the hat-trick is special, special to me and the whole team. All my goals came in the first half and it kind of destabilised them to suffer more. I scored my first in the 22 minutes, while (Thody Elie) Youan netted the second about eight minutes later. Youan set me up in the 35 minutes for my second goal and the third came in 43 minutes. It was our biggest ever win in the French League cup and we all celebrated. It was an enjoyable moment. MARRIAGE My wife Ibukunoluwa is a great woman. Marriage has helped my game a lot. And the coming of our baby has further cemented our love. I know I have a peaceful home and being married and a father has an effect on my performance. I concentrate more on my game because I am responsible to some and I know that they are watching and praying for me. When I feel down and really don’t know what to do, I have a partner that encourages me and helps me calm down and focus on important things. Marriage has helped my game tremendously. WORLD CUP MISS I have put that behind me. It affected me because I was good for that team and playing well too. The manager had a plan for me before the injury set in. It was sad moment I felt sad about it. It took me a while to take it off my mind and I know that I would have another opportunity. I am young and playing well and I know the manager is watching. There is always a second chance in life and I believe in it. I’m going to get that chance again. I do not regret anything because there is another chance for me to be at the World Cup. I just need to keep my head up and play week in week out.  Nigeria has great players who are playing well all over the world, especially in Europe and they are young and have many years to put in playing top notch football. VICTOR OSIMHEN Osimhen is a great guy and coming to France has been great because I have hooked up with many of our players here. He’s like a brother and on my arrival, he called me and he told me he’s happy to have me here. We played a great match which we lost 1-0 to his team Lille early March and after that we embraced each other and wish ourselves well. It is a great reunion.