 WHEN it is time for the world to die, destiny will bring everyone – sinners and saints, the godly and the ungodly, terrorists and the terrorised, blacks, browns and whites – into the same bus. The air that binds us notwithstanding, technology has made it much more so, and ours indeed is a global village. Scientists have imagined things, sometimes borrowing from mere precedents. Conscious artists have sang from inspiration. Filmmakers have deplored sciences to make great fictions about the end of time. But since the real template no mortal knows, we shall continue to set the stage for the play to continue. As the pandemic COVID-19 currently threatens the world, you can bet that not only have relevant tools found themselves in the hands of professionals, the sit-at-home situation will give a speedy result. If and when we come out of this, people will make heroes of themselves as scientists, engineers, doctors, caregivers, musicians, filmmakers and what have you. When this happens, just know that the end of the world is not yet. I went back to seeing some of the apocalypse movies, and I see how modern trends have inspired our fears. From climate change and fear of environmental disaster to international aggression and nuclear warfare, wicked explosions, fire-breathing demons, some zombie swarms, consequences of genetic engineering, and some other wild imagination of pain, anguish, destructions and doom. Nollywood will always take its shot at different genres of movies irrespective of its strength on the subject matter. A 2009 Sci-Fi attempt entitled ‘Kajola’ by Niyi Akinmolayan may be about the unforeseen, but it remains what it is – futuristic. For most end-time stories coming out of Nigeria, religion, as it is the usual story resolutions remains largely the peg. For instance, a 2007 movie, 666 talks about Lucifer sending his minions out into the world to lead Nigeria into sin. Then, an innocent woman is impregnated with the antichrist who goes around terrorising citizens only for a pastor named Lazarus to stop him.  Capturing a situation similar to the scare of coronavirus around the world is 1996 movie entitled ’12 Monkeys’. Here, a deadly virus wipes out the world, causing a few survivors to go underground. The protagonist is tasked with traveling back in time to find the source of the epidemic in the hopes that it could be reversed. Directed by Terry Gilliam, a member of the comedy troupe Monty Python, the film stars Bruce Willis as James Cole, a prisoner of the state in the year 2035 who can earn parole if he agrees to travel back in time and thwart a devastating plague. The virus has wiped out most of the Earth’s population and the remainder live underground because the air is poisonous. Returning to the year 1990, six years before the start of the plague, Cole is soon imprisoned in a psychiatric facility because his warnings sound like mad ravings. There he meets a scientist named Dr. Kathryn Railly (Madeleine Stowe) and Jeffrey Goines (Brad Pitt), the mad son of an eminent virologist (Christopher Plummer). Cole is returned by the authorities to the year 2035, and finally ends up at his intended destination in 1996. He kidnaps Dr. Railly in order to enlist her help in his quest. Cole discovers graffiti by an apparent animal rights group called the Army of the Twelve Monkeys, but as he delves into the mystery, he hears voices, loses his bearings, and doubts his own sanity. He must figure out if Goines, who seems to be a raving lunatic, holds the key to the puzzle. Back to reality, the films to follow can only be a documentary of this strange and unique pandemic that has locked the world down as never seen before. It is no joke as diplomatic ties are on pause, tourism is dreaded, visiting is eschewed, economy dwindles, selfishness reigns, and terrorism is on truce. With this new Sheriff, only the internet appears to be keeping people together in what is now called social distancing. In some places, the entire citizens are in quarantine. The streets are empty, as the police are out to arrest violators. There is total shut down: schools, businesses, malls, stores, cinemas, libraries, churches and mosques. This no film; the ever-bubbling city of Dubai, France, Italy, Spain, Italy, U.S., U.K., are all closed. Nigeria is about to follow suit. There are more questions than answers. We are all in waiting… for time… to tell.