  The Vice Chancellor of the Federal University of Agriculture (FUNAAB), Abeokuta, Prof. Kolawole Salako, has debunked the allegation by one Ifemosu Michael Adewale that he( Vice – Chancellor) planned to assassinate him. Salako said he has no reason whatsoever to send killers after Ifemosu, stressing that on the contrary, it was Ifemosu who harbours sinister motives against him. He said what his accuser (Ifemosu) referred to as an assassination attempt on his life, was indeed a robbery incident which had been reported to the law enforcement agencies. Ifemosu Michael Adewale, 31, is a 200 level student of FUNAAB but expelled recently over alleged misconduct and had approached the Court to challenge what he considered as wrongful expulsion. Addressing reporters  yesterday at FUNAAB celebration building, Alabata, Abeokuta, Salako said Ifemosu had been ferocious in using online media platforms to blackmail and assassinate his character, stressing that he elected to address the press in order to refute Ifemosu’s allegations.  He added that this became necessary because Ifemosu appeared determined to harm him and the university without cause. He said: “Mr Ifemosu is a former student of the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta. He was expelled recently by the university, having been found guilty of gross misconduct. “I wish to state unequivocally that I, as a Vice – Chancellor, a father and a God fearing human being, have no reason whatsoever to send assassins to Mr. Ifemosu who I do not know personally till now and have never met in my life. I have only been seeing pictures of him on social media.” ”After Mr. Ifemosu’s expulsion, he decided to exercise his rights by approaching the court.  The university has no problem with that as he has every right to seek redress. “I am not after Mr. Ifemosu or anybody and will never be. The general public and all our stakeholders may wish to note that emerging facts indicate that what Mr. Ifemosu referred to as an assassination attempt orchestrated by Prof. Salako, a Vice – Chancellor, has also been reported as a robbery incident which took place in Apakila Camp area of Abeokuta on March 17, 2020 at about 1:23am. “The Vice – Chancellor, Professor Felix Kolawole Salako has found the allegation of assassination allegedly instigated by him according to Ifemosu Michael Adewale very traumatic as an academic, father and a community leader. “Other stakeholders are also usually engaged in dialogue to solve problems. However, we have noted that Ifemosu may be acting a script bigger than him, in a view of recent happenings on our campus. The Vice Chancellor wishes to state that his allegation may be a prelude to a sinister action to be unleashed on the Vice Chancellor by him and his cohorts. “We take cognizance of the recent campaign for funding by his group. This matter has been reported to appropriate law enforcement agencies.”