The Federal Government has said it is steadily bridging the gap of infrastructure needs in the country. It added that this is being done by a gradual process of repairs, renewal and construction on major highways. Minister of Works and Housing Babatunde Fashola (SAN) said this in Offa, Kwara at the commissioning of the rehabilitated 2.23 kilometres road within the Federal Polytechnic,
adding that “it has reached the schools.” Mr. Fashola added that the Federal Government has intervened in the fixing of now fewer than 43 internal roads within tertiary institutions in the country. He said that “to date 18 out of the 43 interventions have been completed and today we hand over this one in Federal Polytechnic, Offa as a critical contribution to support education.” Represented by Kwara Federal Controller of Works and Housing, Engr. Wasiu Atitebi, the minister said that with the interventions “are expressing a renewed enthusiasm with regard to attending classes because some defective roads have been restored to motorability. “And the point must be made that although this is a civil works project, it is an investment in education. It is un-debatable that quality education will be impacted by the quality of infrastructure and learning environment and those who doubt it should simply listen to some of the feedback from students in the schools where this type of intervention has taken place. “During the construction, 41 people were employed in the process, contributing to job creation initiatives of the government, and it is hoped that the school will ensure that this asset is used properly and not abused.” Earlier, Rector of the Polytechnic Dr Lateef Olatunji hailed the government for the intervention, seeking for more of such interventions. He said: “We would not cease to modestly request for more of this kind gesture as there are other feeder roads in the polytechnic requiring similar attention. “This road will be further cherished by the polytechnic community as it has not only added to the physical aesthetics of the school, but has also aided and eased movements to and from the polytechnic. “More importantly, it has given a psychological relief to the staff of the polytechnic who hitherto experienced excruciating movements on the road because of its former deplorable state.”