 The simmering war of attrition rocking the Kwara State All Progressives Congress (APC) has taken another twist, with two factions pointing fingers at each other. A faction led by the deputy chairman of the party in the state, Alhaji Abdullahi Samari, has accused the state APC chairman, Bashir Bolarinwa, of high-handedness in the running of the party. The group also accused Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, of diverting attention from the real issues causing the APC crisis in the state. Another group known as Kwara APC Integrity Vanguard (KAIV) and loyal to Alhaji Lai Mohammed and Bolarinwa described the aggrieved APC’s allegations as illogical, aimed principally to heat up the polity. Addressing reporters in Ilorin, the state capital, Samari said that the party had been enmeshed in internal schism occasioned by dissatisfaction expressed by a bloc of the state executive committee against the leadership of Bolarinwa.  He alleged that “unfortunately, rather than address the sundry issues that border on the lack of accountability, transparency, equity, fairness, sacrosanctity of the provisions of the party’s Constitution and our demand for same, a cabal within the party executive led by the Minister for Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, and Bolarinwa are deliberately diverting attention from the real issues and instead blaming some imaginary forces for the rising opposition against their autocratic leadership.” He equally accused the party chairman of financial misappropriation, recklessness and lack of fiscal discipline. “As at today, there is no evidence of a properly documented record of the party’s financial transactions. No records of inflow and outflow of funds, no evidence of compliance with the principle of internal control,” the deputy chairman added. “This failure to declare the good gestures of these donors made it difficult for the party to officially send appreciation letters to them, especially following the huge success the party recorded. Sadly, this has been the trademark of this individual throughout the political struggle in the state.” KAIV in a statement signed by its national coordinator and publicity secretary, Abdullahi Yinka Onimasa and Kayode Aliyu Bamidele, said the party leaders were acting divisive script of their sponsor,