By Taofeek Babalola  The League management Company (LMC) has demanded the withdrawal of Christian Mbah, the match commissioner, who was in charge of the ill-fated Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) Matchday 23 fixture between Nasarawa United and Katsina United on Sunday at the Lafia City Stadium. The call for his removal was as a result of the death of Nasarawa United defender, Chineme Martins who slumped on the pitch during the game and later confirmed died at the hospital. According to a letter written to the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), the LMC said Mbah from Enugu State Football Association failed to perform his statutory duty to ensure all requirements including medical personnel and equipment were in place before allowing the match to begin and for also failing to submit his match report within the stipulated time frame despite the aggravated incident from the match. The league body also pleaded with NFF to trim the number of match commissioners selected for matches and retain only those who have demonstrated high level of competence in enforcing provisions of the NFF Club Licensing Requirements.  “Other match commissioners are reminded that they must not start a match where the full compliments of medics are not available at the venue,” LMC added. Meanwhile, the LMC has amongst other stiff sanctions ordered that no matches shall be hosted at the Lafia Township Stadium, until medical requirements and measures stipulated in the league rules are fully complied with. Nasarawa United was fined N6m for breaching regulatory requirements regarding stadium health and safety protocols and personnel in the course of the match against Katsina United. The sum of N5m is to be paid within 10 working days and another fine of N1m for conduct capable of bringing the league to disrepute. The LMC also made a suspended order of six points deduction/forfeiture which will be activated should a similar breach occur before the end of the 2020/2021 season. Also, the club is required within 48 hours of the date of the notice, to either accept in writing, the summary jurisdiction and the sanctions or elect to be dealt with by a commission. 