It was a sad day for residents and shop owners at No. 171 Ohanku road near Iheorji in Aba South Local Government Area of Abia State as mysterious fire gutted 18-room building housing shops and individual apartments. The incident which affected every part of the building destroyed cement and zinc warehouse, clothing material shop, a furniture shop and an aluminum framing workshop. According to some of the residents who spoke to journalists on Thursday, the source of the incident which happened on Wednesday was yet-to-be-identified as at the time of the visit. Some of them who spoke amidst tears stated that the fire which has rendered them homeless and helpless also destroyed essential property and documents kept in their various rooms. Mr. Chukwuemeka Ogbonna, the landlord of the building said they were alerted when the fire was raging from an end of their building about 2 am Wednesday morning. Ogbonna said that they tried all that they could to quench the fire, but the fire persisted, which made them to call for help from members of the public. He said, “I was able to call the security people around who promised to call their office but before help could come from them, the fire was almost entering every area of the building. “I had to take my motorcycle to go inform Fire Service office, on my way, I was stopped by military men at a checkpoint on Ngwa road by Ohanku road. “And when they heard that my house was on fire, they urged me to rush and that they will come to help and when I reached Fire Service office, they followed me. “But before I could return to the house with Fire Servicemen, the whole building had been engulfed by fire. I was not able to take out a pin or one Naira.” The owner of an aluminum workshop, Mr. Godwin Oriaku whose shop was affected in the inferno told reporters that he could not retrieve any item from the shop by the time he got to the scene. Oriaku disclosed that he lost about N2.2 million in the inferno which includes the cost of his drilling and cutting machines, aluminum products, and other goods. Mrs. Nkechinyere Nwabueze, a tenant of the building said she was only able to take her six children out of the building before their apartment was gutted by the fire. Nwabueze who said that the lost huge a sum of money in the inferno called on government and well-meaning persons to come to the rescue of her and the children as they have been sleeping in the open since the fire incident. Ezekiel Obasi, a cement dealer said that his shop with fresh goods delivered on March 14 amounting to N2.6 million were all lost. He said he and his family of three and a pregnant wife needs help to survive this very devastating incident. The victims of the fire incident used the opportunity to beg government and other well-meaning Nigerians to come to their rescue as they are helpless following the loss of their property to the inferno.