From Olokooba Abdulwasiu  Students are to pay N500 or N5000 for late registration at the Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto (UDUS), depending on the time of the registration. The management through a circular released on Tuesday, last week announced an extension of registration for the third time with the charges, depending on the time of payment. However, some students have described the new levies as ‘exploitative’ and  ‘inconsiderate to students’ plight’. One of the aggrieved students, Dan Adam, described it as a way of exploiting the less-privileged students. He believed the fine would majorly affect poor students, noting that hardly would students from rich background delay in paying for registration on time. “To me, I strongly disagree with the school on this. It is a way of exploiting only the poor. I believe there is no rich student who could not have sorted out his registration,” ‘Adam, a 400-Level student of Law, said. Also, Harajat (full name withheld), expressed similar sentiment, admonishing the authority to review its stance by either reducing the charges or removing them totally.  She said: “I blame the school for not being considerate to students’ struggles to pay their school fees. I beg the school to reduce the charges or remove them totally if possible.” Despite being a victim, AbdulAziz Olademiji, applauded the decision, describing it as a means by which more development could be driven. “Even though I am a victim of this, I will still praise the management for imposing sanction like this. This is what other schools as well do to bring development into their school. I think UDUS also needs this, Oladimeji stated.” Oladimeji further hinged his inability to pay on time to his I-don’t-care disposition to deadline. He said with the new rule, he and people of his ilk would henceforth come to terms with the reality that new times are now here in UDUS. “For someone like me, I should not say money is the problem. Students are already addicted to no deadline for registration. For instance, I personally thought the management would not apply that (deadline) rule when they fixed a date for this session.  It is now very clear that management is now determined to enforce that directive.”