Damian Duruiheoma, Owerri Imo State Governor, Senator Hope Uzodinma has called on the leadership of the House of Representatives to wade into the crisis rocking the ruling Progressives Congress with a view towards resolving it. Uzodinma, who received in audience, the Speaker of the House, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila and some Principal Officers of the House in his office Monday, urged the leadership of the lower chamber to do all within their power to stabilize the party. “I invite you not to fold your hands and allow the challenges in our party to continue. We need a stable party, and we need to show Nigerians that we are organized as a party and that their mandate given to us must be protected. We don’t need to be rough; we have to convince Nigerians that we are guiding the government and party”, Uzodinma said. The governor called on the members of the party who are aggrieved to sheathe their swords, stating, “A winning team is a winning team and we must follow due process in everything we do both as a government, in the party and even outside the party. The rule of law governs democracy and we must work together to protect our democracy”. He extolled the leadership qualities of the Speaker, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila with regard to enforcing sanity and restoring the dignity of the House of Representatives and expressed happiness with the stability in the lower legislative chamber. He said: “We knew that if you emerged as the Speaker, the narrative would be different. People are beginning to appreciate that thing we said. Now the House is very stable, politics is less and governance has taken its pride of place. We now have a strong parliament.” While assuring the speaker of the readiness of the government to partner with the House, Governor Uzodimma appealed to Gbajabiamila to carry lawmakers from Imo along in the scheme of things for the overall interest of the state. Gbajabiamila, who earlier congratulated the Governor on his Supreme Court victory, commended him for the support and cooperation he is giving to the House of Representative members from the state.” Wishing the Governor success in the next four years, the Speaker expressed complete confidence that Governor Uzodimma will do the party proud in Imo and pledged the cooperation of the leadership of the House of Representatives to his government. “We wish you years and even beyond of good leadership, good governance, we know you, we know your mettle, we know your worth, we know what you are capable of doing. I have no doubt in mind that you will surpass even our expectations of you.”