Rising from the two days public inquiry that was occasioned as the result of incessant deaths of people for lack of prompt medical intervention, the federal government regretted that the majority of the consuming public are ignorant of their health rights. Babatunde Irukera, the Chief Executive Officer at the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission made this assertion at the end of the two days public inquiry on the possible violations of consumer/patient rights under the FCCPC Act, the National Health Act, any prevailing police or other enforcement protocols, regulations, directives or guidelines and sundry enactments/guidelines recently in Lagos. Describing the two days event as very successful, the Director General FCCPC, said that it has yielded a lot of benefits even though there is no findings yet as members of the panel are yet to consider all the testimonies and materials submitted. “However, I think without even going further, there are already benefits coming out of this and I am happy that FCCPC has taken this unprecedented step. People have learnt how to do things differently having listened to the panel members made up of experts in various fields,” said a visibly excited Irukera. Elucidating the benefits further, the FCCPC boss noted that the events will propel every hospital in the country and not just R Jolab hospital to look inwardly and ask “What are the circumstances that can put us in this situation and how can we make sure we address it ahead of time,” stressing that when they do that, they will improve the quality of health care thereby preventing avoidable deaths.” Sadly, he said from the ongoings in the public inquiry he realised that, majority of the public does not know that there are certain obligations that are owned them. “They will not just know the obligations but they will also become aware what some of the procedures are.” He reminded consumers that in the FCCPC’s patient bill of rights, that one of the key provisions there is the right of a patient to information. To buttress his point, he explained “For instance, something as simple as the ABCDE of trauma response is something that all of us should get to know or what constitutes the initial process.” Speaking with journalists, the Father of Miss Moradeun Balogun, Mr. Adegboyega Balogun called on the federal government to, as a matter of urgency, categorise all hospitals and health facilities in the country in order to put to check the level of careless deaths that have been rife in the land. Miss Moradeun Balogun was reportedly stabbed on the neck by armed bandits on her way around Gbagada, Lagos and was allegedly refused medical attention on account of not possessing a police report, which incidents are said to have led to her death on December 2nd, 2019. The deceased father noted that health facilities in the country are not properly graded like what could be seen in the hospitality industry that give one the privilege of classifying hotels as five star, or seven star, as the case may be. He argued that the size of building structure of any health facility does not determine the quality service delivery. “The federal government should make it a point of duty to categorise hospitals in the country; this will go a long way to drastically reduce the rate of careless death records on the increase in our society. The size of buildings in a facility premises does not guarantee quality service delivery. What guarantees quality and optimality in service delivery is the working tools, machinery and equipment, quality medical personnel and of course other indices of quality measurement.” The Medical Director of R Jolad Hospital in Gbagada – Lagos, Dr. Funso Oladipo similarly called on the state government to improve on her surveillance and monitoring of black spots in the state with particular reference to Charlie Boy Bus Stop in Gbagada area of Lagos where the incident under reference was said to have taken place. While expressing sympathy with the deceased Balogun family, Dr. Oladipo stated that his facility could not bring the deceased case under control being that she had lost so much blood before getting to his hospital. The Executive vice chairman and Chief Executive Officer Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission FCCPC, Mr. Babatunde Irukera, revealed that the gains of the sitting on the public enquiry had already in the air being that consumers and patients are presented with the opportunity of knowing and understanding their rights as well as the first aid of trauma response presented by experts in the ABCD and E approach of trauma management.