The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Saturday insisted that the Supreme Court must maintain its avowed finality in all its verdicts regarding election petitions in the 2019 governorship elections. The party is apparently apprehensive over the decision of the apex court to reserve judgment in the review application filed by the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the Zamfara State governorship election. The Supreme Court had voided the victory of the APC in all the state elective positions in the 2019 elections, including the governorship seat and awarded same to the PDP. Dissatisfied by the apex court’s decision, the APC had approached the Supreme Court for the second time, seeking the restoration of its governorship victory, which had since been taken by the PDP. But rising from a stakeholders meeting in Abuja yesterday, the PDP raised the alarm that the APC was arm-twisting the apex court to reverse its judgment that awarded it victory in the 2019 governorship election. In a statement by the spokesman for the PDP shortly after the meeting, the PDP said the Supreme Court has no option than to dismiss the pending application by the APC. The party spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan said that it would be a contradiction for the apex court to reverse its earlier judgment on Zamfara State governorship election after the court had affirmed its finality in the on Imo and Bayelsa States. He said, “The PDP is aware of the efforts being made by agents of the APC to blackmail and arm-twist the Supreme Court to commit a judicial somersault and give them judgment through the back door. “But our party, the generality of Nigerians and in fact the justices of the Supreme Court know that the court has no option before it than to dismiss the application.” “This is because the Supreme Court had consistently decided on the finality of judgments reached at the court, which it reaffirmed in its judgments on the Bayelsa and Imo state governorship elections, where the apex court dismissed the applications for review on the ground that it lacked jurisdiction to review its own judgment.” The PDP said it’s resolute in its position and cautioned that anything short of adhering to the already established finality of the Supreme Court may trigger a breakdown of law and order in Zamfara State, destabilise the nation and truncate democracy.