 WHEN the history of these troubling times in Nigeria is written, two speeches are guaranteed to be counted among the most consequential of the era. The first is the oration of the Most Rev Matthew Hassan Kukah, Bishop of the Catholic Diocese of Sokoto, delivered some two weeks ago in Sokoto, at the funeral mass for the  18-year-old novitiate Michael Nandi, who was plucked from the Good Shepherd Seminary in Kaduna last January 9 by gunmen dressed in military uniforms and killed in cold blood. The second is former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s address at a ceremony last week inLgos to mark the first anniversary of the passing of the founder of the Oodua People’s Congress and medical philanthropist, Dr Frederick Fasehun. Dr Kukah’s presentation is the stuff of Vital Speeches. Comprehensive in its sweep, magisterial in its scope, arresting in its delivery, it was delicately balanced between hard thinking and strong feeling, and withal between despair and hope on the national scale. The expository quality accords with what the attentive audience has come to expect from the learned theologian. If the governing authorities heed his admonition and embrace his message of love and human solidarity, they may yet be able to steer the country away from the path of perdition. Obasanjo’s address is a product of nothing less than an epiphany.  Over the years, whether he  was in office or a statesman-at-large, few would have counted him even as a sympathiser of the movement to restructure Nigeria.  He held so tenaciously to a view of the inviolability of Nigeria as concept and practice long after his peers and cohorts and many in his inner circle had virtually given up that they called him “the last Nigerian” behind his back.  It was not an approving label. He had pitched his tent in the camp of those who believed that there was nothing wrong with Nigeria that a little patching of the framework here and a little tweaking there will not fix. Five years ago I doubt whether Obasanjo would have attended a ceremony with which the irredentist OPC is remotely associated, concerned that it would have sullied his credentials as an authentic Nigerian and apostle of the country’s indissolubility.  I doubt whether he would have fraternised with its founder But there was Obasanjo the other day finally acknowledging at a ceremony honouring Fasehun’s memory that the 1999 Constitution on which he was sworn into office at his Inauguration that year and at the start of his second term four years later is not working and will not work, and that nothing less than a “new order” based on a restructured polity can take Nigeria out of its present predicament. One must be careful not to make too much of Obasanjo’s apparent conversion to the cause of restructuring and all that it implies.  He may yet tamp down expectations flowing from what the public is entitled to interpret as his new stance.  But there is no reason to doubt that it is borne of experience and conviction, not convenience.  Not opportunism. And those who have been preaching the gospel of restructuring must embrace him, cultivate him and draw on his knowledge and wisdom. This page for its part welcomes the former president on board.  Better late than never.  By his belated awakening, he has redefined and clarified the debate on Nigeria’s future.  Henceforth, no one calling for bureaucratic amendments or revisions to the Constitution can expect to be taken seriously. The debate must encompass a restructuring of Nigeria to address the National Question forthrightly in the broadest sense, with justice for all as the primary goal of society and “national unity” as a means, not as an end in itself. Like Bishop Kukah’s, Obasanjo’s address is a timely summons to the governing authorities to think new thoughts, dream new dreams  and contemplate new directions that can lead Nigeria to security and prosperity.  There is where their real self-interest and the future of their progeny lie.  The safety of the present course is at once illusory and unsustainable. Together, Obasanjo and Kukah have defined anew and clarified the Nigeria Condition and its challenges. The 1999 Constitution was conceived in secrecy and written in unseemly haste by the rearguard of the Abacha regime following the dictator’s sudden death.  It was never vetted.  At the time it came into force, many of the political officials and bureaucrats who were supposed to operate it had not set their eyes on it.  Its preambular claim that it derived from “the people” was a brazen lie.  Some commentators have even gone so far as to call it a forgery. Forgery or not, a cursory review led the legal titan Gani Fawehinmi  to conclude that it would not work, riddled as it was by studied evasions, contrived ambiguities, and by all manner of obfuscation resulting from less than competent drafting. The only remedy was to write it anew, Fawehinmi insisted. It was not from collective resignation, however, that the 1999 Constitution has endured so long, despite its manifold flaws.  Citizen-led efforts were either criminalized, suppressed, or fatally undermined. Every effort by the governing authorities to tinker with, modify, alter or otherwise review the document that stands as the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria  has been misconceived from the outset, and then mired in false starts.  Thereafter, it has ended in futility. The misconception begins with the assumption that it is somehow the province of the National Assembly to review or revise the Constitution.  That is not the case.  The National Assembly’s remit is to amend the Constitution. This latter involves making piecemeal, incremental changes, in keeping with new realities, not a wholesale break with the founding document. It is a slow, evolutionary process. That is why in its 229 year history, the Constitution of the United States has undergone only 27 Amendments — or 17 if we discount the first ten Amendments that were grafted on to the original document at its ratification as the Bill of Rights. Revising or reviewing the Constitution is a different matter.  That is not what you do when you identify 43 matters warranting consideration in a review as the Emeka Ihedioha’s House of Representatives Committee did in its failed 2012/2013 effort.  Nor is it what you do when you have identified 50 elements that needed to be “reconsidered” in a new constitution, among them creation of states, devolution of powers, revenue allocation, and state police, as the Jonathan Presidency did. To do so is to seek to write a new constitution through the back door. The National Assembly has no mandate to write a new constitution.  That task belongs to a Constituent Assembly convened expressly for that purpose; one truly warranted by the preface, “We, the People . . . From this fundamental misconception, it has been but a short step to the false starts, the jiggery-pokery and the bad faith that have doomed previous efforts to give Nigeria a viable Constitution. If the latest initiative is not to suffer the same fate, Buhari must abandon the view that the task at hand is one of the reviewing or revising the existing constitution, and that the task belongs in the National Assembly. There may not be another chance.