The Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic has forced the world into a partial lockdown, some total, courtesy of a stay-at-home order by many governments. OMOBOLA TOLU-KUSIMO writes that also you need insurance at home. As governments across the world, including the Federal Government, continue to find a solution to the Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, they have adopted a stay-at-home order to contain the spread. As a result, many businesses in public and private sectors have partially shut down in obedience to the government’s policy to ensure the safety of lives and properties. But while businesses are shutting down, insurance, like essential services, has not. In fact, the operators said insurance is needed now more than ever. The Nigeria Insurers Association (NIA) urged Nigerians to continue to embrace insurance even as they stay home to remain safe. Its Director-General Mrs. Yetunde Ilori said: “While we encourage members of the public to observe all precautionary measures, including observing the requisite social distancing and working from home, they are reminded of the need to stay safe and also stay insured all the time. “Members of the public should minimise physical visits and transact their insurance businesses, including claims processing by using the various alternative channels provided by member companies. “For the purchase of Third Party Motor Insurance, they can visit the association’s online platform for purchase of third party motor vehicle insurance on https://www.niip.ng or call telephone no: 0817-078-4444 as it presents the unique experience of convenience of purchase from the comfort of their homes.” On the importance of insurance, she said one of the most important issues to remember is insurance. “Many people do not take the necessary precautions to insure themselves, and it could end up costing them a substantial amount of money. You need several types of insurance if you want to live a comfortably. “It doesn’t matter whether you are at home or not. It does not matter whether you are not driving. You need insurance for your life, home and other things that are of value to you. You need to ensure that your home is insured. So, there is no time that insurance is not needed. “Insurance allows you to transfer financial risks from yourself to an insurance company. The insurance companies prepare for this risk because they charge premiums to their customers and keep a large amount of money in reserve. When a customer files a claim, the insurance company pays. This allows you to focus on other things instead of worrying about possible losses,” she added. She said the association commends Federal and Lagos State governments for their efforts in containing the spread of the virus. “This is also the time for member companies to activate their business continuity strategies to ensure quality service delivery, despite the disruption being experienced.  The health and general well-being of the nation – families, partners, clients, consultants, staff and other stakeholders including our immediate community remain the major concern of the Insurance industry at this critical time,” she added.