The Ijaw Youth Council (IYC) worldwide has accused Heritage Energy Operational Services Limited (HEOSL), operators of Oil Mining Lease (OML) 30, of withholding payments of indigenous contractors for about three years. The group called on the Federal Government to revoke the HEOSL’s operating license for incompetence and lack of finance to manage the asset, as well as other responsibilities. IYC President Eric Omare, who spoke in Warri yesterday, alleged that Heritage’s board of directors have subsidiary companies which it contract jobs to and pay on completion, to the detriment of locals. Omare stressing that the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) has ‘failed in its responsibilities’, and warned that the situation, if not addressed, may lead to disruption of the company’s operations. OML 30 is reportedly the second largest OML in Nigeria, with assets across Urhobo, Itsekiri, Isoko and Ijaw lands in Delta State. The youth president, who noted that HEOSL has become a ‘monster and curse’ to its host communities, wondered why things became worse with indigenous companies taking over from oil multinationals. He said: “With the law giving rights to Nigerians to participate in the oil and gas industry, there should also be a corresponding benefit to the local communities which produce these resources. We decided to raise a message to the appropriate authorities before the situation will degenerate to chaos. “We have situations whereby local contractors will do jobs for this company. In some cases, because the company does not have the guaranty to secure loan, some have to secure loan with their property. But this company does not pay these local contractors for up to two and three years. “While they refuse to pay local contractors, they pay their own companies. In order words, the company has a board of directors who have subsidiary companies with which they take contracts that ordinarily ought to go to local contractors. And when it is time to pay for jobs, instead of paying the local contractors, they pay themselves. “The implication is that money which should be spent on the local economy is transported outside the Niger Delta and out of the country. The resultant effect is the overwhelming poverty that we are seeing in the Delta environment and its potential to create militancy.” He called on President Muhammadu Buhari to direct the Minister of Petroleum Resources to revoke HEOSL’s operating license. “Beside contract is the employment of our youths. We are a youth organisation and when our people are employed, it reduces the pressure on leadership. But the current trend is that oil mining license holders employ only their people at the detriment of the local youths who have the requisite qualification to be employed. “We feel these are serious issues. The militancy that happened in the past started with small pockets of protests with military repression in return. But where you don’t nip it in the bud, it will degenerate into a situation whereby people will resort to destroying oil facilities and other negative activities. We feel we don’t have to get to that level before we raise alarm. “With specific reference to Heritage Energy Operational Services Limited, operators of OML 30, we call on the Federal Government, through the Ministry of Petroleum Resources, to revoke HEOSL’s operative license because it is not competent and does not have the resources to manage an oil mining lease.” HEOSL’s Public Relations desk could not be reached through messages, e-mails, or calls last night.  