 YEYE Cabaret, an entertainment brand is ready to celebrate mothers, with an evening of festivity and recognition of passion as well as accolade to womanhood including daughters, mothers and sisters who engage in diverse roles. The 7th edition of the annual event is set to hold on Sunday, March 22, 2020, at The Podium, Lekki and is themed, “This Woman’s Work”. The event also aims to raise awareness about maternal mental health especially Postpartum Depression (PPD). Speaking to journalists, the Curator of the event, Ayodele Ogundipe said,” we want to celebrate women beyond the domestic aspect of just taking care of the home, we have mothers juggling careers, family, businesses and they are doing well however they need to be celebrated” “As an entertainment brand, promoting the culture of Mother’s Day celebration in Nigeria, we also want to help raise awareness on medical issues that affect women especially mothers in our society through theatre.” According to Ogundipe, the 7th edition aims to create awareness about PPD for the general public especially for men and provide sensitization on how it can be cured, “we can only be emphatic, we don’t know how it feels, we need someone to educate us.” Ogundipe said. A Psychiatric Psychologist, Dr. Yinka Jibunor will be present to educate the public on PPD management and its prevention. Post Partum Depression(PPD) she pointed out is a disorder that is often neglected, untreated and undiagnosed and when women are going through it they don’t really understand it most times, so for every woman or every person we should always take our health seriously,” we all have physical and mental health but we pay very little attention to our mental health part meanwhile it is much more important than the physical. So for women that are pregnant or just have babies, people hardly ask about their emotional wellbeing and because of the stress they go through, PPD is real, it causes a lot of issues and if not properly handled, it can develop into more problems. We need people to be more aware about it and also learn how to handle it”, said Dr. Jibunoh. Bukky Asehinde, the face of this year’s event and the CEO of BellAfricana, expressed that mothers need to be celebrated and this year’s theme resonates with women’s daily activities where they are always engaged with work, which should always be appreciated. One of the partners who the content Creator of the program, Yetunde Edunjobi expressed how glad she was for the Yeye Cabaret platform because she knows mental health issues; particularly Post-Partum Depression is not really talked about, especially as someone who experienced it. She will be focusing on creating content around sustaining the conversation.     