The Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 has announced the shut down of three international airports to flight operations from Saturday, March 21, 2020. The task force headed by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr Boss Mustapha, said the affected airports are the Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano; Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu and the Port-Harcourt International Airport, Omagwa. The task force, in a statement by the Director of Information at the Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr Willie Basset, said the closure was a measure taken as part of the campaign against the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. The task force also charged the public to stay calm and honour the instructions that had just been passed down by major religious umbrella bodies on how to observe the various religious worships in the meantime. “The Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 has announced the closure of three (3) International airports in the country as part of measures taken to combat the spread of coronavirus. “The Secretary to the Government of the Federation/ Chairman PTF, Boss Mustapha, stated that effective from Saturday 21st March, 2020 midnight, the Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano; Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu and the Port-Harcourt International Airport, Omagwa will be closed to all international flights. “However, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation said that the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja and the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos will remain opened to and accept international flights irrespective of the type of operations. “All stakeholders are enjoined to collaborate with Port Health Services in the identification of suspects/persons at points of entry and to bring such persons to the attention of Port Health Officers for appropriate action. “Meanwhile, the PTF urges all Nigerians to remain calm and cooperate with the instructions already issued by the Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA) and Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) on modes of worship and gatherings at this time not exceeding fifty (50) persons. “The PTF assures Nigerians that adequate and appropriate information will be made available in due course”, the statement said.