Wife of the Governor of Anambra state, Dr. Mrs. Ebelechukwu Obiano has visited the discarded baby who was rescued from a barbed wire fence at Oko, Orumba North Local Government Area of the state. The baby, undergoing treatment at a hospital in the area, was reportedly thrown downstairs by the mother from a two-storey building in the area. The first lady, founder of Caring Family Enhancement Initiative (CAFE), a non-governmental organisation, said her visit was a follow up to her earlier plea to young and recalcitrant mothers not to discard their new born for any reason, but rather ensures their safety. She said, “The miracle surrounding the survival of this baby girl and my visit which coincides with the commemoration of my husband’s sixth year in office show that the baby means well for ndi Anambra. “As a girl she is a bearer of good tidings because women are soft, kind prayerful.” The first lady praised the hospital management for its selfless action and priority given towards the survival of the baby. “I’m happy with the care being offered the baby in this hospital,” she added. While presenting cash and a variety of baby care products to the baby, the governor’s wife advised the grandmother of the newborn who came to greet her to ensure the baby and the young mother were catered for. According to her, although the mistakes have been made, the lessons should guide others against future occurrence. Commissioner for Health, Dr. Vincent Okpala commended the Governor’s wife’s exemplified passion for good deeds, noting that the present health insurance structure provided by the government had made both antenatal and prenatal demands easy and accessible for the people. On his part, member representing Orumba North at the State House of Assembly, Hon. Emeka Aforka noted that the governor’s wife’s visit to a hospital in his Constituency on the sixth anniversary of Obiano-led administration was a demonstration of synergy that had made the State the centre of excellence. Earlier, Medical Director of the hospital, Dr. Kamtoochukwu Obi thanked the Governor’s wife for making time to visit and for the support to the new born and her family. Photo (R-L): Wife of the Governor of Anambra, Dr. Mrs. Ebelechukwu Obiano (Osodieme), Medical Director of Chukwunonso Hospital, Dr. Kamtoochukwu Obi, Anambra State Commissioner for Health, Dr. Vincent Okpala, Special Adviser to the Governor on Indigenous Medicine and Herbal Practices, Dr. Onyeka Ibezim and member representing Orumba North at the Anambra State House of Assembly, Hon. Emeka Aforka at Chukwunonso Hospital Oko, Orumba North Local Government.