Nothing prepared head coach of Nigeria deaf team, otherwise known as ‘Deaf Eagles,’ Kamiludeen Banjoh, for the challenges and fascination of the job until he stepped into the saddle in 2004. Sixteen years down the line, the ex-international and former Shooting Stars striker says he’s enjoying the ride in spite of the challenges. “Actually, coaching deaf people, for me, is a gift of nature. When I was in NIS in 2002, they (Nigeria Deaf Football Association) came to me and asked me to coach them. At first I felt they were troubling me until the late coach Yemi Tella advised me to see it as divine intervention. He said why would they pick me out of 200 coaches; ‘it means God wants to do something in your life with them.’ That is how we started. “My first experience was 2004, when I moved them to Ghana. On our way to Ghana, a coach came from Abuja because the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) kitted us and we were representing Nigeria. We went to Ghana and lost and four years later, the players, having watched the attitudes of the other coach and myself, decided they wanted me to coach them and that is how I was appointed as the head coach of the Deaf Football Nigeria. In 2008, I qualified Nigeria for the first time for the Deaf Olympic Games. We beat Ghana 3-1 on their soil to qualify and it was amplified by the Nigerian media.” The proprietor of Banjoh Football Academy notes that with dint of hard work and support from some notable Nigerians such as Gbenga Elegbeleye, former DG National Sport Commission (NSC) and Emmanuel Ibru, Deaf Eagles have been able to conquer many grounds. “I have led Deaf Eagles to many victories. Nigeria now occupies number one position in West Africa games, and in Africa, Nigeria is number two. In the world ratings, Nigeria is number 11 and we were able to get here because of the effort I put into developing deaf football in Nigeria.” Banjo, whose academy emerged second runners at the just concluded Ajide U20 Football Championship in Lagos, speaks further on his journey from player to coach and his bigger plans for deaf football. He sat down with TAIWO ALIMI. BEGINNING I started playing football at secondary school games and when I moved down to Lagos, and in the course of doing my A levels, I was invited to play for Federal Palace Hotel and I played for them for a while before I joined Allied Bank, where I was offered employment while also playing football for them. From Allied Bank, I moved to Shooting Stars FC of Ibadan where I played in the league and CAF championship. I also made effort to play abroad and attended trials in Cote d’Ivoire and one other country. At a point, I was invited to the national U17 team, then under Sebastian Broderick but was dropped along the way due to an injury I had at Kaduna. SHOOTING STARS Actually, I did not know anybody in Shooting Stars. One of my friends, Taofeek Malik, who was playing for Shooting Stars in 1992, advised me to come for trial. On getting to Ibadan, I met coach Niyi Akande who, after watching me for only 15 minutes, asked me to step aside. He said ‘I’ve seen something I need in you.’ So, I was signed for the league and CAF Cup. It was not all rosy because I did not play for any big team before playing for Shooting Stars. So, I had to sit out for some time but I waited for my time. Some of my teammates were Dotun Alatise, Bright Omokaro, and others who were established players then. PLAYING ABROAD From Shooting Stars, I made effort to play abroad but it did not work out the way I really wanted. I was in African Sport of Abidjan for about one month, and met two Nigerians. I did well scoring three goals in training and played in friendly game and did well too. I played for them for a while and came back to Nigeria and by then the injury was becoming worrisome so I had to go the way of coaching. INJURY The injury happened when I was in Golden Eaglets. I made the team under Broderick and Christian Chukwu. Then, we travelled by air to Jos. On landing in Jos, they now asked me if I could play because they noticed some discomfort and I said I was ready. During the game, I made a pullout to Jonathan Akpoborie, who nodded in the ball to make it 1-0 in our favour. After the goal, I noticed that the leg was disturbing me and I beckoned to the coach to make changes. Since then, before they even travelled to China, I could not play well. After that, I was invited to the Atlanta ’96 Olympic team, but the injury just kept coming back. COACHING COURSE I have an advance coaching certificate in NIS, D-license from USSF; that is the American certificate and I have attended over 25 seminars. At the moment, I’m seeking for sponsor to go for USSF C-license or B-license. BANJOH FOOTBALL ACADEMY I started the academy about 10 years ago. When I noticed that there was a serious problem in Nigerian football I decided that I would raise a team to impact in then my ideals. I decided too that I would like to go into grassroots coaching as I want to catch them when they are small and amenable. So, I started the football academy, which is to raise potential football stars from the age 0f 5 to 13. We train only on Saturdays because of their education. Once you are out of secondary school, I move you to another class and they are the ones in my U20 team. Most of them are in the university because I believe that football should go along with education. Some of them are in Yabatech, Moshood Abiola Polytechnic and University of Lagos. I did the same for my son, who is a graduate now. I see a future where if they cannot move further in football, they will have something they are doing. We keep them busy and responsible. I am in contact with their parents and I tell them that education and football should go together. What the world is looking for now in players are very brilliant players and very brilliant educated ones. Luckily, I met somebody like Tajudeen Disu and Ganiyu Akanni and we are helping Nigerian players move to colleges in the United States. Once they are able to do well there, they can move to Major League Soccer. I have a player in the U.S, and one in England, doing his Masters degree after accomplishing his BSC in Economics. There are a lot of challenges in training these young players and keeping them together as a team. I have a lawyer who draws out an agreement between my club and a player so as to keep them on the right path and for futuristic purpose. DEAF EAGLES In 2009, we were to go to Taipei-China, but the Sports Ministry said there was no money for us to go. In 2012, we had another qualifier in Abuja, and the then Director General (DG) of National Sports Commission (NSC), Mr. Gbenga Elegbeleye, sent somebody to come and watch our games. He was impressed and asked me to come and see him. On getting to him, he said he would support us all the way. So, in 2013, he supported us to go to Bulgaria. But, we camped for only two weeks and on getting to the tournament we played for group matches, won one, lost two and drew one. With a good preparation, we would have done better. After that, we have been making effort efforts to attend competitions. This year, we want to attend Deaf World Cup in Korea in September. The challenges we are having now is that Confederation of African Deaf Sport (CAS) now gave Nigeria the hosting right for African qualifier in April of this year. We are speaking with Lagos State to host the tournament for the very first time. Eight countries will take part, with four qualifying for the World Cup. That is how far we have gone. When the challenges of communicating with my players was so much, I bought a book on sign language and taught myself the signs and today I’m at 80 percent level perfection. I’ve been making news everywhere about deaf football. The players are wonderful and good. If they get quality support, I do not see the Nigeria U23 or Super Eagles challenging their standard.  We have written to Femi Otedola and Minster Raji Fashola to help us. Emmanuel Ibru has done fantastically well for us. He singlehandedly paid for our flight tickets to Mali and we came back with the trophy. The Ministry of Sport wrote a congratulatory letter to thank him. He’s one of our patrons and that is why we kept the trophy in his office because he has been good to us. We need more supporters like that. We have a great team and they play good football. I also need help because I’m not on salary. I only get allowances when we have assignment. The NFF can help us, though deaf sport is a special sport and under the Sport Ministry. But in other countries, the football federation provides for deaf football team and assists them. NFF should assist them. I want to take deaf football to a higher level and with support from all, we can get there. IF NOT FOOTBALL Honestly speaking, if not football I would have been a businessman because I love buying and selling. Even as a coach, I’m still doing it on the side. I buy sporting equipment and supply them. I also design jersey and if I have good capital I want to have a sporting line of my own. At the moment, I run Banjoh Sporting Equipment and Banjoh Football Academy.