The Senate has raised the hopes of Nigerians with the setting up a constitution review panel so as to incorporate the wishes and aspirations of Nigerians into the 1999 Constitution. But, it remains to be seen how far the current bid will go, as previous exercises have shown that the country does not receive the commensurate value for funds and the efforts invested in such reviews. Deputy Political Editor RAYMOND MORDI examines the issues involved and why the vested interests of the political class may not allow such reforms to see the light of day.  HOW would the Ahmed Lawan and Femi Gbajabiamila-led 9th National Assembly be remembered by posterity? That is a question only the lawmakers can determine. So far, they have not performed badly, though the parliament is yet to distinguish itself from others before it since the advent of the Fourth Republic. Nevertheless, the utterances of its principal officers at the outset when they were trying to establish themselves at the helms had earned the parliament the sobriquet of being “a rubber stamp” to the Muhammadu Buhari-led executive. Though it has been trying to jettison that baggage in recent times, the commitment of that arm of government to the welfare of Nigerians are still in doubt. The priority of the lawmakers, which is reflected in the type of bills they are vigorously pursuing to enact into law, has often angered ordinary Nigerians on the streets. For instance, at a time Nigerians are clamouring for the removal of the immunity enjoyed by key members of the executive arm of government, a bill to grant same to the principal officers of the legislative arm at various levels has passed Second Reading at the House of Representatives. This is in spite of the fact that the lawmakers already enjoy parliamentary immunity and cannot be prosecuted for utterances made on the floor of the various lawmaking chambers. But, its current bid to amend the constitution may become the turning point. The decision of the Ninth Senate to set up a 56-member committee to review the 1999 Constitution and effect an amendment where necessary offers a glimmer of hope to Nigerians that some of the contradictions in the 1999 Constitution that impede harmony and development of the country may be sorted out. Nigerians have over the years criticised the constitution for concentrating too many powers in the hands of the federal government and for not providing the incentives for the federating units to become the driving force for development. Senate President Ahmed Lawan acknowledged when he was setting up the committee that Nigerians are not happy with the state of affairs within the political arena. He said: “Nigerians definitely have an interest in the constitution review that the National Assembly will embark upon. There are several issues that Nigerians feel strongly about. The Constitution Review Committee is supposed to be a platform where such issues will be brought, and where those who are interested should ensure that they make every possible effort, including presentations, for their views to be considered. “As a National Assembly, particularly the Senate, we want to have a very stable country. We want a country that gives every citizen the opportunity to actualise his or her dream. We want to have a security that is enhanced and an economy that works for everyone. Stability of the polity is important; we need to have a country before we run for elections, or indeed undertake any activity. So, we advise that any organisation or individual that has anything that should be taken on by the committee should make submissions to the Constitution Review Committee.” Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege, who heads the Constitution Review Committee, has further raised the hopes of Nigerians when he said members of the panel are going to study the report of the 2014 National Conference and that of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on Restructuring to with a view of incorporating some of the recommendations into the proposals for amendment. But, in spite of the optimism of the Senate President and his deputy, many Nigerians are yet to be convinced that the National Assembly means business this time around. Given the experience of previous exercises by the National Assembly and the report of several panels and conferences on the same subject still gathering dust on the shelves, the question on the lips of many observers is, how far would the current set of lawmakers go in their bid to amend the 1999 Constitution? Previous exercises have also tried to appeal to the interests of the common people but at the end of the day, not much came out of such attempts. Former Second Vice President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Monday Onyekachi Ubani said it is up to the lawmakers to do the needful or resort to yet another round of tokenism to give the impression that they are interested in listening to the yearnings of Nigerians. His words: “It would go as far as they want it to go. In previous occasions, lawmakers used the issue of amending the constitution to syphon public funds in the past, and in the end, wasted those resources without achieving any tangible result. If these set of lawmakers want to indulge in a comprehensive amendment this time around, based on complaints of Nigerians about past efforts, they can achieve something if they are sincere. But, like in the past, they are only interested in playing to the gallery, they would just squander the funds budgeted for it and that would be the end of the matter.” Former Ogun State Governor, Aremo Olusegun Osoba, disagreed with those who are of the view that the National Assembly has no role to play in providing the kind of a constitution that would satisfy the yearnings of Nigerians who want the country to return to “true federalism”. Speaking in Lagos last Thursday during the launching of Prof. Ben Nwabueze’s latest books, President Buhari’s Distinctive Legacies to Nigeria and Further Thoughts on the Nigerian Constitution and Polity, he said the way things are now Nigerians cannot do without the National Assembly. His words: “I suggest that we, the believers in political restructuring through devolution of powers, should focus our attention on the National Assembly as the theatre of action for the noble cause to be realized. The assembly consists of our elected representatives, who must be wooed, lobbied, engaged and persuaded to understand that the agenda we table is a patriotic one that is development-focused, and requires urgency to rescue our political and economic future. It is one that can help us manage our diversity better and free our resources and talents for effective deployment where they are most needed. For instance, Osoba said only the National Assembly can convoke a national conference by enacting a law to that effect. He added that the legislature can also amend the constitution, to pave the way for a referendum to ratify a new constitution made by the conference. He said the APC, which has devolution of powers in its manifesto, has restated its commitment to restructuring through the Nasir el-Rufai committee. The APC chieftain admitted, however, that since the committee submitted its report two years ago the party ought to have gone ahead with its implementation through legislative action in the National Assembly. The former governor said since the Senate has announced a constitution review team, “let us help them to make a success of it by engaging them productively”. He added: “Our situation demands urgency and not unproductive hair-splitting. Where there is the will, there is a way.” He said engaging the National Assembly requires a bi-partisan approach that appeals to the patriotic chords of the senators and representatives on what Nigeria stands to gain from “restructuring”. In this regard, he gave credit to Senator Bukola Saraki-led 8th Senate. He listed 29 alterations (amendments) made by the 8th Senate under his watch. Osoba said the National Assembly can do more with the backing of two-thirds of state assemblies. He said the Federal Government cannot be the centre of development and that, indeed, it needs to be freed to concentrate on three critical areas: finance and customs union, defence and foreign affairs. He added: “We need to let the state and local governments drive those development efforts that touch our people directly such as agriculture, education and health.” Former National Chairman of the United Progressives Party (UPP), one of the recently deregistered parties, Chief Chekwas Okorie believes the current exercise would lay the foundation for restructuring the country. He said some appreciable constitutional amendments have been done under the Buhari administration, albeit in tranches and that the current one is likely to be more comprehensive. His words: “The current bid to review the constitution should provide Nigerians a very viable and assured means of restructuring the country. Unfortunately, previous National Assembly members have not helped matters by introducing extraneous matters such as third term agenda and so on. But since the Buhari administration came there have been some amendments that came in tranches, especially the aspect of the constitution concerning elections, such as deregistration of parties, which is now captured in the constitution.” Okorie, whose former party has just collapsed its structures into that of the All Progressives Congress (APC), said the current exercise is likely to be comprehensive. He said: “This one is expected to be comprehensive and I would expect other Nigerians who are apprehensive of political restructuring to begin to understand that it is in the interest of the whole country.” Over the years, there has been a call for a holistic amendment of the constitution, to incorporate some yearnings and aspirations of the people. The refrain is that the 1999 Constitution, which was foisted on Nigerians by the military, is a fraud because representatives of the over 350 ethnic nationalities did not make an input in the fashioning of the document. Though Nigeria is supposed to be practising the federal system of government, the constitution largely retains the unitary structure that has been in place since the advent of military rule. Against this background, the Omo-Agege panel already has an idea about the sort of changes Nigerians want to see in the 1999 Constitution. For instance, in July 2017, the ruling APC set up a panel headed by Kaduna State Governor Nasir el-Rufai, to come up with the party’s definition of restructuring. Among the recommendations of the APC Committee on Restructuring are resource control, state police, control of local governments by states, a constitutional amendment to allow the merger of states, state court of appeal and independent candidacy. Okorie said the APC panel’s recommendation is in sync with what Nigerians have been clamouring and it should be acceptable to the party stakeholders because it has been accepted and approved by its National Executive Committee (NEC). Similarly, the report of former President Goodluck Jonathan’s 2014 National Conference, which many Nigerians have been clamouring for its implementation, is also a source of ideas for the panel. The conference had recommended for the creation of 18 new states, three per geopolitical zone and an additional one for the Southeast; and merger of states that are willing to do so. On resource control/fiscal federalism, it recommended that the Federal Government should set up a technical committee to determine the appropriate percentage on issues of reconstruction of areas ravaged by insurgency and internal conflicts, as well as solid minerals development. The conference also recommended that the sharing of funds that accrue to the Federation Account should be done in the following manner: Federal Government 42.5 per cent; state governments 35 per cent; and local governments 22.5 per cent. It also recommended reducing the percentage that is given to the population and equality of states in the existing sharing formula. It also recommended that local governments should no longer be the third tier of government and that Federal Government and state governments should be the only tiers of government. It proposed that states can create as many local governments as they want. It equally recommended independent candidacy, removal of immunity clause, if the offences attract criminal charges, special courts to handle corruption cases, stoppage of government sponsorship of pilgrims to holy lands, modified presidential system, among other things. Ubani believes the most important thing is for the panel to gauge the views of Nigerians to authenticate some of the prevailing views. He said: “They need to go round the country and do town hall meetings, to get the views of Nigerians. I remember vividly the town hall meetings conducted on the autonomy of local governments; virtually everyone voted for autonomy. But at the end of the day, the verdict was different from what people voted for. “This time around, they should be able to listen to the views of Nigerians on those sections of the constitution that require alteration and reflect it in the amendment, so that we can have a country that is functional. One of the demands Nigerians have made in the past is to have an entirely new constitution made by the people. But in the absence of a brand new constitution, if we want to continue with this patch-patch approach, let’s do it in such a manner to reflect the views of the people.” The legal practitioner said there are many areas of the constitution that require amendments. His words: “We want an amendment with some of the things that have to do with the electoral system. We want an amendment on the Land Use Act, removing it from the constitution. We want Section 2 of the constitution, which has to do with the policy of a government so that it can become justiciable. The way it is now, you cannot take any elected executive to court on issues bordering on health, education, security and the like. “We want the immunity enjoyed by members of the executive removed. Most importantly, the enormous powers bestowed on the Federal Government in the Exclusive List, such as the issue of power and security should be moved to the Concurrent List. The creation of local governments should be left in the hands of the states. States can create as many local governments as they like, as long as they can maintain them. There is a need for fiscal federalism, where states can generate revenue to fund their activities. If states are allowed to generate their funds and contribute a percentage of it to the common purse, they would have enough to take care of local governments.” Other areas, Ubani said, are those that appertain to the independence of the judiciary, the removal of the Code of Conduct Tribunal from the control of the executive. He said the need has arisen to reform the National Judicial Commission (NJC) and to unbundle the Supreme Court, to allow each state or region to have their Supreme Courts so that the Supreme Court of Nigeria in Abuja would be saddled with only constitutional matters and novel issues. Okorie said devolution of powers has become necessary in the face of current realities in the country. For instance, he said there is a need for state and community policing because the country is too large to come under a central police command. He added: “That is why it looks as if our internal security challenges are intractable.” He agrees with the view that the country should revert back to fiscal federalism. His words: “Fiscal federalism is one aspect that would help this economy because it would make some states to be more creative in generating revenue. On the other hand, it would also compel the lazy ones to wake up and learn how to generate their revenue. There is something that is not right in a situation where you charge Value Added Tax (VAT), for instance, on certain commodities, especially consumables that are prohibited in some parts of the country and the same people that prohibit the sale of those goods in their states end up grabbing the lion share of the revenue generated from such consumption. It is not only ironical, it is absurd. “There is also the need to exploit the generation of more revenue from solid minerals deposits in the country. There is no part of the country that is not endowed with one mineral resource or the other. It is no longer a question of oil alone; agriculture has become a major source of income. So, it is about time we go back to the derivation principle in revenue allocation. But there are certain aspects of revenue allocation that should be discontinued, such as using landmass as a factor in allocation. This is because we vast landmass that is unoccupied in certain parts of the country and it is not fair to use such criterion because there is nobody inhabiting those lands. “I would also expect merit to be given emphasis in university admission, appointments and in employment opportunities, rather than using a quota system. We also need to amend the law to scrap the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB). JAMB may have been relevant when it was introduced, but at the stage, we are now, I don’t think we need to continue with the system, particularly with many private universities and state universities, which should be allowed to set their standards. Universities that have poor standards will have their products unemployable and that would be their own headache.” However, elder statesman and Second Republic politician, Alhaji Tanko Yakasai, see nothing wrong with the 1999 Constitution (as amended) and is not in support of reducing the so-called enormous powers of the Federal Government. Yakasai, 93, summarizes his problem with restructuring very succinctly with the following words: “My problem with Nigerians is that many of them who are clamouring for a change in the constitution has not read the document. People always clamour for the transfer of power or some items from the Exclusive List to the Concurrent List. What they do not understand is that the items on the Exclusive List that can be transferred to the Concurrent List are not that much. “Besides, many do not understand that even when such items are transferred to the Concurrent List and state laws conflict with federal laws, the latter would override the former; that is to say, such state law would be null and void. So, I am not in support of transferring any item from the Exclusive List to the Concurrent List. That is not where the problem lies. The problem with Nigeria today is the weak political party system. If we have a strong political party system and an efficient judiciary, we would have credible elections and most of our problems would be solved. What we require is a strong political party system that would take control of the party away from the president and the governors. This would be such that nobody can emerge as a candidate for elective offices unless he or she enjoys the backing of members of the party. “When we have that in place, we would always have fair and credible elections, where the wishes of the majority of Nigerians would prevail. When this is complemented by an independent judiciary, the system would gradually be sanitized.” Yakasai’s point regarding the political party system appears like a valid one, as recent Supreme Court judgments suggest. Be that as it may, many Nigerians are in agreement that the present constitution can be improved upon. But the Omo-Agege panel is likely to face the challenge of convincing all the zones in the country to buy into all the numerous recommendations and incorporating same into the new legal framework. Even if the panel manages to surmount the challenges, convincing President Buhari to assent to the proposals is another hurdle. Buhari has never hidden his suspicion for restructuring, which he sees as a way to dismember the Nigerian federation. Indeed, incorporating the recommendations of the 2014 National Conference into the constitution would be an uphill task. The ruling APC boycotted the conference, describing it as fraudulent and diversionary. Besides, many of the recommendations do not sit well with the northern political establishment. However, the support the Western Nigeria Security Network, codenamed Amotekun, seems to be getting from different parts of the country, including parts of the North, could be an indication that some of the recommendations may be acceptable to all the geo-political zones. Previous constitutional reviews by the National Assembly shows that Nigerians were not given the value for the money spent on such exercises. Since 2011, the sum of N1 billion has always been voted annually for amendment or review of the constitution. Reports say between 2011 and 2015, for instance, the committees in the House of Representatives and the Senate withdrew and spent a whopping sum of N7.75 billion of public funds in four years purportedly to review 1999 Constitution. An undisclosed sum was released for the same purpose between 2015 and 2019 under the Senate presidency of Bukola Saraki, which also carried out a similar constitution amendment exercise. From all indications, constitutional reforms were carried out incrementally in such a way that a lot of gaps are still left uncovered in the document. For instance, many of the proposals that were supported by the majority of Nigerians during previous exercises, such as local government autonomy, devolution of powers, rotation of power at federal and state levels, autonomy for state houses of assembly, electronic voting and state police were not incorporated the constitution. With recent developments in the political arena, the quest to see such proposals in the constitution has become a matter of urgent necessity.  