 Ogun State Police Command disclosed that some worship centres in the State complied with the directive banning high density gatherings over COVID- 19 but added that those who gathered on Sunday for service in defiance of the ban were dispersed by its Policemen. The Command’s Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, who made this known to The Nation, said that the ban is being enforced statewide but declined to cite the affected worship centres where congregants were “dispersed by the Police.” According to him, no arrest was made on the worshippers but they were only dispersed and asked to go home to observe private worship or prayer. “It is not one, it is not two. It was a statewide exercise and everywhere our men saw gathering of over 50 worshippers, congregants were dispersed,” he said. The Nation, however, gathered that a Task force led by Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP), Toyin Afolaogun, stormed some churches in Abeokuta, the state capital, early in the morning and dispersed worshippers where they were visible evidence that congregants exceeded the maximum limit of 50 people. The Nation learnt Taskforce disrupted the service and dispersed the worshippers in two churches in Abeokuta for violating the ban on high density gatherings. In one of the churches stormed at about 6:30am, the leader of the team, Afolaogun, carried out a head count of scores of worshippers who had converged for the morning service, but were dispersed, when the impromptu census exposed them to be more than 50. However, Afolaogun ordered them re – assemble in compliance with the 50 maximum directive of the government. Afolaogun who addressed reporters later said there were at least  80 percent compliance with the directive in the state. He said: “So far, so good. We have recorded about 80 percent compliance. The church that did not comply, we politely told them to comply accordingly. We politely told them to leave and re – assemble themselves. “Anybody who fails to comply with directives of Governor Dapo Abiodun, for sure, will face the wrath of the law. We want to appeal to the general public to comply with the directives of the state government. Every directive should be complied with.” Hours earlier, the State Police Command had threatened to arrest and prosecute any body or group that violate restrictions and bans on high density gatherings such as churches, mosques, restaurants, cinemas and sports arenas in Ogun. The ban was  imposed on worship centres and other high density gatherings by the Federal and State governments respectively, following the outbreaks of COVID – 19 in the country and the measure was taken to manage and contain the spread of the virus in the state and country. The Police Command advised people to stay clear of gatherings that would attract 50 or more persons, warning that the Police was ready to arrest and prosecute violators of the directive.    