Leicester City continue their impressive season to date and are still in a prime position to secure Champions league football for next season. However, since the turn of the year, they have been in struggling form and manager Brendan Rodgers believes this is down to the fact that Wilfred Ndidi has been sidelined. The Nigerian star has been on the sidelines for a lengthy period of time and this has seen a slump in form for Leicester. The manager also says that the squad does not currently have the depth to deal with a player of his quality going missing, but they will now be hoping to finish strong with his return. The 23 year old has made 22 appearances in the Premier league this season, scoring two and assisting one. His impact on the pitch is great in the defensive midfield role and it makes Leicester such a difficult side to beat. They will now be expected to remain in the top four, finishing the season strong. Ndidi has also made 34 appearances for the national side since his debut back in 2015, and he continues to play a major role in their success to. Leicester City now enter the final period the season, having failed to win any of the recent four Premier league fixtures. This includes two draws against Chelsea and Wolves, and consecutive 1-0 loses to Manchester City and then Norwich City. The latter was a major shock, with Norwich bottom of the table and looking long odds on to face relegation. Leicester were trading as short as 1/10 to finish for the top 4 prior to this faltering run of form, but the majority of betting sites have now lengthened this up to in and around the 1/5 mark, given the number of points they’ve dropped in recent weeks. The gap between them and 5th place is still large, so whilst 1/5 may seem short, it’s probably a fair indication of the chances they currently have of qualifying for Europe’s elite competition. Leicester now enter a hugely important period in the future of the club, with Champions league football now all but expected. They are sitting in third position and have a five point cushion over the fourth placed side, Chelsea. Leicester also have an eight point lead over Manchester United in fifth, so remain in a prime position to finish in the top four with just ten matches left to play. If Leicester can win five of their remaining ten matches then they will almost guarantee Champions league football, and 50% win rate should be no issue for them. Some of the key remaining Premier league fixtures for the side this season, include the likes of Arsenal, Sheffield United, Tottenham and finally Manchester United on the final game of the season. https://www.sbo.net/country/nigeria/