Prospective car owners are set to reap what industry watchers have described as once-in-a-lifetime loyalty reward as two major brands namely: Honda Automobile Western Africa (HAWA) and Enyo Retail & Supply flag off promo. The month-long promo tagged: ‘March into Easter with the Real Deal Promo’ from Honda and Enyo, is scheduled to run from March 16 – April 16, 2020. Expectedly, the official ceremony to unveil the loyalty reward initiative which held at Enyo Filling Station in highbrow Lekki, Lagos, had in attendance representatives of both firms, including: Mr. Yosuke Okada (Sales Manager/Coordinator, Mr. Deepak Damanani (Dealer, Sales Director, THP), Mr Remi Adams, Sales and Marketing Lead, all of Honda Automobile Western Africa (HAWA) and their counterparts from Enyo namely: Mr Yomi Awobokun (CEO), Mr Fernando Madiero (CFO), Mrs Habiba Abubakar and Mr Olabanjo Alimi, Corporate Development Lead. Under this promo, individuals who purchase the all-new Honda HR-V SUV are entitled to a free N50,000 Enyo Velox Justifying the need for the promo, Mr. Fegho Umunubo, the CEO of XTREME Mindz Solutions Limited, the advertising agency that facilitated the partnership, said it was a welcome development to see two big brands come together to create value for the general public. Also speaking Awobokun expressed his excitement for the commencement of a partnership that looks very much like the start of so much more collaborations between the two brands. He was quick to emphasise Enyo’s commitment to whatever makes the life of her teeming customers and the average Nigerian better and went on to appreciate the team from Honda for the initiative behind the Honda HR-V SUV. Echoing similar sentiments, Remi, the Head of Sales for HAWA described the Honda HR-V SUV as a must-have for every Nigerian, adding that the car was designed and assembled in Nigeria, making it most suitable for Nigerian roads and the peculiarities associated with the West African terrain, whilst also retaining its status as a luxury car. According to Mr. Banjo, the Corporate Development Lead of Enyo, the Enyo Velox card is the latest innovative solution by Enyo to ensure that all her customers experience maximum value and ease at any of her fuel stations.