 THE rank and file of Enugu Rangers are reeling in shock as the Enugu-based side mourn the demise of their gifted player Ifeanyi George who died on Sunday following a ghastly car accident. George was reportedly  returning back to his base in Lagos in his car after he and his now ex-teammates were granted 10 days break in the wake of the clamped down  on football activities in Nigeria of the Covid-19 pandemic when he and two others met their untimely death. Eyewitness account stated that George’s car rammed into a stationary articulated vehicle in Abudu at Agbor/Benin road and the attacker, Emmanuel Ogbu a feeder team player of Rangers and another friend of his, Gabriel Eteka (ex-skipper, Magnate FC) who allegedly drove the car died on the spot. “He (George) was a good player, quality striker that had eyes for goals,” explained Rangers’ Media Manager Nobert Okolie.  “He was very good aerially and whenever we needed the goals and he was introduced, we can be sure that we would get it and he was also very good at taking penalty kicks.” Speaking further, Okolie said George possessed incredible attributes, adding his death has left a big void that will be difficult to fill, even as he berated social media users for the way the pictures and gory videos of the incident have become trending issue. He said:   “We had one Emmanuel Ogbu our, feeder team player and another friend of Ifeanyi George who is yet to be identified (but has now been identified as Gabriel Eteka). “He was the one driving. It is sad the way their gory video and pictures were splashed on social media. This is the bane of social media and this ought not to be trending. No one celebrates somebody’s demise this way,” he posited. Meanwhile, it was gathered that six officials of the Flying Antelopes went to the scene of the accident immediately they got wind of the unfortunate news while the bodies of the deceased had been deposited at a morgue in Abudu along Agbor/Benin road.   CHAIRMAN of the League Management Company (LMC), Shehu Dikko has expressed shock at the death of Rangers International striker, Ifeanyi George and two others in motor accident on Sunday. Dikko who contacted the club on getting the report of the accident, commiserated with the management, players and fans of the Enugu-based club as well as the players immediate family. “We sympathise with the club at this trying time and pray for the repose of his soul and wish the injured ones a speedy recovery”, the LMC Chairman told the club’s team manager, Amobi Ezeaku and coach, Salisu Yusuf in the phone call. He also urged all Nigeria Football Professional League (NPFL) stakeholders to take all necessary precaution to stay safe amidst the growing Coronavirus pandemic. “It is instructive that we should as much as possible limit our movements, restrict social contacts and adhere to health protocols set out by relevant global, national and state agencies for the containment of COVID 19,” Dikko appealed. George, according to the Rangers Media Officer died on the spot after the vehicle he was traveling in with a team mate ran into a stationery articulated vehicle along Agbor-Benin road. The player was said to be returning to Lagos to spend the break announced by the club following the suspension of NPFL matches.