The Country Manager, Vivo Mobile, Felix Lu, has advised prospective smartphone users to look out for functionality, innovation, design, history and pricing. Lu said mobile phone users are very keen on the functionality of  smartphones. “Considering that some people now refer to smartphones as man’s new best friend, it is imperative for smartphone makers to factor in changing consumer needs when designing new products,” he said. According to him, the battery, storage capacity and the camera are major things to look out for. He said Vivo is known for introducing a twist to even the most basic feature. “As against the archetypical 32GB ROM and 2GB RAM storage capacity on midrange smartphones, the Vivo Y19 boasts an exceptional 128GB ROM and 4GB RAM internal storage capacity, which eliminates any need for a memory card. Furthermore, it dons a massive 5000mAh battery life, which edges out the usual 4000mAh battery available in several devices in the Android market. Lu said some brands follow the norm in innovation while others refuse to follow-follow. He said Vivo was the first brand to introduce the in-display fingerprint scanner when the standard was a fingerprint scanner placed either at the rear of the device or on its home button. Another was the dual Pop-Up front camera, which make its debut with the V17Pro last year and retracts automatically when the phone detects it is in free fall. The  cameras housed a combined 40MP selfie camera which was a major advancement of the 16MP front camera being flaunted by other smartphones. Lu said millennials spend every single walking moment in the social media era. He said people want a device that will project style, fashion and status – the kind of device that, by just bringing it out, heads will turn. A number of smartphone brands, such as Apple, Samsung and Vivo, have been able to claim the premium market, thereby making their customers see their smartphones as fashion statements. Lu said pricing is also vital. It is normal to think that when a smartphone offers premium functionalities and exceptional design, it ought to be very expensive, he said. He said it is not the case with the brand. Typically, a Vivo smartphone in any category offers added value and is priced more reasonably than devices from other Android phone makers.