   UNFORTUNATELY, the myth that Nigeria is too close to the equator to experience Covid-19 has been debunked. Now that the truth has overwhelmed the myth, it is advisable that citizens and government agents refrain from creating new myths capable of creating confusion in the minds of people and misleading innocent citizens. There is no doubt that many government spokespersons have been providing right messages since rise in the number of infected cases in Nigeria. Yet, many political leaders have been saying things that can militate against building a much-needed trust between government and the citizenry. For example, only a few days ago, the speaker of a state assembly directed lawmakers to mobilize people in their constituencies to fast and pray against Covid-19. While such advice may have its significance, it does not sound as the most appropriate thing for a lawmaker to say in the context of a governance matter. The federal and many state governments, especially Lagos, the most affected so far, have identified many steps that State Assembly speakers should have enjoined lawmakers on holiday because of the virus to take home to their constituencies. It does not make sense to promote the religious message over the scientific one on a matter that most of the world’s scientists are virtually sleeping in the laboratories searching for anti Covid-19 therapies and vaccines? It makes Nigerian leaders look more uninformed than they should. Any wonder then that many of our religious leaders, have started creating new myths about the origin and lifespan of the virus? In a country that relishes referring to itself as a multi-religious society, it is expected that each faith would seize the opportunity of the challenge of Coronavirus to keep their members in line about belief celestial solution to a terrestrial problem, but doing so should not be in competition with allowing the state to give non-religious directives to citizens. A situation in which a religious leader disregard government orders and justify doing so with the excuse that he needed to gather a crowd to carry the message already carried in all communications channels about necessity for crowd avoidance leaves much to be desired. What has happened to the tolerance of “giving unto Caesar what is Caesar’s and unto God what is God’s? A time that Saudi Arabia has advised the faithful to pray in privacy of their homes is not the one for Christians in Nigeria to find excuse to disobey government’s directives. Religious merchants and fanatics run the risk of undermining the importance of faith and science if religious leaders continue to act as if they need to always look for metaphysical causes and solutions to problems. Such utterances: “We want to pray, coronavirus is not here — it is the whites who brought it to us;” “God told me three days ago to spread the word that the spirit of coronavirus is dead. We will soon attend its funeral;” and  “Coronavirus cannot stop God’s children, but I assure you that the solution will be found this week” made by religious fanatics at the bottom and apex of the Christendom in Nigeria may lessen the fear of millions of people about the current plague, but they are capable of undermining efforts by governments to address a real problem on the ground with the knowledge and skills known to people who do not have any special anointment to see or hear what ordinary mortals cannot see or hear about the source or progress of a pandemic. For as long as Nigeria has not been declared a theocracy, the authority that should enjoy dominance at a time of epidemic or pandemic should not be the narratives or parables of clerics and fanatics, but that of the government in its secular authority. Although the government of Nigeria may not be doing wonders, it is, however, making efforts to emulate some of the best practices on preventing spread of Covid-19. Therefore, any attempt by religious leaders to distract citizens from steps being taken to mitigate spread of Coronavirus deserves to be stepped down before majority of citizens in Nigeria are made to lose confidence in global efforts being applied to fight Covid-19. No responsible leader—political or religious—has a right to use global tragedy to look for converts to their brands of faith. More importantly, government officials cannot afford to lose their cool by engaging in blame game. Yes, citizens especially on social media platforms are cursing out political leaders, but such citizens have more reason to blame government than vice versa. All the curses and imprecations oozing out of the social media are not blaming Nigerian political leaders for the coming of Covid-19. They are signs of decades of frustration that governance has created in the country for about half a century, which the emergence of Coronavirus has further exposed in the lack of any health and social infrastructure to assure people that those who govern them may not be able to respond to the challenge  on the ground.of global pandemic. It is poor statecraft for government spokespersons to blame the victim. Ordinary citizens are victims of the current scourge much more than their political leaders.  And it should be a no brainer to political leaders with a history of 60 years of governance failure behind them that citizens are disoriented. This is, therefore, a time for government leaders to act and talk as servant-leaders, show empathy to citizens and be firm in ensuring that public orders are followed for the sake of the common good. It does not make sense to give open-ended orders such as asking pastors not to exceed 20 or 50 prayer warriors in praying centres at a time. This should not be the time for government to pander to religious organizations. A clear-cut order against any public gathering such as has been issued in Saudi Arabia and Italy, two global centres of faith promotion and management, is the right order to give—No church or Islamic service period. Nigeria does not have the number, time, and discipline to go from ward to ward to count numbers of people inside churches and mosques. Owners of praying and dancing halls ought to have been told in clear terms to close shop, instead of having to send policemen that should have been fighting banditry to drive out hard-of-hearing citizens from party halls. These are trying times. Government spokespersons ought to direct their energy to building trusts with citizens who have for decades felt alienated. A time like this is one to get the worst out of citizens who have been abused and underdeveloped by successions of governments. Paradoxically, it is in times like this that countries can get more united to face the challenges facing them. The federal government should not miss the opportunity of self-recognition. Citizens are unhappy that the nakedness of Nigeria has been exposed to the world by Covid-19 more than before. Governors of some states are already asking development partners to assist them to establish structures to prevent spread of Coronavirus. Government officials are spending so much energy on telling citizens why their president need not speak to citizens when they are starving for reassurance. Citizens are being told by Nigerian political leaders that results of Covid-19 tests on their leaders are not for public consumption, when leaders in other countries disclose results of their own tests. Any kind of information war between frustrated citizens and their government can only be counterproductive. This is the time for government leaders to act like parents to citizens that have been neglected for decades, not the time to tell them why they cannot insist that they want to hear from their father-figure, the republic’s president. Nigeria’s political leaders need to watch their counterparts in other countries about the role of empathy for the governed at a time like this. This is the time to keep it real. 