 NATURALLY, as a country heavily dependent on oil revenue any spike in prices, especially at the global market is usually a serious cause for concern. Little wonder that the clear and present danger being expressed by many out there at the moment are concerns that the country may be literally fishing in troubled waters, no thanks to her diminishing oil fortunes fueled largely by the slump in global crude oil prices. Crux of the matter The world woke up to a rude shock last Monday, after global crude oil prices fell almost 30 per cent, with Brent crude prices falling to $30 a barrel. It all started with the scare brought on by the spread of coronavirus disease (COVID-19), which is expectedly having a major adverse impact on the global economy. COVID-19 has till date infected over 121,312 people in 120 nations and territories as on March 11, with over 4,379 deaths reported worldwide. China alone reported 80,788 infected and 3,158 dead since the disease outbreak in December 2019. Under the shadow of the pandemic, it has been forecast that oil demand will fall in calendar year 2020, with demand growth estimated to be less than 0.48 million barrels per day (mb/ d) from 1.1 mb/d forecast earlier. The Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) held an emergency meeting in February in order to recalibrate its production cuts for the rest of the year. The plan was to cut production by another 1.5 mb/ d till the end of 2020, which would have reduced global supplies by 3.6 per cent. However, Russia refused to align with the deal. This led to Saudi Arabia slashing prices and setting plans for a big increase in crude production in April, thus sending oil prices crashing globally. Oil prices have fallen by 31.7 per cent since from the start of the calendar year till March 9. Founded fears over Nigeria’s troubled economy Expectedly, there are fears that the spread of the coronavirus is already having rippled negative effect on Nigeria’s economy. For instance, last week, panic selling on a large scale not only caused the market capitalisation of the Nigerian equity market to go slimmer but led to a total loss of N1.081 trillion in two days in what observers say is the biggest consecutive loss on the Exchange so far this year. Among the top losers include Aliko Dangote, Africa’s richest businessman and President of Dangote Group, which has the largest capitalised firm on the Exchange losing a whopping N240billion in the last couple of days. The market has been at the mercy of the free fall in the global oil prices lately since the new price war between Saudi and Russia in the aftermath of the refusal of the latter to agree to an oil output cut. This is even as there have been myriad sweeping effects of Covid-19 on several stock markets across the globe from Dow Jones to Nikkei 225 and the implacable epidemic is having its moment too on the Nigerian bourse. The market posted a negative breadth as 20 losers emerged against 18 gainers. The All Share Index (ASI) tumbled by 3.35% to end the day at 23,572.75. Market capitalisation cratered to N12.284 trillion at the end of last Wednesday’s trade. Year to date, the index is down by 12.18%. Besides, the nation’s exchange rate has also spiked with the naira exchanging for between N400-420 to the dollar as at Friday, thus further pushing up inflation currently hovering between 10-12 percent. Relatedly, the latest Institute of Chartered Accountant s in England and Wales (ICAEW) economic report has described Nigeria’ economic performance as being sluggish and weighing heavily on West and Central Africa’s prospects, with regional growth rising only marginally to 3.1 per cent in 2020. The ICAEW economic update in Africa for first quarter 2020 which was released last Thursday, said the low oil price may further prompt the Federal Government to impose additional foreign exchange restrictions. It added that such restrictions, along with the protectionist policies (such as the border closure), would prevent economic activity from gaining more traction. Members of the organised private (OPS), who have also raised their voices above the din were unanimous in calling for decisive measures to fight the scourge in order to prevent the economy from dire consequences. In separate statements issued by the Dr. Muda Yusuf, Director General, Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) and his counterpart at the Nigerian Association Of Chamber Of Commerce Industry Mines And Agriculture (NACCIMA) National President Hajiya Saratu Iya Aliyu has called on government to take steps through a clear plan of action to mitigate the negative economic impact of COVID-19 which the WHO has now declared as a global pandemic. According to Yusuf, the outbreak of the coronavirus has profound implications for the Nigeria economy. “It poses a major threat to Nigeria’s macroeconomic fundamentals, the impact of which may be systemic and far reaching. The looming price war contemplated by Saudi Arabia, the largest crude oil exporter, portends even more ominous signs for Nigeria’s economy. This is on the back of the collapse of the OPEC– Russia alliance. Saudi Arabia is offering significant discounts to its customers and also increasing output.” The LCCI boss, who noted that there is also the revenue effect of the coronavirus which is related to the drop in oil price, stressed that oil revenue currently accounts for about 50% of government revenue and about 85% of foreign exchange earnings. “With the current scenario of tumbling oil price, a drastic reduction in the revenue of government becomes inevitable in the near time. This has implications for the level of fiscal deficit in the budget; budget implementation will be constrained; infrastructure financing will be affected; borrowing may increase, and the capacity to fund capital project will be severely constricted. With this scenario, the outlook for oil dependent economies looks rather gloomy.” Oil revenue accounts for about 85% of foreign exchange earnings and is the major driver of accretion to the foreign reserves. The slump in oil price and the associated adverse expectations will put fresh pressures on the reserves. Currently, is at all-time low of $36.2 billion as at 3rd March 2020. This outlook has the following implications. “The global supply chain has been deeply disrupted as China, which is the second largest economy in the world, is a major supplier of inputs for manufacturing companies around the world, Nigeria inclusive. Many manufacturers and service providers in the country are already experiencing acute shortage of raw materials and intermediate inputs. This has implications for capacity utilisation, employment generation [and retention] and adequacy of products’ supply to the domestic market. There is also an implication for inflation.” On impact on events, conferences and workshops, Yusuf said, “Many events and conferences in Nigeria and around the world have been cancelled as a result of the Coronavirus scare. For most of these events, huge sum of money and resources have been committed to the organisation, planning and logistics. These translate into huge loses to the promoters of these events.” Echoing similar sentiments, NACCIMA boss said, “The Association has taken note that stringent efforts are being made to contain the spread of the deadly virus, in Nigeria and across the world. It is however of the strong view that government must equally pay attention to the potentially devastating negative economic dimension of the pandemic. This has been revealed in the drastic fall in prices of crude oil to around $32 well below the 2020 budget benchmark of $57 per barrel; and absence of market for about 50 cargo of Nigerian crude that has not found buyers as recently revealed. All these developments, according to the Minister of Finance is compelling government to undertake a review of the 2020 budget.” NACCIMA, she stressed, “Strongly supports a stimulus package to support the SMEs in particular who will be most hard hit by the economic impact of COVID-19. Among other steps government should consider include lowering of interest rate as well as enlisting the banks to be part of the stimulus package through favourable interest rates just as drastic reduction in the cost of governance to make the required savings.” She also sought more effective and wide spread use of the National Collateral Registry for easier access to finance by the SMEs. “We strongly recommend immediate steps for implementation of these recommendations and inclusion in action to be taken by government. State governments are equally advised to take necessary action at their own end as appropriate and against the backdrop of these recommendations.” 