By Adebisi Onanuga The Federal Government has been urged to as a matter of urgency, provide financial and material palliatives for the country’s poor masses in view of the economic partial lockdown. This request was made by a chieftain of the People Democratic Party (PDP) Lagos, Chief Adesunbo Onitiri in a statement on Sunday. “We implore the federal government to organise palliative measures for Nigerians, most especially the unemployed youths and the aged retirees. Besides, there are many Nigerians who have neither financial savings nor reserved foods anywhere unless they work or go for their business activities to feed themselves and their families everyday, Onitiri explained. “The palliatives will reduce poverty and crimes. Nigerians will be able to buy food during the sit-at-home lockdown.” Chief Onitiri applauded the dynamic efforts of Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo- Olu and wishes other state Governors and our President to take a cue from him. The social critic called on all those who have recently arrived from overseas to please self isolate so as not to spread the virus. The ban on all social gatherings and parties should be strictly enforced without exceptions, he said. Chief Onitiri had earlier called on President Muhammadu Buhari to address the nation to assure Nigerians which way forward, over this dreaded Coronavirus pandemic. “In this crucial period of looming lock down of the country’ Nigerians expect to hear more from our President. This is the period we need to see and feel the presence of our leader. He explained: “Most leaders in Africa, Europe and America are almost daily addressing their citizens.  Their presidents lead while the citizens follow. This dangerous pandemic is like a third world war where their presidents lead. “Leadership connotes responsibility and accountability.  No responsible leader abandons its citizens in a state of war.” “Nigerians are also demanding to know the state of health and the whereabouts of their President. Nigerians deserve to know. It’s our right and responsibility to see our President address the Nation. “This will boost the morale of Nigerians and stop the wicked rumours flying around in the social media. “When information is not made available to the citizens first-hand from the President, rumour-mongering becomes the order of the day”,Chief Onitiri implored. 