Welcome to another exciting week! I hope you were blessed by last week teaching. This week, we shall focus on: Unveiling The Degrees Of Faith! From scriptures, we discover that faith is in degrees. We may wonder why some people’s faith produces and others don’t. The reason is because Bible faith is in degrees! In Matthew 14, Jesus was walking on the sea towards His disciples, who had earlier left in a boat. Peter saw Him and said, ‘Lord if it be Thou, bid me come unto thee on the water’. Jesus said, ‘Come’ and Peter began walking towards Jesus on water. But when he saw the boisterous wind, he was afraid and began to sink, he cried saying, ‘Lord, save me’. Jesus stretched out His hand and caught him, and said, ‘O thou of little faith, wherefore, didst thou doubt?’ (Matthew 14:27-31). The dimension of faith required to keep walking on water was not in Peter, so he began to sink. We must understand that our level of insight determines the degree of faith we operate in. What Then, Are The Degrees Of Faith? In summary, faith is a growing force (2 Thessalonians 1:3). Thus, faith has its source and strength for growth in the Word of God. In other words, our labour in the Word of God is our access to growing in faith. However, new birth is a fundamental requirement to operate in the realm of the Spirit of faith. Are you born again? If you are not, this is an opportunity to do so. Simply say the following prayer: Lord Jesus, I come to You today. I am a sinner. Forgive me of my sins. Cleanse me with Your precious Blood. Today, I accept You as my Lord and personal Saviour. Thank You, Jesus, for saving me! Now, I know I am born again! For further reading, please get my books: Unlimited Power of Faith, Exploits of Faith, Born to Win and Satan get Lost. I invite you to fellowship with us at the Faith Tabernacle, Canaanland, Ota, the covenant home of Winners. We have four services on Sundays, holding at 6:00 a.m., 7:50 a.m., 9:40 a.m. and 11:30 a.m. respectively. I know this teaching has blessed you. Write and share your testimony with me through: Faith Tabernacle, Canaanland, Ota, P.M.B. 21688, Ikeja, Lagos, Nigeria, or call 01-4548070, 01-4548280, or E-mail: feedback@lfcww.org, Facebook: David Oyedepo Ministries International, Twitter: @DavidOyedepoMin. 