 Dear reader, Peace and blessings in Jesus name. You are welcome to the second segment of this teaching for the month. Last week I began by explaining what personal development is and why it is vital for you and every member of your family. Today and for the remaining weeks in the month, I shall focus on one area where development is required. Personal development covers the three dimension of man- spirit, soul and body. Today our focus shall be on spiritual development. The spirit man is the real you; it is the first dimension of development and the most important. Therefore, you have to take spiritual steps to develop your spirit man. The principal key to spiritual progress is a studious life. This means that you must be committed to a careful and deliberate study of God’s Word and other anointed materials such as books, messages etc. Paul in his letter, admonishing Timothy said:  Study to show thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth (2 Timothy 2:15). I have observed that when it is examination time in schools, even students who have been playing during lecture hours suddenly sit up and pay serious attention to their studies.  I remember when I was writing my ‘A’ level examinations many years ago, there were some students who preferred to stand up and study all night, rather than sitting down, just to be able to keep awake. Some would even put their feet into a bucket of cold water. Why? “Examination is on the way, I must study.” That picture clearly shows how important studying is to success. Unfortunately, however, when it comes to studying spiritual materials, many are very complacent. Very few transfer that kind of zeal in studying for examinations to studying the Bible. How much time do you invest in studying God’s Word in a day? It amazes me how many cannot afford to miss just a meal a day, but can go through one whole week without studying one chapter from the Bible! Let me show you certain keys that will help you to develop spiritually. Are you that person who always wish they can study the Word more and this always form part of your new year’s resolutions? Thank God, because this is a good wish but as someone rightly said, it takes as much energy to wish as it does to plan.  Therefore, the first key to spiritual development is to plan your study of the Word. In studying the Word of God, it is usually helpful to follow a consistent programme. For instance, if you plan to read a particular Book of the Bible, read it from the beginning and finish it, before you start another. Be consistent in your study of the Word of God. Personally, I mostly follow the book-by-book study method. I take a particular book of the Bible and ensure I read it through. I also read from books of the Bible each day, including Psalms and Proverbs. I don’t do this so I can have what to preach, but so that I can have what to live on and develop spiritually. Whatever method you adopt; it is important to be consistent. Another very significant method of personal development is reading anointed Christian books. “Only readers are leaders,” my husband says. So, go for books. As you read them, you will discover that it will enhance your capacity to develop, thereby affecting your world positively.  Apostle Paul told Timothy that he must study, if he must be an approved minister of God (2 Timothy 2:15). You can determine to read a book or two on particular topic as it relates to you to develop in such areas.  When you commit to a studious Word study, the grace of God is available for you to guarantee a victorious life. Another way you can develop spiritually, is to constantly improve on the quality of your prayer life. I mean quality, not necessarily quantity. Ephesians 6:18 says: Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints. Do you know that you can stay in the prayer room for one hour and make less impact than another who stays for only 30 minutes? The secret is the quality. Increase the quality of your prayers by praying all kinds of prayer. The Bible says: Confess your faults one to another, and pray one for another, that ye may be healed. The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much (James 5:16). Be fervent in your prayers as you pray both in your understanding and in the spirit! You know your areas of need; therefore, buy and listen to tapes that address those specific areas. I always admonish, don’t borrow the tapes, but buy them, so that you can listen to them again and again. Whenever you come across the Word that addresses specific areas of your life, write them down and go over them again and again. Today, technological advancement has made messages portable and readily available. You could listen to messages on your iPod, the inter-net, DVD, CDs etc. The good thing about listening to messages on tapes is that even if you are busy doing other things, you can still benefit. Personally, I never travelled to anywhere in the world without messages either on tapes, DVD, CD, iPod or a walkman; just to develop myself. Things don’t happen by chance; you have to make them happen. The Bible says, The spirit of man is the candle of the LORD, searching all the inward parts of the belly (Proverbs 20:27). You must commit to developing your spirit man to be in tune with the Spirit of God. This will help you to be spiritually sensitive; lack of sensitivity brings about calamity. That is not your portion in Jesus name. One major way to develop your spirit man is to play down on self. A carnal person cannot be spiritually sensitive. He or she cannot hear the voice of God, because of worldly concerns of what to eat, wear, etc. Congratulations! If you prayed this simple prayer of faith with me, you are now born again and a child of God. He loves you and will never leave you. Read your Bible daily, obey God’s Word and seek Christian fellowship (John 14:21). With this, you are guaranteed all-round rest and peace in Jesus’ Name! Call or write to share your testimonies with me through oyedepofaitha@gmail.com, 07026385437 OR 08141320204. For more insight, these books authored by me are available at the Dominion Bookstores in all Living Faith Churches and other leading Christian bookstores: Make your Life Count, Marriage Covenant, Making Marriage Work, Building a Successful Home and Success in Marriage (Co-Authored).