 THIS year makes it 25 years after Beijing. How do you feel being one of the Nigerian women who participated actively at the Conference? Not too pleased. What we thought Beijing 1995 was going to do for us; that is that it would make women to go places is not yet there. We have not gone far, that is the bone of contention. You can see from today’s outing that women are not ready to work together. The problem with many is that they want to showcase themselves alone.  A tree cannot make a forest. Let’s go down memory lane and recall what you did at Beijing then I was in a preparatory group to Dakar 94 and then I was also at Beijing 95. I was in Beijing on behalf of the country. Then, I had a chairman of the committee, who motivated and inspired us in so many ways. Unfortunately, there was confusion during the Beijing outing. Leila Dongoyaro, our chairman, was removed at the last minute after she had worked hard and prepared everybody for the conference. To God be the Glory, my husband stepped in and gave me a ticket. Interestingly, when I got there and they were not there. The team should have been there but because of these things that had disorganised them, there was a problem. Then after this we began to do things, and there were a number of dedicated people. This included the likes of the late Professor Jadesola Akande, may her soul rest in peace. There was also Dr Keziah Awosika, Hilda Adefarasin and many others. When they came, they were at the capital of Beijing. They were not at the local level, but the non-governmental organisations (NGOs) were at the local level and there were so many activities going on. And when it was time, they were not there and so I presented a card on behalf of the Nigerian women. I designed it and when I presented it with other countries, CNN took me on and it was news. It meant that we are joined with countries for peace mission. It took me worldwide and everybody saw it. Mrs Maryam Abacha was the first lady at that time. She led the delegation; they recognised it and they celebrated all of us together in Beijing. At the United Nations level, I was there with delegates like Dr Mrs Tokunboh Awolowo Dosunmu. They gave us a torch; it was a gift and the message to us was to go back to your country and be a torch to other women. This I have done, and there are so many inspiring messages looking down memory lane. It was after Beijing that the government of Nigeria recognised me and gave me a national honour as MFR. That was under President Olusegun Obasanjo’s administration. My government also recognised me and moved me to Delta, which is my state and they gave me Justice of Peace. So, I would say that it is good to work together. My advice to Nigerian women today is let’s network; unfortunately, we don’t know how to network. You just want to own everything by yourself. You can’t do it alone. And when you go places, you cannot do without mentioning others. That is one thing we don’t remember to do; it is important to appreciate the support from others, mention them, appreciate them because they made it possible for you to go this far. What advice do you have for Nigerian women at this time? We are not taking the issue of networking seriously. For instance, those who went into politics are just thinking of money. You have heard the woman from Cameroon saying ‘it’s your brain, not your foot.’ This way and not that way, you are there for a purpose. Always ask yourself: what is your purpose? Is it to enrich yourself or you want to touch lives and bring development to your women and their children as well as the entire nation and be known as the woman who fought for others? Are you attending CSW to commemorate 25th anniversary of Beijing? Yes, I am going. My take is that we must put our house in order. We go there to listen to what they have to say and then we come back to sleep. Tell us about your organisation for women; WAWA It is for the ECOWAS women. The women were asked to come together and the chapter in Nigeria was dormant. Dr Chaba and Hon Kadir nominated me and brought me to ECOWAS sub-region where they interviewed me. They thought I could do some magic and I told them my magic is networking. I have served the National Council for Women’s Societies (NCWS). I have served Lions Club. We must be ready to touch lives and serve humanity in whatever we do. I have also served the International Women’s Society (IWS). I have also served my local NGO at the local level in Isselu Uko. All that came from the impact of Beijing 95. I learnt so much, came back and created my own NGO.