 Airtel has renewed its call for the classification of telecoms infarstructure as Critical National Infrastructure (CNI) by the Federal Government. The telco  lamented that it had suffered  over 1000  fibre cuts in the last nine months. Speaking during a media parley at its headquarters in Lagos at the weekend, its Vice President, Networks Operation, Dr Adeola Adedoyin, lamented that frequent fibre cuts and thefts were part of the reasons for dropped calls and other service quality issues. He lamented that telecoms infrastructure were vandalised, stolen, bombed and destroyed with reckless abandon, creating problems for the network operators as well as the consumers. “Telecoms operators are plagued with so many problems ranging from security issues to illegal signal boosters. While a network provider is working hard to restore a fibre cut due to vandalism or activities of road construction workers, it also has to deal with illegal signal boosters, which interfere with network quality and operated by unlicensed operators.  “Then, all operators would have to wait endlessly for right of way (RoW) approvals, EIA approvals and other approvals. Also, telecoms installations are huge targets for thieves who cart away with inverter batteries, generators, diesels in addition to the other daily and long standing problems of multiple taxation, community issues and all,” he said. Adeola also highlighted the efforts telcos were making to remedy the situation, despite the harsh operating climate, stating that steps are being taken to improve surveillance across telecoms fibre routes; proactively engage with construction companies and communities; and enlisting the support of security agencies to access sites/telecoms infrastructure in flash points or troubled areas, among others. Also speaking, its Director of Corporate Communications & Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR),  Mr. Emeka Oparah, said the declaration of telecoms infrastructure as CNI would improve the quality of services (QoS) by telecom operators. Oparah said Airtel alone recorded about 1022 cases of fibre cuts in nine months, that is, between last July and February 11, this year. He explained that 405 cases of the fibre cut were as a result of road rehabilitation activities by construction firms while 617 cases were due to vandalism.  