 The Endometriosis Support Group Nigeria (ESGN), a non-profit organisation committed to raising awareness on endometriosis, has called for more awareness and early diagnosis of the disease. The founder of ESGN and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Nordica Fertility Centre, Dr. Abayomi Ajayi, said endometriosis is a medical condition that occurs when tissue-like lining of the uterus, called the endometrium, grows in other places such as the fallopian tubes, ovaries or along the pelvis. It causes severe menstrual cramps, chronic pelvic pain, pain during intercourse, increased menstrual bleeding and infertility. The cause of endometriosis is not known, but most theories centre on how cells, hormones and the immune system work. As a leading cause of female infertility and debilitating pelvic pain, endometriosis affects an estimated 1 in 10 women during their reproductive years (i.e usually between the ages of 13 to 45). Those affected can experience great pain and severely diminished physical and emotional health – causing a negative impact on every aspect of a woman’s life,  Ajayi said. Endometriosis awareness takes place across the globe in the month to increase awareness and highlight the symptoms of this debilitating condition that affects an estimated 176 million women worldwide. The main focus is to raise awareness critical to achieving better outcomes, educate and inform women and men alike about the disease, promote early diagnosis, access to treatment, funding, research and treatment programs. The ESGN, which started in 2005 as a result of the findings from fertility research by Nordica Fertility Centre, has since embarked on various initiatives to raise public consciousness about the condition which affects some 10 per cent of women within reproductive age. Ajayi said ESGN is positioned as the standard advocacy group for engaging, educating, empowering and effecting change in endometriosis support in Africa, bringing together the most specialised medical professionals in endometriosis care and women’s health in the world.  “Like we have been doing annually, activities have been outlined to mark the 2020 ESGN campaign. While we have had to postpone the walk for this year because of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, we would be having a “Hang Out”, where we would be taking the conversation online. During this Hang Out, which will take place on March 28, 2020 by 5 pm, we will be having experts and one or two sufferers join us to share their experience. “On the same day, we will be announcing the Face of ESGN winner who will be our ambassador for the next year. The winner of our Fourth  Secondary Schools Essay Competition, where we have over 45 entries from 17 schools, will be announced on May 15, 2020 during the African Endometriosis conference. “The symptoms of endometriosis vary. Some women experience mild symptoms while others have moderate to severe symptoms. The severity of your pain doesn’t indicate the degree or stage of the condition. You may have a mild form of the disease yet experience agonising pain. It’s also possible to have a severe form and have very little discomfort. The causes of endometriosis are uncertain, but it does tend to run in families. “Since the symptoms of endometriosis are usually varied, depending on where the abnormal endometrium is located. It is not unusual for it to go undiagnosed for a long while. Delay in the diagnosis of about four to 10 years has been reported in the United Kingdom and other developed countries. March is dedicated to raising awareness of endometriosis to reduce the delayed and missed diagnosis. There is still no cure for endometriosis, but the symptoms can be adequately managed through medical and surgical options,” he said.