 THE 75 coronet monarchs demoted by Ogun State government have sued Governor Dapo Abiodun for reversing their upgrade. The aggrieved monarchs said their upgrading, which took effect from May 13, 2019, is pursuant to Section 25 (1) and (2) of the Chiefs Law, Laws of Ogun State of Nigeria, 2006. Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs; Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs; House of Assembly and the State Attorney-General are defendants in the suit. Former Governor Ibikunle Amosun had upgraded the Baales as Coronet kings at the twilight of his administration. But the Chieftaincy Review Committee, set up by Abiodun, recommended a reversal of their appointments. The monarchs are seeking an order of interlocutory injunction restraining the defendants, either by themselves or through their agents, servants, privies or any other persons acting for them, from preventing them from acting, parading or referring to themselves as Coronet kings, having been earlier upgraded, appointed and promoted by the state government.  The claimants are therefore seeking a declaration that the activities and recommendation of the review committee is an afterthought and a nullity. They also sought: “A declaration that the defendants are stopped from reversing or revoking the upgrading, appointment and promotion of the claimants as Coronet kings in Ogun State, and/or preventing claimants from acting, parading or referring to themselves and being referred to as Coronet kings of their communities. “A declaration that the defendants cannot capriciously reverse or revoke the upgrading, appointment and promotions of the defendants in the absence of any complaint against the upgrading, appointment and promotion of the claimants duly brought to the attention of the claimants for their defence/response. “An order setting aside the purported reversal or revocation of the claimants upgrading, appointment and promotion as Coronet kings in Ogun State; an order compelling the defendants to rescind forthwith the purported reversal and/or revocation of the upgrading, appointments and promotion of the claimants as Coronet kings of their communities…” The monarchs are also want the defendants compelled to pay all remunerations and entitlements due them but unpaid from May 13, 2019, when their upgrading took effect till date and thereafter.” It was gathered that hearing has been scheduled for April 27 at an Abeokuta High Court.