We are doomed as a nation. In the 21st Century, we are reviving a distressed person by forcing spoon into his mouth. He eventually dies and those who partook in this sacrilegious act are surprised. Will you blame them? Where were the doctors? Are we saying that the two teams have no medical doctor in their delegation? Who brought that weather-beaten ambulance which had battery problems? Why didn’t the state FA go to the government hospital to book for ambulance? Somebody should be made to face the consequences of this sad death. If the league organisers were diligent, they would have conducted the pre-season medicals among clubs professionally. The organisers ought to have a designated hospital whose duty would be to ensure that any player registered to play for the season is medically fit. It is the norm everywhere and it is celebrated each season. Need I remind readers of pictures of newly recruited players, those they met and those recruited to be transferred again, who undergo such medical routine? The essence of such periodic or should I say seasonal medical check is to avoid sudden deaths at match venues. To corroborate these facts is the view by a medical practitioner Dr. Adebisi John who told New Telegraph Friday that if the Pre-Competition Assessment (PCMA) had been conducted on the player as stipulated by the world football governing body FIFA, the death would have been averted. According to Dr John: ‘’This is why clubs overseas ensure that medics are carried out on players during the transfer period to ascertain the state of health and fitness of a particular player. It is either the report says a player is not fit and eligible to play or the player is not fit to play until further examination is carried out.’’ The video recording of how they tried to revive the dead is not only painful but archaic. It also shows how we value human beings. I wish the league organisers could place their kids or relations in the dead player’s precarious position and see if they would accept that level of incompetence by them. In the video, an ignorant person knelt on the distressed player’s chest with some others fanning him with all manner of jersey tops which were mostly sweaty and possibly stinking. You could see someone forcing the player’s mouth open with a spoon, with some bewildered as the player died slowly. The whole exercise of reviving the player was comical. The pain is that those who tried to revive him have never practiced what they were doing in such emergencies? If such ignorant few were allowed to handle the distressed, what happened to the two teams’ medical crew? Where was the Nasarawa State FA’s back-up medical team? How come the match commissioner allowed the game to kick off without checking on the quality of the medical personnel on the ground? Who hired the ambulance that failed to function on such critical occasion? In fact, those who functioned as the logistics staff for the game should never be allowed into any football stadium. They should be banned for life and appropriate sanctions placed on them. Perhaps, this is the best chance to get clubs to show all the mechanisms they have for players’, coaches’ and ancillary staff’s medical, albeit insurance policies. No team should be registered if its management can’t submit documents to show that they value the human life. The sports ministry should immediately ask the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) to advertise the position of official hospital for the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL). The NFF should also throw open bids to hospitals in the states to bid as official medical unit to each of the 20 teams in the elite class.  The sports ministry could partner with its Federal Ministry of Health to conduct the processes of getting qualified doctors, nurses, hospitals surgeons for the league. The sports ministry in conjunction with the NFF could talk to sponsors to bankroll this critical aspect of the league to avoid a recurrence. Yes, I’m not a seer. Neither am I a harbinger of bad news. But I warned in this column penultimate Saturday that there was urgent need for us to improve on the medical facilities at match venues, lest we lose a soul. In the article I stated that most of the ambulances at venues were more or less statues, non functional. I talked about these ambulances either being pushed to start or having to go over six kilometres to find the driver in cases of emergencies. I talk about the rusty cylinder belonging to the Federal Medical Centre, Umuahia from which the chairman of Enyimba FC of Aba Felix Anyansi-Agwu was given oxygen while having his broken head stitched. Anyansi’s head was broken and till date the culprit of that dastardly act has not been arrested and prosecuted like it’s done in saner climes. It has been swept under the carpet as a none event, making the criminal’s action legitimate. Nobody is anticipating reprisal attacks anytime the return leg is played. It doesn’t matter if it is played next year. Writing in this column under the headline ‘’Wanted! medical lifeline at stadia’’  I warned that the rusty cylinder through which oxygen was given to Felix Anyansi-Agwu at the Federal Medical Centre in Umuahia, Abia State, leaves much to be desired. I stated categorically that in other climes, Anyansi-Agwu should have been taken to the hospital fitted with oxygen right on the scene of occurrence. I highlighted the fact that the way Anyansi Agwu was taken to the medical centres showed the absence of a medical system in the league. It showed also that Anyansi-Agwu didn’t receive any proper care on the pitch. Thank God it wasn’t an emergency. We have seen emergencies handled professionally in European leagues. We marvel at the dispatch in which medics in the stadium rally round the distressed players, officials or referees were taken out of the pitch after doing the required first aid treatments, essentially to stabilise the patient, before heading for the hospital. The first thing fitted on such distressed person is oxygen. Modern science makes such means of passing oxygen less cumbersome and not a health hazard like the rusty cylinder used to treat Anyansi Agwu. The player named Chineme Martins reportedly collapsed on the pitch in the 3-0 win over Katsina United last week Sunday. Although he was rushed to the hospital, he gave up the ghost on arrival. However, according to an eye witness, things could have been different if the Peugeot 406 Ambulance stationed for emergency had started on time. According to reports made available to Soccernet, the car failed to start and had to be pushed as Martins battled for his life on the pitch. The press crew bus was eventually used to convey the player to the hospital, but by that time, it was too late as he ran out of breath at the hospital. If the car didn’t start, what happened to the oxygen facilities inside the ambulance? Where was the medical team which accompanied the faulty ambulance? That is if there was an ambulance? This incident shouldn’t be swept under the carpet. A probe panel must be constituted to look at the remote and immediate causes of the poor handling of the player’s distressed moments which led to his death. The findings would help future organisers of the league. It would also produce an official template on how players’ coaches and ancillary staff’s health matters should be handled. I’ve read the sanction meted out on the match commissioner Christian Mbah. Mbah from Enugu State Football Association, has been withdrawn permanently from further participation in NPFL matches, for failing to perform his statutorily duty on match day. Mbah was to ensure all requirements including Medical personnel and equipment were in place before allowing the match to kickoff. Mbah didn’t. He also failed to submit his match report within the stipulated time frame despite the aggravated incident from the match. The big question to ask the organisers is if they have disclosed what happened in the local derby game between Abia Warriors and Enyimba, where an NFF board member Felix Anyansi-Agwu’s head was broken by an irate fan, who is roaming free in Umuahia. If this report has been disclosed, having being played weeks back, what offence has Mbah committed? Truth is that nothing works in the league. Mbah is being made the fall guy in this matter, forgetting that no club ought to be registered without all the requirements in place.