All stakeholders must join hands to provide awareness and access to early detection and treatment in order to eradicate cancer in Nigeria. Lagos State Governor’s  wife, Dr Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, said cancer had assumed the dimension of a scourge in the world, particularly in Nigeria and other developing countries, urging for collective action to stop and eradicate the scourge. Sanwo-Olu spoke at the 2020 advocacy against cancer organised by Atinuke Cancer Foundation held at the Teslim Balogun Stadium in Lagos. Citing the National Cancer Control Plan (NCCP) from 2018 to 2022 prepared by the Federal Ministry of Health in collaboration with other key stakeholders, the Governor’s wife noted that cancer burden was significant and growing in Sub-Saharan Africa. According to her, based on global cancer estimate of 2012, there were new 626,400 cases of cancer and 447,700 deaths from cancer in Sub-Saharan Africa. Based on population aging alone, cancer incidence in Sub-Saharan Africa is projected to increase by 85 per cent in the next 15 years. She noted that cancer was responsible for 72,000 deaths every year in Nigeria with an estimated 102,000 new cases of cancer annually. Sanwo-Olu, who was represented by Chairperson, Eredo Local Council Development Authority and Founder, Charitable Network for Community Empowerment (Chance), Olajumoke Saliu, pointed out that in most of the developing countries in Africa, cancer indices are gathering disturbing and alarming upward trend due to late presentation, low access to treatment, and poor treatment outcomes. “Delays in access to cancer treatment also result in 80 to 90 per cent of cases that are in an advanced stage at the time of arrival to treatment. This calls for all hands to really and truly be on deck to kill cancer in Nigeria as espoused in the theme of this walk, before it inflicts further havoc on the critical mass of our bulging population,” Sanwo-Olu said. She noted that the Lagos State Government was already leading series of initiatives designed to tackle cancer, assuring that the present administration of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu would spare no effort to wage war against cancer in the state and Nigeria generally. She commended the Founder of Atinuke Cancer Foundation, Tinu Lawal, for championing a genuine affectionate feeling for thousands of Nigerians suffering from cancer and for playing up advocacy on how to combat the disease. Lawal, who once battled with cancer, narrated her personal experience from being diagnosed of cancer in 2014 through her treatment and her commitment to creating awareness for cancer detection and treatment. She praised everyone that braved it to participate in the 2020 advocacy programme in spite of the news of Covid-19, expressing optimism that Coronavirus will fizzle out just as Ebola did in 2014.