From Chris Oji, Enugu  The traditional ruler of Owerre autonomous community in Nsukka Local Government Area, Enugu State, Igwe Emeka Ugwu has called on governments at all levels to consult native doctors, soothsayers, herbal medicine dealers to seek solution and total cure for the Coronavirus pandemic. Igwe Ugwu made the call in Nsukka while fielding questions from journalists on the ongoing public enlightenment campaign over prevention of the Coronavirus pandemic in Nsukka council area and its environs. The traditional ruler noted that most native doctors, soothsayers, traditional herbal medicine dealers among others were for ages known for solutions to strange diseases, lamenting that government reluctance to engage traditional approach to research for permanent cure of the pandemic disease is highly regrettable. “Government at all levels should not watch people suffer and die without exploring all possible means for cure to the Coronavirus pandemic. “While government wait and hope on scientists for solution to nip the spread of the pandemic virus in the bud, native doctors, soothsayers and traditional herbal medicine dealers have to be consulted for solution. Nigeria survived HIV/AIDS, lassa fever, Ebola among others and still survive Coronavirus pandemic” he said. “Some native doctors have supernatural gifts and potentials in curing strange diseases, therefore government should engage them to embark on spiritual warfare to curb the menace because it’s a matter of life and death. “The disease is not an ordinary one hence the need to involve all and sundry in the quest for solution to the cure for the pandemic virus,” he said. The traditional ruler also urged members of the public not to panic over the Coronavirus, stressing that nature will arrest the disease against them. “Nature will not allow this virus to harm any of my subjects because it is not our disease. Our land will protect us against it.” He, however urged the community to comply with all government directives on safety and preventive measures pointing out that they should also observe and maintain high level of personal hygiene. The Royal father applauded the efforts made by Enugu state government so far to contain the spread of the virus by banning burials, weddings, social activities among others to checkmate spread of the pandemic virus in the state. 