Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has threatened to sue the Federal Government over its failure to provide information on the exact amount of public funds stolen by former military head of state Sani Abacha, or of the spending of about $5billion recovered loot for the period between 1999 and 2015. The two parties had disagreed on the amount of public funds stolen by Abacha and the spending of about $5 billion recovered loot. While the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abukabar Malami (SAN), said his ministry does not hold records of the exact amount of public funds stolen by the late Abacha, or of the spending of about $5 billion recovered loot, SERAP said “the failure of Malami to provide the information on the exact amount stolen by Abacha and on spending of recovered loot for the period between 1999 and 2015 implicitly amounts to a refusal by the government.” The Minister of Finance did not forward any response. Federal Government’s response followed SERAP’s Freedom of Information (FoI) requests sent to the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abukabar Malami (SAN) and Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed. SERAP had requested information on the exact amount of public funds stolen by Abacha, and details of spending of about $5 billion recovered loot since the return of democracy in 1999. But Malami, in his reply dated February 26, 2020 reportedly said: “We have searched our records and the information on the exact amount of public funds stolen by Abacha and how recovered loot was spent from 1999 to 2015 is not held by the Ministry.” The Minister of Justice however gave the breakdown of money recovered to include: “a total of $322 million recovered from Switzerland in January 2018 and the funds were used for Social Investment Project. Also, $308 million was recovered from the Island of Jersey in collaboration with the USA. While awaiting the transfer of the money to Nigeria, it has been designated for the following projects: Lagos-Ibadan Expressway; Abuja-Kano Expressway, and Second Niger Bridge.” Dissatisfied with Malami’s reply, SERAP Deputy Director Kolawole Oluwadare said: “The failure to provide information on the exact amount stolen by Abacha and on spending of recovered loot for the period between 1999 and 2015 implicitly amounts to a refusal by the government. The government also failed to provide sufficient details on the spending and planned spending of the $630 million it said it recovered since 2018.” In a statement dated March 15, 2020, SERAP said: “In the circumstances and given that Mrs. Zainab Ahmed has failed and/or refused to response to our FoI request, we are finalising the papers for legal actions under the FoI Act to compel the government of President Muhammadu Buhari to fully and effectively comply with our requests.” Malami’s reply with reference number MJ/FOI/REQ/035/11/34, was signed on his behalf by a principal counsel at the Ministry of Justice, Hamza Adeyinka Omolara. In its FoI requests, SERAP had expressed: “Concerns that substantial part of the estimated $5 billion returned Abacha loot since 1999 may have been diverted, re-stolen or mismanaged, and in any case remain unaccounted for.” The FoI requests dated February 14, 2020, read: “The Federal Government should disclose details of projects executed with the Abacha loot and their locations, details of companies and contractors involved in the execution of any such projects, details of all the agreements on the loot, the roles played by the World Bank and other actors, as well as the implementation status of all projects since 1999. “Publishing the details of projects on which Abacha loot has been spent would allow the public to know the specific projects carried and the areas of the country in which the projects have been implemented as well as the officials that may be responsible for any alleged diversion or mismanagement of the loot.”