Nollywood actress, Tonto Dikeh and her ex-husband, Olakunle Churchill have resumed hostilities towards each other. The resumed war of words began when Dikeh shared one of her recent pictures with a caption that says she walked out of a marriage to a gay man. She wrote, “You wake up one day and you discover you are married to a bisexual man. What would you do? I walked out! For those of you who says God forbid, well I hope you know that 60% of men you/we marry sleep with men…Or y’all still casting and binding for change…#BoysNightOut #BoysTrip #Outwiththsboys.” The post had sparked off a reaction from Tonto’s ex-husband, Churchill who took to his Instagram stories to reply. “Churchill is the new Nollywood movie. The script attached to a 6 months of staying together as partners, turns 20 years of bad marriage experience. Sweet coated humongous lies. Director??? scriptwriter???” He went further to write, “After 4 years of ranting and raving, the bring down syndrome automatically becomes a broken record.” Churchill’s response spurred the ‘Damage’ actress to respond by calling the father of her only child, ‘a 40 seconds cow’. She wrote, “This one has serious brain damage. I talk about ex and this 40sec cow thinks he’s the only ex, born fool, go sit down dummy.. You was just a word in the chapter…although you are the bizexual ex I was actually referring to.” The second salvo irked another response from Tonto’s estranged husband, who told her to focus on her career and leave him alone. He wrote, “Nigerians should not succumb to the temptation of anyone using my name to trend “Churchill’. Idleness gives room for pointless reaction. focus on your career and leave me the hell alone.” Not heard the last of it, Tonto reacted to Churchill’s final response saying she ‘gave her ex-husband the fame he’s enjoying today’ “Lmao, this goat thinks he can trend me? Bitch I gave you this fame, calm your sore butt down.. I am the news, I will trend your whole village and make them celeb wannabe like I did you. #Fool. And go defraud somemore innoncent(Yahoo Shild) or look for the next woman to pay your brideprice… #You do yours in the dark like the coward that you are and I do mine in the open. #You are a glorified idiot,” Tonto responded as the last salvo. Dikeh and Churchill took the entire Monday, March 2 to engage in a war of words with the erstwhile lovers throwing wordy missiles at each other on Instagram. It is unsure when both parents of King will call a truce and end the hostilities towards each other. 