•Warns residents to brace up for tougher measures •16 students rescued at Seme border •Davido’s fiancee, Chioma, tests positive • FG converts NYSC camps, stadia to isolation centres Oyo Governor Seyi Makinde has imposed a dusk- to-dawn curfew on the state following the confirmation of two new cases of COVID-19.he Lagos State government is projecting that the coronavirus pandemic may explode to 39000  cases across Nigeria in the  worst case scenario. There are currently 70 confirmed cases in the country, 44 of which are in Lagos State alone. The  figure rose by five from the 65 recorded on Thursday, the  Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) said on Friday. Hundreds of Nigerians who were caught unawares by the ban on international flights into the country on account of the pandemic are now trapped at the nation’s borders, desperately seeking to get back home. Sixteen of them, all of whom are students, were yesterday rescued at the Seme border  by the Lagos State Government  which also warned to brace up for toughermeasures in the bid to curtail the spread of the infection. Singer Davido revealed that his  fiancee, Chioma Rowland, had tested positive for coronavirus 13 days after arriving from London. Davido said in a statement that  Chioma tested positive following  a test conducted on himself, his baby, fiancee and 28 others, whom he had been exposed to. The Ministry of Youth and Sports Development said it had received  the nod of President Muhammadu Buhari to convert  four federal government owned stadia and  the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) orientation camps across the country to temporary  isolation centres for Coronavirus cases. Lagos projects 39,000 cases Giving an update on the pandemic yesterday, Lagos State Health Commissioner Akin Abayomi said that “our mathematical modeling shows that the worst-case scenario is that we may see up to 39,000 cases in Lagos.” But he said the figure might not go beyond  13,000 “if everyone practices good social distancing.” He added: “If we add social distancing to active contact tracing, then we will be able to bend the curve further. “The figures may seem alarming at this point, but this is just to emphasise to the Lagos community to follow instructions of the incident commander to make sure that we practice social distancing. “Looking at the same time frame from the introduction of the index case, you can see that Lagos State is not seen  anywhere near what Spain, Italy, and Iran are showing. “At two or three weeks of our index case, we are flat and at week four, we have 37 cases; while at the same fourth week, Italy, Iran, and Spain had more than 20,000 cases. So, we are doing something right in the state.” The commissioner said six of the cases in the state were still in the ship that brought them to Nigeria. “We will be finding ways to evacuate them,” he said. Shedding light on the various cases,he said: ” 70 percent of the patients are male and 30 percent are female, one infant, and a young person under 30 years. “We have above age 60 years too. Again, 82 percent of the cases are imported and 14 percent are direct contact, while we have no idea where 2 percent contracted it from.” Nigeria’s confirmed cases rise to 70 The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) said on Twitter that confirmed cases in the country had risen to 70 by 8pm yesterday This is five up from the 65 posted on Thursday. The five new cases are three in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and two in Oyo State. The breakdown is as follows: Lagos- 44; FCT- 14; Ogun- 3; Ekiti- 1; Oyo- 3; Edo- 1; Bauchi- 2; Osun-1; Rivers-1 Three of the cases have been allowed back home. One death has been recorded. Lagos rescues 16 students trapped at Seme border, says Sanwo-Olu At a separate press conference yesterday, Governor  Babajide Sanwo-Olu  of Lagos State hinted that many Nigerians who were caught unawares by the ban on international flights into the country are now trapped at the nation’s borders, desperately seeking to get back home. The ban was announced last Saturday  by the federal government as part of the strategy to check further  importation of the coronavirus into the country. The land borders have been shut for the seventh month running  to check smuggling, effectively blocking entry into the country by land and air. The governor said the state government had to intervene  in the case of 16 students who were so trapped at the Seme border. The students were rescued and sent to an isolation centre for tests. He said they would be released once they tested negative for COVID-19. Asked why the state was not yet on total lock down,the governor said the state had not yet reached that stage but he said it could not be far from it. Sanwo-Olu said he would not rule out a possible lockdown of the state in the coming days and urged residents to brace for tougher measures. The governor  said that there had been a “strange trend” recorded by the State in its response to the viral epidemic, hinting that some of the new infections showed Lagos might  be entering a phase of community transmission of the disease. “I have said again and again that this fight is a collective one; we are all in it together,” he said. His words: “We are moving in the direction of total lockdown but there are indices we need to see before we carry it out which we are yet to see. “We need to see a  huge spike in the number of confirmed cases.So we are looking at that. “There are indices that need to happen; there are numbers that we need to see for us to know that we need to shut down everywhere, but we have not seen that number. “As we are having cases coming in, we are also excited because we are seeing a very positive response and patients also at the edge of being discharged and that for us shows that there are some balances coming in.” Sanwo-Olu said that of the  44 confirmed cases in the state,  Ikeja and Eti-Osa local governments have  the highest number  of cases. Davido’s fiancée Chioma tests positive Davido in his statement said his four-month old baby, Ifeanyi David Adeleke jr, was negative. “Hey everyone! I came back recently from America after canceling the tour. My fiancé Chioma also came back from London recently with our baby,” he said. He added: “We had no symptoms and still both feel perfectly fine but because of our recent travel history, we decided to take ourselves and our all close associates we’ve come in recent contact with for the COVID-19 test on the 25th of March. “Unfortunately, my fiancé’s results came back positive while all 31 others tested have come back negative including our baby. “We are however doing perfectly fine and she is even still yet to show any symptoms whatsoever. “She is now being quarantined and I have also gone into full self-isolation for the minimum 14 days. “I want to use this opportunity to thank you all for your endless love and prayers in advance and to urge everyone to please stay at home as we control the spread of this virus! Together we can beat this!” Davido returned with his wife, son, father, sister, brothers, cousins, and management team from the United States of America on March 14. The singer returned to Nigeria after his North American tour was cut short due to the spread of coronavirus in Canada and the United States of America. Chioma joins a long list of Nigerians that have tested positive to coronavirus after the first index case was identified on February 27. FG to convert NYSC orientation camps, four stadia to isolation centres Youth and Sports Development Minister Sunday Dare said President Muhammadu Buhari has given the ministry the go ahead to convert the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) orientation camps across the country and four  federal government owned stadia into  isolation centres in the battle against the coronavirus. Dare writing on his Twitter handle on Friday said: “Mr. President has approved for the Ministry of Youth and Sports to open and make available the stadiums in Surulere Lagos, Ibadan, Abuja, and Kaduna, as well as our NYSC camps nationwide for use as isolation centers as they are needed. We are in touch with relevant authorities.”  Four additional test labs coming next week, says NCDC The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) said  that additional four test laboratories will be added to the existing five test labs in the country to scale up testing capacities. The new labs to be located in Ibadan, Abakaliki, Port Harcourt and Kaduna, will be ready in the next week. The existing five facilities are: Nigerian Institute of Medical research in Lagos, Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Gaduwa NCDC in Abuja, and two research centres in Ede,Osun State  and Irrua in Edo state. The  Director-General of the NCDC, Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu, said on Arise TV, yesterday that “In the next week, we are going to add four new labs to our network. We have worked in Ibadan over the past couple of days and we should activate it today. I have a team that have been in Ibadan for the past two days, then, we will go to Abakaliki where we have an existing lab, then we will go to Port Harcourt and Kaduna. So, these four should be ready in the next week and add to the existing capacity. “There are also new diagnostics.  There are people working on rapid diagnostics tests kits, and we are hoping that IT can be brought to the market and we will make our purchases and procurement as soon as possible. “Nigerians are not going to pay for any of these tests; as long as you need it, we will support the test through a public sector fund. Of course, if you want to have the test privately, we don’t have any private provision as at now, but there are groups working on it. “If you want it done in the convenience of your house or wherever you want, there should be a private sector that can offer that to you. But that does not exist at the moment for any validated care. We are working with a group of private sector colleagues to make this happen in Lagos in the short-term and then in Abuja and spread it to the other cities.” Military readies 17 hospitals as COVID-19 isolation centres The Defence headquarters said yesterday that the military had  17 hospitals  ready to handle confirmed cases of the coronavirus pandemic. Besides,the DHQ is in the process of recalling  its retired medical personnel to complement those in the active service,the Coordinator of the Defence Media Operations, Maj Gen John Enenche, said in Abuja. The Armed Forces,according to him,are adopting medical and security approaches in its contribution to the battle against the coronavirus. He said: ” The medical approach is the deployment of military personnel in aid of all ministries, departments and agencies of the Federal Government through the provision of land, maritime and air assets, for transportation of emergency cases and medical supplies, as was the case with the medical supplies donated by the Jack Ma Foundation. “Furthermore, under the medical aid, we have 17 medical facilities spread across the country, which have been designated for isolation and treatment of confirmed cases of the COVID-19. We have also concluded plans to recall our retired medical personnel to complement those in active service.”