Please, I just want to ask why is it that there is no prophecy or prediction concerning the deadly coronavirus that is tormenting the world and spreading panic all over, even in Nigeria by our many anointed men of God (in Nigeria). If you run through their yearly prophecy, none talked about coronavirus? Zionema, 28 February 2020 Anyone with useful information regarding this question should please enlighten us. Karo93 Easy. God does not exist. Those that claim to hear from him are at best, con artists and liars. This last online  comment was from Bacteriologist (Nairaland).. I have already told readers of this column that I will be a lot more active on social media from now. Concerning predictions on coronavirus, even I was astonished to find that there actually was a prophecy by a Nigerian cleric, Bishop Emmah Isong, about it, and it was even announced and documented months before the occurrence. In order to put everything in perspective, and more importantly, for one’s empirical examination; here is not only a background, which includes some lesser-known facts but also a timeline of events including those that are actually ongoing. On November 1 2017, Wuhan, the capital city of the Province of Hubei, Peoples Republic of China was designated a Creative City by  UNESCO, in the field of Design. Wuhan became China’s fourth so designated, the others being Shanghai, Beijing and Shenzhen. Bridges built in Wuhan have won many international awards including awards for protecting the environment while constructing. Wuhan is a city of almost 11 million people(10.76 million), but now they and their city are under lockdown with several travel advisories about the place being issued  (Wuhan was placed under effective quarantine on January 23 2020). And as has come to be known, it is all because of a “strange pneumonia” outbreak of unknown causes detected in that otherwise very beautiful city. That pneumonia of unknown cause, popularly referred to as coronavirus was first declared to be a Public Health Emergency of International Concern by the WHO on 30 January 2020. On 11 February 2020, Dr Tedros Ghebrejesus , Director- General of the WHO announced that the new respiratory disease had been given a name: COVID-19. The coronavirus disease was first reported to the WHO Country Office in China on 31 December 2019. Bishop Emmah Isong, the national publicity secretary of PFN (Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria) finished his studies years back as the best graduating student of Banking & Finance in his set. But he answered a call to ministry and is today the presiding Bishop of Christian Central Chapel International, CCCI in Calabar. His wife is a Magistrate. During his crossover service to 2020, this Bishop released fifty eight prophecies for this year, and it is the 17th prophecy (concerning what is, today, Covid-19) that has now been proven beyond a doubt! Of course, from this discourse it can be seen that as at December 2019 the disease had not even been given a name. When the prophecy was made, the ailment was ONLY JUST BEING REPORTED, to a country office in China; not even at the WHO Headquarters, and the Nigerian Bishop was most definitely not privy to the meeting of report. Here is what Bishop Emmah Isong said, “Maintain a high level of public hygiene this year so as to escape a new but dangerous flu which is causing constant sneezing and redness of the face. It is affecting Nigeria…”.  It could be that a few who heard this at the time shrugged it of, as one of those ‘things’ like Ebola, which Nigeria would certainly be exempted from, again. It was not until February 25 2020 that Mike Ryan, executive director, Health Emergencies Programme of WHO  increased the Covid-19 risk assessment to very high on a global level. That was the same day that Nigeria’s Federal Ministry of Health  confirmed a Covid-19 case in Lagos( for the records, it was brought into Nigeria by an Italian man who flew in from Milan to Lagos, Nigeria). That discovery in Lagos, a city  of 21 million people ( conservatively) must have been a factor in the WHO increase in risk assessment. In fact, the risk was raised to the highest level of alert. However, of note here is that the discovery and report of the Nigerian case came on February 25- two clear months after the prophecy! With uncanny accuracy did Bishop Isong get this one. ( Note also that this was the first reported case of coronavirus disease in sub- Saharan Africa, and made it 49 countries with cases of the disease). Now, even  as research intensifies in many places of the world in search of a vaccine, and ultimately a cure for this deadly disease ( days back the WHO classified it as a pandemic), I pray that the city of Wuhan experiences recovery, and regrowth. I would also urge the Chinese authorities to end forthwith the official destruction of even registered churches, and halt the escalating religious persecution, and arbitrary arrest of pastors and Imams of the Moslem faith. That beautiful city of Wuhan, now being ravaged and destroyed by disease is a great city; one that is classified as a Beta world city by the Globalization and World Cities Research Network. One thing of course that is only to be expected of people is  that in spite of the spot- on fulfilment of the prophecy about Covid-19 ; astonishing even to me this writer, not a few are still cynical, even dismissive of this prophecy. To those people I say, they have nothing to fear. His being a Christian prophet, then Bishop Emmah Isong has a standard gauge upon which he can immediately be weighed. His Bible. You see, the Bible says- the foolish prophets see false visions, and their predictions don’t come true (Ezekiel 13:6). It also says- thus says the Lord God: Woe to the foolish prophets, who follow their own spirit and have seen nothing (Ezekiel 13:3). It is clear then that WOE is the portion of any lying prophet. Clearly too, Bishop Isong has proven his mettle; and that for all to see. ( He also says for cure, we are covered in the blood of Jesus).For me, I shall continue in the words of the Bishop’s prophecy, which have immediate practical application: Maintain a high level of public hygiene this year so as to escape a new but dangerous flu. I suggest you do, too! Twitter @mikky_princess