The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has forced a contractor to go back to site. This followed the abandonment of a N1.24billion project. The commission also extracted commitment from a firm, Enerco Nigeria Ltd that it will complete the project. Pending the completion of the project, the EFCC has mandated the owner of the company, Mr. Musa Elkasas, to be reporting monthly for interaction. The anti-graft agency has also asked the Federal Ministry of Works to submit a monthly evaluation report on the project. According to investigation, the EFCC had acted on a petition by Rijau Community Youth Forum in Niger State on how the Kontagora-Tunga-Shambo-Rijau road project was awarded in 2012. The fact sheet on the project said: “The project is a 94-kilometre rural road with seven to eight bridges. “Following the directive of the acting chairman of the commission to investigate abandoned projects across the country, Rijau Community Youth Forum of Niger State submitted a petition on an abandoned project of Kontagora-Tunga-Shambo-Rijau road. “The contract was awarded in 2012 by the Federal Ministry of Works to Enerco Nigeria Ltd, but abandoned. The project is a 94-kilometre rural road with seven to eight bridges. The contractor, Mr. Musa Elkasas, was paid N300million, but he allegedly absconded. “With intelligence, we invited the contractor for interaction with our team. “The procurement fraud section of the commission began investigation into the project and inspected the site, which has cut off the agrarian communities from the federal road. “With the support of the Board of Quantity Surveyors of Nigeria, we inspected the project and discovered that only 12 per cent of the job has been completed. “The commission forced the contractor to move back to site. The resumption of work is ongoing at the site.” The document indicated that “since the contractor returned to site, the percentage of completion is now about 60 per cent. He will be paid in line with the Bill of Measurement between him and the Federal Ministry of Works. “The contractor has been directed to report to the EFCC every month on the progress of work. Also, the Federal Ministry of Works has been asked to submit a monthly evaluation report on the project. “This is purely a rural road, which will serve about four communities, but abandoned by the contractor. The EFCC is determined to see to the completion of the project.”