 A blend of culture and education will boost the all-round development of a child, Mrs Olayinka Afonja, Principal of Oduduwa Junior Secondary, has said. Speaking during the school’s culture day celebration last week, she said it was essential to celebrate culture while urging the pupils to emulate the good sides of Nigerian cultural heritage,which would make them better individuals. “Celebrating it  reminds us of our real essence and it takes us away from western lifestyle we have embraced, appreciate what our fore-fathers have preserved for us and to protect our heritage so that the generations to come will benefit from it; it is best to combine culture with education because it blends perfectly and brings out the best in a child,” she explained. Chairman of the occasion, Prof.O.A Afonja, described the event as remarkable, saying  it would greatly impact on the lives of the students.  While urging parents and teachers to encourage pupils regularly, he said: “We must remember that culture does not end with dressing and dancing, it goes beyond by influencing attitudes and basic norms, belief and tradition, it involves  how teachers  interact with themselves  and how they  teach the students on set beliefs, values and assumptions.” The President of the Old Students’ Association, Mr. Peter Esalem, praised the school for its effort in bringing varioius ethnic groups together and uniting the pupils that they are one nation. He noted that the cultural day exposed them to their cultural heritage and enlightened  them on various aspects  of traditional values and norms. It was  a day of pomp and ceremony as  everybody dressed in gorgeous indigenous cultural attires. Various songs were rendered in Yoruba, Igbo, Hausa, and Niger Delta languages. Dance and drama were also on display.Delicacies from the different ethnic groups  such as Yoruba, Igbo, Hausa and Niger Delta were served. Chieftaincy titles were awarded to  the  former principal of Oduduwa Junior Secondary School, Miss Ogunmefun Mojisola, titled the Iya Ewe of Oduduwa Junior School, Vice President of the Old Students’ Association, Mr  Omolaja Oyerinde titled Maje Obaje of Oduduwa School.Others included, Mrs, Kuye Olutoyin, Deputy Director of Idiaraba Senior High School as Akeweje, Mrs Okewole-Lawal Fumilayo as the Yeye Mayegun of Oduduwa Junior Secondary School and Mrs Ajayi Jokotade the Principal of Okota Junior High School as Yeye Oge. 