Members of the Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities (SSANU), have hinted, and justifiably so, of their intention to go on strike over the Federal Government’s delay in extending payment of the new national minimum wage to them. The body, in a statement signed by its national public relations officer, Salaam Abdussobur, expressed surprise that they were yet to be paid the new minimum wage despite the fact that many other workers have been collecting the new pay since December, last year. According to the release, “The Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities expresses its dismay over the delay in the implementation of the new National Minimum Wage for its members and workers in the university system. “We note that the negotiations over the National Minimum wage were quite protracted and spanning over a period of two years. With the conclusion of the negotiations, it was assumed that the implementation would be seamless and require no further agitations to ensure it is actualised across all the sectors of employees. “Unfortunately however, months after the agreements were concluded and dusted; it seems the workers in the university system have been forgotten in the scheme of things. While workers in other sectors have started enjoying the increment in the salaries, the university system has not.” The university workers have reasons to be angry. It is inexcusable that while some Federal Government workers have been receiving the new salary, they are yet to benefit. This is despite the fact that they operate in the same economy as their counterparts who have started to enjoy the new wage. We agree with the workers that the non-payment of the new wage to them must have been causing financial hardships and difficulties for their members. Payment of the new structure began in December, last year, with the Federal Government directing that it be backdated to April, 2019. At least two months have passed, with the university workers not knowing their fate as to when they would begin to enjoy the new pay. This is not good enough. For a minimum wage that took over two years to be concluded, with protracted negotiations, this kind of neglect or oversight is inexcusable. We note that the Federal Government had reneged on several agreements with university teachers in the past, leading to protracted strike in the universities. Such strikes have been particularly disruptive. Academic calendars in some universities have been altered as a result of such actions. No one is sure of when programmes that should last four years will end because of strike, some of which are avoidable. Strikes also have effects on the integrity of certificates given by the institutions. We therefore urge the Federal Government to go into negotiations with the aggrieved workers immediately. The ministers of employment and education should ensure that the matter is sorted out before it snowballs. It is unacceptable that a part of the workforce is paid and another is left out. The Federal Government and the Academic Staff Union of Universities are still having issues over Integrated Personnel and Payroll Information System (IPPIS), with no one sure of where it would end, especially with neither side willing to shift ground. Another round of strike in the universities would be one too many, especially over a matter that appears as simple and straightforward as the issue SSANU is raising over the new minimum wage. If, as in the ASUU case, the Federal Government has any reason for excluding SSANU from the new wage structure, may it be genteelly heard. We don’t want crisis that would end up reversing whatever gains the universities might have made with regard to their academic programmes and calendar.