  Former Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and Professor of Pharmacognosy, Prof. Maurice Iwu claims that Nigeria discovered the cure for the Wuhan coronavirus or Covid 19 since 2015. According to him, his research group had identified and patented a possible treatment for coronavirus as far back as 2015 because of the importance of remaining ahead of emergent infections through research. He said that the drug discovery project was started at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka and continued In America when he was a visiting scholar at the Division of Experimental Therapeutics of Walter Reed Army Institute of Research, Washington DC. Prof. Iwu further said that his research had in 2014 also discovered an experimental lead compound that was Identified 15 years earlier in 1999. He made this disclosure Monday in Abuja while briefing the Minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu. He said, “Your Excellency will recall that when the Ebola virus Infectlon broke out in 2014 many people were surprised that our research group had an experimentaI lead compound that was Identified 15 years earller In 1999. And now with the emergence of a novel Coronava in 2019 as Covid19 we had Identlfied and patented a possible treatment back in 2015. “It is very important that we must remain ahead of these emergent Infections through research. The other aspect of our work targets the so called orphan dIseases; these are rare diseases (diseases that affect fewer than 200,000 people), or disease that has not been adopted by the pharmaceutical Industry because It provides little financial incentives for the private sector to make and market new medications to treat or prevent them, and/ or diseases that affect mainly the poor. “The drug discovery project was started at the University of Nigeria Nsukka where I was a Professor of Pharmacognosy and continued in America when I was a visiting scholar at the Division of Experimental Therapeutics of Walter Reed Army Institute of Research, Washington DC. USA (1994 – 2003). It was reactivated In 2014/2015 during the Ebola Virus epidemic and we collaborated actively with leading laboratories from different parts of the world, which led to the confirmation of the anti-Ebola virus activity of three structurally characterized compounds from Nigerian plants which were subsequently granted patent protection by the Federal Government of Nigeria (NG/P/2015/85; and NG/P/2015/97). ‘ “During the anti-viral bioassays in 2014-2015 it was discovered that the compounds exhibited significant antiviral activity against the SARS- Coronavirus (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome -Coronavirus). Our approach is the use of a network of eminent scientist and leading laboratories to target particular disease, especially neglected tropical, emergent diseases and orphan diseases such as Ebola virus, Dengue Fever etc.” In his response, Dr. Onu commended Prof. Iwu for his discovery and said that it was a welcome development, adding no single Nigerian life should be lost to the Covid 19. He also praised the efforts of the Federal Ministry of Health since the outbreak of the first case of the Covid 19 in Nigeria. He added that Nigerians are now more assured and encouraged with the fast recovery of the index patient.