By Robert Egbe  A law firm, Pavestones Legal, has called for better efforts to help data subjects know their privacy rights and obligations under the law. It observed that many firms gather and use customers’ data without awareness of their legal compliance obligations. Knowledge of such obligations, it noted, would help such firms keep on the right side of the law. Pavestones managing partner, Seun Timi-Koleolu and founding partner, Aderonke Alex-Adedipe stated this in Lagos at a two-day Social Media Week (SMW) which held on Victoria Island between February 24 and 28. The SMW panel event, themed ‘Eye-spy. How far is too far?’’, was hosted by Pavestones and focused on data privacy and the use of data within legal and regulatory boundaries. Alex-Adedipe said: “The reality is, we are in an economy where a lot of things are being driven by technology and, more importantly, data. “Whether we recognise it or not, in the next few years, everything that we do is going to be data driven. Everything that we consume is going to be data driven.” Answering the question whether the country’s data regulation is adquate, she said: “I think part of the reality that we have to come to terms with, is that we are in this economy where data is being used and abused and so, as a result, the NDPR (Nigeria Data Protection Regulation) came into force in 2019. “The adequacy of this regulation I don’t think is in question. I think it actually meets up with global best practices. But the question is, are people aware? Is there enough awareness that has been created even for data subjects to know that these are their rights under the law? I don’t think so. “From an enforcement perspective, the law is still in its early days, I’m sure that NITDA (National Information Technology Development Agency) going forward, I’m not sure that enough has been done to create awareness and not just for the data subject, but also for the data users. “A lot of companies are using data and they’re not even aware of their compliance obligations under the law. So, I believe that not enough has been done to inform the public of their rights and obligations under the law.” Timi-Koleolu, who moderated the event, harped on the importance of data and the need to prevent data privacy invasion. She addded: “ We are not against the use of data. It is useful to gather data, but you have to do this responsibly, according to the law, according to regulations. “You have to know what you are allowed to do and what you are not allowed to.” Other panellists at the event included the Chief Revenue Officer of Terragon Group, Riaan Abdoll; and Chief Executive Officer, Agile Advisor Africa, Abiodun Osoba. 