Jane Chijioke Red wines are the most desired beverages. They are  sort-after drinks at public bars, occasions and at home bars. To some, the wines blend well with grilled, fried, peppered meat, seafoods and other dishes. Red wines are made from various dark-coloured grape fruits, such as carbenet Sauvignon, merlot, Shiraz, Pinot Noir, Zindanfel, Sangiovese, and Malbec. Flavoured with Blackberry, coffee, cocoa, cinammon, pepper, raisin, strawberry, cherry, tobacco, gooseberry, fig,  red wines are stored in oak barrels for longer period ranging from few months to many years, during the processing period,  before they are bottled.   This is a wine technique used to improve the quality and flavour of the wine. Red wines have three variants:   the light-bodied wines, made of less than 12.5 percent alcohol content  and has less tanning (it determines the dryness, bitterness or astringency of the wine).  For instance, Pinot Noir red wines fall into this category. The medium bodied wine has 12.5-13.5 percent alcohol and have high tanning. Merlot and Shiraz are good examples. Carbinet Sauvignon, Zinfandel  have higher alcohol contents above 13.5 percent. However, some of the red wines are produced with mixed grapes. Aside having some alcoholic content, red wines are considered healthy. Experts say grapes are rich in antioxidants, including resveratrol, catechin, epicatechin and proanthocyanidins, which could help fight inflammation and blood clotting as well as reducing the risk of heart disease. The preference for red wines has increased their demand in the market space. According to a wine dealer at Egbeda, Lagos, Mr David Bamiloye, red wines’ patronage has been good as customers regard them as healthy and affordable. ThAe price of red wines differs. At various retail stores, some of them sell far below N6,000. These include Apothic Red wine, Escudo Rojo,  Carnivor, Moulton Cardet, Nederburg, B&G Cabernet Sauvignon, and Bon Voyage. Shoppers who need more classy and quality wines may want to go for mid-range or high end brands. Bamiloye noted that there are brands that appeal more to the affluents. One of them is  Penfolds Bin 407. It is a full-bodied wine with aromas of blackcurrant, berries, black olive and has a 14.5percent alcoholic content. It is sold for N24, 000. Other red wines from Penfold brands are also in demand, he said. Also, Cheves Des Andes red wine is from Argentina. It is made from three grape varietals, predominantly Merlot. It has an alcoholic content of 15percent and sold for N26, 000. Another brand, he added, is Thomas Barton medoc Privee sold at N20, 600 with 13.5percent alcohol. La Foile Cheteauneuf du pape French red wine is fruity and spiced. It has flavours of cassis, cherry, dark plum, tobacco leaf and has 14percent alcoholic content and is sold above N10,000.  