In its effort to see that there is easy access to qualitative health services, especially among the poor and most vulnerable, the Christ Embassy Church has commissioned a multi-million state-of-the-art primary health care centre for the Waru community in Abuja. The community, which is home to several camps for Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs), had been bedeviled with little or no adequate health services, which had led to several deaths in the community, especially women and children. However, when the Innercity Mission arm of the Christ Embassy Church visited the area, it decided to build the modern health care centre in the heart of the community. Speaking during the commissioning of the health facility, the Minister of State for the FCT, Dr. Ramatu Aliyu, who was the special guest, said the FCT authority would post one doctor and two midwives to the health centre to improve on the standard of child delivery and other health services in the community. She emphasized the urgent and critical role, purposeful partnerships with government can elevate the health indices of the country for good. According to her: “We are aware of the deplorable state of primary health care facilities and the enormous amount of money required to rehabilitate them not only in the FCT but across the nation. We can draw programme and plans to reach out to the community just as this organization has done and we are aware of their sacrifices”. Dr. Aliyu said in 2020, 12 primary health care facilities would be renovated in Abuja while six more would be upgraded across the six area councils of the FCT. She said this was in line with the aim of the government to uplift the downtrodden and give succor to them. While officially handing over the health centre to the authority of the Federal Capital Territory and the community, Rev Tom Amenkhienan of Christ Embassy, Abuja Ministry Centre, said the newly built facility had two wards with 10 bed spaces, state of the art medical equipment, doctors’ lodge, consulting room, pharmacy, laboratory, sanitary facility unhindered water supply and power generating house. He said, “Upon discovering the harsh realities on ground in Waru community, we decided to intervene by providing this health facility that will offer sustainable health care to the people. “The community is densely populated and hosts some IDP camps. Though there was in existence a primary health care facility, we felt that the available facility was grossly inadequate to cater for the needs of the large population. “This project was made possible by the unflinching support of the leadership of the Abuja Primary Health Care Board and the Abuja Municipal Area Council. I thank the president of the Love World, Dr. Chris Oyakhilome, who founded the Innercity Mission many years ago to reach out to indigent children all over the world”.