 DEPOSIT Money Banks (DMBs) are taking measures to ensure their staff members, customers and stakeholders are protected against the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic gradually spreading in the country. To ensure the continuity of businesses and economic activities with minimal effect from the pandemic, banks have ensured that everyone visiting any of its branches takes a temperature test, makes use of hand sanitisers and maintains social distance. Many lenders also reduced the number of staff on duty and encouraged customers to use digital channels, like Automated Teller Machines (ATMs) and mobile payments. FirstBank, Access Bank, Unity Bank, Ecobank, among others, advised their customers on the need to use alternate channels for their transactions. One of the customers, Ada Osita, who came to make cash withdrawal through the ATM, said she needed cash backup, because no one was sure what would happen next. Access Bank through its verified Twitter handle, @myaccessbank, urged its customers to use alternate channels. “We will continue to serve through the alternate delivery channels such as online banking, mobile apps, among others,” it said. Access Bank closed one of its branches in Lagos State over a coronavirus case. The bank, in a statement, said it closed its Ligali Ayorinde Branch, in Victoria Island after confirming that a customer at the branch tested positive for coronavirus. The statement sent through its twitter handle, said: “We have just confirmed that an individual who visited our Ligali Ayorinde Branch on Monday, 16th March 2020, has tested positive for coronavirus. “He was symptom-free as at the time of the visit and he is currently being monitored at an Isolation Centre in Yaba. In line with our emergency response plan and following regulatory practices, the branch has been temporarily closed for thorough disinfection. Persons who had any contact with the concerned individual are currently in isolation.” Access Bank advised anyone who visited the branch in the last week to self-quarantine for 14 days immediately. The bank said it was working with the Ministry of Health to resolve the issue. Also, Group Head, Marketing & Corporate Communications at FirstBank, Mrs. Folake Ani-Mumuney, said: “Embedded in our corporate strategy is business continuity management that ensures the delivery of products, services and initiatives to our stakeholders and enabling the economy in the long-term with minimal impact. ‘’ Therefore, we have employed measures to keep our employees, customers and the general public safe-guarded and sensitised on preventive steps to flatten the curve at the fastest possible rate. “These include the deployment of temperature measuring tools; hand sanitisers; face masks and adopting social distancing including utilising virtual meetings. We have also cancelled owned and partnered planned events in the interim; suspended staff travels and have put measures in place to identify and communicate to staff who are arriving from affected countries to self-quarantine following the established protocols by the World Health Organisation and the government,” she said. Also, Head of Brand and Marketing Communications, Wema Bank, Mrs Funmilayo Falola, said: “We are advising customers to refrain from visiting any of our branches during this period and make use of our digital banking platform, ALAT. “With ALAT, they can pay bills, buy airtime and data to make calls and stay online. They can also pay for their cable TV subscription to stay informed during this period.” Falola also noted that the refreshing banking app allows customers to subscribe to Netflix, iTunes and EA Sports games to keep themselves active in the event of widespread isolation. She also noted that customers can make cashless transactions such as funds transfers, bill payments, airtime and data recharge and much more using the bank’s USSD service, *945#. 