  Stakeholders in the industry have stressed the need for the Director-General of Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Mr Bashir Jamoh, his management team,  business owners and operators to follow the laid down principles and the guidelines set up by the Federal Government to end the unstructured and chaotic business environment and erosion of maritime business margins. Jamoh was appointed last week to replace Dr Dakuku Peterside, who has ended his four-year tenure. NIMASA is the foremost maritime regulatory agency in Nigeria. It was established on August 1, 2006, after the merger of the National Maritime Authority (NMA), Government Inspector of Shipping (GIS) and the Joint Maritime Labour Industrial Council (JOMALIC), with additional functions, and by a new Act, which became effective from May 25, 2007. The stakeholders spoke with The Nation in separate interviews  at the weekend. A maritime lawyer and one of the stakeholders, Dr Dipo Alaka, said Jamoh must ensure that the agency is effective and efficient during his tenure. “As a matter of urgency, Jamoh needs to initiate ideas that will elevate operations in the maritime sector to international best practices by making our waters safe and secure; collaborate with the stakeholders and operators in the effort to move the sector forward; and  provide atmosphere conducive for the private sector to operate effectively in the maritime, in addition to necessary incentives for indigenous ship owners,” Alaka said. Jamoh, the university don added, must attract local and foreign investors as part of efforts of the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration to reposition the  industry. “The new DG must improve Nigeria’s balance of payments position by enhancing the earning and conservation of foreign exchange from the shipping industry; use the national shipping policy as instrument of promoting the export trade of the country to accelerate the rate of growth of the national economy. “As an insider, this is the time for NIMASA to ensure the greater participate ion of indigenous shipping lines in crude oil lifting; promote the acquisition of shipping technology by creating and diversifying employment opportunities in the shipping industry, through the stimulation and protection of indigenous shipping companies; offer protection to Nigerian vessels flying the nation’s flag on the high seas and world seaports; increase the participation by indigenous  shipping lines in ocean shipping, encourage the increase of ownership of ships and the achievement of indigenous skills in maritime transport technology; achieve a systematic control of the mechanics of sea transportat ion; and promote the training of Nigerians in maritime transport technology and as seafarers so that the country can rake in several billions of dollars from international maritime trade. “Jamoh must also promote Nigeria’s carrying rights of at least 40 per cent of the freight in revenue and volume of the total trade to and from Nigeria and grant assistance to indigenous companies for fleet expansion and ship ownership.’’ The new DG, Alaka added, must  harness the vast potential of the industry to boost economic growth. Good policies, the maritime lawyer said, should be put in place by the new NIMASA chief to make the maritime sector a new attraction for investors. The Vice President, Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA), Dr Kayode Farinto, said the DG, should turn around the agency and placed it on a good position to contribute meaningfully to the growth of the economy like the time of his predeccessor Dr Dakuku Peterside. Jamoh, he said, should remain focused on supporting the Federal Government’s drive to take the economy to a greater height by taking the industry out of the woods. “He must see to the continuous engagement of the stakeholders because it is a potent means of identifying additional values in the maritime industry. Now is the time for NIMASA to create the balance that is needed to ease the ways of doing business at the ports. “Port operations require synergy because there is need for unity, co-operation and integration to enable both government and stakeholders to have smooth operations. Jamoh needs to engage stakeholders in mediation and motivation to ensure a level playing ground among port operators. “The former DG, Dr Dakuku Peterside, created indelible marks while in office. Many Nigerians  realised the laudable efforts  he  put in place to make Nigerian waters attractive for business during his four-year tenure and Jamoh must be ready to build on that,” Farinto said. The ANLCA chief said the country deserved to be granted the Category C position by the International Maritime Organisation (IMO), which the country bidded for in the last election and urged the new DG to collaborate with sister countries so that Nigeria can win the prestigious position during his tenure. However, reactions from a senior terminal operator, who spoke with The Nation under the condition of anonymity, revealed that the agency must wake up from its slumber, have better listening ears and use the next four years to correct its mistakes and consolidate on its previous performance and gains “Nigeria’s maritime industry has suffered poor policy implementation, inconsistent administrators, lack of skilled manpower, corruption, among other factors; these have resulted to failure in actualising the enormous potential available in our maritime sector. “That is why the new DG must  see his appointment as an opportunity to serve and respond to the aspirations of stakeholders in the maritime industry and make an impact on the economy. “He needs to build a viable and veritable port community that works on technologically driven processes to establish interconnectivity within the agency and port system so that all stakeholders can link and be able to respond to issues with minimum time delay because we are operating in a very competitive environment in the region. “There is also a need for manpower development to build capacity to have skilled workforce that can deliver and increase productivity to ensure that we have a competitive stance as the country looks forward to becoming the major driver of port operations in the West and Central-African region. “Our international trade is vast, over $24 billion is spent on importing goods and services into Nigeria and Nigerians have to benefit from the very wide and sophisticated process.” The President, National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders (NAGAFF) Eugene Nweke, also urged Jamoh to build on the achievements of Peterside in Shipping Development/Service Delivery, Carbotage, Maritime Safety and Security, NIMASA’s Maritime Security Strategy at Strategic and Operational level, establishment of Integrated National Maritime Surveillance and Security Infrastructure, Global Maritime Security Conference, and Maritime Labour. Others include marine and environment management, rejigging of the Nigerian Ship Registry, ISPS Code implementation, women empowerment, Nigerian Maritime Industry Forecast, Maritime Industry Corporate Dinner and Awards organised by NIMASA. The new DG, other stakeholders said, should improve on the laudable  platforms created by Peterside for dispute resolution among vessels owners; create a platform to aid speedy completion of vessels transactions within two weeks after departure; create a platform  to end double, over and under billing; adopted satellite surveillance technologies, intelligence systems for improved maritime domain awareness; adopt a tech system  to identify vessel’s visit to Nigerian Exclusive Economic Zone, suspicious activities, facilitate participation of indigenous operators at international Maritime Expos and Trade Fairs; secure buy-in of some state governments into the public sector cargo support initiative of the agency; bring grant of Cabotage waiver to a gradual end on course; plan for indigenous operators to go into joint ventures and joint ownership of vessels with foreign operators on a 60-40 basis; bareboat charter of vessels increases under Indigenous and foreign operator partnership; decline in foreign-owned vessels on Nigeria’s Cabotage register;  tremendous increase of Nigerian vessels on the Nigerian Cabotage register and work with the Federal Ministry of Transportation to ensure the disbursement of the Cabotage Vessel Financing Fund (CVFF) to qualified indigenous ship owners, among others. 