SIR: The national chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole got a breather of relief both from the Court of Appeal and the concerted efforts of most of the APC governors who appeared to be nonplussed at the temerity of a few governors and a minister using some members of the National Working Committee to advance an ill-conceived Machiavellian political agenda. Had the agenda succeeded, it would have ignited collateral centrifugal vicissitudes and visited irreparable fissures on the internal cohesion of the ruling party. Much as the victory provides a leg room for the chairman, it also exposes his underbelly and by extension the Achilles heel preponderating the stewardship of the comrade. In other words, Comrade may have grown taller by the centripetal force of absolution and providence, he would however be doing an incalculable disservice to his stewardship and legacy if he forecloses the need for personal introspection and self-scrutiny. With the panache of emotional intelligence and predilection for tolerance, every manager of human and material resources has a silver bullet in getting quantum results in all task denouements. To be able to aggregate all divergent interests in the party and stay above the fray is an arduous task. Comrade Oshiomhole must in addition to growing taller in victory also aspire to grow wider in consultations and human relations. He must aspire to be a leader and not a boss. Last but not the least is to task the party on the need to widen its planed conversations on Coronavirus to include a clinical prognosis on the economy. Majority of the governors pose existential threat to the economic well-being of Nigeria by depending solely on allocation from the centre. APC must be able to develop a template for interrogating governance in each of the states controlled by the party; this way the party would be able to set agenda of governance across the country and leverage the benchmark of performance among those states. 