The second confirmed case of COVID 19 in Nigeria may be discharged and allowed to go home in few days after testing negative to the virus, the Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, has stated. He also said the index case is clinically stable and much improved. He too may be discharged when the viral load is at acceptable limits, subject to the review of the doctor.
The Minister, who made these known in a briefing in Abuja on Friday, said: “As at today, 13th of March 2020, Nigeria has recorded still just two confirmed cases of COVID-19. One case is now negative and will be discharged from care, while the other will follow in a few days. “The index case (the Italian) is clinically stable and is much improved. Steady progress till early next week will guide the medical team in discharging him. The second confirmed case, a contact of the index case is testing negative for the virus, meaning he has cleared the virus and will be allowed to go home. “A group of four children and their teacher flew into Lagos from the United States. Prior to their arrival, Nigeria CDC was informed by US-CDC, that this group had been in the same space with a confirmed case. We therefore sent these travelers into isolation on their arrival. “Tests were done, which came back negative for all of them. They will stay in self-isolation for 14 days. After 14 days of follow up with no symptoms, all contacts of the index case will be permitted to go home and rejoin society”. He added: “WHO has now declared COVID-19 a pandemic. It calls for cooperation and collaborative action to increase resources to quickly detect and control this outbreak. It is not a call for fear and panic. COVID-19 cases in China have continued to decline, evidence that the pandemic can be controlled. “The Federal Ministry of Health is monitoring the global situation closely and seeking WHO advice. The Ministry through Port Health Services will prioritize measures for the containment of COVID-19, especially the screening of passengers at Points of Entry. “Citizens are advised to discourage the spread of misinformation. Please ignore them as the only intent is to cause fear and panic. Rely only on information from authorized channels of the Ministry of Health, NCDC or State Ministry of Health. “NCDC has launched a new website focused solely on COVID-19. It is updated daily and has information needed, including daily situation reports, guidance for schools, guidelines for health workers and more. The website is covid19.ncdc.gov.ng”. The Minister added: “The multi-sectoral EOC (Emergency Operations Centre) continues to oversee national response activities. We have progressed in assessing treatment centres and have now ensured that every state identifies a location that can be used to manage cases. We are supporting these states to scale up capacity to meet existing needs
“On 12th of March, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs organised a meeting with Members of the Diplomatic Corps in Nigeria. We provided the Ambassadors and High Commissioners updates on Nigeria’s response strategy. “We also called for solidarity and cooperation in responding to this pandemic and especially to urge their governments to introduce tighten health screening at their points of departure so as to reduce risk of virus exportation to other countries.” On the point of entry policy on prevention and control of cross border transmission of yellow fever, Dr. Ehanire explained that due to ongoing transmission of Yellow Fever in parts of Nigeria, it is pertinent to activate Nigeria’s Point of Entry Policy on Prevention and Control of Cross Border Transmission of Yellow Fever in line with WHO recommendation for all international travelers (nine months and older), arriving in areas with evidence of persistent or periodic transmission of yellow fever.
The Minister said: “Consequently, the Federal Ministry of Health requested Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) to communicate this to airlines for compliance. “Due to the COVID-19 outbreak, the Federal Ministry of Health reviewed the policy to allow passengers without Yellow Cards or proof of vaccinations board their flights to Nigeria, with the understanding that they will be given a Yellow Fever vaccination, on arrival at our Points of Entry. “The vaccination is free of charge and the yellow card is at a nominal cost. This is in the interest of the health security of the public and all passengers. The effective date of the revised policy implementation was 11th March 2020. The revised policy was also communicated to NCAA for airlines to be so informed. “WHO recently declared the COVID-19 outbreak a pandemic. The Ministry of Health, through Port Health Services has prioritised measures for COVID-19 containment, especially the screening of passengers at Points of Entry. “However, other surveillance and prevention activities, including the implementation of the policy on prevention and control of cross border transmission of yellow fever, are still very important. Nigerians are required to obtain a yellow fever vaccination if they have not done so, and to show their yellow card or proof of vaccination before any international travel and upon arrival. “The position of the Federal Ministry of Health is in line with global best practices and WHO recommendations”.