Suspended Director General of Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Mounir Gwarzo and Principal Manager, National Identity Management Commission (NIMC), Jamila Muhammad have pleaded not guilty to allegations of corruption filed against them by the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) at a High Court of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Apo, Abuja. They were arraigned before Justice Olukayode Adeniyi on a 14-count charge bordering on gratification and abuse of office. However, when the charges were read to them by an official of the court they both pleaded not guilty. In his ruling, Justice Adeniyi granted the defendants bail noting that bail was not meant to set the defendants free but to ensure their attendance in court to face trial. The judge said pointed out that defendants were statutorily entitled to bail under the provision of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA) 2015. He therefore granted each of the defendants bail at N10 million with one surety in like sum. The surety, the judge said, must be a resident of the FCT and a civil servant on the employment of either the Federal Government or any of its agencies or FCT Administration or any of its agencies. Justice Adeniyi adjourned the case till April 22, 2020 for trial. It was alleged that Gwarzo on or about December 28, 2016 while serving as SEC DG knowingly held a private interest as a director and shareholder of Outbound Investment Limited, a company which was awarded a contract to supply and install 12 units of air conditioners and four units of refrigerators at SEC Lagos zonal office at the sum of N3.499 million by SEC and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 12 of Corrupt Practices and Related Offences Act, 2000. Gwarzo was said to have also used his position as SEC DG to gratify himself when Outbound Investment Limited was awarded the contract to supply and install 12 units of air conditioners and four units of refrigerators at SEC Lagos zonal office by the Commission, thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 19 of the ICPC Act. Muhammad on her part, was accused to have on or about November 15, 2015, while being a public officer used her position as Principal Manager at NIMC to gratify herself when Outlook Communications Limited, where she was a shareholder and director was awarded a contract to air a 60-minute awareness campaign radio jingles on e-dividend in the North-East region for the sum of N798,360 by SEC thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 19 of the ICPC Act.  