Epe residents have hailed c in the Lekki Free Zone, for donating borehole to the community. The donation was made during the 20th anniversary of their monarch, Oba Kamorudeen Animashaun, the Oloja of Epe Kingdom. “Before, we used to trek long distance to fetch water. But now a tap is in front of my house,” said a trader who gave her name as Zainab. She added: “We are really grateful to Alaro City for making it easy for us to access water in our area.” The Founder and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Rendeavour, Mr. Stephen Jennings, who handed over the project to Oba Animashaun, said it was in line with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) and one of the community development initiatives planned for the area. He said: “We are happy to launch this water project at such a time that His Royal Majesty, Oba Kamorudeen Animashaun, celebrated 20 years on the throne. “Alaro City is a project that creates value for stakeholders. A critical part of our stakeholders is our local community. This is part of several programmes lined up for Epe people. It is also, in a sense, our way of supporting Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu in his quest to provide, among other things, potable water in Lagos State, as part of the pledge he made last year on Sustainable Development Goals in New York.” Jennings, who was given the chieftaincy title of “Bobatuluse of Epe Kingdom” (one who works with the king to improve the lot of the community), by Oba Animashaun during his anniversary celebration, pledged to ensure that the community continues to benefit in many ways from having such a project, as Alaro City is situated in the area. “In our projects, we work with our local communities to find ways of bringing about the needed development,” he said. Added he: “In Alaro City, we have created jobs and value. This will increase as investors continue to come into the city to build their facilities and do business.” Oba Animashaun praised Rendeavour for developing Epe. He pledged to support Alaro City. Said he: “We are happy with the way Alaro City is growing and how it is bringing development to this area. “We need more people to invest in our community like these people behind Alaro City. Alaro City is in my domain. The builders have shown to be good investors. Alaro City is packed with action and we want to encourage them. We still need to encourage more people to invest in Epe.”