In North Carolina, lives Bennie Oh, a popular On-Air Personality of Nigerian descent making waves. The OAP is one of the radio presenters that is gaining the attention of listeners across North Carolina and the United States of America. Born Bernie Okoroji, the beautiful presenter is a workaholic whose job is many things rolled into one. Aside from working as an OAP with Hot 97.9FM, Okoroji also contributes to the US website, ForUsByUs.com. She also doubles as a social media manager, an accredited actress, as well as a singer. Her foray into broadcasting is as interesting as her educational career of aiming to become a doctor. She says: “I started my educational career pursuing a degree in Biology with hopes of being a doctor. However, after landing a job in college for one of the world’s biggest record labels I quickly discovered my true love was media and broadcasting. While working for Warner Music Group in college, I got the opportunity to see multiple roles that are played behind the scenes of some of my favorite musicians. That is when I initially started to see how broadcasting plays a major part in the way society views what is going on around them and can oftentimes influence the lives of people without physically meeting them.” Bennie Oh’s biggest challenge remains to create a balance that provides facts and substance to inform the public while also providing entertainment. However, the interesting part of the job, according to her, is the ever-changing dynamics of broadcasting. “There is always something around the world going on. I love being able to learn about what’s happening and make people aware. I also love that I regularly get to interact with celebrities and people in my local area as a part of my job. I would only change my job if I felt like there was an opportunity to reach even bigger audiences and make even more change around the world.” With a flair for music, dancing, and fashion, the ebony beauty surprisingly beamed with excitement when asked if she would want to work in Nigeria should the opportunity arise. “Yes!” she says, “I have always wanted to work in Nigeria because it is my home and I would love to be a part of exposing the world to how rich and full of culture Nigeria is!”