 THE news that Enugu State government is threatening to hold striking doctors responsible for any patient’s death, during their current warning strike, is rather unfortunate. Human life is sacred and irreplaceable. That is why it should never become an emotive bargaining chip, when both sides should partner to end the strike, and fend off a crisis. Dr. Ifeanyi Agujiobi, permanent secretary in the Enugu State Ministry of Health, rued that patients were being hastily discharged, because of what he dismissed as an “illegal action” by Enugu State resident doctors. It was in that context he said the striking doctors would bear responsibility for any patient mishap. Dr. Agujiobi was reacting on behalf of the state’s health commissioner. While the permanent secretary’s angst was understandable, his emotive outburst was rather disappointing. In crisis situations, leaders should learn to eschew anger and other negative emotions, which do nothing but block clear and hard thinking, needed to push for fast and enduring solutions. Still, the striking resident doctors too are not entirely without blame. They were said to have written Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi on February 28, for an industrial action they were to embark upon on the following day! Except there are other developments not known to the public, that notice was definitely too short. The doctors, as committed professionals to their Hippocratic Oath, ought to have done far better.  No matter the provocation, they should learn to be far more restrained and more caring.  But that abrupt plunge could well be a function of near-total loss of trust between the doctors’ body and the state government. That certainly is not good; and both sides must be mutually challenged to make deliberate and conscious efforts to repair the rupture. Both sides need a thrust of trust to end the warning strike, and prevent it from snowballing into an indefinite one, after one week, as the doctors were threatening: “We also told him,” an unnamed representative of resident doctors was quoted as informing the governor, “that we shall follow it up with an indefinite strike if nothing was done to address our demands for better pay and condition of service.” The doctors’ demands include the reported non-implementation, by the Enugu State government, of the latest Consolidated Medical Salary Structure (CONMES). Lack of adequate working tools in the state’s public hospitals, more so when such lacks seriously hamper the quality of care, is also a key demand. With the die thus cast, both sides should buckle down to business. The government should banish the thought of threatening anyone. Industrial actions are workers’ rights. They cannot be outlawed by executive whims and impunity. The only way to prevent strikes is to be proactive in work place policies, such that problems are solved before they become crises. But the doctors too should be more even-handed. They deal in life; and life, when lost, cannot be regained. That is why they too should show more restraint; and be seen to side with their patients, no matter the issues they might have with the government — their employers. Both sides should embrace the spirit of give-and-take to cobble an agreement — if only for the sake of the poor patients. On a general note, Nigerian governments must radically re-think doctors’ work policy. The doctors, almost always the brightest minds in the land to matriculate in universities, won’t probably end up among the wealthy class. But like others in the traditional professions, they are guaranteed a life of comfort, on top of the traditional middle class. When such comfort scraps towards just making do, the result is incessant strikes. That is not fair to this professional clan who are oftentimes over-worked and under-paid. Nigeria needs to re-motivate its doctors and allied medical professionals to stop the brain drain, which makes the best of Nigerian medical minds drift to foreign lands.