As part of sacrifices required to contain the spread of the COVID-19 disease in Osun State, the State chapters of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and the Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA) have pledged their readiness to comply with the government’s ban on mass gathering, irrespective of its effect on their routines. This followed the pronouncement of ban on all public gatherings having more than 50 people, by the state government including the shutting down of schools across the State The Grand Imam of the State and President of the League of Imams and Alfas, Sheikh Musa Animashaun, in a statement at the weekend, said that all central mosques in the State have been instructed to suspend Jumaat prayers till further notice, stressing further that precautionary measures have to be ensured to curb the spread of the dreaded coronavirus. Also, the Assistant Secretary of the Christian Association of Nigeria, Osun Chapter, Reverend C. A. Fayemi, pledged their support for the government’s move, noting that it had ordered a segmentation of programmes in order to comply with the ban on public gathering. ‘The Bible commands us in Romans 13: 1 to obey authority and so we will cooperate with the state to keep all of us safe.’ Fayemi said. Although the State is yet to record any case of individual infection or widespread community transmission of COVID-19, its government has approached the issue as a health emergency from the moment the country’s index case was reported. In an effort to upscale the State’s ability to manage the risk of transmission, the government’s prompt response was to inaugurate a 15-man Technical Action Committee to ensure epidemiological control and management, following the announcement of the index case. In a statement on March 18th by the Special Adviser to the Governor on Public Health, Dr. Olasiji Olamiju, the Technical Action Committee had designed a strategic plan which included: development of treatment protocols for COVID-19 management, isolation centre functionality and holding centres, MOU with reference laboratory – Africa Center of Excellence for Genomics of Infectious Disease (ACEGID), visitation/mapping/screening of the Chinese Nationals and other foreigners across the State and placing adequate surveillance on them. Following the announcement of more confirmed cases in Lagos, an index case in Ekiti, and the timeline showing the vulnerability of adjoining States to Osun, the government immediately announced a ban on public gatherings having more than 50 people, including religious gatherings. The government also ordered the closure of schools indefinitely as part of precautionary measures. In a statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr. Ismail Omipidan, the government posited that: “to protect our dear state; our children, our economy will require collective response and sacrifice. Government at both state and local government levels will lead but we will all need to do our bit to get through this bad patch.” The State government, through the statement, called on citizens to dedicatedly observe the precautionary protocols of thorough washing of hands with soap and clean water and the use of alcohol-based hand sanitizer; observing social distance, and alerting the authority of any suspected case on the emergency line 293. Also, the government, through its Ministry of Information and Civic Orientation, began a massive risk communication and public awareness campaign through radio jingles, as part of a comprehensive pre-infection campaign strategy.