Output Based Fund (OBF) grant offer for the sale of solar home systems to homes and businesses across Nigeria has been implemented by the Rural Electrification Agency (REA) of Nigeria, with support from the World Bank. Managing Director of the of the Rural Electrification Agency of Nigeria (REA), Ahmad Salihijo Ahmad, recently signed the grant agreement with the Acting Head of REA’s Project Management Unit (PMU), Nigerian Electrification Project (NEP), Anita Otubu and Managing Director of Emel Solar Solutions, Onye Mba Uzoukwu. Ahmad commended the grantees for sailing through the process, hoping that it would help them to become good ambassadors as well as testifying to the transparent nature of all REA/NEP grant procedures. He also stated that the development would go a long way to show REA’s determination in securing the nation’s economic growth as electricity remains a serious issue in need of innovative solutions. MD of Emel Solar Solutions expressed his appreciation to REA and the entire SHS-output grant application team for all the efforts they had put in to ensure a seamless process despite the rigorous steps involved. Uzoukwu added: “This great opportunity will further equip Emel Solar to achieve its focus in bridging the electricity gap in Nigeria.” Similarly, Marketing Manager of Emel Solar Solutions, Olubunmi Olowu stressed that the initiative was timely for the organisation as their business goals required significant expansion, which would come at a cost. She stated: “There have been some level of limitations in the implementation of the planned strategic growth pillars due to inadequate budget, so I believe this form of reward for hard work is a step in the right direction. SHS Component Lead of NEP, Ifunanya Nwandu-Dozie, said the objective of the Standalone solar home system component was to help millions of underserved Nigerian households and micro small medium enterprises (MSMEs) access better energy services at lower cost than what they currently pay through the sale of stand-alone solar systems. She highlighted: “Expanding reach to consumers across Nigeria is costly and requires significant investment in soft infrastructure such as people, training, advertising, increased working capital, logistics among others. Grant enables successful applicants to reach and serve customers faster.”