 The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has released another batch of results of about 450, 000 candidates who sat for the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) on Tuesday. Head of Media and Information Dr. Fabian Benjamin disclosed this yesterday in a statement. He urged candidates who sat for the examination on Tuesday to check their results by sending ‘RESULT’ to 55019 and not on the board’s website. Benjamin said the board has not cancelled the results of its examination conducted last Saturday as being speculated on the social media. He said that the results of the first day of the examination were placed on its website, adding that some fraudulent individuals were copying and manipulating them to deceive unsuspecting candidates. The JAMB spokesperson said this made the board to move the results to the mobile platform for candidates to use “their unique phone numbers used in registering for the examination to access their results.” He urged the candidates to disregard rumours making the rounds that the results have been cancelled. The statement reads: “The result of the over 450,000 candidates who sat for the exam on Tuesday will also be released before noon today. (Wednesday). “To check their results, candidates are to send ‘RESULT’ to 55019 and not on the board’s website. “We urge the public to always cross check information provided on the social media. “Results of the examination will continue to be released as examinations are taken. In a few days from now, we will be concluding the 2020 exercise and we urge all candidates to be vigilant, as fraudsters, who couldn’t operate successfully, given the security measures put in place to secure our system, would want to use every opportunity of information gap to defraud or mislead unsuspecting candidates.” Acting Registrar of the National Examination Council (NECO) Dr. Abubakar Gana has petitioned commissioners of Education in the 36 states and Federal Capital Territory to notify them of the alleged extortion of students for the Senior School Certificate Examination (SSCE) by schools in their domain. He alleged that some schools were charging above the Federal Government-approved fee of N9,850 as registration fee for the 2020 SSCE. Gana, who noted that this was against the directive of the government, vowed to sanction any school found guilty.  He spoke when he received members of the House of Representatives Committee on Basic Education and Services at the Abuja office of the council. The members, led by their Chairman, Prof Julius Ihonvbere, were on an oversight visit to the examination body. The registrar said: “Not quite a month, we wrote to the commissioners of education, highlighting that some schools, both public and private, are overcharging candidates. While the NECO fee is N9,850, some are even charging N20,000 in the name of administrative charges. “Most of these schools are ‘miracle centres’ and what they do there is that they perpetrate malpractices. Candidates who are lazy and don’t have confidence can go to the extent of paying N50,000 to register so they can have their way. “We are on it. You too have a very critical role to play. We will make sure that in all our activities, we will make you part of the monitoring team so you can see what is happening and at your own convenience, write a report to us.” He said the council would engage members of the committee to monitor its examination and urged them to report any infraction that would guide the council on appropriate actions to be taken. Gana appealed to the members of the National Assembly for a review of NECO’s budget, lamenting that the examination body had not embarked on any capital project for the past three years. Ihonvbere said the Senate and the House of Representatives would approve a review of NECO’s budget to enable it execute its mandate. He noted that the committee had a lot of confidence in NECO and those managing it. “We believe that the role you have played, the only way to better appreciate it is to imagine a Nigeria without NECO,” Ihonvbere said.