 Owan West Local Government Area, Edo State is set to confer awards on some eminent indigenes of the local government as part of her second year anniversary celebration. The anniversary celebration is billed to hold today under the chairmanship of Hon. Frank Ilaboya. The Managing Director of The Nation newspaper, Mr. Victor Ifijeh, is among the dignitaries to be honoured during the ceremony. Other personalities on the list include the chief executive of DANCO Oil, Mr. Dekeri Sunday Anamero; the Managing Director of MASVI & Sons and sponsor of the just concluded MASVI/Owan West Cycling Race, Mr. Moses Ajayi; the Managing Director of Skaff Construction reputed as a great partner of Owan West youth empowerment scheme, Engr. Samir Skaff; the Clerk of the House of the Representatives, Patrick Giwa; former Inspector of Police, Solomon Arase and Mrs. HailMary Aikpoh. Others are Mr. Lucky Isokpehi of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC); Engr. Odigure Ejere, Frank Eguaboi, Gen. David Enahoro, Mr. Samson Omokhudu and Dele Adeola. There is also “a  Role Model Award” to be conferred on Golden Lucky, a popular musician who has inspired many within and outside the LGA, while Upcoming Talent Award  goes to Glory Imohimi of the Glorious Talent Film Entertainment, who became the first to successfully produce and launch a Nollywood movie in the LGA. According to the Council Chairman, the award is meant to appreciate the recipients for their various contributions to the upliftment of the local government. “The award ceremony is part of the events lined up to celebrate our administration which clocked two years on March 5th, 2020. “We have every reason to thank God for His faithfulness in the past 24 months. “You will agree with me that the profile of the local government has shot up positively since we came into office and we are determined to build on this,” Hon. Ilaboya said. Aside the award ceremony, other events lined up are empowerment of widows across the local government, distribution of notebooks to pupils of the various primary schools as well as benches and desks to select schools in the local government. “I want to use this opportunity to thank various organisations for assisting us to organise a worthy celebration, especially in the areas of various empowerment items. “The huge support we have received from the private sector is a clear testimony of their confidence in our administration and we will continue to leverage on this,” Ilaboya added. The ceremonies will hold at the Council Hall of the Secretariat. 