Iran: 50 die in 24 hours Almost 50 people have died from coronavirus in less than 24 hours, a spokesman for Iran’s Ministry of Health said on Sunday. Kianoush Janahpour said 743 new cases had been confirmed over the same time period, compared with Saturday, bringing the total number to 6,566. A total of 194 people had died from the respiratory illness, including the 49, he said. Fatemeh Rahbar, a newly elected member of the Iranian Parliament, died from the illness Friday and several senior officials in the country have also contracted COVID-19. Italy quarantines 16m Italy’s government has placed more than 16 million people — a quarter of the population — under lockdown, in a drastic bid to prevent the spread of coronavirus. The Lombardy region, including the city of Milan has been quarantined, as have other cities including Venice, Parma and Modena. The United States (U.S.), the first case has been confirmed in the capital Washington D.C. and hundreds of other cases have been reported around the country. 100 countries report first cases For the first time yesterday 100 countries reported new cases of COVID-19, World Health Organisation (WHO) boss said yesterday. He tweeted:  Today for the first time 100 countries are reporting #COVID19 cases. This comes after the cases reached 100,000 cases yesterday. While very serious, this should not discourage us. There are many things everyone, everywhere can and should do now 10 killed in quarantine site collapses Ten people have died and 23 are missing after a hotel housing people quarantined by the coronavirus collapsed in the Chinese city of Quanzhou, authorities in the city said Sunday. A total of 71 people were trapped under the rubble after the hotel collapsed Saturday night local time and 38 people have now been retrieved, China’s ministry of emergency management confirmed. Pope streams Sunday blessing via video link Pope Francis did not appear at his palazzo window in the Vatican to deliver his Sunday blessing and remarks amid the growing coronavirus epidemic in Italy. Instead, a live stream of him reading his comments and reciting prayers was broadcast on screens set up in St. Peter’s Square to the faithful. After he read his speech from the Vatican’s apostolic library, he made a brief appearance at the window of the Apostolic Palace to greet the worshipers. In a bid to deter people from attending, The Vatican announced that he would not appear live at the service on Saturday and it appeared to have worked.While as many as 40,000 have turned out to see the pontiff in the past, only several thousand could be seen on Sunday.