 There was tension in Kasuwar Barchi Market of Kaduna on Sunday, as Kaduna State Government issued a notice to traders in the market to vacate their shops in three days. Kasuwar Barchi is a famous market in Northern Nigeria, which gained popularity due to its large concentration on foreign used textile materials. The market according to its union leaders has over 15,000 traders, including those who own shops and others who do business within the market premises. The three-day notice signed by the Director-General of the Kaduna State Urban Planning and Development Authority (KASUPDA), Ismail Umar-Dikko was met pasted on the shops doors Saturday morning. Reason for the quit notice as stated by the government, is to allow for upgrade of the market. The notice read that: “In view of the Urban Renewal Projects by the Kaduna State Government (Upgrading of Kusuwar Barci market) you are hereby given three (3) days from the date of receipt of this notice to remove all your valuables and vacate the site. “Failure to comply with the above directive will leave the authority with no option than to demolish/remove your stall at your expense in accordance to Section 60 of the Kaduna State Urban and Regional Planning Law of 2018.” It read. Meanwhile, when our Correspondent visited the market Sunday afternoon, traders were seen moving the wares, equipment and furnitures among others out of the market. The market union leaders who spoke to The Nation however appealed to Kaduna state government to wait for court rulings before demolishing shot in the market. Secretary of the market union, Muhammad Kabiru, said the notice came within a short period and all occupants are under duress. “We are in a terrible situation here. We elected this government from our blood and sweat, for our own good. “They came with notice in the night on Friday that we the occupants of Kaduwar Barchi should vacate. We were not even told, only for us to see the notice on Saturday morning. “We want the government to consider us and the hard times we are going through. There is nothing that lasts forever. “We have been law abiding citizens and we love our government. All we want from the government is to consider us. We want government as well to abide by the law. “There has been a case regarding the demolition of this market pending in court. Yet the government issued us notice to leave within three days. When as asked whether the occupants have anywhere to relocate to, he said, “we have nowhere to go to. This market is known and established. It’s a very popular market in Nigeria. Moreover, we have not done anything to warrant this unfortunate situation we are in.” The market union Secretary said. Also, chairman National People’s Unity in Kaduna, Alhaji Adamu Aliyu, pleaded with the state government to consider the hardship experienced by the occupants. He said “I was passing by and I saw people packing out of Kasuwa Barchi and I asked what happened, they told me they were given notice to vacate. “But with the current hard situation we are now,  even if it is birds they want to evict within three days, that will be difficult, talk less of human beings. “Most of the traders only survive on their trade and proceeds from this market. People come from Niger Republic and other countries to buy goods in this market. “My call on government is to abide by the law and order. The case regarding demolition of this market is in court, and therefore, the government should wait for the outcome of case in court before taking any action.” he appealed. 