The battle over the estate of the late Egba Chief, Adedeji Ayinla Egunjobi, lingers with four of his children suing his third wife, Chief (Mrs) Adenike Victoria Egunjobi and their half-sister, Mrs. Olubusola Adeogun-Phillips, over matters concerning his will, writes ROBERT EGBE.   The death of Egba Chief, Adedeji Ayinla Egunjobi, on January 4, 2015 at 88 years, has resulted in unexpected consequences for his family. Four of Egunjobi’s children – Mrs. Olufunmilayo Adeyemi; Mrs. Olufunke Akin-Deko; Mrs. Folashade Sapara and Mrs. Folake Abiose – from his first marriage to Madam Christiana Ogunrinde, approached a Lagos High Court in Igbosere on May 28, 2019 seeking proper administration of his Estate. They are, in a suit marked LD/2210FPM/2019, seeking to enforce the will of the veteran Chartered Accountant and former Chairman of international conglomerate, Hagemeyer Plc. Egunjobi, who was also the Akinbogun of Egbaland, left a will dated 21st December 2010. Probate of the will was granted by the High Court on November 16, 2017. The Nation learnt that the named Executors of his will were his third wife, Mrs. Victoria Adenike Egunjobi; his eldest child, Mrs. Olufunmilayo Adetokunbo Adeyemi; his second child, Mrs. Olufunke Adetayo Akin-Deko and his fifth child, Mrs. Olubusola Motunrayo Adeogun-Philips, who is the eldest child of the union between Egunjobi and his third wife, Adenike.  ‘Do not be greedy’ The Nation gathered that Egunjobi, perhaps expecting resistance by some of the beneficiaries of his Estate, admonished in his will, that they should not be greedy, “as no one came to this world with anything and so will leave the world with nothing, just like me”. To create a level playing field, Egunjobi named his third wife, Adenike and all his nine children, from both his first and third wives, as beneficiaries in his will in equal shares. But in their suit, the claimants contended through their counsel Babajide Bodede that following his passing, Adenike “acted in complete bad faith by disregarding and frustrating the proper execution” of their late father’s will. In particular, the claimants alleged that Adenike and her daughter, Olubusola, executed an “unlawful and improper sale” of a property located on No. 50, Sloane Street, Knightsbridge, London SW1X 9SN contrary to the wishes of their late father. They further contended that although their father had made specific gifts of properties to their step mum for her use during the remainder of her lifetime, the properties were to pass to all the nine children and their offspring for their use, following her death. The Claimants further alleged that despite Egunjobi’s clear instructions in his will and without their knowledge and concurrence as Co-Executors thereof, Adenike and Olubusola, sometime in May 2017, and in clear violation of the instructions in their father’s will, sold the property located in Knightsbridge registered as BGL61917 at the United Kingdom Land Registry following which, they converted the proceeds thereof to their personal use. The Claimants further claimed that although Adenike later admitted to having sold the said property, she refused to render account for the proceeds derived thereof to their father’s Estate and that her actions in this regard were supported by their half-sister, Olubusola who claimed the said property belonged to her mother. The Claimants further contended that the refusal of Adenike and Olubusola to direct the solicitors to the Estate to re-seal their late father’s will in the United Kingdom and in Germany, was part of their grand scheme to disregard and frustrate the proper execution of their father’s will and to enable them dispose of the property at 50, Sloane Street, Knightsbridge, London SW1X 9SN, without their knowledge and concurrence as Co-executors. The Claimants alleged that although their late father, in his will, directed that First Trustees Limited be appointed as the Trustees to hold and manage a Trust Fund for all the beneficiaries of his Estate, Adenike and Olubusola frustrated every attempt by the Executors to invite First Trustees Ltd, as a ploy to corner and appropriate the income and benefits of all the assets and properties listed in their father’s will for their personal use and to the exclusion of the Claimants, being the children from his first marriage. The Claimants further challenged Adenike in the management of Seaview Investments Limited, the holding company for the family’s vast real estate business. The Nation learnt that Egunjobi had in his Will, directed that his nine children, shall serve as directors and shareholders of the said holding company, the running of which was to be superintended by First Trustees Ltd. They further claimed that having bluntly refused to appoint the said Trustee Company as instructed in the will, Adenike and Olubusola continued to run the affairs of the family business without concurrence of the other co-executors and beneficiaries. In particular, the Claimants contended that Adenike unilaterally appointed her second son, Olugbenga Egunjobi, as managing director and sole signatory to the accounts of the company. The Claimants further contended that Adenike, Olubusola and Olugbenga have continued to direct and control the management and operation of the family business, for the sole benefit of Adenike’s children and to the exclusion of the Claimants who are the children of Egunjobi’s first wife. They further averred that by taking custody of the original title documents to their late father’s properties upon his death, Adenike used her close proximity to their father and her knowledge of his assets to frustrate the proper execution and administration of his will.  Buried in the wrong place? In particular, the claimants cited the fact that Egunjobi had in  his will, directed that his remains were to be buried at his residence in Lagos located at Creek Crescent, Beachland Estate, Tin Can Island, Apapa, but, contrary to his instructions and against their own wishes, Adenike insisted that he be buried in a church cemetery at Abeokuta. The Claimants further contended that Adenike’s alleged refusal to bury their father at his residence in Lagos as instructed in his will, was “a ploy to enable her and her children dispose of the said property at a later date free of any encumbrances.” They alleged that by her actions, Adenike completely disregarded the wishes and instructions of their late father, and cornered the assets and properties belonging to his Estate for the benefit of her five children, including Olubusola.  Reliefs The Claimants are seeking from the Court amongst other things, the removal of Adenike as Executor of their late father’s Will. They are also praying the court to direct Adenike and her daughter Olubusola, to render account of all the assets and properties of their late father together with the proceeds and income due and payable from the sale and management of all the real and personal assets and properties mentioned in their father’s will, from January 4, 2015 till date. In addition, the Claimants are seeking a declaration that the sale of the property located at 50, Sloane Street, Knightsbridge, London SW1X 9SN, by Adenike and Olubusola was improper, invalid and contrary to their father’s instructions in his will and therefore null and void. The Claimants further prayed the court for an order directing Adenike and Olubusola to pay all the proceeds they derived from the sale of the property located at 50, Sloane Street Knightsbridge, London SW1X 9SN, into the Estate account.  Respondents object In response, without filing any defence to the suit, Adenike and Olubusola, through their Counsel Osho Oluyemi, on December 10, 2019, filed a Preliminary Objection praying the court to strike out the suit and refer the parties to arbitration, pursuant to an arbitration clause in the deceased’s will. In their Counter Affidavit to the Defendants’ Preliminary Objection filed on December 17, 2019, the Claimants through their Counsel, argued that the alleged arbitration clause in the deceased’s will referred to the resolution of disputes arising between the Trustees and the Beneficiaries, and as no such Trustees had been engaged, the clause was ineffective. The Claimants further argued that the action brought was not designed to challenge any of the legacies created by the will as contemplated by the Arbitration clause therein, but rather, to seek the proper administration of their late father’s Estate in accordance with the instructions in his will. At the sitting on  January 14, 2020, the court requested all parties to be present in court on February 3, 2020. However, at the resumed hearing on February 3, 2020, the Defendants’ did not appear in court, neither did they file any defence to the action pending before the court, following which, the Claimant’s submission that their Preliminary Objection be struck out, was upheld by the court. 