Stakeholders in the sports industry have been charged to be proactive in combating the rising cases of corruption in sports administration in the country. At a workshop in Abuja on Tuesday, various sports journalists and administrators identified corruption as a major factor responsible for the underdevelopment of sports and the youth population in the country. The workshop, organised by the Human and Environmental Development Agenda (HEDA) in collaboration with other agencies, emphasised the need to reposition the sports sector for development. Chairman of HEDA, Olanrewaju Suraju, urged sports journalists to shift focus from statistics and spectacular goals to investigating and exposing the ills plaguing sports development in the country. Suraju identified such ills to include doping, match fixing, sexual harassment as well as non-payment of allowances to athletes and players by officials. Corroborating Suraju’s point of view, the Executive Director of PLAY!YA, a sports based non-governmental organisation, Mr Eze Aloysius, said that grassroots athletes and players are worst hit by the corruption and maladministration in sports. Aloysius said, “Many grassroots teams are without any facility for practice and qualified coaches to train them. “Government subventions, royalties, sponsorship deals, adverts among other monies accruable to sport federations are in most cases diverted, spent or squandered through the elite teams without recourse to grassroots development. “Equally worrisome is the mad rush for foreign athletes and players as if there were no young people in the country who are engaged in sports. “Recall that in the 1980s and 1990s, virtually all Nigeria’s major athletes and players were groomed within the country before leaving to further their careers abroad when necessary. “But nowadays, the reverse is the case: We have federation presidents going to foreign countries to beg prominent athletes and players with dual citizenship to come and represent Nigeria in major competitions”. Also lamenting the ugly trend, a sports administrator and former chairman of the MFM Football Club, Godwin Enakhena, said corruption in the sector has continued to rob underprivileged Nigerian youths of opportunities to grow. Enakhena said that sports provide youths from poor socio economic backgrounds with opportunities to create wealth through their talents. He charged journalists and stakeholders to choose between working for the common good or favouring corruption by sports administrators. “We can all feel and see the corruption in sports, but we still need to proof it. Therefore, journalists should rise to the occasion in ways that transcend the hypocrisy in the sports journalism sector,” Enakhena said.