 Helen Onwuchi is a petty trader in Agege market, Lagos. The market connects other major markets, reason for its being a beehive of activities. Presently, there is a road and rail construction going on right opposite her stall in order to ease the movement of people and goods. The dust from this construction comes in such generous quantity, she almost takes it for lunch and she gets so complacent she doesn’t mind anymore, with the hope that the construction wouldn’t last forever. Onwuchi leaves her stall after every tiring day to return home to her husband’s devoted gasoline generator use. The noise itself is just as deafening as what she experiences from the construction process. As if that’s not enough, the black thick fumes from the machine comes right into through their windows as their rented apartment is too cramped to accommodate such havoc-wrecking “luxury”. A heart wrenching story is told of a family of three wiped out by the fume of their generators which they inhaled while asleep. All three of them were found dead by neighbors the following morning. Nigeria, the largest African economy is notorious for very erratic power supply. Reason many individuals, families and business owners have resorted to generators which seems even more reliable than power from the national grid. Over the years, they have found this as a respite to the crappy power supply Nigeria, nation of a 200 million teeming persons. As bad as it may seem young persons in Nigeria have begun to see the prospects in the dark power situation Nigeria continually experiences. One of them is Adedayo Lawal, A recent graduate who has been in the renewable energy business for over a decade. According to him power being a major issue Nigeria grapples with daily, he has however been able to use this to his advantage as the high patronage he records is largely hitched on the deficit in power generation. He said ”Most customers and friends claim we are getting better and doing well. By their judgment, we would will call the economy a favorable one because of power that is yet to be stabilized, devaluation however is always taking a toll on our purchasing power as a provider of service and our customers are economically vulnerable too. Lawal happens to be one of the several teeming young persons in Nigeria who are making sustainable livelihood from the frequent power outages Nigeria experiences. One of the most important prerequisites to the economic and social transformation of a country is reliable , affordable yet environmentally friendly electricity supply. Reliable electricity is underpinned by a power sector that is financially sustainable, has effective regulatory policies and attracts steady and committed investors. The use of sustainable energy resources guarantees an improvement in the standard of living of rural poor, cuts greenhouse gas emissions and improves the provision of health care services in rural and semi-urban communities. This will contribute to the overall socio-economic development of rural areas and stimulate the broader growth of the economy. According to the United Nations Development Programme, more than 1.3 billion people lack access to modern electricity services;2.8 million people spend several hours every day grinding grains, building fires, fetching water and collecting fuel for their cooking and heating stoves. 4.3 million premature deaths occur each year as a result of household air pollution caused by burning solids the traditional way. Without access to sustainable energy, development goals cannot be achieved. A young person like Lawal has however been able to provide a sustainable, reliable and safe alternative to this ugly energy trend. He said being a social entrepreneur, he had to monetize right from the start as he needed the profit to bootstrap the enterprise to sustainability and still on that track. Although when he launched, there was relatively little or no competition but presently, a lot of entrepreneurs have begun to invest in the renewable energy business. Lawal said “by differentiating, being ingenious and finding a niche that is sustainable, you will find customers that are under served but currently we are still a tadpole in a small pond. Not much to worry about, but enough to keep us in getting better at solving our customers’ needs.
Giving heads up on the prospects of solar power against hydro-electric power he said “solar is more applicable as it could be used in miniaturized devices and in large scale applications producing thousands of megawatts, he acknowledged costs are coming down especially in tropical climates which Nigeria belongs and there are better opportunities to utilize solar energy through solar panel efficiently. Olaoluwa Ikutiminu is another youthful renewable energy entrepreneur, he said the solar market is still emerging and there is a big market for the future especially in Nigeria ,however, the economy is not viable enough to make it affordable for most people. From his interaction with people over the years,he has discovered that people want better alternatives to energy as it is a staple and viable entity and if they are given this option without the need of connecting to the national grid or air polluting gasoline generators. If they re given durable and affordable solar options, they will definitely gravitate towards it.
Therefore ,by developing infrastructure that provides sustainable, reliable and affordable access to modern energy services, people, communities and countries can significantly improve their living standards and economic status especially in Africa in particular. Increasing access to modern energy services can yield an expansion of job markets and business activities; it can serve as a catalyst for improvements in health, gender equality, safety and education; and it can contribute to strengthening the resilience and buffer against shocks , crisis disasters. Lawal’s venture into the sustainable was inspired by his rural background where he got the push from the mechanism of windmill turbines he saw all through his childhood and he has been making a headway ever since. He said he had to do a lot of talking at the inception of his business to get people’s to even have a clue due to the near novelty of the enterprise , hence ,the business name “solar talkers”. According to him, the market is relatively not competitive as most people prefer turn-key systems, they don’t experiment and he would prefer competing on price instead of giving more value to customers. They replicate services instead of differentiating, he said its easy to carve out a niche, as the sector is still in infancy. Currently, 850 million people live without access to energy, of which 650 million are in Africa. An addition, a billion people are connected to an unreliable grid. Between 2011 and 2014, Nigeria generated between 3000-4500MW of electricity for its estimated 170 million population .Presently, only an estimated 30% of Nigerians are connected to the national grid. There have been several recommendations by various energy experts and professionals for the overhaul and diversification of the energy sector especially in Nigeria which still grapples with epileptic power supply due to its generation of only 4,000 megawatts instead of the 12,522 megawatts which will sufficiently the country’s of about 22 million people. The reality of population explosion has also created a crucial need for sustainable alternatives to energy generation which are been proven to have low emissions and are completely eco-friendly. The United Nations Industrial Development Organisation orchestrated a project tagged WAYA dam project in Bauchi State of Nigeria . Three villages were selected owing to the potentials of energy supply presented by the Waya Dam project which is located 20 kilometres from Bauchi metropolis in northern Nigeria. The mini grid component aims to support the development of private sector mini grids in underserved areas. The Component targets are to electrify 300,000 households and 30,000 local enterprises through mini grids. The specific objectives of the solar hybrid mini grid are to provide clean, safe, and affordable electricity to communities that are currently not connected to the national electricity grid, increase business productivity by replacing generators, lanterns and candles with reliable electricity, improve community security through street lighting.  Again, Egbeke is a landlocked community with located in Etche Local Government Area of Rivers State Nigeria. The Community is approximately 2hours away from the heart of Port-Harcourt City. Egbeke has agriculture and petty commercial activities as its prevailing economic drivers. Quite a handful of the inhabitants have access to electricity through petrol generators while the others are at the mercy of kerosene lamps, candle lamps, firewood etc. The major challenge facing economic development in the community is the lack of electricity access for residential and commercial activities most importantly for the processing of agro-produces before taking them to the market. United Nations Development Program (UNDP) Access to Renewable Energy Project and the Rivers State Sustainable Development Agency (RSSDA) implemented a 6.8kW PV solar based pilot project. The project was aimed at field testing the technical and commercial viability of adopting renewable energy for off-grid rural electrification. The project created 20 direct and indirect jobs during the course of it’s implementation while creating an estimated N0.9million ($6,000.00) in wealth in the beneficiary community through construction, survey, labour and other related expenditures. The project currently offsets an estimated 91.3 metric tons of CO2 annually in the community thereby preserving the natural environment while enhancing the living standards of the inhabitants. It has led to the transfer of knowledge by training of locals to oversee the daily operation of the site post-implementation. This has led to the sustainability of the project. The project currently serves 86 Households (26 PBK households and 60 mini-grid houses); 688 people (@ 8 persons per house). Other project impacts include street lighting points along the main street of Egbeke Community, enhanced security at night, extended business operating hours, children gathering around the street lighting points to study/ play at night and 40% reduction in Energy related expenditure. The project currently impacts an additional 300 people indirectly through the street lighting.
In the development of renewable energy, grid access was slowly granted to renewable energy producers. This gradual process minimized disrupting the influence and market share of stakeholders and certain ministries and distribution companies. As efforts to accelerate provision of electricity to the over 800 million people lacking electricity access around the world, and predominantly in Africa, it is essential to define the priority policy objectives and structure sector reforms around those. The institutional pathways to achieving these objectives will vary by country context but can be guided by the general principles of effective governance in terms of efficiency, sustainability and equity in the power sector. As efforts accelerate to provide electricity to the over 800 million people lacking electricity access around the world, and predominantly in Africa, it is essential to define the priority policy objectives and structure sector reforms around those. The institutional pathways to achieving these objectives will vary by country context but can be guided by the general principles.