A Federal High Court in Lagos has restrained Premier Lotto Ltd and 22 other lottery outfits in Nigeria from operating and using Ghana Games lottery products. Justice Chukwujekwu Aneke also restrained the National Lottery Regulatory Commission (NLRC) from revoking Western Lotto Ltd’s lottery licence or taking any step to prevent it from operating the Ghana Games products. The judge further restrained the Registrar of Trade Marks, its agents, servants and privies, from registering for Premier Lotto Ltd and others any lotto game that has Ghana Games Lotto products. He made the orders after dismissing several preliminary objections filed by 25 respondents in the suit filed by Western Lotto. The respondents in their various preliminary objections asked the court to decline jurisdiction on the matter as well as strike out Western Lotto’s suit against them for being incompetent. The judge further granted an interlocutory injunction restraining Premier Lotto and others, from using the trade names and trademarks that are associated with the Ghana Games lottery products, including Monday Special Lotto, Lucky Tuesday Lotto, Midweek Lotto, Fortune Lotto, Friday Bonanza Lotto, Saturday National Lotto, VAG Lotto and Super 6 Lotto in Nigeria pending the hearing and determination of the substantive suit.” The court further restrained the defendants from passing off their own lottery products/games as Ghana Games lottery products through the sale and distribution of the Ghana Games and the use of the draw numbers of the Ghana National Lottery Authority (NLA). Others restrained by the court’s interlocutory injunction alongside Premier Lotto Ltd are: Secure Electronic Technology Ltd; Richwell Plaza Ltd; Peoples Empowerment Lottery Ltd; Gab Lotto Ltd; Payday Lotteries Ltd and R&S Lotto Ltd; Capstar Entertainment International Ltd. Others include: Winners Golden Chance Lotto; EG&H Integrated Concepts Limited; Global Lottery Limited; Fortune Games Limited, EMI Systems Limited; Mobile Lottery Nigeria Limited; Wesco Pools and Lottery Limited; Give and Take Lottery and Brentwood Multiservices Global Limited; International Lottery and Gaming Limited; Winlot Global Resources Limited; Lottomania Nigeria Limited; Derby Lotto Limited; K.C. Lottery Company Limited and K.C. Gaming Networks Limited. But Justice Aneke refused Western Lotto Nigeria Ltd’s request to destroy all the products, equipment and games of the firms offering lottery products styled the Ghana games products – in breach of Western Lotto Nigeria Ltd’s exclusive rights to use the trade names and trademarks associated with the Ghana Games Lotto products. He adjourned hearing in the suit marked  FHC/L/CL/2321/19, till May 28, 2020.