Nasarawa State Chapter of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has suspended former FCT Minister, Senator Solomon Ewuga and the 2019 deputy Governorship candidate of the party, Hon Muhammed Onawo. Its Publicity Secretary Muhammed Umar Bwala who stated this in a statement in Lafia said former Minister of Justice Musa Elayo was also suspended indefinitely by the party. According to him: “The State Executive Committee of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Nasarawa state has met today, 25th March, 2020 to take far reaching decisions after a joint session with Members of State Elders Forum. ” That owing to the role of some PDP elders in sponsoring crisis within the party and engaging in act of gross misconduct, Senator Solomon Ewuga , Hon. Musa Elayo and Hon. Muhammed Onawo are hereby suspended from the party” he said He explained that they are to also face disciplinary standing Committee of the party for their actions. Our correspondent gathered that the suspended key members of the party has been having running battle with the state chairman of the party, Mr Francis Orogo who is seeking for a second term in office as chairman of the party. It was also gathered that the PDP governorship candidate of the party in the 2019 election, David Umbugadu and Senator Sulieman Adokwe are strongly supporting the return of Orogo as party chairman. Orogo had strongly supported Umbugadu to emerge the party’s governorship candidate in 2019 against Senator Ewuga. The state chairman is also believed to have frustrated the aspiration of Muhammed Onawo to pick the Nasarawa south senatorial ticket of the party in 2019 in favour of Senator Sulieman Adokwe. But speaking to our correspondent on phone, Senator Ewuga said there are processes of suspension which they didn’t follow. “It is a breach of right to fair hearing and fundamental human right of an individual, I’m just hearing it and no body has served me with a letter to that effect,” he said He explained further that the election of party officials in the state executive is not an affirmation and everybody has the right to support the candidate of his or her choice. “It is an election and not affirmation , that is what democracy is all about, it is not a military era, so everybody should subject himself to an election,” he said