Imo State Governor Hope Uzodimma has admonished commissioners, special advisers and senior special assistants to use their experience to drive the shared vision of prosperity of his administration. Uzodinma yesterday swore in commissioners and other appointees at the Ahiajoku International Convention Centre, Owerri. He urged them to see their appointment as a privilege which should not be abused. He said: “It is important that you don’t take the oath of office as a mere ritual, you must take every word seriously. You owe it a duty to Imo people and God to ensure that you don’t fail in your assignment. You are now a magnifying glass with which the public will see our government.” The governor warned that any appointee who indulges in actions that can smear the government will be sacked. “Your actions and inactions from today matters a lot; those things you have done in the past that does not matter before matters now. You must watch what you say or do as a government representative. Any action that is capable of bringing government to ridicule will be unacceptable to us.” Governor Uzodinma also created the Ministry of Foreign and International Affairs, to be headed by a former governorship candidate, Fabian Ihekwueme. The commissioners sworn in are Mrs. Damaris Osunkwo (Health); Dr. Iyke Njoku (Environment); Prof. B.T Ikegwuoha (Education); Ralph Nwosu (Works); Tony Umezurike (Public Utilities); Dr. Love Ineh (Housing), among others. Others are Dr. Elias Martins Emedom (Social Welfare & Sanitation); Enyinnaya Onuegbu (Lands); Rex Anunobi (Transport); C.C. Osuala (Budget & Economic Planning); Mrs. Nkechi Ugwu (Gender & Vulnerable Group);  Daniel Ogu (Youths & Social Development); Dr. Lambert Orisakwe (Agric & Natural Resources) and Doris Akubuo (Tourism & Creative Arts). The rest are Francis Dibiagwu (Special Duties);  Kingsley Ononuju (Commerce & Industry); Noble Atulegwu (Entrepreneurship & Skills Acquisition); C.O. Akolisa (Attorney-General & Commissioner for Justice); Simom Ebegbulem (Special Project); Mrs. Obiageri Ajoku (Livestock Development) and Iyke Umeh (Technology Development).