 A newborn baby girl reportedly found hanging on a barbed wire of a fence of a students’ hostel in Oko, Orumba North Local Government Area of Anambra State is responding to treatment after fall at the Chukwunoso Specialist Hospital in the area. The baby was said to have been thrown over the fence from the first floor of the building by the mother whose identity is yet to be ascertained, after delivering it in her boyfriend’s room at the hostel. A Medical officer at the hospital, Chinonso Nwosu, who confirmed that the baby sustained a wound on the leg after being trapped by the barbed wire, said she was receiving treatment to ensure she did not suffer temperature abnormality. He further revealed that the suspect, who was at large after the incident, is currently breastfeeding the newborn baby after she was brought to the hospital in handcuffs. The Nation gathered that the lady, suspected to be a student of the Federal Polytechnic Oko had carried out the act with her boyfriend, in connivance with another friend, an HND one student of Public Administration Department of the institution who provided his apartment for the delivery. Reacting, Public Relations Officer of the Polytechnic, Mr. Obini Onuchukwu said it was not clear if the suspect and her accomplices were students of the institution. He however said security department of the institution has been directed to get full details of the incident. He said, “The School authority got to hear about the incident like every other person. Besides, the incident happened in a private hostel, outside the Polytechnic’s environment where the School authority is not in control of students’ actions. While calling on public-spirited individuals to donate hostel accommodations to tertiary institutions to assist in monitoring students actions, Onuchukwu called on parents to mould the character of their wards in Godliness. “There’s need for parents to maintain absolute intimacy with their wards by following them even in schools, to know the kind of friends they keep. On our part, we always organise regular orientation programs for students to advise them on better ways of life,” he added. When contacted, Police spokesperson, Haruna Mohammed said the case was being investigated. “We found the story on the internet and we’re carrying out investigation. I’ll get back to you as soon as investigations are over,” he said.