 Students of School of Engineering, Moshood Abiola Polytechnic, Abeokuta, has celebrated this year’s World Engineering Day with project exhibition. They were joined by their contemporaries from four other schools- Civil, Electrical, Mechanical and Computer Engineering A lecturer in the school of Engineering, Dr Rilwan Oluyide, who announced that the event would henceforth be celebrated annually, added that it was meant to showcase wonderful projects made by the students. He said: “As part of the engineering community, we deem it fit that we should demonstrate some of our wonderful projects that our students are coming up with. We promise that this will be an annual event henceforth. Some of the projects exhibited include: android control system with calculator, home board, android water control system, face recognition system, water generating plant, kerosene-powered generator, maize shelling machine, home automation, and public address system, amongst others. Addressing the students at the exhibition, the Acting Rector of the institution, Dr Adeoye Odedeji, urged them to key into the opportunity they have at hand and do away with distractions. Odedeji charged the students to start new innovations that generations to come will continue to remember them for. “Hope is not lost. Seize the opportunity. Now is your time to turn things around and key into this opportunities,” Odedeji began. “Be hardworking. Face your studies. Get good grades out of this place and don’t allow anybody to discourage you. Odedeji also appealed to the students to pay their school fees on time to enable management provide more befitting facilities. He advised them to drop the habit of making late payment. He continued: “I have promised you that facilities will be made available only based on the fact that you pay your school fee on time. “No one can be successful in life when you can’t deny yourself of some things. Put in something that will be productive to your life. “I’m expecting all of you to pay your school fees before this week runs out.” Odedeji also called on workers to join hands with the institution’s Centre for Research Development to ensure innovation increases. Odedeji implored them to follow trends and look at emerging needs in the society to remain relevant. “My role is to ensure that all available resources will be looked at to produce technical information and knowledge. ‘’That’s our mission and it will be properly disseminated. “I want to encourage you to sit down and look at the current needs as well as the emerging needs of the society and ask yourself what equipment I can design. “How do I satisfy people’s values, their aspiration? “That is when you’ll become relevant, follow trends, sit down, come out with a concept and design. “Put heads together and collaborate with the centre for research and development. “I see this polytechnic becoming world acclaimed. We are waiting patiently for your turn around.”  