Alhaji Atiku Abubakar’s daughter-in-law, Badriyya Atiku, as well as his grandchildren, have tested negative to the COVID-19. However, they are on self-isolation at their home located at Taslee Palm City Estate, Uruguay Street, Maitama, Abuja. Badriyya and her children had to undergo the testing, after her husband tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday. Mohammed, is currently being quarantined at the University of Abuja Teaching Hospital, Gwagwalada.   Kaduna Governor, Malam Nasir Ahmad El-Rufai, has directed a partial lockdown in the state. He said, all civil servants from Level 12 and below should remain at home for the next 30 days  from Tuesday. Governor El Rufai, in a state broadcast on Monday, directed that from Tuesday, markets should be partially open. According to him: ‘’Only traders selling food and medicines are permitted to open their shops.” El-Rufai, who said that the directive became necessary to prevent the spread of coronavirus, pointed out his government will not hesitate to enforce a total lockdown of the state if the need arises. The Governor however said that workers providing essential services in the  health, security and emergency sectors are exempted from this directive. He decried that the government’s directive against large gatherings was flouted. He however expressed gratitude to the religious leaders who complied with the directive. El-Rufai further said that Government ‘’received reports of congregations in some churches and mosques as well as large crowds in weddings and other social activities. ‘’Over the weekend, we also sadly observed shocking levels of complacency as some people ignored their responsibility to uphold preventive measures.” The Government has ‘’decided to move from advice to actual enforcement of its restrictions on large gatherings, especially in churches and mosques,” he said. According to him: ‘’Security agencies have been directed to ensure compliance across the state. “These agencies will also enforce compliance with the decision to close all schools, whether public or private, religious or secular, Islamiya or run by Christian missions.’’ El Rufai warned: ‘’The state government will not hesitate to impose a state wide curfew, should that become the only way to enforce compliance and make everyone understand the collective danger that we face.’’ The Governor also directed that markets will remain partially open as ‘’only traders selling food and medicines are permitted to open their shops, effective from Tuesday, 24th March 2020.’’ “This directive will be vigorously enforced by the security agencies and the Kaduna Markets Development and Management Company which will also ensure that all markets are fumigated, ” he added. By Duku JOEL, Maiduguri Borno Government has imposed a four-week on visitors  to all Internally Displaced Persons Camp (IDPs) camps in the state. The move is the strategy to containing the outbreak of the virus in the state. The Chairperson of the State Emergency Management Agency(SEMA), Hajiya Yabawa Kolo, made the announcement during a meeting with 51 camp managers on Monday in Maiduguri. According to her, the state took the decision as one of the strategies to prevent the importation of the virus at the camps into the state. He added that the measure became necessary as some of the neighbouring countries like Chad Republic and Cameroon are recording suspected cases. She explained that despite closure of the borders by the neighbouring countries, there were still  influx of IDPs into the state. The SEMA Boss directed all camp managers from Gamboru-Ngala, Damasak, Kalabalge, Banki, Bama and Monguno not to accept IDPs from any neighbouring country into their camps. She said:”We know we have a lot of threat around us following sighting of a suspected cases of  the virus in Cameroon and Chad and we have some border towns very close to those countries. “We do not want to go to the issue of response because even in developed countries,  it was difficult for them to contain this pandemic. “So at our own level, we are positioning  ourselves to see how best we can stop the virus from transmitting in the state. “In addition at the border points, Ministry of health, SEMA and  UNHCR, would ensure that the surveillance committee are provided with all the necessary support toward ensuring that who ever is coming in and out is properly screened their health and their travel history, “she said. Hajiya Yabawa Kolo disclosed that her  agency was partnering with INTERSOS, CCCM, IOM, UNHCR, NEMA, WHO and the Ministry of Health to implement government’s strategy of enhancing protection, creating of conducive environment, promotion of safe hygiene practices with a view to preventing zero transmission in the state. Part of the partnership, she informed will be the  training of  the camp managers on  some guidelines to  communities health workers to educate the IDPs on preventive measures  against coronavirus. To discourage social distancing on the camps during distribution especially food, HAJIYA Kolo said  the agency had adopted house-to-house food distribution to discourage overcrowding. In his remarks, the  Project Manager INTERSOS, Gerard Van-Mourik, said the agency has commenced early morning hand washing mobilisation drive in Monguno,  Ngala,  Bama and Damasak IDPs camps to promote good hygiene practices. “We are relocating over 12,000 residents  who are living in too crowded extension to a more conducive  extension, “he said. The CCM, Shelter and NFI Sector Coordination Officer,   Irene Mugambwa, urged the camp managers to be cautious especially when dealing with the IDPs to avoid being transmitters of virus. “You must also make sure that you have good communication skills to educate people on the information. We don’t want you to instill fear, in the minds of the people. “Some of the things that we put together as the technical working group include separating between the two different categories of people which include  the staff and IDPs or host communities and returnees. “We need to have complaint desk working functionally where the IDPs and those at the host communities will be coming to complaints or interact with us. Whenever they come we need to provide them with the right information. “We also needed to provide them with a referral part voice, if they don’t feel well, how will they go about it. “So we are going to rely on WHO will work with us to provide us with referral part voice on how to handle suspected case from the beginning to case management. “We are going to support the WASH and Health Sector but we must make sure that the things that was advice by the government were put in place like the restriction of movement. “It is very important that we don’t stop essential services to IDPs because they needed it and they are already vulnerable so we need to continue providing them with assistance that they needed”,  she said. The University of Lagos (UNILAG) has told workers on salary scale CONTISS 1-12 to stay away for two weeks to check the spread of the COVID-19. A statement issued by the University noted that the leave would begin Tuesday till April 8. The break does not however cover workers in those levels rendering essential services and those on Levels 13-15. The University also banned gatherings of more than 10 people on campus and directed restaurants to only serve take-outs. The statement reads: “Further to the earlier measures taken by the University Management to support the Federal and State Government’s effort in the fight against the spread of the Coronavirus which is on the increase in the country, Management at an emergency meeting held on Monday, March 23, 2020 approved that members of staff on CONTISS 1-12 should stay at home for two weeks with effect from Tuesday, March 24 to Wednesday, April 8, 2020. “The stay-at-home directive is to curtail the spread of the CORONAVIRUS pandemic. Management also directs that the following measures should be adhered to: a.) All social and religious gatherings or meetings of more than ten (10) persons is hereby banned on the University Campus. b.) All level 1-12 officers and equivalent in the University have been directed to stay at home for the next two weeks with the exception of levels 13 -15. c.) Deans of Faculty, Heads of Department, Directors, Secretaries attached to Principal Officers should continue to come to the office to keep the University running. Heads of Department/Unit are also encouraged to provide hand sanitizers at strategic areas of their offices. d.) Staff in category (b) above who are on essential duties such as Works and Physical Planning Unit (Power), Security and Medical Services etc are also to be around to man the essential areas. e.) Restaurants and canteens are expected to serve only take-away packs. f.) Security personnel would move around to ensure that Management’s directives are adhered to by members of the Community.” The University urged the workers to observe precautions prescribed by the NCDC to avoid getting the disease. Ebonyi State Governor, David Umahi on Monday banned all forms of public gathering in the state for one month. The Governor stated this at the town hall meeting which held at the International Conference Centre Abakaliki, the State Capital. He listed such public gatherings to include burials, weddings, conferences, seminars and any other large gatherings. Represented by his Deputy, Kelechi Igwe, the Governor said the ban is for a period of one month in the first instance. He said the ban is part of measures to protect the people from contacting the deadly Coronavirus which has been declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization. He said: “It is painful to take the decision but government had to reason that it is better to let the dead bury the dead for now. But if you feel that you cannot wait, then you can take the corpse and bury just you and your family without any ceremony and invitation to anybody”. The Governor also said Civil Servants in the state shall from the 25 of March be advised to work from home. He however said those on essential services shall be exempted from the order. The Governor warned traditional rulers and council Chairmen against shielding any person suspected to have contacted the deadly virus. He said anybody suspected to have contacted the virus should immediately be sent to the nearest health centre for onwards transfer to the state isolation centre, which has been built at the Unity Square Abakaliki, for proper treatment and care. By Precious Igbonwelundu The Ligali Ayorinde Branch of Access Bank Plc was closed on Monday after a customer who visited last week tested positive to coronavirus. An urgent update posted on its official Twitter handle indicated that the unnamed customer visited on March 16 and showed no symptoms of the disease. It said persons who had contact with the carrier were currently in isolation, appealing to all customers who visited the branch in the past week to self-quarantine. “We have just confirmed that an individual who visited our Ligali Ayorinde Branch on Monday,
March 16, 2020, has tested positive for Coronavirus. He was symptom-free as at the time of visit and he is currently being monitored at an Isolation Centre in Yaba. “In line with our emergency response plan and following regulatory practices, the branch has
been temporarily closed for thorough disinfection. Persons who had any contact with the concerned individual are currently in isolation. “It is advised anyone who visited the branch in the last week should self-quarantine for a period of 14 days starting immediately. Should you feel sick or exhibit any of the Coronavirus symptoms, please contact the Nigeria Center for Disease Control (NCDC) on 08009700001 or SMS
08099555577 immediately to find out what to do. “The health of all our stakeholders remains paramount at Access Bank Plc, as we are adopting
all necessary measures to ensure your safety at this time. Please be reminded that we will continue to serve you through our Alternate Delivery Channels,” it said. Yusuf Alli and Onyedi Ojiabor, Abuja The Federal Government has asked Nigerians to be prepared for tougher measures to curtail the ongoing spread of Corona Virus Disease( CONVID-19). It said it will unveil the measures in the next 24 to 48 hours. The government also said it might use the military and the Nigeria Police for contact tracing. It expressed worries that more than 1,300 contacts who have dissolved into the society and yet to be traced. The government said with the likely multiplication of infections every five days, thousands would have been affected. The Minister of Information and Culture, Alh. Lai Mohammed made the disclosures at a briefing in Abuja. He said: “We should be ready for tougher measures. The forms they will take will be out from the end of today or tomorrow. But Nigerians should be ready for tougher measures. “If we don’t do proper contact tracing, the figure will multiply every five days. Nigerians must take ownership of this initiative. “We won’t hesitate to use whatever measure to ensure that you do not endanger other Nigerians. Containment is very cheaper than cure.
A few people have helped. If you know you traveled recently, give yourself up to relevant agencies. ” If the situation warrants, we may be forced to use the police and the military for contact tracing. The police is already working on that. We don’t want the figure we have now to multiply. We should work towards containment which is cheaper.  Details shortly… Following the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic, the Kogi State Government has directed that workers discharge their official duties from home from Monday. The government, in a statement in Lokoja on Sunday, which was signed by Mr. Kingsley Fanwo, the Commissioner for Information and Communication, directed civil servants to work from their respective homes, beginning Monday. By the directive, workers from GL 1 to 13 and others on essential services are ato stay at home, while those on GL 14 and above are to report at their respective offices. The statement reads: “Following the outbreak of the Coronavirus pandemic, the Kogi State government has arrived at a decision to keep civil servants at home from Monday, 23rd March, 2020 as a preventive measure to curb the spread of the deadly virus. “Those who render critical services will be communicated through the Office of the Head of Service of the State, on how to keep the system running without endangering the workers, despite the inevitable decision of government civil servants from GL 1 to 13 are directed to stay off workplaces for 14 days, which is subject to review after the first week starting from Monday 23rd March, 2020. “Only workers from GL 1 to 13 are affected by the directive to stay at home while GL 14 and above are to report at their offices. “Those rendering essential services are to continue to go to their work places as they are not affected by the “Work from Home” directive. “The Governor of the State, His Excellency Alh Yahaya Bello has approved the “Work from Home” approach to ensure the virus doesn’t spread through contacts at government offices across the state. “The Kogi State government is leaving no stone unturned to ensure that the virus doesn’t find its way to the state and in the unfortunate scenario it does, government is prepared to control and manage the cases. “No case of the virus has been reported in Kogi State yet, and it is hoped that government’s efforts at staving the virus off the state will prove productive. “We urge Kogites to ensure adherence to health instructions from the state ministry of health, on how to prevent the disease as well as ensure personal hygiene.” The World Health Organization says that at least 20 coronavirus vaccines are currently in development in the global race for a cure. The first human trial, by the Boston-based biotech firm Moderna, is already underway. “Going from not even knowing that this virus was out there, which we then identified it as being a cause of infection in China in January, to have any vaccine that we can actually initiate a clinical trial in about two months is unprecedented,” said Dr Lisa Jackson, the Kaiser Permanente investigator leading the first human trial. This extraordinary speed is thanks in large part to early Chinese efforts to sequence the genetic material of the virus that caused COVID-19. China shared that information in early January, allowing researchers around the world to replicate the virus and study how it invades human cells and infects people. Jennifer Haller was the first person to be injected with the trial vaccine. “Everybody is feeling so helpless right now,” Haller said. “And I realised that there was something that I could do to help, and I’m excited to be here.” Experts say it could still take about 18 months for any potential vaccine to become available to the general public. Last week, China also approved the start of clinical trials on a vaccine. (www.newsnow.co.uk) Niger Governor, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello has announced a shut down in the state, declaring restriction of movement from 8am to 8pm. The restriction of movement, according to the Governor in a state broadcast on Monday, would begin from Wednesday. He said that this move became necessary due to the new cases emerging from Abuja, of which Niger state is very close to.  Details shortly… As part of measures to stop the spread of coronavirus, Ondo Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, on Monday stopped commercial drivers from carrying many passengers in their vehicles. Akeredolu ordered buses to carry passengers at 60 percent capacity while tricycle operators are to carry only three persons. Motorcycle operators known as okada are to carry one passenger at a time. Governor Akeredolu who spoke through his Special Adviser on Transport, Mr. Tobi Ogunleye, said all air conditioning system in public transport are to be put off. Akeredolu urged all public transport operators to have temperature reader to test each passenger before boarding their buses. He directed all Transport Operators/Companies to sanitise their parks and garages regularly and contunously have at the entrance to their respective parks/garages, washing hand equipment with soap and running water. According to him: “All Operators are expected to have alcohol based sanitisers in their vehicles for the use of drivers, conductors and Passengers. “Passenger’s spacing must be fully observed. NCDC recommends that at least 2m (5feet) distance is required between anyone showing symptoms of respiratory illness. “All tricycles, okada riders and conductors should always wear hand gloves and nose guides while in transit. “Passengers are also required to regularly wash their hands with soap and running water before and after each trip. “All tricycle operators should have maximum of 3 passengers including the rider. “All Okada riders should not carry more than one passenger and must comply with the existing rules of using the government prescribed crash helmet to cover their head and nose. “Operators/Companies and passengers are expected to report any suspected case of COVID-19 to the Ministry of Transport. “Passengers are also expected to report any Operator/Company that does not comply with these guidelines to the Monitoring Officer at sight or write to the Ministry, stating the Vehicle Registration Number, Park and Time.” Bauchi Governor Bala Mohammed is now in self-isolation over fears of contracting coronavirus after his contact with the son of Atiku Abubakar, the state’s Chief of Staff, Ladan Salihu said. Atiku made a public disclosure via Twitter on Sunday evening about his son testing positive to the pandemic. Reactions, mostly sympathies, have trailed the announcement since although the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC,  is yet to acknowledge the development. Through his Twitter handle this afternoon, Dr. Salihu explained that Governor Mohammed, alongside his entourage, met with the Vice President’s son while on flight from Lagos to Abuja. He added that they all have also taken test and are expecting the result as at the time of this report. The tweet reads: “Our Governor Bala Mohammed in self isolation following contact with Atiku Abubakar’s Son. Yes. We were on the same flight from Lagos to Abuja.  They shook hands and exchanged pleasantries. The Gov and the rest of us have taken tests. The results will be negative in sha Allah.” So far,  NCDC has confirmed 36 cases of Coronavirus from Abuja, Lagos, Ogun, Ekiti, and Oyo states and one death. Kwara state police command has banned any congregation of persons exceeding ten in the state. It added that any such gathering exceeding must have the written permission of the state police commissioner with effect from Monday 23rd, 2020. In a statement the state command’s spokesperson Ajayi Okasanmi said that “all suspects in cases of simple offence or misdemeanor are not to be detained but released on bail immediately. Detention should only be in the case of serious offences that are not normally bailable.” The statement said that “all heads of department (HODs), Area Commanders, District Police Officers (DPOs) and heads of units are to immediately provide hand washing facilities or alcohol based sanitizers or both at appropriate positions in their offices and stations. “All visitors who must visit the police facility/office are to be admitted into the offices only after having washed their hands with soap or sanitized their hands with the alcohol based sanitizers provided at the entrance of such police facility/office. Area commanders and DPOs have earlier been advised to make available infrared thermometers for use in their stations. This has now become very necessary and must be taken very seriously.”  “With respect to 7 above, the PPRO is hereby directed to create that special platform today with the title MONDAY BRIEFING, only for this purpose.  This will also apply to the monthly officers conference if the situation in the country is yet to improve significantly before our next monthly officers conference.” The Federal Government has accused some members of the House of Representatives, who recently returned from foreign trips of posing serious threat to the safety of Nigerians by refusing to subject themselves to screening at airports. The Presidency, in a letter dated 21st March, 2020 informed Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila of the report from the Minister of Health on the refusal of some House members to subject themselves to screening at the airport as directed by health officials. The letter signed by the Chief of Staff to the President, Abba Kyari, asked the Speaker to direct all members of the House who recently returned from trips abroad to report to the nearest NCDC office with immediate effect for screening. The letter reads “It has been brought to the Honourable Minister of Health, recently reported to this office that some members of the House of Representatives are refusing to subject themselves to medical screening at airports. “As you are aware, these airport screenings are our primary line of defense and refusal by any citizen to subject to these tests is a threat to our nation. “Accordingly, you are kindly requested to direct all members of the House of Representatives who returned to Nigeria from foreign trips to report themselves to the nearest NCDC test centre with immediate effect.” Spokesman of the House, Benjamin Kalu, told The Nation it would be unpatriotic for anybody to refuse to go through the screening process. Kalu said since there are cameras at the airport, official should go through the camera to identify all those who returned to the country recently and refused to through the screening so that they can be traced. Kalu said the letter from the Chief of Staff to the President was a wake up call for all Nigerians adding that corona virus was real and should be taken seriously by all irrespective of status. He said: “There is a screening process at the airport that is supposed to be obeyed by every patriotic citizen of this country irrespective of your status. It doesn’t matter if you are whether you are the President of the country, a Senator or a member of the House or a governor. “Health is very important. If yours is not important to you, that of others is important to them and any negligent act by being careless might affect a whole lot of Nigerians. ” The call from the Presidency through the Chief of Staff is potentially a wake up call. “The House will not feel that he was trying to pine on them what they are not. If there are those who did it, they should desist. “Whether you are a House of Representative member or not, it doesn’t matter. Everybody is expected to subject himself. I am sure he sent that same letter to the Senate. It could be Ministers or Senator. There is nothing wrong about that. “Yes, I have seen that letter being circulated online. What I am taking away from that letter is that people should make efforts to comply with this particular heath policy and I am not seeing anything wrong with that letter.
“Adding my voice to what the Chief of Staff said, Members or Senators or whoever you are, comply with the simple instruction because this virus is real and does not care about your status. So, let us humble ourselves, wait a few minutes and pass through the checks. “There is not humiliating in going into isolation if need be. You must save your family, friends and the people you wok with. I think it is the patriotic thing to do and I commend the Chief of Staff to the President for rising that alarm and writing that letter. “People should not misinterpreted the letter because it is not an attack on the House of Representatives. “The content of the letter is what should be taken which is that everyone should be careful no matter who you are. “I carry my hand sanitizer and when I come in, I go through the process. They are very respectful and professional about what they do. “I don’t know why any body should claim to be a member of this or that and not subject himself or herself to such screening.
“The truth is that it is unpatriotic for you not to pass through the screening. It is unpatriotic to the nation and such persons should be penalised. They should be arrested.
“Those people who pass through there without screening should be arrested and be properly checked before being released so that we don’t allow anyone who has this virus into circulation. We don’t even know who has this virus right no and so, we have to take extra care.” A former NNPC General Manager, Suleiman Achimugu, who was among those confirmed to have contracted the Corona virus in Nigeria, has died according to family source. A family member, Abubukar Achimugu, in an announcement, stated that the deceased has since been buried according to Islamic rites. “Just lost an uncle to the Corona virus, at Gwagwalada specialist hospital this morning. Alhaji Suleiman Achimugu retired from NNPC as group GM. He returned 10 days ago from the UK and was isolated. “Now, his household is condoned off and the entire family quarantined and the corpse is not likely to be released to us. “Let’s put him in our prayers and ask God to send an urgent relief to us,” stated Kashim Abubakar, a cousin to the late Achimugu wrote Another family member, Abubakar Achimugu, however confirmed that the deceased has been laid to rest. “Our family is deeply saddened to inform you of the sudden death of our beloved father, uncle, brother and friend. Engr. Suleiman Achimugu (former MD of PPMC). “He died of COVID-19 on 22/03/2020, some days after he arrived Nigeria from the UK. “He was in self isolation upon his return from the UK and personally called NCDC after experiencing some discomfort that are related to COVID-19 symptoms. “He tested positive and was promptly evacuated to the specialist hospital. He died while recieving treatment. “We implore the general public to pray upon his soul and the recovery of infected persons .Your thoughts and prayers would be appreciated. “Please maintain the public social distancing and restriction advice as we all walk through this very difficult time. “He has since been buried according to Islamic rites. May Allah (SWA) have mercy on him,” Abubukar wrote on behalf of the family. The first  COVID-19 death has been recorded in Nigeria. According to the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), the case was a 67-year-old male who returned following a medical procedure in UK He had underlying medical conditions- multiple myeloma and diabetes and was undergoing chemotherapy.  Details shortly… Wife of Nigeria’s President, Aisha Buhari has joined the train of people sympathizing with former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar after he announced that his son tested positive to coronavirus on Sunday night. Although the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC is yet to add Atiku’s son to the record, the former Vice President himself made the announcement about son’s status via his Twitter handle, He tweeted: “My son has tested positive to coronavirus. @NCDCGov has been duly informed, and he has been moved to Gwagwalada Specialist Teaching Hospital in Abuja for treatment and management. I will appreciate it if you have him in your prayers. Stay safe, coronavirus is real.” Mrs. Buhari prayed for the recovery of the politician’s son. “Your Excellency, It’s with deep sense of concern that I extend my sincere prayers towards the quick recovery of your dear son. Allah renu en Amin”, she tweeted. Some other Nigerians also commended Atiku for the public disclosure of his son’s health status. Oby Ezekwesili, the two-time former minister of solid minerals and education said the announcement will become helpful, imploring authorities to heighten awareness as a result of it. She briefly wrote that: “that former Vice President Atiku Abubakar informed the public that his son tested positive to Coronavirus, is hugely helpful to everyone. Lagos state Government and Federal Ministry of Health and all of us should leverage this to create more awareness that this is real.” I commend Vice President Atiku Abubakar for his transparency and leadership at what must be a very difficult time for him and his family. I wish his son speedy recovery”, Dr. Joe Abah, a former Director-General of Bureau of Public Service Reforms, also registered. So far, over 35 cases have been confirmed in Abuja, Lagos, Ogun, Oyo and Ekiti states as the numbers are still ticking high. 