Nollywood movie producer and director, Andy Boyo is currently making waves after rewarding cinema goers that saw his last production, ‘House of Talents.’ Promoting the film, Boyo recently held a raffle draw for movie lovers who watched ‘House of Talents’ in cinemas across the country with the overall winner winning a trip to Dubai. At a well-attended event in Lagos, Cynthia Eze emerged winner of the grand prize of a trip for two to Dubai sponsored by Sathos travel and leisure. Sponsored by Overland Airways, the winner of the second prize, Alabi Adetayo won a round trip ticket to anywhere in Nigeria and Fatima Daramola who won the third prize of a round trip local ticket to anywhere where Overland flies was sponsored by the airline. Fourth prize went to Ebuka  Francis who will enjoy a six months supply of Cocosheen hair conditioner courtesy of Cocosheen. Boyo who is CEO, Nollywood cinemas said, “What we did today is to show that when we have promotions like this, it is not fake. Besides, you cannot do promotions like this without getting government permission. You have to apply to the lottery board, they give you permission before you are allowed to do it. Now that we have done it, we will take a record of it and send it to government to say we have done what we promised. The movie has just finished its cinema run. We have a lot of opposition in different cinemas. They thought that we are playing tricks, they didn’t want to be part of it. We have shown it in other countries but we did not include other countries in the raffle draw because of their regulations.” Sponsor of the flick, Mrs. Ibi Fabian had this to say about the movie. “What is touching about this movie is that it gave expression for young people. They actually got up and came to be part of it. We saw the roles they played in the movie and we saw them live also.” ‘House of Talents’ which is about talent hunt competition parade top stars like Liz Benson, Chiwetalu Agu, Kalu Ikeagwu, Binta Ayo Mogaji, Cossy Orjiakor, Ibrahim Musa, Sola Sobowale, among others.   