 TOUTED as the next superstar of the Nigerian music scene, Divine Ikubor simply known as Rema has continued to impress music lovers with his songs. His latest single titled, Beamer (Bad boy) is currently topping Apple music chart as the most played song in Nigeria. “Number 1 strong!!! Greatful to God,” the 19-year-old Afro-pop singer tweeted. The Mavin signee also wowed his 1.3 million Instagram followers when he posted a video of a model, Jane Emena twerking to his new song. He captioned the video with, “This kind girl will never waist my time.” The versatile artiste who was discovered on social media by Jonzing World honcho and singer, D’Prince has continued to catch the attention of audience. On March 20, Rema appeared on entertainment radio station, Capital Xtra in London where he speak exclusively with the presenter, Manny Norte about his music career, his father among other issues. Dressed in black jacket and necklace with his neatly-twisted dreadlocks, Rema sit confidently during the interview. Commenting on his trending song, ‘Beamer,’ which is produced by talented Jamaican producer, Rvssian, he says, “I spent a lot of hours and even Rvssian left in the studio,” he paused. “He’s (Rvssian) a great guy, I was confused because he had so many beats… We made two songs that day, but I made ‘Beamer’ last. “I just want to get to the next level with Beamer. You know, search my soul for the most spiritual vibes I could lay on the beat because the beat was so hard and I was like I can’t just put the regular flow on it and I have to do something crazy. I don’t like going into the studio with this sense of giving the people what they expect. I just want to explore my spirituality and sound as a whole,” he concluded. Born into a Christian family in Benin City, Edo State, the multi award winning singer lost both his father and older brother when he was 15 years. According to him, he was pained but he is determined to be great in life. “At some point things got hard and I had to man up. I had to work hard because I lost my brother and my dad this is the reason I am working work hard and I have a great Mum.“ If he keeps  nurturing his craft, he might truly become a superstar and probably win the Grammy Award.