The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) is set for Tuesday’s crucial vote that will see the conversion of the six-decade old Exchange from a member-owned mutual company limited by guarantee to a public limited liability company with shareholders. In probably the most momentous decision after its formation, members of the NSE will tomorrow in Lagos vote at a court-ordered meeting called to seek final approval for the conversion of the six-decade old self regulatory organisation to a public limited liability company. The meeting is the final and most critical stage of the conversion process, known as demutualisation. All members of the Exchange, totaling 432 individuals and institutions, are expected to vote at the meeting, in favour or against the scheme of arrangement for the demutualisation. Sources in the know told The Nation that the NSE had at the weekend completed the acceptance of proxy forms, which enable members who may not  be present to vote ahead on the resolutions. Besides, designated officials for dealing members or institutional members, both active and inactive, have been formally identified to ease the process of accreditation and voting. Valid proxies were required to be duly signed and sealed by the members being represented, accompanied with the passport photograph of the representative. To be accepted as a legal representation, proxies must also be duly stamped by the Commissioner for Stamp Duties with a N50 postage stamp. A source indicated that accreditation at the meeting shall strictly be on the basis of valid proxies, designated representatives of institutional and individual members and some select officials and dignitaries. However, voting shall exclusively be done by only duly accredited members and proxies. To achieve the demutualisation, the NSE requires not less than three-quarters of the interests of members present and voting either in person or by proxy. Voting at the meeting shall be by poll with each member representing one interest or one vote for or against the resolution. With the demutualisation, the NSE will transit into a holding company, Nigerian Exchange Group (NEG) Plc, which will be the parent company for the Nigerian Exchange Limited, the successor that will carry on the securities trading business of the Exchange, and other subsidiaries. Shareholders will own shares in NEG Plc while NEG will own the main company and other subsidiaries. According to the scheme of arrangement for the conversion, the post-demutualisation shareholders’ base will consist of 255 institutional shareholders and 177 individual shareholders. The post-demutualisation shareholding arrangement was arrived at by converting the existing dealing members of the Exchange to institutional shareholders and ordinary members to individual shareholders. Shareholdings will be on equal basis in the immediate conversion period with each institutional shareholder holding 6.01 million ordinary shares of 50 kobo each while each individual shareholder will hold 2.44 million ordinary shares of 50 kobo each. Thus, each institutional shareholder will hold 0.3 per cent equity stake while each individual shareholder will hold 0.1 per cent equity stake, in line with the current membership-share conversion ratio of 78 per cent for dealing members and 22 per cent for ordinary members. Under the scheme of arrangement scheduled for approval on March 3, 2020, the NSE will transit into a non-operating holding company with an authorised share capital of 2.5 billion ordinary shares. About 2.0 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each are expected to be issued in the immediate period of the conversion. The NSE will transit into a holding company, Nigerian Exchange Group (NEG) Plc, which will be the parent company for the Nigerian Exchange Limited, the successor that will carry on the securities trading business of the Exchange, and other subsidiaries. The NSE will transfer its securities  exchange  licence and other assets necessarily required to carry out the securities exchange function; which will   include human   resources,   securities   exchange   function related contracts, the  trading facilities  comprising of the  trading floors, work stations, telephones and other office equipment such as cabinets and others, quotation board,  stock  price  electronic  display  device,  stock  printers,  inquiry display equipment and other assets to Nigerian Exchange Limited pursuant to the scheme. According to the scheme, the demutualised NEG will take off with authorised share capital of N1.25 billion comprising of 2.50 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each, which will be registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission. The NEG will subsequently set aside 2.0 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each as issued share capital, which will be registered with the SEC. A total of 40.08 million ordinary shares, representing 2.0 per cent of the proposed issued shares of NEG will be set aside for allotment to parties that may lay claims to entitlement to shares in the demutualised Exchange. This was pursuant to the provisions of the Demutualisation Act 2018. The apportionment of 2.0 per cent as the claims review shares is based on an analysis of the probable quantum of shares that would be required to settle each claim. However, each claimant will be expected to provide irrefutable evidence of membership or circumstance that confers such claim of ownership. However, in the event the claims review shares are insufficient to satisfy successful claims, additional shares will be allotted from the demutualised Exchange’s authorised share capital. A total of 1.96 billion ordinary shares, representing 98 per cent of the issued shares, the balance of the issued shares following the reservation of the claims review shares, will be apportioned between dealing and ordinary members on the basis of a ratio of 78:22, respectively. With the approval of the scheme, all assets, liabilities and undertakings including real property and intellectual property rights of the NSE- with the exception of the securities exchange licence and all assets and appurtenances in relation to the securities trading business of the NSE – shall be retained by NEG. The NSE will set up a separate company, NGX Regulation Limited (NGX Regulation) that will be charged with the regulatory functions of the Exchange after demutualisation pursuant to an arm’s length agreement. This is in order to safeguard the neutrality of the regulatory system. With demutualisation, the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the re-registered Exchange will be amended to indicate the new name, NEG, the authorised share capital and all requisite provisions for a public company limited by shares.