Lagos State has reiterated its commitment to partner and collaborate with the business community to promote the tourism of Badagry Division. Commissioner for Tourism Mrs. Uzamat Akinbile-Yusuf, stated this while receiving members of Badagry Chamber of Commerce Industry, Mines and Agriculture (BACCIMA) led by the President, Alhaji Fatai Shokunbi at her office in Alausa, lkeja, Lagos. She also said that the Babajide Sanwoolu-led administration was always ready and willing to promote a win-win partnership and collaboration with relevant stakeholders towards advancing the frontiers of industries, mines and agriculture as an enabler to the economic growth and development of Lagos State. Akinbile-Yusuf assured the delegates the Lagos State government will work with the Badagry Chamber of Commerce to achieve these developments as the recognised business community and the voice of businesses in Badagry Division. She further assured the delegates that the Lagos State government will work with the Badagry Chamber of Commerce to achieve these developments as the recognized business community and the voice of businesses in Badagry Division. Shokunbi appreciated the Ministry of Tourism for its consistency in supporting successful hosting of previous Tourism events, festivals and various workshops on the Badagry corridor. Shokunbi explained that BACCIMA’s objective for the visit was to deliberate with the Ministry of Tourism, Arts and Culture on partnership opportunities and the role the Business community across the Badagry Division could play in achieving the goal of the Sanwoolu led administration to make Lagos state the most desired tourist destination in Africa by the end of 2022 with emphasis on the Badagry axis. He stated further that the role of the private sector cannot be overemphasized in the development of tourism and the government must fully harness the potentials of the business community for the socioeconomic development of the state. Also speaking at the visit, The Director of the Communications of the Badagry Chamber of Commerce, Mr. David Opeyemi Oke appealed to the Honourable Commissioner on the need to speed up the implementation of the Lagos State Tourism Master Plan, with Badagry in mind as the Tourism Hub of Lagos State. He also appealed to the Lagos State Government to revisit and see to the completion of the abandoned Tourism Projects in Badagry, such as The Vlekete Slave Trade Museum, Marina Reclamation, Slave Route Project at Gberefu Island and the Point of No Return, Gberefu Island to mention a few. Opeyemi also pleaded with the Lagos State Government to extend the Lag Ferry Services to Badagry. He stated that the Lag Ferry Services will help in facilitating trade for SMEs in Badagry Division and help also making it a lot easier for tourists to access the various destinations in Badagry.