 Sir: If an opinion poll is conducted in Nigeria today on the most important infrastructure the citizens want the government to urgently put in place, one will not be surprised to see people choose road as the general consensus. The reason is not far-fetched: Good road networks, play important role in driving the economy of any nation. From North to South, East to West, the general complaints of the Nigerians have been deplorable conditions of roads which led to the country being tagged as one of the countries with bad road network in the world. It has even been said at a point in time that roads in the country are, “dead traps”. Though efforts have been made by different levels of governments, these efforts, seems to be like a drop in the ocean, as much still needed to be done. However, Wednesday, February 26 will remain indelible in the hearts of people living along the Ijebu-Ode-Epe road, as this was the day the Ogun State governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun turned the sod for the reconstruction of the road.  Prior to this day, residents, motorists and even visitors who ply this road on daily basis, complained of its poor state. While owners of vehicles complained of the negative impact on their vehicles, people who live on the sides of the road are more concerned about the socio-economic implications. One is delighted that the government of Dapo Abiodun has heeded the cry of the people and has  awarded the contract for the rehabilitation of this important road that will provide alternative route for people going to the South-south, Southeast and the northern part of the country, thereby saving them the nightmare they usually encounter on Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. It is expected that on completion, the road will further open up the state and attract more investors to that axis as well as help boost and improve the economic value of the areas and impact positively on the lives of the people. It is also gratifying to note that the state government awarded the road to the same contractor that handled the Lagos end of the road. This, I think, would ensure that the same quality of work is maintained. Now that the construction of the Ijebu-Ode- Epe road has commenced, it is hoped that Nigerians who ply this road will be smiling in 12 months’ time when the project is expected to be commissioned.   