Writing on the experience of women who contested in the 2019 elections, HANNAH AJAKAIYE takes a cursory look at the prospects of robust representation for Nigerian women in politics in the new decade. In his address to the nation on January 1, 2020, President Muhammadu Buhari echoed a keenness for a new change of order. Declaring 2020 as the beginning of a new decade of prosperity and promise, the President left no one in doubt of an enthusiasm to chart a better course of greatness for the country in the new decade. However, it’s left to be seen if the promise of prosperity will translate to better opportunities for women in one of the world’s largest democracy ranked by the UN as one of the worst for female representation in parliament. Despite making up 49.4 percent of the total population, women have always been marginalised in Nigeria’s political space. According to data from the Centre for Democracy and Development, women formed 4.17 percent of elected office holders in the 2019 elections, a decline from the 2015-19 period where women formed 5.65 percent of elected office holders.  According to a recently published report by the John Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies African Programme, titled “Gendered Contests; Women in Competitive Elections”, women won just five percent of all contested seats’ figure in the 2019 elections. This represents a failure to attain the minimum 30 percent women’s representation stipulated in global and regional conventions to which Nigeria is a signatory. Even in instances where they may be better educated and equipped than their male contenders, structural and traditional factors have often debar women politicians from getting political positions. A lone voice in the multitude As the only female lawmaker in the Niger House of Assembly, Binta Mamman, had to battle male dominance and money politics when she contested to represent Gurara constituency in 2015. A graduate of business administration, Mamman, was a full-time housewife before providence pushed her into politics. She contested in an opposition stronghold in 2015 and won reelection in 2019. The APC lawmaker is the only female in the Assembly with 27 men.  “They didn’t take me seriously because they were thinking I was just wasting my time. After my emergence, I became a member of the House and the only female among 27 men. People where like where did she come from? I had no god father but I will say my good work speaks for me,” Mamman told The Nation. Listing finance and male domination as barriers she’s had to overcome as a woman politician, Mamman added that her experience in 2019 was a further test of strength as she had to go through the trauma of litigation. “I went through a lot of trauma but power belongs to God and He gives to whom He wills,” she intoned. Although women contribute significantly to the work force, poverty level is highest among women. It is often argued that making a case for women inclusion in governance translate to better lives for women, as women leaders are better equipped to implement social policies that will positively impact the lives of women and their children. It’s in line with this thought that Mamman has focused a great deal of her constituency projects on empowering women and investing in education. “There were places I visited during my campaign and I had to secretly shed tears. Women were asking for potable water and classrooms for their children. Some schools had no structure and students had to sit on bare floors. “Those situations gave me the courage and zeal to intensify my efforts. I made a vow during the campaign that if I win, I’ll make a difference and I’m doing that,” she told The Nation. Money politics and intimidation According to a Westminster Foundation for Democracy report, a successful House of Representatives campaign in the Nigerian 2015 elections cost about $ 700, 000.44. This figure includes associated costs such as advertising, campaign tours and other associated such as payment to campaign supporters and voters. Only a few women can muster this sort of financial muscle to contest executive positions competitively. Hon. Mojisola Alli-Macaulay is a member representing Amuwo-Odofin constituency in the Lagos House of Assembly. The former media practitioner also had her share of challenges contesting against an incumbent in 2019.  “Throughout the campaign, some things didn’t go right because I contested against an incumbent. I didn’t directly encounter any violence but I know a number of women who were harassed during the electioneering period. What I went through in the hands of the opposition was the destruction of my banners and tearing of posters. The experience was really tough,” she said. Attesting to how money politics deter women from seeking political offices in Nigeria, she lamented the fact that elections in Nigeria is turning out to be less of a democracy and more of a venture. “As a candidate if somebody says good morning to you and you respond, the next thing they are asking from you is to give them money. I had to part with a lot of my belongings and put them on distress sales because I constantly needed money,” she recalled. Ali- Macaulay, who started her political journey as a councillor admonishes women aspiring for political offices to learn the ropes by getting involved in political participation from the grassroots. As a way of investing into the next generation of women leaders, the lawmaker is pushing for stiffer punishment for child abusers and has also inaugurated young girls from schools in Amuwo-Odofin as girl child ambassadors to nurture them into leadership and academic excellence. “It’s been quite a journey and an experience, and I hope to do more to help humanity,” says Ali-Macaulay who also chairs the House committee on Central Business District. Slut shamming and harassment Oftentimes, barriers for women in politics are masked in sexual advances and slut shamming. For being a beautiful and intelligent woman who dared to contest for a seat in governance— first as a senatorial candidate and later as a governorship candidate, Natasha Akpoti put her life in the line of danger. “If you want to know the history of your life, join politics,” Akpoti, a lawyer and social entrepreneur tweeted during the heat of the Kogi state gubernatorial election. It was also during this period that BBC published a viral video where she narrated how she was booed and called unprintable names as she made her way for a meeting. Akpoti warmed her ways into the hearts of Nigerians in 2015 when she addressed the National Assembly to advocate for the revival of Ajaokuta Steel company. A candidate for the Kogi Central Senatorial election in February 2019, she was also the only female candidate in the violence- ridden Kogi state gubernatorial election where she emerged as one of top three contenders. “I think it is just the grace of God that I am alive today. When I was advocating for the Ajaokuta steel, I didn’t belong to any political party and I built a good relationship with people in the security sector. “When I joined politics, these people would usually reach out to me when they have security information. When I run out of a place, you start seeing people firing gunshots thinking I was still there.When you sit down and read about political killings, these things are real,” she submitted.  Akpoti, who prefers to be seen as a political reformer rather than a politician, said she literarily lost sleep the moment she declared her intention to participate in the governorship election. When she contested for a senatorial seat to represent Kogi Central in February this year, she polled 48,326 votes to claim second place, displacing the incumbent Ahmed Ogembe of the PDP to third position. She believed she won the election but was rigged to pave way for the APC candidate, Mr Yakubu Oseni who polled 76, 120 votes. “My performance was based solely on merit, I did exceptionally well for a newbie in politics. As a woman there were odds, but I already had a message. I had already become an idea— the idea of reviving Ajaokuta steel company which is the main asset of our people,” she reminisced. Since Nigeria’s independence in 1960, executive roles such as the presidency and state governorship have proven to be out of reach of women. This owes to the fact that executive positions grant broad-based power, which many parties remain unwilling to give to women, according to the Gendered Contests report. With the massive monetization of politics and the tendency for female candidates to be fielded as tokens for fringe parties; there are numerous hurdles to be crossed for women to gain a fair representation in government. Will 2020 be the decade for Nigerian women in politics? Time will tell! Reporting supported by the Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD) Abuja.