 Troops of Operation Lafiya Dole have rescued many women and children hostages of Boko Haram Terrorists (BHT) in Borno and Adamawa communities in the northeast, the Nigerian Army (NA) said yesterday. Army operations’ media Coordinator, Colonel Aminu Iliyasu disclosed this while giving update on activities of troops since February 24, where he said several arms, ammunition were also recovered from the terrorists. He said the hostages were rescued at Ngoshe, Gwoza, Bula Gudi and Safa Villages in Borno, as well as Maikadiri Village, Adamawa. On February 25, Iliyasu said troops of 144 Battalion deployed in Madagali Local Government Area (LGA) of Adamawa State decimated some Boko Haram criminals who attempted to infiltrate a location occupied by the troops. “In the aftermath of the encounter, the troops neutralised three of the maraudering criminals while many others are believed to have escaped with varying degrees of gunshot wounds. Also, troops of Strong Response Area Ngoshe in Gwoza LGA of Borno State on February 25, effectively cleared Gava-Chinene Road and the surrounding villages where they made contact with a pocket of Boko Haram criminals. “However, the cowardly insurgents fled in disarray abandoning a woman and her daughter who were hitherto held captives by them. Preliminary investigation revealed that the rescued persons have been in the Boko Haram captivity for two years. They were handed over to Internally Displaced Persons’ (IDP) camp officials for further management. “Similarly, on February 26, the combined troops of 152 Battalion and 21 Special Armoured Brigade deployed in Bama LGA of Borno State, in conjunction with elements of Borno State Civilian Joint Task Force conducted clearance operation at Bula Gudi and Safa villages, both in the same LGA. “Expectedly, the criminal Boko Haram elements hibernating in the area fled their enclaves on sighting the troops. The unrelenting troops embarked on a hot pursuit of the escaping criminals, neutralising two of them and recovered three bicycles, two Boko Haram flags among other items. Additionally, troops rescued nine women and 16 children who were held hostage by the criminals. “Equally, on February 27, while acting on credible information from the locals, troops of 271 Tank Battalion deployed at Kopa Village in Madagali LGA of Adamawa State mobilised to Maikadiri village where it was reported that some Boko Haram criminals had abducted three women. “The troops pursued the fleeing insurgents and established contact thus forcing them to abandon their victims and escape in disarray. Thereafter, the three victims were successfully rescued unhurt and reunited with their families,” he said. Iliyasu said troops of Strong Response Area Ngoshe in Gwoza conducted a cordon and search operation at an abandoned Boko Haram settlement in Kudeli on February 26, where some abandoned  Improvised Explosive Device (IED) materials were discovered in a dilapidated structure. He said the recovered materials were safely detonated by the Explosive Ordinance Disposal (EOD) team attached to the troops, while an IED recovered by troops of 25 Brigade during an engagement with Boko Haram terrorists at Njaba along Damboa-Bale Road was also safely detonated by the team. “On February 27, a combined troops of 19 Brigade, 127 Battalion, 130 Battalion, 707 Special Forces Battalion, 101 Battalion, Army Headquarters Strike Group, 375 Artillery Regiment and elements of Headquarters Sector 3 EOD Team under Operation AYISO TAMONUMA conducted a massive clearance operation to Baga and Doron Baga in Kukawa LGA of Borno State. “During the operation, troops engaged some plundering Boko Haram criminals who evidently could not match the troops’ superior fire power but rather fled in disarray with possible gunshot wounds. The troops recovered 111 rounds of 7.62mm NATO ammunition at the location. “Furthermore, an IED planted by the criminals along Mile 4-Baga-Doron Baga Road was discovered and safely detonated by their EOD team while troops also cleared Baga Town, Fish Dam and Doron Baga general area of Boko Haram/Islamic State West Africa Province (ISWAP) criminals’ presence. “The troops also rescued a septuagenarian and a mentally ill woman along their axis of advancement. Troops recovered one burnt G3 rifle, four rounds of 7.62mm NATO ammunition, a cutlass, some pairs of military and Boko Haram criminals’ uniforms, a pair of desert boot, and two pairs of black military boots. “Other items recovered include: One mobile phone, a bandolier, one water bladder, two damaged camp beds, 269 rounds of 7.62mm NATO ammunition, two Rocket Propelled Gun (RPG) bombs, one 122mm unexploded ordnance, three Pressure Plates (vehicle borne IED) and a Boko Haram criminals’ flag.” Continuing the media Coordinator said troops on March 2 conducted exploitation along withdrawal routes of insurgents following a repelled attack by the terrorists on troops of 19 Brigade, Operation AYISO TAMONUMA IN Baga Town on March 1. He said the exploitation led to the recovery of three Boko Haram criminals’ dead bodies, two AK47 rifles, two AK47 rifle magazines loaded with 10 rounds of 7.62mm special ammunition, 310 rounds of 7.62mm (PKT) ammunition, 173 rounds of 7.62mm (linked) NATO, four tails of exploded 60mm Mortar bombs, one Tecno phone and two camel bags. “Troops also observed blood stains, scattered human brains as well as signs that indicated dragging of several killed Boko Haram criminals’ bodies. Regrettably, two soldiers were wounded in action during the encounter. The wounded soldiers were evacuated to a military medical facility and are positively responding to treatment. “Relatedly, on March 1, troops of 192 Battalion deployed at Gwoza successfully sprung an ambush at a Boko Haram Crossing Point at Fadagwe Muni general area. During the encounter, one Boko Haram criminal was neutralised while several others were believed to have escaped with gunshot wounds. “Items recovered at the ambush site include a motorcycle, some clothing materials, two 25 litres jerricans containing honey, some food items, herbs, one machete and three axes. “Meanwhile, in the North Central region, on February 27, the combined troops of 176 and 177 Guards Battalions under Operation MESA while on patrol at Anda Forest, a border area between Nasarawa and Kogi States made contact with a group of bandits in the forest. After a brief encounter, the bandits fled abandoning one AK47 rifle, 29 rounds of 7.62mm special ammunition, one AK47 rifle magazine, five mobile phones, five torch lights and two bluetooth speakers,” he said.