 United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc has announced a donation of more than N5 billion, about $14 million, to catalyse a comprehensive pan-African response to the fight against the Coronavirus global pandemic. The donation, which will be provided through UBA Foundation, will provide significant and much needed support to Nigeria and 19 other African countries, by supplying relief materials, critical care facilities, and financial support to governments. The breakdown of the UBA support programme include N1 billion or $2.8 million to Lagos State Government, N500 million or $1.4 million to Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, N1 billion or $2.8 million to the remaining 35 states in Nigeria, N1.5 billion or $4.2 million to UBA’s presence countries in Africa and  N1 billion or $2.8 million for medical centres with equipment and supplies. The bank will also provide free telemedicine call centre facility.  In a statement, the pan-African bank stated that it will fund a medical centre immediately in Lagos with beds for isolation and intensive care unit (ICU) facilities, managed and operated in partnership with Heirs Holdings’ healthcare subsidiary, Avon Medical Hospital. In addition, UBA is providing a free telemedicine platform, that is physician-led, to provide direct access to medical advice to citizens, in compliance with social distancing requirements. Group Chairman, United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc, Mr. Tony Elumelu, said the time has come for all to play their part in the fight against Coronavirus. According to him, the global epidemic must bring citizens, governments and business leaders together – and quickly. As we see a rapidly increasing number of cases of the coronavirus in Nigeria and Africa, the private sector has to work hand in hand with various Governments, in stemming the spread of the global pandemic. “We commend the efforts of governments and we are keen to partner and contribute our resources to the collective effort, that will ensure the response to the pandemic is swift and effective,” Elumelu said.