From Emma Elekwa, Onitsha  No fewer than 2,000 persons in Umuanam in Anambra East Local Government Area of Anambra State have received free medical services from the National Youths Service Corps (NYSC) under its Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers (HIRD). The exercise also witnessed the distribution of over 80 mosquito nets to pregnant women, nursing mothers, under-five children and the elderly. The state NYSC Coordinator, Mr. Kehinde Aremu, said the outreach was in response to the rate of maternal-related deaths among the poor and rural people most of which were avoidable. He said the NYSC engaged the services of corps doctors and other medical-related graduates to reach out to those in need.  Breaking down the illnesses recorded during the outreach, Aremu said: “Malaria has the highest number of cases with 116, followed by hypertension, diabetes and osteoarthritis, which recorded 87, 62 and 39 cases. “Others are childhood diarrhoea, respiratory tract infections, suspected tuberculosis, anemia, hepatitis, and jaw tumors among others.” Aremu said 194 patients were referred to specialist hospitals for follow up due to the nature of their ailments. While praising the corps members for their dedication to service, the Coordinator described them as qualified to give the best medical services. He also applauded the community for providing the platform, promising that the medical outreach would be a continuous exercise. Chairman, Local Government Area, Obi Nweke, frowned at attitudes of parents who refused to vaccinate their children against polio, describing it as dangerous. He urged parents in the area to ensure their children were vaccinated, threatening to arrest those who withhold their wards from immunisation. He said: “We can no longer tolerate a situation where those who refuse to vacinate their children infect those who have already been immunised. “Everyone must support this initiative from the government for the general well-being of our people or be ready to face the wrath of the law.” Nweke further appreciated the NYSC for choosing his council as a pilot project for the exercise, pledging total support and cooperation towards a successful outreach. 