Emma Elekwa, Onitsha  Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) Anambra State Command said it has recovered a black coloured Volks Wagon Golf 2 in Onitsha, the commercial city of the State. The State Sector Public Education Officer, Pascal Anigbo disclosed this on Wednesday in a statement. He said the vehicle was stolen where parked but intercepted by FRSC Team at the River Niger Bridge Head, Onitsha. He said, “A stolen vehicle was recovered by an FRSC Team on Patrol Operation at Onitsha. “The vehicle, a black coloured Volks Wagon Golf 2 with registration number FGG234HY was intercepted by FRSC Team at the River Niger Bridge Head Onitsha, Anambra State, as it was heading towards Asaba. “Information on the stolen vehicle which belongs to one Mr. Nwachukwu Ernest of Offor Estate 3-3 Nkwelle Ezunaka Onitsha, stated that the vehicle was stolen from where it was parked at Offor Estate 3-3 Nkwelle Ezunaka Onitsha.” Anigbo added that the vehicle had been handed over to the Divisional Headquarters, Nigerian Police, 3-3 Nkwelle-Ezunaka, who are currently investigating the case. “The Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps Anambra State, CC Andrew A. Kumapayi admonishes vehicle owners to ensure that their vehicles are properly registered via the State Motor Registry (SMR), for easy identification and recovery in the event of theft and other emergencies,” he added. Meanwhile, sixteen persons survived a ghastly motor accident in Nteje, Oyi Local Government Area of the state.
The accident which occurred opposite FRSC office, along Onitsha-Awka expressway, involved a commercial bus and a motorcycle. The FRSC SPEO who also confirmed the incident said the crash was caused by dangerous driving. He said a total of sixteen people (12male adults and 4 adult females) were involved in the crash, adding that no death recorded. He said, “The vehicles involved were a Toyota Hiace bus with registration number XA356GTU and a motorcycle with registration number, UDD701QV. “The injured were rushed to Chira Hospital, Awkuzu by FRSC rescue team from Nteje Unit Command while FRSC operatives were on ground to manage traffic and ensured obstructions were cleared. “The Sector Commander Federal Road Safety Corps,Andrew A. Kumapayi wishes the injured quick recovery. “He admonishes motorists against driving above stipulated speed limits, but to drive defensively and shun all forms of dangerous driving.”