Head of Mass Communication, University of Lagos (UNILAG), Prof Abigail Ogwezzy-Ndisikka, has said women empowerment is a sina qua non for growth and development and therefore the way to go. Empowerment, she noted, is one way of tackling human rights and development ”since  it enhances both the quality and quantity of human resources available for development”. She spoke during the kick off of the training for some women by Whitefield Foundation, in partnership with The Coca Cola Foundation (TCCF), at Capstone Resource Centre, Yaba, Lagos at the weekend. While urging the participants to acquire the three Cs – competence, capacity and character during their training, Mrs Ogwezzy-Ndisikka advised that the project should go beyond skills acquisition to capacity building in business. Whitefield Foundation Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Mrs Funmi Johnson, said though 1,242 women applied, only 700 were shortlisted while 500 were enlisted. Each of them received grants for their start-ups and would be empowered with vocational, business and life and skills. At his year’s event entitled: SHAPE 2020, she said her foundation has the eradication of poverty in Africa through the provision of quality education as its main objective. She said the 17-year-old group had organised empowerment programmes for youths, provided free tutorial classes and technology classes to about 5000 students and scholarships to indigent students. She said the group was targeting the empowerment of one million women by 2023. She said the African woman has a lot of abilities. So, if she is not empowered her, one is not fair to her and the world is the loser. ”As a foundation, committed to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, we started out by getting heavily involved in the education sector with the aim of helping the underprivileged to close the knowledge gap,” she added. She thanked Coca Foundation for her support and enjoined the beneficiaries to avail themselves of the opportunity offered. Justice Josephine Adenike Coker of the Lagos High Court advised the participants to be focused and take their career as a journey. She said success is not achieved in a day. She also advised them to give their best to their work. Public Affairs and Communication Manager, Coca Cola,  Nwamaka Onyemelukwe said  the drink giant gives priority to women because they represent two-thirds of the world’s population and are strong pillars of the society.