The Presidency has described the attempt to link the dethronement of the former Emir of Kano, Alhaji Muhammadu Sanusi II, to President Muhammadu Buhari as malicious and politically motivated. Former Kano Governor, Senator Rabiu Kwankwaso, on Wednesday, in an interview with the BBC Hausa Service, had alleged that President Buhari ordered the dethronement of the former Emir. But in a statement by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, the Presidency said the President had no hand in the Kano crisis, emphasising that he had not been known to be meddling in local state affairs. The Presidency also accused political opposition elements of spreading what it described as a ‘politically motivated and untrue insiniations’, saying it is unfair of the authors of the allegations to spread such against the President. It also emphasised that issues surrounding appointment and control over local traditional authorities were specifically assigned to the state authorities by the 1999 Constitution. “President Muhammadu Buhari has no involvement whatsoever in the dethronement of HRH Muhammadu Sanusi II from the position of Emir of Kano. All such insinuations are untrue, malicious and politically motivated. “The President does not have a history of intervening in the affairs of any state in the country, unless the issue at hand is of national consequence. On such matters which impinge on national security, he has a duty of involvement as the law stipulates. “As outlined in the Constitution, the appointment or removal of emirs and other traditional leaders is strictly within the jurisdiction of state governments. It is unfair and disingenuous of opposition politicians to try to link the situation in Kano State to the federal government and the Nigerian President. “Although a retired General and former Military Head of State, President Buhari, clearly understands that under the current democratic dispensation, the government at the centre cannot read instructions or twist the arms of all or any of the 36 state governments making up the federation. They all have their powers specified under the Constitution. “President Buhari commends the people of Kano for keeping calm in the past few days of the dethronement announcement. He prays that the will of Allah will be done at all times, and that the emirate/state and its people continue to experience progress irrespective of who is on the throne,” the statement said.