The raging pandemic of Coronavirus is yet to turn the abatement corner.  So, alarm bells are clanging over the implications of the ongoing lockdown to halt its spread. The worries are specific and general.  At at the micro level, employers have red-flagged the crushing impact of the plunge in productivity, on their investment returns and operational viability.  At the macro level, the International Monetary Front (IMF) has warned of an impending global recession. The Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA) last week wrote President Muhammadu Buhari, demanding a tax holiday among other palliatives, to rescue the sector from consequences of Covid-19. According to the group, the likely impacts of ongoing lockdown on the private sector might be severe enough to warrant business closures and massive job losses, which in turn portend revenue loss for government from payable taxes, besides social dislocations like increased insecurity and other vices resulting from high unemployment levels. While praising the Federal Government and Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) for measures already outlined to reflate the economy, the employers canvassed further lifelines targeted at ensuring business continuity, like a temporary compensation scheme for companies to avert layoffs, support from government to negotiate and reschedule bank loans, suspension of taxes and levies, as well as tax-free stimulus funds to help employers pay wages or invest to head off business collapse. We strongly empathise with the private sector operators, while acknowledging constraints on the part of government, arising from huge shortfalls already being recorded in its own revenue returns. After all, government faces much of the same conditions now hobbling private businesses. Yet, it is important that the government explore all avenues to cushion private investors in this trying time. To this end, it is laudable that the CBN has announced initiatives targeted at stimulating crucial sectors,.  But it needs to do much more. Also, we believe the time is now for employers to begin engaging Labour on possible crunch options ahead, if the present siege draws out. It is yet early in the day, of course, to seriously contemplate such options.  But foresight advises that there might be industrial consequences should the Coronavirus crisis persist too long. If businesses work with fewer staff and net grossly depleted incomes only to service huge overheads, salaries and emoluments could become volatile points. We sincerely hope it does not come to that. But it helps if employers begin sensitisation of workers to such remote eventuality, while government makes ready with concerted measures to contain the fallouts. The macro dimension is the warning of impending global recession, which the IMF said might be worse than in the global financial crisis of 2008-2009. But the fund is optimistic the outlook would recover in 2021. IMF Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva said investors had pulled $83billion from emerging markets since the start of the present crisis, and urged all countries to work together in limiting the economic damage. For its part, the IMF will step up its emergency financing and deploy all of its $1trillion lending capacity. Already, no fewer than 80 countries have requested the fund’s help, Georgieva added.  The likelihood of recession is so real, given the plunge in productivity and overall economic output everywhere. But weak economies must be wary of jumping at the IMF lifeline, lest they get entangled in a vicious debt trap.  Therefore, the Covid-19 crisis poses another clarion call to Africa and the rest of so-called Third World to restructure their economies as would make them less prone to global jolts. Although Nigeria is in the process of building up its agri-economy, to depend less on oil revenue, the country is yet a far cry from that objective.  Thus, the free fall in spot market oil price has sent benchmarks for the 2020 budget crashing and warranting urgent review. We hold that these latest dislocations should further pressure the Federal Government to get more radical with economic diversification. That is the only way to national salvation, sustainable growth and enduring prosperity.