Following Supreme Court’s dismissal of former Governor Emeka Ihedioha’s review application, Associate Editor, SAM EGBURONU, reports that Governor Hope Uzodinma has immediate task of healing the wounds both within his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and across board as the prolonged political intrigues have left deep wounds amongst political groups in the state. Although the Supreme Court of Nigeria on Tuesday put to rest the legal battle over the governorship election in Imo State, informed observers of the politics of the Southeast state say the victorious Governor Hope Uzodinma of All Progressives Congress (APC) still has a lot of work to do in order to move the state forward. In a six-to-one judgment, the apex court had dismissed former Governor Emeka Ihedioha’s application for a review of the January 14 judgment, which ordered his removal and the swearing in of APC’s Uzodinma as the state governor. Dismissing the application, the Supreme Court, in the lead judgment read by Justice Olukayode Ariwoola, held that its decision is final. “Without any further ado, this application is considered lacking in merit and is liable to be dismissed,” the learned justice said. But, in a dissenting opinion, Justice Centus Nweze held that the court could change its mind on any decision, having done so in the past. Given that the Supreme Court is the apex court, many believe its majority position has finally settled the political riddle in favour of APC and Uzodinma. But in order to enjoy peace and move the state forward, many stakeholders and informed observers are today concerned over reconciliation moves that will help calm frayed nerves. Uzodinma’s olive branch: The governor’s Chief Press Secretary, Oguwike Nwachukwu, in a telephone chat, told The Nation that the governor is ready to reconcile all aggrieved Imolites as a way of moving the state forward. “In his address to the media immediately after the Supreme Court’s reaffirmation of his victory, the governor said clearly that he is ready to work with everybody to move the state forward. In other words, he has already extended the hand of fellowship both to those who contested against him for the office and to all the aggrieved stakeholders. He said that the thing about politics is that sometimes you win and sometimes you lose; that when you win, the victory is for all but when you lose, and you do not have to think you will lose all the time. You may still win tomorrow. So, it is this spirit of sportsmanship that he is preaching and he is ready to work with everybody to ensure that Imo is better. So, it is now left for the … to buy into the proposal, but as to whether he has made the proposal, he has because to him, it is all about Imo; it’s about developing Imo State and leaving it better than he met it.” On current moves being made to reconcile APC members in the state, the governor’s aide said, “The governor has said is embarking on what he called “political evangelism.” That to me means a lot. By political evangelism, he means that he will go to preach peace to everybody who is a member of APC, both the aggrieved and to those who are not aggrieved; the effort would be to sooth all wounds and to those who are not directly aggrieved, to see themselves as agents of reconciliation and peace. So, I think the governor is politically prepared and he understands that everybody is important in the party and I can assure you that the essence of this his political evangelism is to ensure that APC is stronger in Imo State and the rest of the Southeast and by extension in the whole of the country. On the reaction of all the groups that emerged in Imo APC shortly before and during the campaigns ahead of the last governorship election, Oguwike said “I don’t think anybody is complaining and you will recall that even during the so-called fractured period, most of them queued behind Governor Uzodinma and if you check very well, you will realise that most of the people have already congratulated him and these congratulatory messages, you will agree, are reaffirmations of their trust in him and their confidence that he has the capacity to carry everybody along.” Earlier, another of Uzodinma’s aide, Engr. Innocent Ikpamezie, had assured that the governor “will drive the Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Recovery mantra without victimization or favouritism.” Ikpamezie, who is the General Manager of the Owerri Capital Development Authority (OCDA), while congratulating the governor over his victory told newsmen that “peace and stability were critical in the move to reposition the state. He however advised Imo people to come together and support the governor to develop the state. According to him, “the era of politicking is over and now is the time to administer good governance. Uzodinma is ready.” Numerous wounds to heal When he emerged the governor of the state after the prolonged intrigues, Governor Hope Uzodinma had no illusion he has so many issues to settle, especially within his party, the APC in the state. This was because shortly before and during the last elections, the party in the state was in disarray. The leaders were in open battle as the outgoing governor actually threw his weight behind the candidate of another party, while he allegedly remained in APC with which platform he contested and won his senatorial election. It would be recalled that APC was the ruling party before the 2019 governorship election. But the disagreement over the successor of former Governor Rochas Okorocha created so much confusion that the former governor’s favoured candidate, Uche Nwosu, had to contest on the ticket of Action Alliance (AA), against Uzodinma, the APC candidate, recognised by APC’s national leadership. Because of the confusion, many analysts actually wrote off APC as possible winner of the election. But with APC’s and Uzodinma’s eventual victory, there seems to be no doubt that the primary challenge of the new Imo State Government is to reconcile aggrieved members of the party. This, analysts say will be the starting point for it is only when the ruling APC in Imo State emerged a truly united family that it will win the support of the opposition and the common Imolite. Judging from his utterances so far, Uzodinma seems to agree that genuine reconciliation is the starting point to move the state forward.   Soon after attending the first meeting of the National Economic Council for the year 2020 at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, Uzodinma told newsmen that he is working hard to reconcile the various factions that emerged, following his emergence as governor of Imo State. “Gradually we will reconcile the various groups towards uniting our people in order to create stability in the polity,” he said, adding, “the people of Imo should expect the best in terms of my vision for the state as contained in my manifesto, followed by the broadcast I made few days ago. All those policies have been well articulated and by the grace of God, if accomplished, that will take us to the next level.” The Nation gathered that one of the thorny issues that may challenge the preparedness of Uzodinma to heal the wounds is the call by many to probe the APC government of former Governor Okorocha. It would be recalled that within the brief period Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governed the state through former Governor Emeka Ihedioha, the government showed commitment to probe Okorocha’s government when it put together an eight-man committee to probe the financial dealings of the former governor. The committee was empowered to among others “review all financial transaction and carry out a forensic audit to establish sources of funds and how they are disbursed between 2011 -2019. Now that Uzodinma of APC has taken over the baton, sources said the opposition is waiting to see if he will continue with the probe agenda. Responding recently on reports of him planning to probe his predecessors, Uzodinma was quoted as saying: “government is a continuum. I will continue from where I took over and if in the process of doing that, there are issues that need to be probed, I will not hesitate to do so.” Aside the issue of probing the former governor, which insiders said may cause some form of implosion within the state APC, our investigation shows that certain thorny political issues may still be difficult to resolve in the near future. An aide to one of the major stakeholders in the state APC told The Nation on Friday that the “reconciliation efforts have not been easy. It is pretty difficult given the caliber of the leaders concerned. With Okorocha and his men on one hand, Araraume and his men on the other and with Uzodinma now in charge, there is likelihood of a serious implosion unless something novel happens. For example, all of us, the insiders, know that Governor Uzodinma and former Governor Okorocha can hardly agree. So, it remains to be seen how the two can be reconciled.” On why it may be difficult to reconcile the two leaders, who are APC chieftains, a source, a top APC chieftain said “it may be traced to Uzodinma’s refusal to allow Okorocha retain control of the grassroots through retention of the local government chairmen he put in offices. We heard that the former governor wanted Uzodinma to retain the chairmen but that he refused, since that will mean allowing the former governor undue control of the grassroots. So, besides the issue of probe, which has to do with money, the major area of difference between Okorocha and Uzodinma today is the control of political power at the grassroots.” If Uzodinma and Okorocha’s differences are yet to be resolved, it has been revealed that most of the leading political sons of Okorocha, who parted ways with him following his endorsement of Uche Nwosu as the favoured candidate for his succession, actually worked with Uzodinma during the elections and are still working with the governor. This reality, according to our source “makes the task of reconciling APC members a lot easier. Uzodinma already has the support of many. Perhaps all that is remains are the few that were unduly favoured by Okorocha at the heat of the governorship campaigns.” The battle at the courts has evidently been won by Uzodinma, it remains to be seen how he intends to win the more tricky political battles in the state in order to carry the people along and make an indelible mark in the state’s polity.