  GOVERNMENTS around the world are scrambling to contain the spread of COVID-19, which is growing globally. China, where the virus originated at the end of last year, continues to show signs of slowing. There are more than 93,000 cases around the world – the overwhelming majority in China – but as deaths are reported in Italy, Iran and the United States, authorities are considering new quarantine zones and travel restrictions. WHO: virus deadlier than flu COVID-19 has killed 3.4 per cent of cases globally, a figure far above the seasonal flu’s fatality rate of below 1 percent, according to the WHO. But the global spread of the new virus can still be controlled. Worst over for China Signs of life are emerging from China’s coronavirus-hit economy as pollution, air travel and traffic start to return to pre-outbreak levels. Economists declared the worst may have already passed in parts of Asia as the world’s second-largest economy sees improvement in closely watched proxy indicators. Satellite data indicates the amount of nitrogen dioxide polluting China’s atmosphere has jumped by nearly 50pc since mid-February, according to the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air. However, pollution remains down by a fifth on last year even as factories, offices and shops re-open. Iran death toll now 92 Iran’s health ministry said the coronavirus has killed 92 people, up from 77 the day before, while the number of infections rose to 2,922. Health Ministry spokesman Kianoush Jahanpour announced the new figures in Tehran. The virus has sickened top leaders within the Islamic Republic’s government. Iran stands alone in how the virus has affected its government, even compared to hard-hit China, the epicenter of the outbreak. First death in Iraq A 70-year-old man has died in northern Iraq after contracting the coronavirus, according to the official Iraqi News Agency. The death in Sulaimaniyah, in the semi-autonomous Kurdish region, is Iraq’s first coronavirus death. The man was diagnosed after his health deteriorated, the report quoted the Sulaimaniyah health directorate as saying. Australia confirms second death A 95-year-old woman who died in a Sydney hospital on Tuesday night after developing a respiratory illness has been confirmed to have had coronavirus, according to the national media site 9News. This is Australia’s second coronavirus death so far 34 new cases in UK The UK has detected 34 new gets coronavirus cases, taking the total number of confirmed infections to 85. The huge jump comes as Boris Johnson announced that under emergency legislation due to be introduced, employees diagnosed with the coronavirus will be able to claim statutory sick pay from day one, should they be required to self-isolate at home. Currently employees are only entitled to start claiming after three days. This morning Britain’s Chief Medical Officer, Professor Chris Whitty, said an epidemic in the UK is now likely and there would have to be “profound changes” to the way the NHS is run to deal with the coronavirus outbreak. Malaysia: 14 new cases Malaysian authorities announced 14 new cases of the coronavirus, adding that the spike was the result of a second wave of infections that began late last month. “After 11 days of no reported cases, a second wave (of infections) began on the 27th February 2020,” Noor Hisham Abdullah, director-general of Malaysia’s health ministry, told a news conference in Putrajaya. “This makes the total cases of COVID-19, so far, 50 cases, while 22 of them have been discharged,” he said. Germany: 44 new cases The number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Germany increased to 240, the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) said. According to RKI, fifteen of Germany’s 16 states have now reported cases of the virus, with North Rhine-Westphalia being most affected. Poland confirms first case Poland has confirmed its first coronavirus infection, Poland’s Health Minister Lukasz Szumowski said. Szumowski said the patient is in hospital in Zielona Gora, western Poland, adding that he is in good condition. India: total cases now 28 India’s health minister has announced that 14 out of 21 Italian tourists have tested positive for the coronavirus. In remarks to ANI news agency,  said the total number of cases in the country now stood at 28. All flights and passengers will now be subject to universal screening, he added. Greece confirms eighth case Greece’s health ministry has confirmed one more case, bringing the total number of infected people in the country to eight. The new case in the second city of Thessaloniki is a Greek citizen who is closely related to an earlier infected person. Japan: three new cases Japan’s northern island of Hokkaido reported three more cases of coronavirus infections, bringing the total to 82 in the prefecture, which  accounts for the highest number of infections among Japan’s prefectures. The new cases are all men, one in his 50s and the other two in their 60s, the prefecture said on its website. Ireland confirms second case Irish health authorities have confirmed a second case of the coronavirus in a woman in the east of the country who recently travelled to northern Italy, according to Ireland’s Department of Health. “Today we are confirming that Ireland has diagnosed one new case of COVID-19. The case arises in a female in the east of the country and is associated with travel from northern Italy,” Dr Tony Holohan, chief medical officer with the Department of Health told reporters. This is Farah Najjar in Doha taking over from my colleague Kate Mayberry. Saudi suspends Umrah for citizens Saudi Arabia yesterday temporarily halted citizens and foreign residents from carrying out the Umrah pilgrimage in Makkah to prevent coronavirus spread, the Saudi Press Agency (SPA) reported. According to SPA, the suspension is part of the precautionary measures the government has taken to reduce the spread of the coronavirus. The measure is coming after Riyadh banned people from travelling to Saudi Arabia to complete the Umrah pilgrimage to Makkah or to visit the Prophet’s Mosque in Medina. Millions travel to Saudi Arabia every year to perform Umrah, a smaller pilgrimage than the Hajj, and it could be undertaken at any time during the year. However, the 2020 bigger Hajj is expected to commence in July. Italy closes all schools The Italian government has just decided to close all schools and universities for two weeks because of the coronavirus outbreak. The Italian news agency ANSA says the decision was taken at a meeting by the prime minister, Giuseppe Conte, with his cabinet. It is understood that schools will remain closed until mid-March. Italy has by far the most cases in Europe, with 2,502 infections detected so far and 79 deaths. Iran cancels prayer Iranian state television says Friday prayers have been cancelled across all provincial capitals amid the country’s growing coronavirus outbreak. Local media has also reported that Iran’s first vice president Eshaq Jahangiri has tested positive for coronavirus and is undergoing treatment. IranWire cited an “informed source” but there has not yet been confirmation from Iranian officials. Almost 10 per cent of Iranian MPs have contracted the virus, while a senior official died from the disease earlier this week. In case you missed our update earlier, authorities have announced that death toll has hit 92 people amid 2,922 confirmed cases in Iran. This is the highest death toll in the world outside of China. Louvre reopens in Paris The Louvre in Paris reopened on Wednesday after it was forced to close for three days as staff walked out saying they were concerned about catching the coronavirus from visitors, Reuters has reported. The museum had been closed since Sunday as staff exercised their right to stay at home under French legislation which allows workers to leave work if they fear there is a clear and imminent danger to their health or safety. The Louvre, which says it is the world’s most visited museum with nearly 10 million visitors a year, presented a plan to staff on Wednesday on preventing coronavirus infection. Sony closes London office Sony has closed its offices in the UK, Paris and Poland for the rest of the week despite no staff members testing positive for the coronavirus. It is understood that the decision was taken as a precautionary measure taken after one of its London employees travelled to an affected area