  Digital disruption, alliances and recapitalisation will redefine insurance business, grow the industry to prominence in the financial service sector space as well as increase insurance adoption and penetration in the country, Principal Manager, Leadway Assurance Company Limited, Akinyemi Alebiosu, has said. He spoke on outlook for insurance in teh year during a workshop organised for reporters by Leadway Assurannce in Lagos. He noted that incumbent underwriting firms can no longer rely on organic growth or internal innovations for survival in the face of digital disruption, saying, the winners would be those who can form strategic alliances with innovative startups. Alebiosu charged insurers to form ally with Insuretech and consolidate their peers. He said: “A rapidly changing industry will require unprecedented deal-making skills, such as; AXA and Jumia, Leadway and GTBank, among others. The disruption from new technologies is a given, as some technologies are gradually coming up to offer insurance services, thereby, displacing the services of the traditional operators and insurers need to know how to deploy the right technology for the right purpose or risk being left behind.  “For instance, Autogenius and Lemonade who offer full online insurance services has come to show us that the era of loyalty to a brand is fast fading. Customers have no loyalty these days, what they are after is to get the services they want at the right time without any delay. “In the future, relationship or ability to pay claims will no longer be a selling point, as virtually all underwriters then will and can pay claims, but what will sell a brand is its ability and how easy for customers to buy a product and claims payment.” He noted that the ongoing recapitalisation in the industry, will ensure financial strong and competitive firms emerged post recapitalisation, which would give companies the financial strength to underwrite huge and lucrative risks, thereby, limiting risk flight abroad. This, will increase the chances of insurers to pay claims promptly, have the needed technical expertise to launch innovative products, while increasing insurance adoption and contribution of the industry to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), he added.