The management committee of the Nigeria Women Football League (NWFL), headed by Aisha Falode on Thursday in Lagos, unearthed the re-branding of the women’s league, by unveiling a new logo and renaming the three tiers of the league under the NWFL. Falode, explained that: “With our re-branding, the Nigeria Women Premier League will now be known as the NWFL Premiership, while the NWFL Pro-League now becomes the NWFL Championship and the NWFL Amateur League is now NWFL Nationwide. “Today our drive and entrepreneurship spirit has led us to re-imagine how we want to tell our story. So we are taking the opportunity to evolve our brands as we move up into an exciting future and to tell the world we are purposeful, passion driven, stable progressive and to say we are united than ever. “Since 1990, women’s football in Nigeria has grown from strength to strength.” “When you see how proud our women have made us globally today, from the five World Cup appearance star Onome Ebi to the goal scoring machine Asisat Oshoala to the youngest and safest hands Chiamaka Nnandozie who recently joined Paris FC, you understand why we have been crowned 11 times African Champions.” “All this would not have been possible because of the many heroes and heroines of the game, many of whom we will never know or hear of, but who have sacrificed the blood, time and resources and even some lives for the growth of this game. These are the many coaches, players, advocates, officials and administrators et cetera in the early days of the game. “We continue to unearth gems despite the lack of private sector support which I am of course hoping will change with some brands present here today. So today after 30 years, we are releasing an updated visual identity, which includes a new logo, colours and font.” The president of the Nigeria Football Federation, Amaju Pinnick, who was present at the event, said: “I want to thank Aisha Falode for putting this up. Her selfless service is evident and we have never regretted giving her the opportunity to head Women’s Football in Nigeria. She is a great personality. ” Amaju Pinnick. He added: “Women Football is very dear to my heart, our world this year will be dedicated to women’s football. We are so confident we would be hosting the African Women Cup of Nations this year because We have a very good bid.” 