The Joint Border Operation Drill (JBOD) Sector 3 has seized more smuggled goods worth N32.7 million in March. The Acting Coordinator of the Joint Border Operation Drill (JBOD) Sector 3, Compt. Garba Mohammed, disclosed this at a news conference in Ilorin on Thursday. “It has been barely a month ago since our last press briefing which highlighted the outstanding seizures to the tune of over N135 million worth of goods made by JBOD Sector 3 “It is my pleasure to inform you that this sector has recorded another month of successful operations credited to the efforts of officers and men of the sector. “It will be recalled that in our last press briefing, I reiterated our resolve to tirelessly reduce the incidents of smuggling in Sector 3 area of operations, “Covering the North Central States of Nigeria, which are Niger, Kwara, Kogi and Benue States. “In keeping to this promise, the Sector initiated new anti-smuggling strategies which have led to remarkable feats “Within the last three weeks of March 2020, the Sector has intercepted several goods worth millions of Naira, some of which include: “25 units of vehicles of various types, 1,437 bags of foreign Parboiled rice of (50kg each). “Out of the seized rice, 430 bags were found concealed in bags of Onions, Maize, Millet and Beans with duty Paid Value of N24,429,000. ” Also, 494 Tin Tomatoes, 18 bales of Second Hand Clothing, and 15 Sacks of Secondhand Shoes,” he said. The acting cordinator said that the seizures were made around Jebba-Mokwa, Okuta, Alapa and Kontagora axis of the Sector. He said that the Duty Paid Value of the items is N98,318,760. “It is also worthy of note that since my assumption of duty here we have recorded 151 seizures consisting of 134 Used Vehicles, 14,576 Bags of rice equivalent to 15 trailers. “303,609 litres of Petroleum Product, 6,617 litres of AGO, 362 Bales of Textile Materials, 11 illicit weapons, and 129 motorcycles used to convey smuggled goods “The total Duty Paid Value of the Itemized seized goods is N802,542,040,” he said. Mohammed said that during the period under review, JBOD have arrested 23 suspects in connection to smuggling and 160 illegal migrants were repatriated. “We also engaged our stakeholders through press briefings, meetings with some stakeholders like IPMAN, PTD, Traders, Market women, Textile and Shoe dealers Association. “We also paid courtesy visits to the Executive Governors of Kwara State, and Emirs of Ilorin and Kaima. “We had operational tours to Ilesha-Baruba and Gwanara axis of the sector,” he said. The acting cordinator said that the fight against smuggling activities in the North Central axis will continue to receive a sustained momentum. “This will lead to more seizures and enforcement of Federal Government directives towards curtailing smuggling activities “I therefore stress the need for all illicit traders to desist from all illegal trades and engage in legitimate businesses. “Finally, in other to prevent the spread of COVID-19, the Federal Government has announced for the total closure of all land borders, and we at the Sector 3 are committed to enforce this to the letter,” he said. (NAN)