THE former Adamawa State Pilgrim Welfare Board secretary, Bishop Jinga Mayo, was last week sentenced to five years jail term, by an Adamawa State High Court, without an option of fine, for stealing N69. 189 million out of N346.8 million, earmarked by the state government for the 2016 Christian pilgrimage to Israel.  If gold rusts, Geoffery Chaucer, the English poet had cried, what would iron do? On another count, Mayo was also sentenced to six months imprisonment with N50, 000 option of fine. Both sentences are to run concurrently.  It was a tragic denouement in which the Bishop did neither his person nor his faith no credit.  But it is good justice is taking its due course. The Judge, Justice Nathan Musa, found Bishop Mayo guilty of converting to his personal use, money meant for the entitlements of the committee members. Mayo who claimed that the money was used to sponsor agricultural training programme for the pilgrims in Israel, could not substantiate the claim. He was charged by the Independent Corrupt Practices and Related Offences Commission (ICPC) for “making false returns in respect to finances, conferring of corrupt advantage upon himself and making false statements to the officer of the ICPC.” His flock, and indeed every reasonable person, must be wondering how come a shepherd, who in the words of Jesus Christ, is supposed to be ‘the light of the world’ has turned a poster boy of corruption. Perhaps, he is amongst those whom Christ said has turned his father’s house into a “den of thieves”? If the sentence of Justice Mayo stands, Bishop would have been driven away from the House of God for the next five years. No doubt, Bishop Mayo’s conviction is a sad commentary on the level of corruption that has permeated all strata of our society. We hope he, and other Nigerians exposed to public finance, learn the necessary lesson from this travail. As we write, three former governors are in jail for sleaze and corrupt practices. Also few days ago, a former Head of Service of the federation, was hauled before the court for misappropriation of resources placed in her care. Even the judiciary has fallen victim of the corruption that has ensnared our country. Judges of the High Court, Court of Appeal and even the Supreme Court have become the accused, instead of Judges. But even with the banality that has seized the public service, it is a new low for a Bishop to be accused of, and convicted for, stealing. To make the case very unfortunate, he was jailed for converting money earmarked for pilgrimage to the Holy land. Most likely, the Bishop would have journeyed with other pilgrims to the Holy land, to pray. Perhaps he would be praying not to be caught, or to perfect the plans to conceal his criminality. What a hideous pilgrimage! But what porous system could allow a public official steal as much as about 20 per cent of the money placed in his custody, without alarm bells setting off? Was it that he had powers to raise vouchers, approve same, sign cheques and dispense such a humongous amount all by himself? What Bishop Mayo’s conviction shows is that perhaps there is too much loose money in the system, or that governments earmark huge sums for what ordinarily should not be the priority of state, in the midst of debilitating challenges of physical and social infrastructure. We have severally argued against states using their scarce resources to sponsor pilgrimages, which ordinarily is a private obligation for those who can afford it. Tragically many states, where school-aged children are out of school, spend humongous sums sponsoring privileged few to perform private obligations. Bishop Mayo’s conviction is a pointer to that culture of holy waste.