  Ogun Governor Dapo Abiodun has dissociated himself and Government from the unwarranted and unguided comments by Commissioner for Youths and Sports, Oluwadare Kehinde, which were found disparaging to the person and administration of former Governor Olusegun Osoba. Abiodun, who disowned the comments in their entirety in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin, also tendered unreserved apology to Osoba. He said the comments do not represent the views of the government about the ex – Governor. The Governor also tendered same apology to others including late Chief  Lam Adesina (Oyo State) and former National Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief John Odigie – Oyegun(Edo State) who were equally disparaged by the Sport Commissioner in his comments. Abiodun noted that he, the Government and the good People of Ogun State would continue to reference all the epochal exploits of Osoba, describing him as “our Icon and torchbearer that we are proud of and hold dear.” The Governor  said:”The attention of Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, MFR, has been drawn to certain comments credited to Dr. Oludare Sunday Kehinde, the Commissioner for Youth and Sports in the present Administration. “The comments, which have since received wide circulation in the social media, centred on the success or otherwise of the second civilian Governor of the State and our most revered leader, Chief Olusegun Osoba, as a Governor and leader, and other renowned leaders of immense repute. “His Excellency, Prince Dapo Abiodun, MFR, received the unfortunate and to say the least uncomplimentary comments of the Commissioner with dismay, disbelief and shock. The words used in those unwarranted and unauthorised comments were indeed infantile and distasteful.  These comments were never a true reflection of the disposition of both the Governor and indeed the Government and the high esteem that Chief Olusegun Osoba is held. “There is no doubt that Chief Olusegun Osoba’s repute is timeless and transcends Ogun State and indeed many spheres he has stamped his authority for him to be a subject of such a careless remark. Chief Osoba is an accomplished journalist, consummate politician, altruistic leader, and a very forthright compass for the entire progressive community in Ogun State, South West and the nation as a whole. “Through the dint of Chief Osoba’s consistency, hard work, and commitment, he has birthed many Administrations in Ogun State and many have achieved success and attained leadership positions with the benefits of his tremendous goodwill, which he generally provides, to identify and nurture talents. Prince Dapo Abiodun is indeed proud to be associated with Baba Osoba and remains grateful for his leadership role in bringing the current Administration in place and his role as a pillar of support will continue to stabilise the Dapo Abiodun Administration. “It is therefore no exaggeration that Akinrogun Egba, Aremo Akile Ijebu, Araba Yewa, Asalu of Remo is the father of modern Ogun State. Needlessly, to say, the Commissioner is on his own. “For emphasis, Prince Dapo Abiodun totally disassociates himself and the Administration from the unsavoury comments of the Commissioner and reassures all that this unfortunate incident will not in any way detract from the very cordial relationship between Baba and himself. ” It is gratifying that this issue has been discussed with Baba and as usual, he has demonstrated the fatherly and reassuring understanding of a leader, he truly is. Dr. Oludare Sunday Kehinde has accordingly been reprimanded. “Nonetheless, His Excellency therefore tenders an unreserved apology to Chief Olusegun Osoba for the comments made by the Commissioner and reiterates that they are not a reflection of the person, standing, and background of an esteemed and much revered Aremo Olusegun Osoba. ” He extends his apologies to all other leaders affected by the diatribe. Governor Dapo Abiodun, the Government and the good People of Ogun State will continue to reference all the epochal exploits of Akinrogun Osoba, both in the journalism profession, political landscape and leadership space. He is our Icon and torchbearer that we are proud of and hold dear.”