Oyo Governor Seyi Makinde has imposed a dusk- to-dawn curfew on the state following the confirmation of two new cases of COVID-19. The Governor also suspended all inter-state travel from and into the state while also banning gathering of more than ten people. Makinde made the disclosures while giving an update on the situation in the state in a series of tweet on Friday night. He added that 84 Persons of Interest have been identified while contact tracing and collection of samples have commenced. He added that the state’s diagnostic centre set up in collaboration with the University College Hospital was ready. The tweets read: “The COVID-19 confirmation test for two suspected cases have come back positive. “The isolation process has been initiated. 84 Persons of Interest have been identified, and contact tracing and collection of samples have commenced. “The state’s diagnostic centre set up in collaboration with the University College Hospital is now ready. “The Nigerian Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) certification is still pending but the Director General of NCDC has made a pre-statement about the molecular laboratory in Oyo State. “The index case remains stable and is still under observation in the isolation unit at Agbami Chest Centre, Jericho. The number of confirmed cases in Oyo State is now three. “As a result of this, I have directed that the following additional measures be put in place: a dusk to dawn curfew (7 PM to 6 AM); no gatherings of more than ten people should be held anywhere in Oyo State. From Sunday night, March 29, 2020, all markets will be closed except those selling perishable food items. “Also, inter-state transportation into and out of the state will be suspended except vehicles carrying food items, medical, pharmaceutical and petroleum products. “This takes effect from Sunday night, March 29, 2020. All measures will be reviewed on a weekly basis. “As part of our COVID-19 sensitisation programme, over 30,000 handbills in English, Igbo, Yoruba and Hausa have been produced for distribution. “We thank NPG Farms and Hatcheries for their donation of 1000 X 100 ml and 100 X 500 ml hand sanitizers to Oyo State. These will be distributed in markets from tomorrow.”