 MILE 2, a transport hub in  Lagos, is shedding its chaotic outlook thanks to an overnight demolition operation by officials of the state environmental and special offences unit. The task force moved in with bulldozers at the weekend and removed illegal structures comprising shanties, mechanics’ workshops, container-kiosks and commercial bus garages around public schools in the area. Chairman of the task force, Olayinka Egbeyemi, a chief superintendent of police, who led the enforcement team, said owners and occupants of such illegal structures were served a seven-day quit notice before the demolition. Egbeyemi said the removal exercise was sequel to numerous complaints and petitions by residents, particularly management of the public schools, Imoye High School and Amuwo Odofin Junior Secondary School, that criminals turned the area into their hideouts from where they perpetrated criminal acts. “The structures,” he said, “were identified for harbouring criminal elements who rob unsuspecting members of the public of their valuables and also serve as an outlet for the sale of hard drugs like tramadol, codeine, skunk, weed including mixed liquor to miscreants. “Lagos is the most populous state in Nigeria as well as its economic heartbeat. As such, the zero tolerance for all forms of crime and criminality by the present administration would be sustained.” Egbeyemi also said that mechanics, food and fruit vendors, among others, have turned the entire area into an eye-sore, littering the place  with refuse, used tyres, metals and abandoned vehicles. The chairman implored all owners/occupants of illegal structures and shanties around public schools across the state to immediately remove them before the exercise gets to them as anyone caught would be seriously dealt with in accordance with the law. He, however, confirmed that the enforcement agency has started verifying claims by people affected by the demolition who have legal documentation for their facilities. Such people are covered by the monetary compensation plan approved by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu.