The family of Gundu Ateka of Konshisha Local Government Area Benue State are demanding for justice for their son, Terfa Gundu, said to be tortured by operatives of Nigeria Mobile Force 13 Makurdi, Benue State. Terfa, who is receiving treatment at Benue state University Teaching Hospital Malurdi    due to injuries sustained on account of the torture said he was picked around his family’s house in Makurdi at about 8am Wednesday, 4th March, 2020 on allegations of robbery. “At around 8am on the fateful day  , I was going to buy some items at a store in the neighbourhood when I was rounded up by operatives of Mobile Police Force. There were two vehicles – a Peugeot 406 Saloon and a Hilux Van and some Mopol officers were running towards me but I didn’t know they were coming for me. “They seized me, handcuff and took me to their office (Mopol 13 Squadron) that I should produce items I have stolen from their oga’s house. When I denied knowledge, they asked me to squat with my hands on my kneels, which I did. They then brought an iron rod, put it across my kneels and hands, jack me up on the hanger and mercilessly beat me. Not satisfied, they brought petrol, pour on me and ignited fire. “When it became unbearable, I asked them to bring me down and I’ll take them to one of my friends that we committed the act together. It was then that I lead them to my mother’s office, from where they brought me to SARS’ office at the Police Headquarters in Makurdi. This was after they went to our house and packed things like Plasma TV with Decoder, my video camera, small generator, mybtripod and sound system. “I am not a thief. I have a Car Wash and a video recording outfit. In fact, I was putting finishing touches on the video I recorded during the thanksgiving service in honour of the Chief Judge of the Federal High Court, when I went out to get some items that I needed and in the process was arrested,” the victim lamented. His uncle Peter Iordemolun Yaji, said no incriminating item was discovered on Terfa. However Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) DSP Sewuese Anene sad  she is yet to be briefed. “When the situation became bad and they foresaw danger they took him to their clinic from where he was referred to this hospital. They also released his property that that was (police) removed from the house without a search warrant .. Terfa was brought to the hospital  unconscious “We did  not quite understand what happened to him. It was after he regain conscious    that he narrated his encounter with mobile olive to the family  * “We are shocked police poured fuel on him and set fire,” said Iordemolun A visit to the Benue State University  hospital showed  the victim  was found laying  face down with  body injuries   on his buttocks, waist and wounds around his ankle, apparently from the iron rod that was used to torture him The Nation gathered that Police men that took him to the hospital have abandoned him as they did deposited any money for his treatment. “I want justice for my son. He was living in Lagos when we brought him back home. He has lost his biological parents – both mother and father. He is not an idle man. He covered Justice Tsoho’s thanksgiving and was due to produce video the police unlawfully arrested and torture   him, carding away away the camera,” Iordemolun cried out.