The new ultramodern hospital constructed by the Nigerian Army Officers’ Wives Association (NAOWA) and Nigerian Army in Abuja, “Army Command and NAOWA Hospital,’’ is set to commence clinical services. The Chief Medical Director (CMD) of the hospital, retired Maj.-Gen. Ikechukwu Okeke, disclosed this during a tour of the hospital by the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai, on Wednesday. Okeke said that the hospital would be positioned to be part of national response plan to tackle the ravaging coronavirus pandemic. According to him, it is not a coincidence that this facility is coming on stream at this time when the Coronavirus disease is ravaging the whole world. “Since we find ourselves in this situation, more efforts will be made to put the hospital in a good position to be part of the national response plan. “Health education and necessary precautionary measures will be put in place to protect our staff and patients. “The hospital shall liaise with the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) to ensure that necessary guidelines in the prevention and care of COVID19 are followed,” he said. Okeke stated that the hospital was expected to fill the gaps and complement other military health care facilities in the country, adding that it was open to civilians. He explained that the hospital was a secondary level healthcare facility with the capacity to handle some specialised tertiary care. According to him, Army Command and NAOWA hospital shall perform clinical activities expected of a secondary level hospital, but capable of providing some tertiary care in some areas of special interest. “These shall develop as the hospital progresses but may include special care, babies’ intensive care management and radio-diagnostic services. “As a secondary facility, it is expected that military personnel would maintain their primary NHIS healthcare facilities and come to this place on referral except on emergency. “Civilian clients who wish to use the hospital as their corporate or individual care provider are also welcome,” he said. Okeke said that the medical equipment at the hospital were world class, adding that the hospital would work out a supplier-maintenance policy for efficiency. He commended Buratai for supporting the execution of the project. The CMD commended the wife of Buratai and NAOWA National President, Mrs Umma-Kalsum Buratai, for her passion and commitment to see that her pet project was completed. He said the hospital started as part of NAOWA’s objective to provide projects that would touch humanity. According to him, the Nigerian Army keyed into the vision and provided support in the completion and equipping the project as a collaborative project between it and NAOWA. “The name was changed from NAOWA Specialist Hospital to the present Army Command and NAOWA Hospital,” he added. (NAN)