 The two men declared wanted for having contact with Nigeria’s index coronavirus case have been found, the Lagos State Government has declared. The duo of Enwelunta Obumnore Godfrey and Salami Abiodun Sadeeq, who boarded the same flight with the Italian that tested positive to coronavirus in Lagos, were declared unreachable on Monday after all efforts by the state government to trace them proved abortive. Commissioner for Health, Prof Akin Abayomi, said the two men were identified within 24 hours after their names were made public. He said this at a press briefing on Wednesday. “As you know, we published their names and within 24 hours, we identified them and we’ve been in touch with them. “I thank the media for putting those names out and for social media, it was very quick. “It shows that the Lagos community is responsive and very responsible because I was surprised at the speed they were identified,” he said. Abayomi said the Italian, who has been in isolation for about two weeks and the second index case, are doing very well. He added the three persons in isolation from France, England, and China have been discharged. “He (the Italian) has no symptom, but the test shows that he’s still secreting the virus although the level is going down significantly. “So if the virus secretion hits zero, we will test him one more time to be sure and he will be discharged from the hospital. The second case is doing well. “He hasn’t developed any major symptoms; just some minor aches and pains and he seems to be doing well and we are satisfied. “We will repeat his test tomorrow and we will determine what happens next based on his test,” he stated. The Commissioner also disclosed that a family of four children, their teacher from the United States and another man from the United Kingdom has been placed under isolation. “We have admitted a family of four children and their teacher who came from the United Kingdom. “Apparently they are in close proximity with somebody who has coronavirus infection. “We have had them in isolation for the past two days. The first test is negative; we will repeat the test in forty-eight hours and see what happens. “We also have another gentleman from the United Kingdom. So, we will run his test today and the result will define what happens,” he said.