As part of the efforts to contain the spread of Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19), the federal government has suspended the weekly Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting indefinitely. The Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, which announced this on Monday evening at the office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, also said the Council of State meeting, earlier scheduled for Thursday, has been suspended. Chairman of the Task Force, Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr Boss Mustapha, said the new measures were approved by President Muhammadu Buhari, on the recommendation of the Task Force. He also announced the closure of all land borders for four weeks, adding that the federal government would from time to time be deploying any national asset that would be needed in making the campaign successful. On plans by federal government to protect the lives and health of civil and public servants, he said the Head of Civil Service of the Federation (HCSF) would soon issue an advisory on the way forward. He said further that the federal government was strongly advising residents of Lagos State and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja to take the advice to stay indoors very seriously. He also said they should avoid mass congregations and outings that are not important. According to Mustpha: “Ladies and gentlemen, after a further review, Mr. President on the recommendation of Presidential Task Force (PTF) has approved the following additional measures: “Suspension of the weekly FEC meetings until further notice. Postponement of the meeting of the Council of State scheduled for Thursday 26th March, 2020; “All land borders that have been hitherto under partial closure shall now be closed for human traffic for four weeks effective, 23rd March, 2020; “In order to protect Federal Civil and Public Servants, a circular to be issued by the Head of Civil Service of the Federation (HCSF) shall direct on actions to be taken immediately; “If and when the need arises, any national assets required for use in the response to COVID-19 shall be mobilized anddeployed; “Federal Government, is at the highest level, engaging with State Governors in order to ensure a collaborative and effective response to COVID-19 Pandemic; “All Abuja and Lagos residents are strongly advised to stay at home,  avoid mass congregation of any kind as well as non-essential outings,  until  further advice is given”, he said. He also iterated some advisories that had earlier been passed on to the public, urging particularly that the public should be responsible by obeying the advisories and disclose cases discovered to appropriate quarters. “The strategy of government is to focus on testing, detection and containment through contact tracking in order to minimize hugely, the possibility of community spread. “We urge anyone experiencing the symptoms of the virus or has been in contact with anyone who has been suspected or tested positive to please report at the nearest medical facility or the designated center. “The Presidential Task Force (PTF) continues to monitor the global and domestic developments and has isolated Lagos and Abuja for particular attention in view of their population, mobility and number of cases already reported. “As you are all aware, a number of advisories have been issued and measures taken.  Part of the measures being taken presently include the following: “Escalating the nation’s capacity for testing and detection through the acquisition of more testing kits and establishment of additional test centres. “Acquisition of personnel protection equipment (PPE) for different categories of frontline personnel; “Enhancing contact tracking; deepening awareness creation; mobilization of experts and trained personnel whether in service or retired; introduction of social distancing policies and banning mass gathering of over fifty (50) persons “Closure of schools and tertiary institutions; the total ban on international travels shall commence at 12.00 midnight tonight at all our airports; and “Leaders of different faiths have been encouraged to restrict services and activities that involve mass gathering of more than fifty of their adherents.  State governments are also enforcing this policy at different levels”.