 LAST week, we celebrated the International Women’s Day. Well, the celebrations continue this week. I don’t know what the day means exactly but I think it has something to do with me abandoning all my womanly duties, kicking off my shoes and just going altogether harrobarahooba! What’s that word? Honestly I don’t know, but I don’t care. This is the day that women are not allowed by law to care about anything. So what if the rest of the house does not eat, or joins the world body of the great unwashed, or even goes hoorabarrooha? So, let them! If you are a woman and are reading this, you are covered by the international law not to care. If you are a man and are reading this, well, put it down and go get us breakfast! Actually, I think it’s a good thing they have not declared today as the International Ladies’ Day. I would have had a lot to say on the matter. As it is, I still have somewhat to say to us women because it seems to me that many have already thrown many cares to the wind on the matter of their lady-like qualities. When I look at some women, I despair very deeply of any hope of their transmuting to ladies any time soon. Nope, not in this century; because it appears they have already transmuted into something close to the intermediary stage of the mutant family, something like X-Women. Let me show you a few slides (more or less) of what I mean. During a fuel scarcity not too long ago, many frighteningly long queues occurred. And you know how rowdy the pump areas can be with everyone, car and Okada owners, wanting to buy fuel for their cars, bikes, generators and maybe to drink, all at once. Well, you know how those queues are enough to stretch a woman’s ladyship qualities to the limit. As I heard it, when this woman saw that queue, she determined that she wasn’t having any of it. So, she decided to use every ounce of the womanly wiles in her puny possession to get fuel at all costs without paying the price of queuing up. Taking a deep breath, she reached down into her bag of artillery and bellowed at the pump operators: ‘don’t you know,’ she said, ‘don’t you know I belong to the nation’s armed forces?’ I think she thought that should immediately throw everyone into the quakes and scramble to serve her, but she was mistaken as only an angry, frustrated silence greeted her. Retreating like a dog with a tucked-in tail, she muttered something to the effect that people should begin to learn how to value women. I also think, a woman should be valued by the society. A woman should not be subjected to the many insane horrors that go for the Nigerian story such as struggling for jobs, customs style; struggling to ensure that the house has enough electricity; or struggling to keep the cars fuelled up. I tell you, these are enough to turn any woman into a fangs-baring fiend. Whenever I have had to use the generator and there has been no man around to undertake the sweaty job of turning it on, I have found myself transmuting, I will not tell you into what; the children may be listening. Ok, ok, it’s nothing too sinister. When the public light fails (more often than it does not), first, I turn into something like a barking dog: is anyone at home? I need to get this blessed document out of the printer. No answer. That’s when I become a moaning seal: Ooooooooh, what is wrong with these people that they can’t do the most basic thing, give light? I move to the generator anyway, like any well-trained Nigerian. That is where, I suspect, I am getting these wrestler’s arm muscles as I need to wrench it up and down with all the grunt I am capable of. Now, as soon as I get the whirr of the generator going, what do you think happens? The public nuisances restore the electricity. Then it’s the whole process all over again in reverse order. As soon as I turn off the generator though, the electricity company strikes again, and shaking my head, I repeat the process like a fetch-it yo-yo dog. On a particular day, I found myself doing the yoyo dance four good times. I was that desperate, but not as desperate as I was to strangulate someone belonging to the electricity company. That is not a very ladylike sentiment I agree, but who can help it? Not you, I’m sure. I believe that desperation prompted our lady of the armed forces to ignore the general, pervading mood in the country and declare what she took to be a potential advantage: force. I believe it is this force that many women are now displaying on the road when they drive. I tell you, many women drivers leave me feeling shame for the entire woman-race. I get it; women are now living the life their great, great, great grandmothers wished they could have lived. Women now get to go to work and also have a family. That is some serious advantage I tell you. Unfortunately, though, trying to juggle the two advantages has left many women not knowing where or what they are any more. They need to be men to survive in a male dominated world of trade with all the intrigues, rivalries, scrambles for posts, underhand cuttings, and other unsavoury survival tricks. On the other hand, they need to be women to bring up well-rounded children and provide the needed human sentiments to counter-balance the absolute aggression coming from the males. Someone stirred up a controversy the other day in an article, proclaiming something to the effect that women can have it all, i.e., work in the business world and raise a family. In a logic-filled treatise, the writer tried to show how women are trying to balance the art of child or family rearing with the intricacies and demands of the work place. Her conclusion? Women can have it all but not today, not just yet. And that got people really talking. In the same way, I believe that women’s attempt to have it all is killing them mainly because their needs are diametrically opposed to each other. Family needs require that women stay in tune with their naturally endowed qualities of gentleness, patience, kindness, and love. Workplace demands require that women acquire unnatural and unsavoury qualities of harshness, rudeness, hatred and narcissism, all of which kill the woman in a woman. So, I would say, the evolutionary process in women is at a crossroads just now when a woman puts forward her force of occupation over and above her force of nature. Perhaps, a woman can have it all in this century, I don’t know. I do know that it is possible for a woman to decide just how much of the ‘all’ she wants to have and how much she is willing to pay for it. If she decides to get it all, then of course she must give all and transmute into a mutant of her race. I think it is possible for a woman to transmute to an elegant lady though if she remembers that when all is said and done, the measure of a woman is still the physical, psychological and social health of her family. So, ladies, ladies, kick off those shoes gently now… 