 THE National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) has ordered the production of chloroquine for possible clinical trial treatment of Coronavirus (COVID-19). It warned against taking the medication without prescription. Chloroquine was reported to function as antiviral at both the entry and post-entry stages of COVID-19 infection. It has also been reported as a potential broad-spectrum antiviral drug. NAFDAC’s Director-General Prof. Mojisola Adeyeye, said in a statement: “In a very recent publication, chloroquine was reported at a press briefing by the State Council of China, indicating that chloroquine phosphate had demonstrated marked efficacy and acceptable safety in treating COVID-19 associated pneumonia in multi-centre clinical trials conducted in China. “The study involved 10 hospitals in Wuhan, Jingzhou, Guangzhou, Beijing, Shanghai, Chongqing and Ningbo, and 100 patients. “The investigators reported that chloroquine phosphate is superior to the control in inhibiting pneumonia associated with COVID-19 and shortening the course of the disease. “Chloroquine was discontinued in Nigeria many years ago for use as antimalarial because of the resistance that the parasite developed against the drug. “Therefore, sourcing the raw material – active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) – chloroquine phosphate could be difficult. “About four weeks ago, I approached a local manufacturing company (May and Baker), a member of Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Group of Manufacturing Association of Nigeria (PMGMAN), whose flagship product in the past was chloroquine to make a batch of the drug for emergency stock. “The company had NAFDAC approval for the production of the drug as antimalarial many years ago before the discontinuation. “The Managing Director expressed possible difficulty in getting the API due to the fact that the drug has been discontinued. “He called shortly after that he was able to get the API and was asked the company to manufacture a batch for emergency stock just in case more people become exposed and infected with the virus. “The batch has been manufactured and the company plans to make more batches if needed.” NAFDAC warned against the abuse of chloroquine or using it without the guidance of a medical doctor or clinician for cases of clinical trial treatment of COVID-19. Also on Monday, the World Health Organisation (WHO) said good respiratory hygiene can reduce the spread of Coronavirus. The agency also advised people to take particular caution in public spaces – maintain a physical distance of one metre from other people if you can. WHO advised world leaders to respect the dignity and welfare of all people while implementing measures to contain the spread of COVID-19 in their countries. Dr Tedros Ghebreyesus, Director-General of WHO, during his COVID-19 update yesterday, said that the world health body understands that many countries were implementing measures that restricted the movement of people. “In implementing these measures, it’s vital to respect the dignity and welfare of all people. “It’s also important that governments keep their people informed about the intended duration of measures, and to provide support for older people, refugees and other vulnerable groups. “Governments need to ensure the welfare of people who have lost their incomes and are in desperate need of foods, sanitation and other essential services,” he said. Ghebreyesus advised the countries to collaborate with communities to build trust, support, resilience and mental health of their citizens.