Goodwill messages are pouring in for the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu as he clocks 68 years old today. President Muhammadu Buhari, while noting his ability to live above all stereotypes, particularly religious and ethnic, hailed him for his broad-minded leadership, his party branded him an outstanding politician and statesman, whose contributions to the enthronement and sustenance of democracy in Nigeria have been phenomenal and acknowledged far and wide. Senate President Ahmed Lawan called him champion of national unity while House of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila said his beliefs in democratic tenets are unparalleled. Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege said the former Lagos State governor still has a lot to offer Nigeria. President Buhari, in the message, contained in a statement issued by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, prayed for a longer and healthy life for the party Leader, acknowledging his wisdom in solving problems and directing way forward, especially in situations like the current global health emergency. “President Muhammadu Buhari joins Nigerians and the All Progressives Congress (APC) in celebrating former Governor of Lagos State and National Leader of the governing party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, on his 68th birthday, March 29, 2020. “President Buhari salutes Asiwaju’s courage, forthrightness and diligence in providing exemplary and broadminded leadership for the political party, extolling him for particularly taking the path of wisdom in solving problems. The President believes the former governor has inspired great leadership in Lagos, which is the commercial nerve centre of the country, and extended his large-heartedness to other states and the legislature, steadily providing a ladder for budding leaders to grow and contribute to national development. “President Buhari affirms that Asiwaju’s greatest strength lies in his ability to look beyond religious, ethnic and political stereotyping, embracing the reality of Nigeria as one entity, and extending his warmth, acumen and experience to other parts of the country, particularly in difficult times like the current struggle against COVID-19. The President prays that almighty God will grant the APC National Leader longer life, strength and good health”, the statement said.  The APC in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu said it was proud to identify with “Nigeria’s icon of democracy as he celebrates his 68th birthday.” He said: “the leadership and entire members of our great party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), join other well-meaning Nigerians to celebrate our National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, on his 68th birthday. “As a party, we are proud to identify with this outstanding politician and statesman, whose contributions to the enthronement and sustenance of democracy in our country have been phenomenal and acknowledged far and wide”. “As governor of Lagos State, Nigeria’s commercial nerve centre, Asiwaju Tinubu implemented policies and programmes that have not only endured till date, but being copied and replicated in many other states across the nation. Fundamentally, he did not only lay the foundation for the transformation of Lagos, but also put in place an enduring blueprint for the progressive development of the state. “Under his guardianship, successive governors have been dutifully implementing the Asiwaju Blueprint which has seen Lagos, viewed previously as a densely populated slum, become a modern mega city”. It noted Tinubu’s outstanding contributions to the ruling APC and its concept of “Common Sense Revolution”, which culminated in the overwhelming rejection of the PDP by the majority of Nigerians in the 2015 general elections. It recalled how,as  an opposition leader, Tinubu “exemplified a strong fidelity to responsible politics, taking on the retrogressive inclination of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) government at the centre with gusto, superior ideas and principles through legal and constitutional channels.” The party prayed for more wisdom, sound health and long life for him in the service to the party, country and mankind. He’s champion of national unity, says Lawan Senate President  Ahmad Lawan said:”All through his political life, Asiwaju Tinubu has doggedly groomed leaders, set development templates and built bridges for national integration and cohesion, all of which he sees as necessary tools for robust development and great nationhood. “Asiwaju Tinubu’s concept of leadership enables him to motivate associates and inspire in them confidence and loyalty. His imprints are indelible on politics and governance at the sub-national and national levels in Nigeria.” The Senate President rejoiced with him, his family, friends and political associates on the auspicious occasion. He prayed that the Almighty Allah grants him many more years of service to humanity and his beloved Nigeria. Gbajabiamila: Tinubu’s belief in democratic tenets is unparalleled House of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila said Tinubu has become a great phenomenon in Nigerian politics, and his belief in democratic tenets unparalleled. The Speaker described himself as a product of the Tinubu   and he has no regrets whatsoever to be his close political associate. He said:“Today, our current democracy, which started in 1999, enjoys stability due largely to the contributions of Asiwaju and others of like mind. “It is on record that after serving as the Executive Governor of Lagos State for eight unbroken years, Tinubu laid the foundation for a modern Lagos State, where Nigerians from all walks of life are accommodated. Not only that, Asiwaju began the modern infrastructural development in Lagos State, which all his successors had no problem in sustaining. “But his political frontiers transcend Lagos State as he has become a force to reckon with virtually everywhere in the country. There is no state where Asiwaju does not have a group of mentees due to his openness, accommodating nature, and political sagacity. “Nationally, in the days that he was in the opposition, he ensured that he remained focused and later played significant role in the merger that saw the birth of the All Progressives Congress (APC), about six years ago. “He led the APC as an opposition party to form the government at the centre in 2015 for the first time since 1999. He did this while joining forces with other patriotic Nigerians within the fold of APC. “I make bold to say that Tinubu’s style of politics will in years to come be a subject of intense research among political scholars. This is because of his uniqueness. There is hardly a politician that gets the kind of loyalty and support that he gets.” He still has a lot to offer Nigeria, says Omo-Agege Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege said Tinubu’s antecedents “are clear attestations to my belief that you still have a lot to render to your fatherland -a Senator who later set the template for the greatness and viability of Lagos State; a political icon known for standing resolutely for democracy during the military era, leading eminent patriots towards actualising the restoration of democracy. “Your capacity to work vibrantly with people across all forms of divides has enriched Nigeria’s politics and fostered tremendous unity of purpose such as that which birthed the All Progressives Congress. I have no doubt that, for you and all your ardent followers, this birthday will signpost a renewal of hope and the strong resolve to lift our nation higher, even in the face of daunting odds. “I heartily felicitate with you, the family, friends, associates and innumerable admirers as you clock 68 today. I wish you good health and greater prosperity in the years ahead.” He’s a political genius—Oyetola Governor Adegboyega Oyetola of Osun State called Tinubu a man of many parts and a political genius. He said: For a man who is an active player in two human endeavours where integrity and competence are critical factors — accounting and politics — Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has spent a good part of his life building institutions and men that will make both sustainable. “When he decided to leave Exxon Mobil for politics after decades of meritorious service to the global oil giant, it was clear that he needed a wider platform to serve humanity. “There can be no doubt that Asiwaju is imbued with a Midas touch. As Governor of Lagos, he changed the political landscape and governance architecture of The Centre of Excellence, putting the State in the grips of the Progressives Family for 20 unbroken years, turning around its economy, assembling the best brains to run the affairs of the State, instituting unprecedented policies that make Lagos the reference point even in Africa. No wonder many regard him as the father of new Lagos.”