 The President of Nigeria Coaches  Association Ladan Bosso said the choice of former Super Eagles captain  Joseph Yobo as a replacement for Imama Amapakabo as the team’s assistant coach to Gernot Rohr by the  Nigeria Football Federation(NFF)  was  a  step in the right  direction. “Yobo is a good choice for the Super Eagles as an assistant coach to Rohr and I know he will add value to the team because he has experience as one of the most-capped Nigerian players ever,”  stated Bosso, an erstwhile coach of the national Under -20 team (Flying Eagles). “His (Yobo) presence in the senior team will motivate the young players in the Super Eagles. “Yobo is humble and I see him working well with Rohr.  For me, picking Yobo was the best option and I commend the leadership of NFF for taking such decision.” Meanwhile, Bosso has commended Amapakabo   for his contribution during his tenure with the Super Eagles, adding that the former Rangers coach was unlucky with both the home-based Super Eagles as well as the Olympic squad. “Amapakabo did his best,” noted Bosso. “He was in charge of CHAN Eagles and the Olympic team though we didn’t qualify for both championships but I must tell you, he did his best and you know at times football is a game of luck. “Amapakabo is a very intelligent tactician having won the domestic league with Enugu Rangers International FC of Enugu.” Bosso claimed in a chat at the FIFA Goal Project in Abuja  told NationSport that he was duly consulted by the NFF before Yobo’s appoint was announced, adding the former Everton defender who is a registered  and financial member of Nigeria Coaches Association, has the qualities to lead the Super Eagles in the future. “I see Yobo handling the senior team in future and if you must know, Yobo is currently undergoing tutorials in coaching now. We talk often. Yobo attends coaches meeting in Rivers State and he contributes to all the coaches’ programmes in the state,” said Bosso. The Niger State-born coach further stated that the Nigeria Coaches Association has lined up series of seminars and courses for its members in order to bring them up to speed with modern coaching technics.  He added that resources persons from Universities, CAF and FIFA have been contacted.