Commercial activities were on Monday paralyzed in Imo State as markets, shops, fast food centers, and eatery joints were completely closed down for business. This followed the government’s order for the closure of all markets, prohibition of burials, wedding ceremonies, church services and social activities in the state as part of measures to prevent the possible infiltration of the coronavirus in the state. Our correspondent reports that markets were completely deserted by both traders and buyers, street and roadside traders had a field day as their business boomed with selling and buying occasioned by the inability of some residents to make bulk purchases at the weekend. Commercial vehicle drivers however operated within the streets and roads unhindered but with low patronage as the majority of the people stayed indoors and glued their ears and eyes on their radios and televisions from where they monitored the situation. Aside these, a good number of churches were under lock and key on Sunday, while the few that rendered service to their congregation did so briefly. Speaking, a roadside mobile food vendor, who identified himself as Chinedum, faulted the government’s order on total closure of markets in the state. He wants the government to reopen the markets to enable them to feed their children who he said could possibly die of hunger if the closure persists. “Let them reopen the market because the government will not give us anything to feed them.” Armed mobile policemen in their vehicles were seen at strategic junctions within the city while other security agencies patrolled the streets and roads to guard against possible breach of law and order. Meanwhile, Governor Hope Uzodinma on Monday directed that all motor parks operating within the state be shut down immediately. The directive is in furtherance of efforts by the state government to contain the spread of Coronavirus in Imo. Uzodinma further directed that vehicles operating within the state should stop doing so immediately and ordered that all motor parks be shut forthwith.