Abia Warriors and their estranged  former coach Emmanuel Deutsch are engaged in a disagreement over unpaid salary and match bonuses. The Cameroonian tactician, who parted ways with the Umuahia-based outfit after the team lost a local derby 1-4 to Enyimba Int’l FC at home, said the club owed him One Million, Five Hundred Thousand Naira (N1, 500, 000). The former Delta Force FC of Asaba coach claimed that he was  owed ten  match bonuses totaling Four Hundred Thousand Naira  N400, 000 and he is yet to be paid his One Million, One Hundred Thousand Naira (N1,100, 000) per month contract for February. Responding the allegation, the Club’s Sporting Director Patrick Ngwaogu, said the coach was  ignorant of the dictates of his contract his erroneous accusation. “The Article 8E of his contract stipulates that he must give a one month notice if he is resigning from the club, but if he fails to notify the club one month before his resignation he should forfeit one month salary. The same way it applicable to the club too, if we terminate his contract without one month notice, the club is liable to pay him one month salary,” Ngwaogu told NationSport. “Deutsch did not only resign but he absconded from his job without official resignation letter after our game against Enyimba at Okigwe.” But Ngwaogu agreed Deutsch was being owed match bonuses. Meanwhile, Deutsch has threatened to table  his case before  the League Management Company (LMC) and the Nigeria Football Coaches Association for arbitration if Abia Warriors don’t pay up. Commonwealth Day: Joshua toasts pounded yam with egusi Anthony Joshua celebrated the popular Nigerian delicacy pounded yam with egusi  as the  heavyweight world champion met the Queen of England for the first time on Commonwealth Day. The unified heavyweight world champion was chosen to give a reflection at Westminster Abbey and he proudly  presented  his Nigerian heritage in an atmosphere of conviviality. His speech touched on a number of issues, with an emphasis on unity around the Commonwealth. “My name is Anthony Oluwafemi Olaseni Joshua and, like many of you here, I’m a child of the Commonwealth,” stated Joshua. “I was born in Watford and my heritage is Nigerian. I come from the Yoruba people, who are the largest and some might say the loudest ethnic group in all of Africa. “I’m proudly Nigerian and proudly British… “These days we hear so much about division and difference that some might be tempted to see that as a bad thing. But on the contrary, it’s a beautiful thing. We need to strive harder collectively in order to create unity. “It takes a village to raise a child. And in the same vein,  it takes a whole community to act and stand together to tackle some of the challenges we are confronted with today.” He concluded: “So here’s to fish and chips, egusi soup and pounded yam.