Nwanosike Onu, Awka & Emma Elekwa, Onitsha Three persons, including two women  lost their lives on Friday in two separate fatal accidents in Onitsha and Awka, areas of  Anambra State. The two women reportedly lost their lives in the Awka accident while a male adult died in that of Onitsha. The Nation gathered that the accident at the state capital involved a tanker and a Toyota Hiace bus without a visible registration number. An eye witness who identified himself as Okafor,  said : “The shuttle bus was discharging passengers near the traffic light when we saw the truck approaching at a high speed and the conductor was shouting that the brake had failed. “Even when the traffic warden attempted to stop the truck from beating the traffic light, it refused to stop and all we saw was the truck climbing on top of the shuttle. “The woman that was disembarking from the shuttle was crushed by the truck beyond recognition and her mangled remains were packed inside a bag.” The State Sector Public Education Officer, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Pascal Anigbo, confirmed the incident. He said, “A hit and run bus whose details could not gotten, killed one person at Mgbuka 2nd Gate, Onitsha-Owerri expressway today Friday 27 March, 2020. “The crash which was caused by over speeding, occurred at about 9.45am. The deceased was deposited at Gateway Mortuary, Oba. “In another fatal road traffic crash which occurred at 10.57am  on Thursday 27 March, 2020 at Kwata junction, along Awka-Onitsha expressway, Two deaths were also recorded. (2 female adults). “The fatal crash which was caused by over-speeding and loss of control involved a tanker with registration number ENU921ZK, a truck with registration number XQ679EPE and a Toyota Hiace bus without a visible registration number. A total of 18 people were involved (14 male adults and four  female adults). Anigbo said the victims had been rushed to Princeton orthopedic hospital for medical attention. “The State Sector Commander, FRSC, Andrew A. Kumapayi warns drivers against speed limit violation, especially at built up areas. “He also warns drivers against driving dangerously, admonishing all to be tolerant while using the road. He consoles with the family of the dead and wishes the injured victims quick recovery,” he added.