 The Man ‘O’ War, Nigeria, Anambra State Command has called for an improved welfare packages by the state government to ensure more effective and efficient service delivery. State Commander, Amb. Amene Nkem made the appeal yesterday in Onitsha at the occasion of the first promotion ranking of 97 officers of the command in the state, decoration of unit patrons and awards of recognitions of some personalities. She said it was not an easy task to be engaged in a volunteer outfit that had little or no motivation, yet expected to contribute towards the sanity of the society and the general good of mankind. She explained that the outfit backed up by an Act of the federation could have been more effective if the officers were adequately motivated. She said, “We’re supposed to be receiving subvention from the government to assist us run our impress including operational office and vehicles. We still fund our office rents. “It’s not easy to be engaged in a volunteer outfit without pay and be expected to be sanitizing the community. We’re begging the government to give us the tool why we assist them do the job.” The Commander listed some of the organization’s achievments to include creation of more functional units and area command across the state as well as regular training of uniform organization, including the Anambra state Waste Management Agency (ASWAMA) and the Operation Clean and Healthy Anambra (OCHA) brigade. She however regretted certain excesses displayed by some officials of the government owned uniform outfits in course of their duties, blaming it on the overzealous nature of those officers. “It’s worrisome actually. But that’s the society we’ve found ourselves. The best you can do is to train human being, you can’t change him. We’ll keep on condemning such acts and encouraging them to do the proper thing,” she noted. On whether the body was ripe to carry arms, Nkem said that would only be possible on confirmation by government. “You know we’re under the Citizenship and Leadership Training Center. The possession of arms will come at the right time. You can’t carry arms on volunteerism. “Man-O-War is being trained to disarm an armed person, that’s the essence of the martial art training. We have that self defense. It’s not only gun that can give you that self defense. You can disarm an armed person through self defense,” she added. While congratulating the newly decorated officers, the Commander urged them to bring out the man in them by developing their talents for self reliance and empowerment in line with the slogan of the organization.