Sir: Once upon a time, Nigeria paraded the best set of authors and publishers in Africa. Then, reading was an innate affection for both young and old. This reading culture reflected so much on the quality of leadership and civil discipline that brought pride to Nigerians anywhere in the world. Now, the rich literacy history the country was famous for is gradually been eroded. A new type of reading problem is sweeping our country. It is called aliteracy. Aliteracy is defined as the quality or state of being able to read but being uninterested in doing so. Yes, reading – which was once indulged in as a pleasure – is now often spurned as a chore. Nigeria has been rated by the World Culture Score index as one of the countries in the world with the lowest reading culture. Available statistics from the National Commission for Mass Literacy, Adult and Non-Formal Education show that 38 per cent of Nigerians are non-literate, as four in 10 primary school children cannot read for comprehension. Regrettably, this adverse development is an ominous challenge that the country seems not to be paying the needed attention. What are some of the factors that contribute to the poor reading culture? The downturn in reading and book readership actually has a global dimension, especially given the onslaught of the digital revolution. Globally, the influence of new technology has altered the disposition to reading. Perhaps the most time-consuming competitor is television. Lack of availability of suitable reading materials, absence of well-designed reading activities, insufficiently trained staff to prosecute reading culture in schools and ineffective monitoring and evaluation of readership promotion programmes are constant challenges currently affecting readership development. Equally, high cost of books, particularly imported ones, as well as a dearth of dedicated quiet reading spaces like libraries, has contributed to low readership promotion in the country. Reading is the key to unlocking many kinds of knowledge, skills and enjoyment. It stimulates the imagination, develops verbal skills by helping us build up a good vocabulary, and reading also promotes the fine, godly quality of patience. Also, studies have shown that there is an almost symbiotic relationship between reading and intelligence. The analytical skills that provide the ability to understand issues and solve problems are the product of intensive reading. Reading regularly is also a way to mental health, which enhances emotional intelligence, helps with self-awareness, empathy, social skills and managing relationships more effectively. True, the ability to read with ease and fluency does not come without real effort. How can parents help their children become good readers?  They can do this by setting a good example of being good readers themselves; having lots of books around. Children will read if books are readily available. The incentive to read will be even greater if the books are part of their own personal library. It is commendable that certain individuals and organizations are making concerted efforts to revive the reading culture in the country. To improve the reading culture among young ones, more books should be procured for children than smart phones and tablets. Nigerian homes need to be fitted with more bookshelves and bookcases than flat screen TVs and laptops. There should be increased funding for the education sector and the government must take an active role in resuscitating good reading habits. Existing libraries should be refurbished, and there should be a redesign of the school curriculum to incorporate more reading activities. There should also be effective campaigns to bring back the libraries to our schools and communities. Also, efforts should be made to reduce environmental noise, which is inimical to reading.