Ondo Commissioner of Police, Undie Adie, has dismissed insinuations that the bomb that exploded at the outskirt of Akure in the wee hours of Saturday was being conveyed for terrorism purposes. Adie said the explosion was an accident and that the bomb was acquired by a quarry firm. The Ondo CP stated this after undergoing all the processes, the bomb was escorted by police personnel from the explosive ordinance department. He said the vehicle developed fault and the team managed to convey the vehicle to non-residential area. According to him: “That is the normal thing. When they need the explosives, they go through the process of acquiring them. They are duly escorted by the personnel of the police explosive ordinance department. “The department is charged with taking care of explosives. These consignment was being escorted. Along the road here, the vehicle developed fault. When the driver noticed it, they tried it move away from where there were houses and see how they put out the problem. “They noticed that smoke was emitting from the engine. The effort to put out the fire was not possible. They have to move out and that was the best professional thing to do. That is why they are safe. Fortunately the school here was not in session. It is an accident. It is not what we have control over. “I have called the MD of the company the consignment was meant for. It was meant for a quarry. We have cordoned off the place and asked the people to stay away from here. Our EOD units are on ground. Throughout the night they were here.” Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, who was at the scene, warned residents in the area to stay away because the truck conveying the explosives was buried in the crater. The Governor said some unexplored explosives might be buried with the truck. His words: “The destruction made by this disaster can only be imagined. I have gotten brief from the security and the preliminary report to me is an accidental discharge of explosive that was in transit through Ondo State to another state where it was needed. “We will advice all citizens not to come near this place at all. This happened about 1am. All of us in Akure heard the sound. The people should vacate and move out of this premises. “The vehicle carrying this explosive is buried in the crater created by this explosive. The people should allow the police do their work. We should not forget the other problem of corona virus.”