The Lagos State House of Assembly at plenary on Monday passed a vote of confidence in the Speaker, Mudashiru Obasa. The lawmakers praised the Speaker on the way he had handled the affairs of the House which is currently embroiled in crisis since last week, due to the removal of two principal officers and suspension of two other members. They also condemned the petition written against the speaker by Comrade Buna Isiak to the Economic and Financial Crime Commission, EFCC, saying it was baseless. The lawmakers also said they all agreed at parliamentary level that they needed Toyota Prado Jeeps as against a smaller car, Toyota Fortuna proposed by the speaker. Meanwhile, the Lagos Legislators Forum, an official body of all former lawmakers of the State House of Assembly has requested Speaker Obasa to “ensure that peace reigns, so as to sustain the standards of diligence and good image that the State legislature is noted for since the creation of the state.” According to the spokesman of the forum, Ipoola Omisore, the body at its monthly meeting, viewed with concern the development and urged the parties involved to settle the matter amicably in the best interest of good governance in the state. It added that the Forum under the leadership of the Speaker of the Third Assembly, Alhaji Rasheed Fashina, has proposed a visit to the Chambers, so as to further intervene in the matter. On the 9th of this month, the Lagos State Assembly suspended Hon. Olanrewaju Oshun representing Lagos Mainland constituency II and Hon. Raheem Adewale representing Ibeju Lekki constituency II indefinitely for alleged gross misconduct, insubordination and actions capable of tarnishing the image of the House. Similarly, the Chief Whip of the House, Hon. Rotimi Abiru and the Deputy Majority Leader, Hon. Olumuyiwa Jimoh were removed as principal officers. Their removal followed the submission of a letter signed by twenty-six of the forty lawmakers seeking a change of leadership and read during plenary by the Clerk of the House, Azeez Sanni. Less than 24 hours, the lawmakers elected Noheem Adams from Eti-Osa constituency I as the new Deputy Majority Leader, while Mojisola Merandah representing Apapa constituency I was elected as the new Chief Whip.