It was a thing of joy in Ado-Ekiti, the Ekiti State capital as Governor Kayode Fayemi tested negative to the Coronavirus pandemic. The results of the test which doused tension and ended speculation over Fayemi’s Covid-19 status, elicited wild jubilation among the members and supporters of the All Progressive Congress in the state. They stormed major street in Ado-Ekiti metropolis in their numbers singing, drumming and dancing. The Governor who made the results known through his verified Twitter, @kfayemi had undertaken the test on Wednesday following his close contact with some top presidential aides and the Bauchi State Governor, Senator Bala Mohammed who tested positive for the virus. He had met Senator Mohammed at the Nigeria Governors Forum and National Economic Council meetings. The Governor who was asymptomatic of the virus, said the test was imperative to ascertain his status following his previous meeting with two people who tested positive for the virus. While expressing appreciation to Nigerians, most especially the Ekiti ketes for their love, concern and good wishes for him and his family, Fayemi urged residents of the state not panic of the pandemic Coronavirus, instead remained vigilance. ”I just received my test result from NCDC and it is negative. Thanks to all for your concern. This, however, calls for continued vigilance on the part of everyone. Covid-19 is real and we cannot afford to be complacent. JKF.” Meanwhile, the combined forces of security agencies have been deployed in the Ado Ekiti Metropolis as part of the desperate measures to enforce Fayemi’s order directing the closure of markets and shops to prevent the spread of Coronavirus. The security agencies, comprising soldiers, police and operatives of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps, were deployed around 5.20pm on Thursday after the Ultimatum given by Fayemi, had elapsed. Fayemi, had on Thursday issued a directive that all shops and major markets like the popular Oja Oba, Irona Market, Basiri market and others be closed down with effect from 5pm on Thursday . The Governor, however, exempted  sellers of drugs ,food items and other essential commodities from the order. The heavily deployed security agencies immediately took over areas like Atikankan, Irona, Okeyinmi, Ijigbo and the Oja Oba market to enforce the order, which made the sellers to scamper for safety. They were seen in large number at all the areas where there were large concentration of market stalls. The action was more terrific at Atikankan where many Hausa sellers with large concentration were plying their trades. When called for confirmation, the Police Public  Relations Officer, Ekiti Command, Mr. Sunday Abutu, said the security agencies must support the government to ensure that every action taken  is enforced to guarantee safety of all citizens . “Since the issue of Coronavirus started, the police as an institution have been working with other stakeholders to make sure that the lives of the citizens are protected and that we will continue to do”. Concerning the upsurge of robbery at some sections of Ado Ekiti, especially at Emirin Estate and Tenibegiloju along  Polytechnic road, Abutu said the police have mapped out strategies to tame the attendant crimes that could accompany the stay at home order . “We know that the stay at home order will lead to increased crimes and we have stepped up our night patrol across all divisions. “We are also putting in place other security measures to ensure that the lives and property of our people are safe with the situation caused by Coronavirus. “We are appealing to our people to shun vices and cooperate with police through useful information, because all our divisions have been mandated to work hard this time to make Ekiti a no-go-area for criminals”, he said.