Adekunle Jimoh, Ilorin The Kwara State Government has said that it has no confirmed or suspected case of COVID-19 as at this moment. It added that it is putting in place all measures to keep the people safe at all times. Commissioner of Education and Human Capital Development Fatimah B. Ahmed said: “The government calls on the people to maintain the highest standards of personal hygiene and practice social distancing within the limits necessary for safety. In short, everyone is advised to adhere strictly to the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) Protocols on COVID-19 and earlier advisory by the Kwara State Ministry of Health. “In the event of any suspicion of any case, the public is advised to alert the appropriate authorities for necessary actions. The government appeals to the people to avoid spreading unfounded rumour or sharing unverified information which could spike tension. “The state government has put in place all necessary measures to continue to enlighten the populace through constant media engagements, including radio jingles. “The synergy with the port authorities has been strengthened to ensure thorough screening of people coming into and going out of Kwara State while the state’s isolation centre has been fully equipped to take care of any eventuality. “Members of the public may contact these telephone numbers to report anything related to the pandemic: 08064369063, 090293978826. “Finally, the state is on red alert as the world confronts this pandemic. Every stakeholder, including religious organisations, is urged to put public health above every other consideration. “Humanity needs all the help it can get at this trying moment and everyone is urged to do everything keeping in mind that the world is facing an emergency.” On closure of schools, Hajia Ahmed said : “This is to, once again, inform Kwarans that public and private schools (primary and secondary) will be closed from Monday March 23rd 2020 as part of the efforts of the state government to contain the spread of Corona Virus pandemic (COVID-19) ravaging the world. “The closure order may be reviewed to include higher institutions later if the situation calls for it. All the school authorities across the state are to comply with this directive. “The government is aware of the fact that most schools ought to begin their second term examination next week. “However, the government is compelled to prioritise public safety at this time of global pandemic. For this reason, all schools (primary and secondary, private or public) should be shut by Monday. Children should be encouraged to stay at home. “There will be future communications regarding impending statutory examinations such as the Secondary School Certificate examinations.”