Nicholas Ogunde, Yenagoa  The Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps, Bayelsa State Command, says the command has intensified efforts to mitigate the spread of the Covid-19, popularly called Coronavirus. State Commandant, NSCDC, Mrs Christiana Abiakam-Omanu, who gave an update of the command’s activities on the Coronavirus in Yenagoa on Thursday, said it had set up a 250-member response team to enforce preventive guidelines. Abiakam-Omanu explained that the command set up the team because the virus had brought to the fore the crisis and disaster management mandate of the corps. According to her, the 250-man team will complement the Bayelsa Task Force on COVID-19 chaired by Governor Douye Diri. She said officers and men of the COVID-19 response squad had been adequately sensitized to enable them to respond and assist officials of Bayelsa State government on disease surveillance. She noted that the command had complied with the Commandant General’s directive for state commandants to collaborate with the state governments to contain the spread of the virus and comply with preventive guides. She called on the people of the state to comply with the state government’s order on the prevention and mitigation of the spread of the virus in the state to maintain its “no case status.” Abiakam-Omanu said: “The Bayelsa State Command of the NSCDC is fully combat-ready to deal with the situation as it concerns enforcement of all directives aimed at prevention of the spread of the virus. “We hereby call on the good people of Bayelsa to adhere strictly to the regulations as rolled out by the state government as well as precautionary measures of constant hand washing, sanitizing and maintaining good hygiene in and around their environment. “We therefore further appeal to the general public as part of the preventive measures, to keep washing equipment around their workplaces and even our markets “The command has equally provided sanitizers, nose masks and hand washing equipment as officers must also keep themselves in check as well as visitors coming in for activities of the command.” Bayelsa government has directed public and private schools across the state to shut down from Thursday while worship centres were advised to suspend services. Public gatherings including marriages have been put on hold while commercial tricycles were directed to carry only two passengers among other measures.