 THE National President of Awori Welfare Association of Nigeria (AWAN), Alhaji Mohammed Olagbayi,  has said that members are strategising ahead of future polls in Lagos State. He said the sub-Yoruba ethnic group, which inhabits vast urban and rural settlements in Lagos and Ogun states, believe that political participation will halt its alleged marginalisation. Olagbayi, a former Finance Commissioner in Lagos State, said Awori will like to produce the governor of Lagos in the future. He spoke on plans by the association to raise N100million for the building of a 300-seater lecture theatre in Lagos State University, Ojo, where Prof. Lanre Fagbohun (SAN), an Awori, is vice chancellor. The fund raising will take place at the Lagos Airport Hotel, Ikeja on March 28. Olagbayi, who was recently elected president, said the asociation will focus on three priorities; contribution to LASU, establishment of a think-tank and strategic  committee to study prospects of political participation and planning for an Awori Day as contribution to tourism. He said: “On May 1, we will launch a think-tank and Strategic Development Body put together to chart courses for the development of Awori in many spheres of government, so that life will be better for Awori and Lagosians. “It will make recommendations for the progress, development; socially, culturally, politically for the advancement of the association and Awori in general.” Olagbayi thanked the over 50 Awori monarchs in Lagos for their support for the association.” Olagbayi said Awori may produce governor in the future, if Awori people continue to participate in politics and governance. He stresed: “The think-tank will examine why Awori has not produced governor, why is it so and how it can be so. We urge Awori sons and daughters to be active and politically relevant in the party and government of the day. “If they participate, Awori will be in reckoning. When the time comes, God will make it possible. The think-tank will study why and how we can correct that seeming marginalisation. “It is obvious that Awori have been marginalised. But, things are changing . An Awori is now LASU vice chancellor. Fagbohun became vice chancellor on merit. But, he is an Awori.”