The Local Organising Committee (LOC) for the 2020 Delta State Schools Sports Festival has released venues of the events that will hold during the competition that will begin today (Sunday, March 8, 2020) in the state capital territory. According to the LOC, athletics (track and field) will take place inside the main bowl of the Stephen Keshi Stadium, Asaba, athletics (throws) will hold inside Asaba Girls’ Grammar School, Asaba, chess and scrabble will take place at the Media Centre of the Stephen Keshi Stadium, just as the indoor sports hall of the stadium will host to badminton and table tennis. Basketball, volleyball and handball will take place inside the Stephen Keshi Stadium, hockey will be played at St. Mulumba College, Okpanam, Oshimili North Local Government Area, while tennis players will tackle each other at the Squash Club, Government House, Asaba. Today at the Anwai campus of the Delta State University, where all the students are to be camped, members of the LOC will do the accreditation of all the students that will participate in the festival and thereafter they will be given accreditation tags to identity each student. It is the accreditation tags that will give students access to their rooms inside the halls of residence in the university. The schools that qualified for female basketball are Asagba Mixed Secondary School, Asaba, Onoriode International School, Ughelli, Don-Domingos College, Warri, while Zappa Basic Secondary School, Asaba, Onoriode International School, Ughelli, Don-Domingos College, Warri, got the tickets in the male category. In female volleyball, Institute of Continuing Education (ICE), Sapele, Ezemu Girls Grammar School, Ubulu-Uku, and Final Touch Secondary School, Ozoro, qualified, just as St. Peters Clevers College, Aghalokpe, Isho Mixed Secondary School, Ubulu-Uku, and Good Shephard Secondary School, Ozoro, snatched the tickets in the male category. Only 4 teams qualified for the hockey competition. St. Michael’s College, Oleh, and Osadenis Mixed Secondary School, Asaba, will participate in the male event, while Emore Grammar School, Oleh, and Great Favour Montessori School, Issele-Azagba, will battle it out in female hockey.