 The Federal Government has added Austria and Sweden to the list of high-risk countries restricted from entering Nigeria over the coronavirus outbreak. Already, 13 countries, considered high-risk, have been placed on the list released on Wednesday by the Presidential Task Force on the control of Coronavirus (COVlD-19). The countries include: China, Iran, South Korea, Germany, Italy, United States, United Kingdom, Switzerland, Norway, Netherlands, Spain, France, and Japan. With the addition of Austria and Sweden, the total number of high-risk countries under restriction comes to 15. The Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, who made this known in a press briefing while giving an update on the coronavirus in Abuja, also said that international travel to Nigeria has been temporarily limited to only two international airports: Murtala Mohammed International Airport, Lagos and Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, to better control of new arrivals. According to him, “Following the declaration of a pandemic by the World Health Organization (WHO) and increasing spread of COVID-19, our strategy is to detect and isolate new cases as early as possible to interrupt or reduce transmission of infections. To this end, we have scaled up our response efforts. To reduce the risk of new cases entering Nigeria, the Government, through the Presidential Task Force on the Control of Coronavirus (COVlD-19), announced a ban on entry for travelers from 13 known high-risk countries. “According to our national case definition, we have identified two more high risk countries, Austria and Sweden, who were added in the last 24 hours. We are also including COVID-19 testing in our routine surveillance for influenza-like illness. “For better control of new arrivals, international travel to Nigeria has been temporarily limited to only 2 international airports: Murtala Mohammed International Airport Lagos and Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport Abuja. Port Health services will be strengthened at these airports. Other airports shall be closed to international traffic. These decisions will be reviewed as the situation demands. “Travelers from all countries shall be required to self-isolate for 14 days after entry, along the guidelines provided to them. Non-compliance puts your family, friends, and the public at risk, even if you feel well. As for arrivals from the high-risk countries named, their self-isolation shall be supervised in the form of follow up to be conducted by Port Health services and NCDC with the option of testing, as need arises”. “He further added: “On the 19th of March 2020, 4 additional cases of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) were confirmed in Lagos state. This brings the total number of confirmed cases in Nigeria to 12. Of the 12 confirmed cases in the country, 9 were reported in Lagos, 2 in Ogun and 1 in Ekiti. “Nigeria is therefore experiencing an influx of imported COVID-19 cases by travelers, including returning Nigerians. This emphasises the importance of self-isolation for a minimum of 14 days, even if you feel well. “8 of the 12 cases are travelers from Italy, United Kingdom, United States of America and France. 3 cases are contacts of imported cases and 1 case confirmed yesterday has no travel history in the lost 1 month, but may have met with foreign visitors. “The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) is working closely with Lagos, Ogun and Ekiti State governments to carry out contact tracing. l emphasise that this is an extremely important, but also arduous task, and I urge all state, local government, law enforcement authorities and community leaders to give full cooperation to investigators. “Contact tracing is ongoing to identify all persons who have been in contact with confirmed cases, about 1,300 contacts have been traced so far. The Port Health Services of the Federal Ministry of Health, in collaboration with the State Ministries of Health, has heightened screening at all air, land and sea points of entry into Nigeria and adapted the protocols to reflect the travel guidance issued by the Presidential Task Force for the Control of Coronavirus (COVID-19). “The Federal Ministry of Health is working with Nigerian Customs Service and Nigeria Immigration Service to ensure surveillance at land and sea borders. Ships coming in through the seaports are also subjected to mandatory health screening and clearance by Port Health Services, especially ships that sailed from high-risk ports, have been at sea for less than 14 days or that have crew members who are ill. “The multi-sectoral Emergency Operations Centre (EOC) led by NCDC continues to coordinate national response activities. Various states have implemented measures to shut down schools and Iarge gatherings. “However we must now begin to emphasise the importance of personal responsibility by citizens. Those who have just returned from overseas travel will be doing themselves, their families and the country a great favour, if they stay home in seIf-isolotion for 14 days, during which they shall report their health daily to NCDC on phone numbers provided. “This is to be done whether you have symptoms or not. NCDC published guidance on self-isolation with clear steps on what to do to stay safe. We urge Nigerians to wash their hands, ovoid contact with people who are sick and practice proper personal hygiene. “We applaud the efforts of Lagos, Ogun and Ekiti State governments in implementing urgent response activities and urge other states to do the same, if and when the need arises. At the National Executive Council (NEC) chaired by the Vice President this week, I urged states to urgently scale-up investment at sub-national level, especially in contact tracing and usable emergency isolation centres.”