Francoise Merus lived all her life in Haiti and the United States of America. She grew up in Haiti and schooled mostly in America. The only cultures she knew were that of the people on the Caribbean Island of Haiti and the American people until fate took her on a journey that changed her life completely. “I have always seen myself as a Haitian until I took a DNA and discovered I’m actually Ghanaian. My parents didn’t even know. I took an ancestry test and once I found out I went to Ghana. Black people in the Islands are ignorant of their African history. We have to find out through testing and research, that is why I really want more black people from the Islands to find out their history. I told my parents now they want to know more,” she revealed in a recent interview where she talked about her passion for Black love and Black excellence. “I am now on a mission to learn more about my roots and I want to give back more to Ghana. We have such a painful history with slavery but I know there is more to us than just that. Also, I want to share stories about Ghanaians and their love stories more on my platform. I feel a sense of obligation to give more light to my people. My overall outlook is on what slavery and separation has brought on black peoples and it is still going on. Look at how I had to go digging to know more about my roots. We should all go digging to know more about where we come from. Also, Ghana is a very peaceful country and I feel so at home. I am very proud,” she added. She admitted that there are cultures on the Island that reflect African ancestry but held that many of the Island people don’t see beyond what it appears to be. “There is still a huge disconnect. Many Island people embrace the culture but don’t go digging to know more. There are a lot of similarities but I had to find out my tribe which my parents didn’t know. We are from the Ashanti tribe,” she said. Francoise Merus grew up in Haiti as a child, then moved to Miami, Florida where she finished high school, then went to Barry University, also in , Florida where she studied public relations Three years ago she created a community called BlackLovePage.com. with over half a million followers on Instagram. It’s a cultural website celebrating black excellence and black love. She’s also an author who had published four books about poetry and self help. She has held a lot of events and have done a lot in controlling the narrative about black love and black excellence. Francoise is also a world traveler, helping others to travel the world at affordable rates through a platform she created called TheUltimateTravelers.com. She’s a full time entrepreneur. “I aspire to show my people that with social media you can create a living and income; follow your passion. I am managing my Black Love Page blog website full time where I make a living through running ads and I have memberships for wedding vendors and I attend weddings to help them go viral” she enthused.