Top Nigerian entertainers led by AMVCA nominee, Sola Sobowale, have reacted to the emergence of coronavirus in Nigeria. The deadly virus rocking the global sphere has seen the entertainers sensitising the public and sharing their knowledge on how to stay safe. Speaking on the virus, Sola Sobowale said, “Let us all be careful. May God protect us all and heal the afflicted.” On how she has enlightened her millions of fans across the world, Sobowale noted that she has shared the relative information to her fans through her social media handles. Reacting to the emergence of coronavirus in Lagos, actor, Yomi Fash Laso said, “Like every other virus we’ve had to deal with, this is another lab developed biological virus. My opinion. It’s either meant to depopulate or conquer perceived enemies. Nigeria must never go to sleep but be a partaker in what’s going on around the world in terms of research, invention etc. A lot is going on around the world and Nigeria must not be caught unaware. On sensitising the public, Fash Lanso said, “Nigerians are not unintelligent, so everyone is taking adequate precautions to prevent the spread of the virus since we’ve recorded few cases in Nigeria.” In the same vein, comedian and actor, Koffi Da Guru advised that Nigerians take necessary precautions on remaining safe. “Let’s all take necessary precautions and medical advice from qualified professionals,” he said. Continuing, Koffi said, “I sensitised my fans and the entire public through an awareness video which was posted on my social media pages.” Popular female drummer, Ara also spoke on the virus. She said the emergence of the virus in Lagos, Nigeria is what should be taken seriously. “It is something that must be taken seriously and I am very proud of Lagos State in the way and manner the government through the ministry of Health handled and is still handling the situation, same way I commend the governor of Ogun state.” On how she has been sensitising the public, Ara said, “In my own way, I have taken time to educate people as much as possible on the need to be careful, keep proper hygiene, report any form of symptoms to the appropriate authorities and generally keep to the advice as given by government agencies.” Music artist publicist, Louiza Williams, also had something to say about the virus. She said, “I view Coronavirus as a very high global threat. When I first heard about the outbreak in Nigeria, I was saddened over the incident. The first thing that came to my mind was our preparedness to contain the virus, this was something that would have been detected upon the arrival of the Italian citizen in Nigeria, he would have been quarantined to contain the outbreak but it shows our country wasn’t ready for such an emergency case which is really bad for a giant country like Nigeria despite being aware of China’s case since December 2019.” “Nonetheless, since it’s here, according to the media, the early detection by the healthcare personnel is encouraging because the chances of spreading will be reduced,” she stated. “Meanwhile, I have sensitised my followers via my social media platforms to avoid crowded places and maintain proper hygiene, one should ensure washing hands properly, Using Alcohol-based hand sanitizer on a regular and avoid inserting unwashed hands into their eyes, mouth etc,” she said. In the same vein, entertainment lawyer, Tope Salam advised that Nigeria needs to always prepare ahead of any disease. “It’s best to always get our facilities in good shape regardless of what the current trend dictates. Nigeria and her people are too relaxed and that is very bad for a country striving to capitalize on its strength. We don’t need an outburst or outbreak of epidemic to make our Facilities function, our facilities should and must always function.  On how he been strategically sensitizing his fans and clients. He said, “Well in my little way, newsletters have been disseminated to clients, educating them more on the virus, it’s causes and possible ways to protect same which includes 100 percent hygiene.”