 LAST Sunday morning gas explosion in Abule Ado area of Lagos has left in its wake, 17 deaths, 437 displaced persons, with 170 houses badly damaged, it was learnt on Wednesday. This has prompted the Lagos State Government to set up a Relief Camp for the victims at Igando. Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) boss, Femi Oke-Osanyintolu stated that the official record stands at: “17 people killed, 437 persons displaced, 170 houses damaged, 43 vehicles destroyed, 7 schools affected, 3 churches damaged, 1 hotel destroyed and one shopping complex affected. “Out of the 170 buildings affected, 93 are mildly affected, 44 are moderately affected and 33 are severely affected. 90% percent of them have failed integrity test and would be pulled to ground zero. The report states: “57 people were rescued and most of them have been treated, only few remain at different hospitals, one at Gold Cross, Navy Hospital, LASUTH, one at Alimoso General Hospital.” According Osanyintolu, statistics of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) including children rose to 437 as of 6pm yesterday while one person was still missing. Oke-Osanyintolu said there was humanitarian crisis because these persons lost their homes, belongings and means of livelihoods. He stated that 17 fatalities were recorded while 57 people were rescued out of which 47 have been discharged and 10 still receiving treatment for minor and major injuries at various hospitals. The DG said affected schools are: Bethlehem Girls College, Gani Adams Road, Abule Ado; Grace Academy, Olusoo Akinbode Street, Sabo Town; Kosmos School, Hycinth Madukwe Street; Rosmand Schools, Late Colonel Adekunle Close, Soba Town; Lindave Schools, Gani Adams Road; Precious Schools located at the back of Beckonlight School, Abule Ado; AUD Primary School, beside Government Technical College, Ado Soba and Michlion School, Fashola Street, Soba Town. Giving a day-to-day breakdown on emergency intervention at the site, the DG said LASEMA received distress call through emergency toll free lines around 9am that Sunday from bystanders and activated emergency response plan as well as mobilised first responders to the scene. He said: “After a preliminary investigation of ground zero and questioning of witnesses in the vicinity, it was ascertained that the pipeline explosion was caused by a truck which appeared to have been stuck while attempting to cross over the pipeline. “The already exposed and damaged pipeline seemed to have been leaking fumes and gases from the petroleum products flowing through as confirmed by the community who said they have been observed the gas leak. “We speculated that the heat generated from the friction ignited the gas which found its way into the pipeline that was flowing PMS at the time. The resulting blast was devastating evident by the scale of damage to the area.     