With a new land lease from the Nigerian Port Authority (NPA), Samsung Heavy Industries Nigeria (SHIN) has said its fabrication and integration yard will expand services to Nigerian firms and others. SHIN received an approval from NPA, which was backed by Presidential Committee for their licence application, to operate a private jetty for their fabrication and integration yard in Tarkwa Bay, Lagos State. According to a statement by SHIN, the new direct lease agreement opens up opportunities for more international projects, partnerships and an expanded service offering for the world-class facilities with over 500 metre length of robust quay wall, where Samsung made investment of over $300 million. According to the Managing Director of SHIN, Mr. Jejin Jeon, the new licence provides SHIN with a strong foundation to continue fabrication and integration activities for West Africa’s oil and gas industries, as well as maritime related activities. The SHIN fabrication and integration yard is now able to deliver marine services, ship maintenance, repair and manufacturing to the regional oil and gas and maritime industries. The flexibility of its facilities allows it to accept all kinds of seagoing vessels and conduct a wide range of operations. The SHI-MCI yard, which is ISO 29001 and ISO 9001 certified yard in West Africa, is a fully secure facility that is strategically located to allow optimum proximity to the main shipping channel. As a result of this, it will also save customers costs due to its excellent accessibility, he said. He further noted that the 502-metre long quay wall alongside the 121,000 square metre yard can accommodate ships with up to 13 metre draft and boasts the largest capacity travelling tower crane in West Africa with a lifting capacity of 70 tonnes. The facility also has a load bearing capacity of 25metric tonnes per square metre on average and vessel mooring bitt capacity of 100 tonnes (in total there are 72 bitts), while the quay side height from chart datum is 2.6 metres. The certainty of a direct lease followed by the private jetty licence will enable SHIN to develop full multi-purpose terminal operations and expand its operations to include one-stop logistic services to customers, the company said. The new agreement permits any national vessels to berth directly alongside the 502-metre wharf and discharge their cargo in various types and sizes. Jeon said the yard will also handle the transportation of container cargo, vessel maintenance, supply of utilities, storage space and will facilitate crew changes. The SHIN chief said:“I am pleased that the Federal Government, acted by NPA, has entrusted us with a direct land lease for our existing fabrication and integration yard, and approved our licence application to operate our facilities as a private jetty. This gives more certainty to foreign investors to continue investing in Nigeria and will attract significant new international projects for the benefit of all stakeholders. “It symbolizes the faith and belief the Nigerian government has in Samsung and in our mission to attract more commercial opportunities to Nigeria. Through our business expansion, it has become certain that we are able to employ more Nigerian workforce and make greater investment in our fabrication and integration yard to better serve the regional maritime industry.”