 I am 18 years old, I have a boyfriend and I love him so much and he loves me because he usually does things that make me happy and also advises me when I go off the right path. I don’t want just a mere relationship with him; I want to be his life partner. I was a virgin before I met him. He asked me for sex and I gave it to him because he was not happy when I refused at first. Please what should I do because he’s asking for it again? I don’t want to have sex with him again and I don’t want to lose him. Please I need your advice because I don’t want to lose him or make him unhappy? My darling, precious, glorious, dignified, world-famous and heavenly celebrated Nigerian sisters, Why would you love any guy above yourself, above your glorious destiny? Why would you please a boy or man to the detriment of your present and your future? If only places of worship slammed the consequences of ungodly sex in your faces at every single service, the power in the word of God would pierce your hearts and open up your spiritual understanding by fire by force and envelope you with the spirit of God which would make you detest every form of sin. Alas, the crux of today’s messages is hinged on prosperity! How can anyone who is heavily yoked with the spirits and bondages of multiple, in fact uncountable sexual partners make anything meaningful out of life and not go from trouble to trouble? How can one discover one’s life partner, destiny helper and help-mate when he/she is already confused and derailed because of an ungodly soul-tie? How then can such a person enjoy the prosperity nuggets he/she is weekly bombarded with in church if our common enemy-the devil succeeds in joining him/her with his/her destiny destroyer? This is a very serious matter and one of the reasons for most of today’s divorces and scattered lives of both parents and the children of the failed marriage. Sadly, lives which were designed to be so beautiful become a nightmare and dreams which had been built for years and reached a dizzying height, crash suddenly into smithereens because of someone’s impatience, ungodliness, spiritual dullness etc. I pray this won’t be your portion in Jesus mighty name. AMEN! The point is once a life is polluted or contaminated through sexual intercourse with the wrong person, it could have a cataclysmic effect and I tell you it only takes the mercy of God for such destiny to re-align with God’s divine agenda. At 18, where has my young lady reached in life for her to feel her boyfriend/fiend is God’s gift and the best that would come her way? How very naïve and myopic of her. Perhaps she’s not even in the university yet. We meet more and more people every day, and will always get carried away by different personalities. She has a few years to spend in the university where she would meet the good, the bad and the ugly, she is going to observe the NYSC and meet more exciting and interesting guys yet the world at large is waiting for her-church, work, social functions, I could go on and on! My sweeties, what’s the rush? Do you know just that single act of sex could introduce uncontrollable lust into one’s life and before you are 22 you find out you’ve slept with 30 or more guys? How can you accommodate such rot in your destiny? Because your other friends are engaging in it and seem to be having a ball doesn’t mean you’ll have a ball as well neither will they get away with it. The earlier you realize that we all have different destinies which carry diverse weights spiritually, the better! I know a good number of you are so keen on expressing your love, but-HOW MANY SOULS DO YOU WANT TO BE MARRIED TO BEFORE YOU REACH THE RIPE AGE OF MARRIAGE? Hmmm….or you didn’t know sexual intercourse is sexual union/spiritual union? May the power of God pull you back and may you see reason with this article in Jesus name! I invite you to follow me on Facebook –TEMILOLU OKEOWO Instagram @ Okeowo Temilolu.