   Last week, dear reader, we attempted to draw attention to the fact that in Nigeria, we are not at all accustomed to the enlivening habit of … thinking. I don’t know if we succeeded but I received the following rejoinders to that piece. As usual, I ask forgiveness for taking the liberty to tinker with the readability. Here goes. I do like your writing on thinking. The black African race thinks negatively. We are unproductive. We import everything including toothpicks. China people think a lot… and produce a lot. The black man thinks negatively. Do you know … a state in America generates light from used tyres? +2348063871875 Oyinkan … I cannot but commend your tireless contribution to the world of journalism, particularly in the area of sarcasm … May the fountain of your pen never run dry as long as this nation continues to be peopled by thoughtlessly unthinking citizens … Avoid being stressed by your compatriots – the unthinking leadership … as well as we the thoughtlessly docile (or sidon-look) followership. +2349050888820 … What must we be thinking of? Liberty, equality, nature, God, devil, inefficiencies, ineffectiveness, inappropriateness, inapplicable ties or sentimentalities or frivolities. Please complete your good thinking by giving us what to think, how, when and why… +2348032295111 I want to sincerely thank my readers for penning their thoughts on the subject of thinking to me. I wish I could publish all the reactions on this and other topics as well, had we but space and time enough. Not having either in the desired quantity, we can only move one step at a time. So, to these my readers, thank you again, especially because you agree with me on the subject. To those who have read and not sent me their reactions, I also say thank you, especially if you did not agree with me! The last responder threw me a clanger of a challenge. What must we be thinking of? Why must we think and how? How?!!! Honestly, I don’t know. Today, I read in the papers that there is a bill before the senate right now proposing not only to rehabilitate boko haram terrorists but to even educate them abroad! Ha! Meanwhile, those displaced persons living in IDPs as a result of the terrorists’ activities have not been rehabilitated. Families of those killed by the terrorists have not been rehabilitated. Families of fallen soldiers have not been fully thought about, and here we are, worrying about the psychological and economic value of terrorists. What on earth can Nigeria be thinking of? Nobody knows. Obviously, since the Niger Delta problem was only abated by the government throwing money around or at the boys, it must have thought to solve the boko haram problem the same way. Many people advised then that it was not the most inspired way to solve the problem since it all began as a result of the ND people’s feeling left out of the equation despite laying the golden egg. The government nevertheless went ahead to implement it, hoping against hope to make a silk purse out of a sow’s ear. I don’t think that region has found what it is truly looking for. By accident or design, the north east region of Nigeria was turned into another trouble spot and the same ‘solution’ is now being applied even where there is evidence that it did not work the first time. That is evidence indeed that thinking is really in short supply when ad hoc solutions are brought to bear on deep-rooted, ‘national’ grievances. The normal, inspired thing that all thinking nations do is to spread development equally round their areas of jurisdiction. Administration can be likened to a fountain: it spreads its waters equally and justly around the area it is supposed to cover. Not Nigeria, however; the government has failed since independence to apply the results of the ruminations of thinkers and philosophers over centuries to transform the society into one that would allow everyone to feel free, equal and a stakeholder. Rather, Nigeria has evolved a system that allows a few individuals to fare so well they are riding around town in private jets at the expense of the vast majority who have nothing to eat, wear or ride. It has evolved a system that has truly divided the society along the lines of access or no access to federal resources while hypocritically mouthing unity. I have told you this story before but I’ll tell you again. According to the story, as I remember it, the king of a certain country forbade anyone to think. He said it was bad for the business of state. Thinking was not allowed. Anyone caught thinking would be thrown in jail. A certain philosopher was notorious for his thinking abilities so the king kept his royal radar on him. Anytime he saw him he would conclude that the man was thinking, even when he assured the king that he was thoughtless. That was what kept the king awake: thinking that his philosopher must be thinking. Anyway, the moral of that story is that our kings are chasing shadows instead of substance. When only a few individuals are gaining access to state resources and misusing them for their own comfort, it is natural that they would chase shadows to prevent anyone from doing any thinking. So, what should we think? We should think about how to solve our problems. For example, I believe that the desertification problem in the northern part of the country can be surmounted with some deep thinking. The facilities of technology are boundless. A fraction of all the money which has been wasted in this country on inanities would have been more than sufficient to make that desert bow to superior intelligence and become a golf green. Technology can now make rain water, you know. All you have to do is ask her nicely. Likewise, the Niger Delta problem in the south-south could have been nipped in the bud if efforts had been made to actually do some thinking. For instance, the growth of industries and other service-based items could have been predicated on the needs and affordances of the region instead of allowing all that derivative money to slip through some unconscionable slippery fingers. Oh, that someone would sit down and do some thinking around here before we all perish! We should think about how to grow the Nigerian economy instead of leaving it to foreigners. Each year, I keep hearing about the president or some governor or the other going abroad to look for ‘foreign investors’ and I wonder, how about gearing up some local investors? Why do we allow our politicians to export all our money and then turn around and hope that some foreigner will import his own money into our country? I don’t get that logic at all; it is counterintuitive. Look at the GSM, media, electricity, rail transport or even finished food … These are all areas where Nigerians who can think can actually sit down and innovate and make positive impact. Nigeria is still a huge market for the interested investor, and the more local the better. Sir, we have an endless list of things to think about if we would only remove the dreadful blinkers in front of the nation’s eyes saying: beware, thinking not in progress. When our philosophers are put under the king’s radar, we should all become afraid. It usually means that thinking is banned. When thinking is banned, poverty multiplies, and on its heels come disease and infighting. It is time to remove our negativity, become more positive and strive for productivity. Then we can stop importing everything, including brains.