The Special Committee on Clean-Up of Ikoyi and Victoria Island at the weekend at Obalende on Lagos Island dislodged illegal parks, garages, vehicle operators and traders, who have converted the green areas and Obalende under-bridge to bus parks. The operation also eased traffic, as commercial vehicles parked on the Obalende Road were towed away by vehicles supervised by the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA). The team also shut shanties serving as brothels and arrested commercial sex workers, who live in the shanties, which also serve as abode for people with questionable characters. The enforcement teams visited Odo Street, Ojo Street, Obalende Road, Passport Road and Keffi Street where illegal structures were dismantled and items on sale confiscated. At the Obalende Roundabout, near the Police Force Headquarters Annex, an illegal market near the canal was sealed off with all the items seized. The exercise lasted for hours and illegal structures and shanties, which harboured miscreants were dismantled, while the team ensured that the wreckage were carted away by LAWMA trucks as the operation progressed. Commercial vehicles were impounded at a beautification space converted to a motor park and street traders were dislodged and their good confiscated by KAI operatives that were part of the team. Also, a car that drove against the traffic at the frontage of the Ikoyi Cemetery along Obalende Road was towed away. The driver was arrested by the officials of the task force. The enforcement team, led by the Director of Operations,  Mr. Ayo Williams, while giving an insight into the operation, said 42 people were arrested for environmental offences and 38 vehicles impounded. He added that those nabbed were charged with environmental offences and prosecuted by the Lagos State Special Offences Mobile Court, which sat on the premises of Transfer Loading Station at Sura, Lagos Island. Williams said as the clean-up continues, the team will secure the cleared open spaces to prevent the return of the miscreants on Victoria Island and Ikoyi axis.