 Age is an issue of mind over matter. If you don’t mind, it doesn’t matter – Mark Twain  IF my memory serves me right, it was on the pages of The Guardian, when it came on stream in the mid-80s, that I first came across the name Odia Ofeimun. I am not now sure if I ever read him in the Daily Times, which was the precursor, sort of, of The Guardian. His Wednesday (?) column in the paper then became a compulsory read for me when the paper went daily. I later learnt that he is not only an incisive essayist but a poet of note. However, as of then I had not read any of his poems. But his column was itself poetic and deep. My week was incomplete without reading him. Those were in the heady days of military dictatorship and his words were like stones thrown at the military leaders who were bent on silencing all oppositions. I was always looking forward to the day I would come to Lagos from my base in Jos to meet him and others who were then writing those heart-lifting columns in The Guardian. I only came across any poem of his during my first year in the university. Our poetry teacher, a stout Ghanaian woman, recommended Poems of Black Africa edited by Prof Wole Soyinka as the basic text for the Africa poetry class. At our first meeting, she picked poems that we were to read and asked us to get prepared for exciting times. Before then, I had encountered African poets through my secondary school poetry book edited by Vincent Senanu, A Selection of African Poetry. It was in my university years that I was to know more about the poetic side of the man most of us in the Lagos art crowd call Baba oo, as a mark of respect and veneration. I’ll forever bless my poetry teacher for choosing many of Ofeimun’s poems in that collection. She taught the poems, especially those that deal with love affairs, as if they were specially written for her by Baba oo. The one that has specifically stuck with me since then is entitled: After the Photograph.  It reads in part: Nothing will suffice, save your animal presence This angelic impression you send down to rejuvenate my chagrined battery exudes a tang of incarnate purity But- You must not suppose you have done my anguished longing for warmth to peace; Let no one think he’s only an activist and polemicist. I confess that he writes good love poems that some of us have used in the past to woo girls. This is another: Without You In your absence My life is all a stammer hunted down by a non-existent tomorrow I feel guilty of sins I have not committed borne on the wings of incessant fears without you, my earth suffers demise of colours as when a guest leaves a house at night the light goes out As Baba oo hits 70, it is not an exaggeration to say that his private book collections both in terms of diversity and richness would dwarf any public library in the country. He is an eclectic collector of books not for the showmanship of many elite, but as a mark of his intellectual prowess. There is no topic on earth that he cannot discuss or write about. On my first visit to his home, I marvelled at the forest of books that the house has been turned to. Everywhere you move – left, right and centre – you are hemmed in by spines and spines of books and journals. Poetry was the front at which many people knew him but he is by far more than a poet. He is an essayist, polemicist, columnist, activist, publisher, editor and mentor to many. Despite the fact that he is a friend of many in the corridors of power, he can never meet you anywhere and not acknowledge you. One would think that with his reputation and pedigree he would have changed, but he has remained as truthful and frank as ever. The persona that wrote the love poem After the Photograph published in the volume edited by Soyinka has not changed. It was that poem that gave me the picture of a lover boy when my poetry teacher taught us that poem. In my head I had the picture of a randy and lecherous person until the day I met him. By the time I moved to Lagos in 1993 at the height of the June 12 crisis he had left The Guardian. He had travelled abroad and later came back to work with The News group which then published AMNews as chair of its editorial board. There is no doubt that Baba oo is a good man who cares a lot about the younger ones who flock around him at events. He has no airs, no pretence and you know where you stand with him. It is significant that a man who does not have material favour to dispense has so many who flock to him either at home or at events. As he clocks 70, I am short of words to describe this enigma wrapped in robust ideas and intellect. Happy birthday, Baba oo. 