 The International Women’s Day is a moment to reflect and celebrate the wonderful creature— the women. The occasion similarly signifies a call for drastic change in plights and travails of girl-child and women in the country. Despite the global efforts and impacts, no country has achieved gender equality. Regardless, this is a special opportunity to deepen the agitations. We must stop paying lip-service. Nigeria must set to work to lead the rest of Africa on women advocacy, rights and empowerment. According to the United Nations, 7,000 incidents of sexual violence was recorded against women and girls by terrorists in Nigeria between 2009-2017. This is a grim statistics highlighting how girls are fast becoming pawns in the guise of terrorism. This is inhuman and this trend must stop forthwith. The Leah Sharibu and the Chibok girls’ debacle is enough calamity for a lifetime. The rights of women are still in jeopardy. Wikipedia (2017) puts women in the labour force in Nigeria ratio at 50 per cent. But one in three women are victims of sexual or gender-based violence. Aside from the poor, prevalent cultural mind-set of a notoriously patriarchal society, illiteracy and lack of awareness of rights by women in the local communities does not help matters. As fast as we can, we must improve women’s participation in politics. The unorthodox approach of using them for electioneering without trusting them with leadership position is repudiating. Every state governor in Nigeria should emulate Kwara State whose cabinet comprises 52 per cent women representation. The state did this to stop underutilising the potentials of women in nation building. Nigerian women’s rights to health must be accorded attention. The health problems for the women include breast and cervical cancer, high maternal mortality rate, female genital mutilations, vesico virgina fistula among others. These are health challenges that are life threatening. To keep a nation, one must keep the women healthy. The Nigerian women deserve best medical attention from the government at all levels. As Nigeria marks the International Women’s Day, the nation should reflect on how to make heroines out of every woman. Any encumbering legal, social and economic system of the country on gender inequality should be dismembered. The girl-child education should be given a definitive commitment. The punitive culture and mindset of degradation of the womenfolk should be seriously frowned at. The earlier the nation has more female researchers, scientists, doctors, engineers among others the better. The whole world is increasingly aware of women’s right and Nigeria should not be left behind. As the theme for this year’s celebration suggested, realising women equality is a generational responsibility. Therefore, the press persons, civil societies and development bodies should support the government at all levels to achieve this global goal. There may be a need for massive awareness on gender-based issues across the country. We should get something clear: this is a decade of action. Anything short of this mitigates against the purpose of our creation. If the world were an evolution, women are the wheel. Nigerians should quit talking now. 