  ITS good news that the federal government and the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) have reached an agreement that may avert an indefinite strike by the lecturers. Last Monday, members of the union commenced a two-week warning strike over unimplemented Memorandum of Understanding{MOU] with the current and past government officials and the directive that all lecturers must register in the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS) to get paid their salaries. The union was also demanding the remittance of outstanding third party deductions from salaries of its members. Specifically with regards to the IPPIS, while the federal government insists that the enrolment of all civil servants in the IPPIS, including lecturers, will ensure transparency in payment of salaries and eliminate cases of ghost workers, ASUU has always maintained that the system is a gross violation of the autonomy of universities as enshrined in the Universities (Miscellaneous Provisions) Amendment Act 2003. Rather than eliminate ghost workers, ASUU President, President Biodun Ogunyemi, says the IPPIS is not fraud-proof and constitutes a financial drain on the scarce resources of government. However, after a meeting last Monday between representatives of the government and the union, there are good indications that the warning strike must have achieved its purpose and forced the government to rethink its earlier hard stance on the IPPIS. It was agreed that the proposed University Transparency and Accountability Solution (UTAS) by ASUU be integrated into IPPIS. Though the ASUU leadership still has to discuss with its members before finally accepting the government offer, the fact both sides acknowledge that good progress was made during the meeting is a good development. Hitherto, such meeting would have ended in a deadlock with no agreement on the major issue of disagreement. Since discussion at this meeting was said to be frank and exhaustive, it is hoped that the disagreements will be resolved once and for all. While the federal government has good reasons to come up with a system that can regularise payment of civil servants and eliminate fraudulent practices that has led to payment of ghost workers, it is also necessary that peculiar instances of the university system be taken into consideration. Having been granted autonomy in its operations over the years with legal provisions backing it, there will definitely be need for some concession for the universities, which is what the ASUU is demanding. Good enough, it has come up with a package that can be integrated with the IPPIS and that is what should be done instead of the federal government not willing to shift its grounds on the matter before now. Everything possible should be done on both sides to finally agree on a workable integration that will ensure that the ultimate goal of checkmating fraud in the present payment system is eliminated. ASUU members must not expect that all its terms will be met considering how far the government has gone with enforcement of the system to other civil servants. It’s also important that the government respects whatever agreement it reaches with the ASUU this time around on the IPPIS and other outstanding issues. Not implementing past agreements is not good for the image of the government as it makes it difficult for groups like the ASUU to doubt whatever new agreement is proposed. ASUU’s demands over the years have had to do with lack of necessary infrastructure and resources to ensure the quality of education in our universities and the government cannot continue to pay lip service to providing a conducive learning and teaching environment for both students and the lecturers. We cannot afford to have another national strike in our universities. Any disruption in the academic calendar will not be in the interest of students who are usually the losers in disagreements between the federal government and the union.