 It was jubilation galore in the ancient city of Kano on Wednesday when the Kano state Governor, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje presented appointment letters to the brand new Emir of Kano, Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero and the Emir of Bichi, Alhaji Nasiru Ado Bayero. The two brothers, sons of the late Emir of Kano, Alhaji Abdullahi Ado Bayero were hailed and cheered by their friends, well -wishers and subjects as they ascended the throne of their forefathers The new Emir of Kano also emerged the Chairman of Kano Council of Chiefs. The new Emir of Bichi, held the position of Chiroman Kano under the deposed Emir Sanusi, before his elevation to a First Class Emir to rule over the Bichi Emirate. Emir Nasiru Ado Bayero succeeded his elder brother, Emir Aminu Ado Bayero who was moved from Bichi Emirate to Kano Emirate, upon the deposition of former Emir if Kano, Muhammad Sanusi 11. In his welcome address during the epoch-making event, the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), described the occassion as historic, pointing out that all other First Class Emir’s, Kingmakers and traditional heads in the five Kano Emirate Councils were in support of the confirmation and coronation of the two descendants of Ado Bayero as the Emirs of Kano and Bichi, respectively. Alhaji Usman Alhaji urged them to use their good offices to promote peace, unity, progress and development in Kano state. The Nation reports that the colourful occasion was witnessed by a mammoth, but controlled crowd who stormed Coronation Hall, Government House in solidarity of the two brothers who have chosen to build on the legacies of their late father, His Royal Highness, the late Emir of Kano, Alhaji Abdullahi Ado Bayero who joined his ancestors in 2014. In his acceptance speech, the Emir of Bichi, Alhaji Nasiru Ado Bayero, thanked God for giving him the opportunity to ascend the throne. He expressed appreciation to Governor Ganduje for having confidence in the Abdullahi Ado Bayero family, adding that God’s willing, himself and the Emir of Kano, including other Emirs will join hands with Ganduje to ensure peace, unity and harmony in Kano. He particularly promised to use his good office and contacts to promote​ Ganduje’s policies on youth employment, poverty eradication, as well as free, compulsory and basic education for all Kano children. Also speaking, the Emir of Kano, Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero said his ascension to the throne as the Emir of Kano is destined by God. He thanked God for deeming him fit to ascend the throne of his forefathers, adding that his father, late Emir Abdullahi Ado Bayero would always tell him and his siblings to always depend on God in whatever they are doing in life. He promised to build on the legacies of his father, adding that justice, equity, love, respect for all human beings and the fear of God will remain his watchword. He called on Kano people to shield political differences and join hands with Ganduje to build a better Kano. He, however, expressed appreciation to Ganduje and the entire people of Kano state for finding worthy enough to wear the revered crown and sit on the exalted throne of the Emir of Kano. In his speech, Kano state Governor, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje named the Emir of Kano, Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero as the Chairman Kano State Council of Chiefs. He described the occassion as very important and historic, adding the crowning of Aminu and Nasiru Ado Bayero as First Class Emirs is first of its kind in the history of Nigeria. He appreciated God for making the event a huge success, recalling that the main reason for creating five Emirates in Kano is to ensure development and the welfare of the people of Kano state. Ganduje added that another reason for creating the new Emirates is to create additional cities in Kano state. He said all the general hospitals in the five Emirates are being upgraded to world-class standard of 300-bedded hospitals. He enjoined all the Emirs in Kano to ensure that they deliver service to the people and service to humanity. He reminded the First Class Emirs on the need to encourage education of all Kano children, and help government to curb the menace of out-of-school children in the state. Ganduje re-emphasized that the Almajiri system in Kano should be fully integrated into the mainstream education system, while expressing satisfaction that teachers of Islamic schools are fully cooperating with his administration to promote the policy. Ganduje insisted that begging is prohibited in Kano and urged the five Emirs to discourage the scourge of begging. He gave glory to God for restoring peace within Kano’s traditional institutions, expressing happiness that Kano people gave their full support to the epoch-making event which has cemented the good working relationships among the five Kano emirates.