Ebonyi State Governnor David Umahi had said that five persons are in self observation in the state. Among the five is an Indian, who arrived the country recently and a staff of First Bank who had contact with a returnee. The Governor stated this while briefing journalists on recent developments in the state on the Coronavirus outbreak. He said that 4 persons,(including the Indian) came into the state from different countries that have outbreak of the coronavirus while one person was said to have had contact with a retunee. He said that the Indian citizens is a staff of Royal salt Ikwo. Hé said banker visited his mother in Anambra, who just came back from one of the countries with the outbreak. He, however, said their is no cause for alarm as the self isolation is precautionary, adding that all the 5 persons are doing fine. “We send health personnels to check their vitals everyday and so far they are not showing any symptoms. The Indian also has a nurse staying with him and monitoring him, so far his vitals are normal,” he said He revealed that he has directed the Ezza South and Ikwo Council Chairmen to liase with security agencies and ensure the immediate arrest of families that conducted burial in the state on Thursday. He said that the arrest would serve as a deterrence to other families that would disobey government order. The Nation reports the State government had last week Monday gave a directive banning burial, weeding ceremonies, conferences and other social activities in the state.
Umahi, who expressed his displeasure with the disobedience to the directive, insisted that all those behind the conduct of the burial no matter how highly placed must be arrested. He also ordered for the immediate arrest of the mortuary attendant at the Alex Ekwueme Federal University Ndufu Alike Ikwo who released the corpse to the family for burial.
Governor Umahi also directed the Vice Chancellor of the Federal university, Prof Chinedu Nwajiuba to henceforth stop the release of corpse to any family. He ordered the 13 council Chairmen alongside Development Center Coordinators to move round the rural communities and all the nooks and crannies of the state to ensure that no burial or wedding is conducted in the state tomorrow. He warned that he would not hesitate to sanction anyone that allows or compromise to the directive adding that there must concerted effort by all to ensure that the state does not with an outbreak of the virus in the state. The Governor also said that from tomorrow it would take over some hotels in the state to enable the health workers reside there for optimum productivity, adding that government would pay all accrued bills generated while the period last.