 The Nigerian Navy said it has commenced online registration for the 2020 Recruitment Exercise. According to a statement by the Director Naval Information, Commodore Suleman Dahun, the Recruitment Exercise will commence on 11 March 2020 and close on 21 April 2020. The statement reads in part: “Interested candidates are to apply online at www.joinnigeriannavy.com. Applicants are advised to apply once as multiple application/registration will be disqualified. “On submission, Applicants are to print out copies of the completed Application Forms together with Applicant’s Declaration and Certification by Parent/Guardian Form, local Government Area Certification form, Police Certification Form and Guarantor Form. Applicants are to come to the designated examination and recruitment centers with copies of their online completed Forms. Application is free of charge. “Applicants must possess a minimum of 5 credits in not more than two sittings in WASCE/SSCE/GCE/NECO/NABTEB (English and Mathematics inclusive), must be between the ages 18-22 Years or 18-26 Years for those with ND, NCE, Nurses and Motor Transport Department (MTD) respectively. Applicants with qualifications higher than those specified in the Guidelines should not apply. “Applicants must be single and of Nigerian by birth, must not be less than 1.69m tall for males and 1.65m for females. Applicants must read the detailed instructions at www.navy.mil.ng. “The recruitment exercise will commence with screening of applicant’s credentials and an aptitude test at designated centres nationwide on a date to be announced later. “Applicants are advised in their own interest not to submit multiple online applications. Any applicant with multiple submissions will be disqualified. “Applicants are further advised in their own interest not to give any form of gratification or inducement to any person or group of persons to assist them on the recruitment exercise. “Any applicant who falsifies or forges his/her documents and is discovered at anytime will be handed over to the appropriate law enforcement agency for prosecution”.