Serbian fans won’t forget Nigeria leggy forward Victor Ifeanyi Onyilo in a hurry. In total, the Enugu, Nigeria-born player scored 28 goals for three clubs between 2008 and 2015 seasons ranking him as one of the most successful African players in southeast Europe.   He quickly wormed himself into the hearts of soccer fans who nicknamed him ‘Onyilov’ to make his name sound Serbian. ‘V’ is a notable Serbian Cyrillic alphabet found in most names from the region. Following commanding performances in the Serbian League for five seasons, he got the attention of Serbian powerhouse Red Star Belgrade and signed a four-year contract with them. The move did not, however, end well. He failed to score in seven matches and at the end of the season was loaned to Ermis Aradippou, playing in the Cypriot first division. That transfer saw the Nigerian rediscovering his goal penchant by scoring 15 goals in 27 appearances. He later moved to Saudi Arabia, and Bangladesh. In between the moves, he earned himself the Serbian Superliga medal and Cypriot Super Cup. At 29, Onyilo, who has a sibling playing professional soccer too, describes his football journey through Europe to Asia and back to Europe as ‘ups and downs’ but borne with grace and gratitude. “I am no longer in Bangladesh. I am in Nigeria waiting to get an offer during the summer transfer period. I went there but I couldn’t stay there due to some personal reasons. My exploit in Europe started with FK Javor in the Serbia Super League, and then I moved to FK Red Star Belgrade also in Serbia Super League. I played in Ermis FC in Cyprus Super League then moved to Asia to play in Al-Faisaly FC in Saudi Arabia Super League. From there, I moved to FC Kerkyra in Greece Super League then came back to Cyprus to play for Aris FC, also a Super League team. I also played in Portugal 2nd division with Cova da Piedade Clube. It was a nice experience all through meeting new people and new culture. Football is full of ups and downs and with time I learn to cope with any situation and move on.” Onyilo in this interview with MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN speaks on other germane issues. Excerpts: Career start and motivators I started playing football from my primary school days to secondary school. After school, we usually played on the streets near our home. I was motivated by watching our senior players in Emene play. We were not getting much time to play with them and I said to myself that I will reach their level one day; that’s how the motivation started. Growing up in Enugu with Rangers International Growing up in Enugu was nice although I was not fortunate enough to watch most of the games Rangers played. I knew few players back then in Rangers and they were the ones living in my area, like Okechukwu Odita, Ejike Papa and Ifeanyi Onwuatu. Parental support My parents are not the type of people to force you against your will, unless if it is a bad one. Although I was still in school then, I only go to field to train when I am less busy with house chores, so my parents allowed me to train when I’m done with house stuffs. But everything happened when one of the senior players in our area that played in Europe by name Ifeanyi Igbodo, nicknamed ‘Miracle’, came back on holidays and said he was looking for players to introduce to his club in Europe. He saw me playing one morning in training, and that’s how he got interested in me and he took me out to Serbia with a couple of other players he chose. That’s how my European dream/journey started. Europe to Asia I have been in Europe playing for like six to seven years before I went to Asia. Yes, it’s a dream of every young player to play in Europe back then but when you are in the game you look for better opportunities. For me, I like new challenges. So, when I got the offer to move to Asia I took it and it was a great experience for me. Soccer idols I have only one idol as a footballer and that is the Brazilian Ronaldo, ‘The phenomenon’. I always watch his clip on YouTube and I fall in love with his style of play, his calmness in front of goal and his vision to assist his fellow team mates, his one-on-one skill is amazing. I never get bored watching him do his magic. He is indeed the greatest striker. Happy things Family makes me happy and I hate being lied to. That makes me sad. My wife is a great, strong woman and mother who is very supportive and very understanding.  I like cars more than wine and women. Favourite things My first car is a Toyota Camry; my garage is not that big because I invest money in other things. I love many varieties of food and same for music. I listen to all kind that is interesting to me. I love Old Trafford, Manchester United Stadium. Adidas and Puma are my favourite boots and my size is from 46-47. My favourite cars are Lexus, BMW and Range Rover. How he met his wife I met her when I came back to Nigeria on holiday. When her friend who is the wife of my brother’s friend brought her to the house, I was attracted to her beauty first and then I saw the way she behaved so I spent several times with her and that’s when I knew that she is the one who I wanted to spend my life with. Family We are three boys in my family, and the one after me is also into football. He is a defender; central defence to left wing. His name is Henry Onyilo Chimeremeze. Fears as a footballer I didn’t have any fears actually. I was dedicated and confident that I will reach my goals. I set a goal to reach the highest professional level in football and to be financially stable for the projects which I dream of while growing. Other sport I love tennis and basketball and my heroes are Rafael Nadal, Novak Djokovic and Lebron James. Life after football Yes, gradually, I will try to use the connections I have to help young talents as much as I can. And tell them that football is the same philosophy everywhere. That movement off and on the ball is important, and the length of your thinking and vision in football is what will lead you to the big clubs. You never stop Learning. Nobody knows all; keep learning and be obedient.