 THE Foundation of Truth Assembly (FOTA) has announced cancellation of the fifth edition of its annual concert tagged Cross Concert. The yearly concert is one of the largest gatherings of Christians from Nigeria and beyond for praise and worship to celebrate events marking Easter. In a statement by the convener, Rev Yomi Kasali, who is Senior Pastor of FOTA, noted that the cancellation of Cross Concert 5 had been necessitated by public health concerns. It reads: “In view of the global outbreak of Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and its potential to pose communal health risks in large gatherings, the Foundation of Truth Assembly (FOTA) leadership hereby notifies all stakeholders and the general public, that we have cancelled this year’s Cross Concert which was earlier planned for Easter Monday. “As a socially responsible organisation, we value lives of our guests and support the efforts being made by the government as well as other entities towards promoting public health, especially in such a time as this. It is in response to this that we made the difficult decision of cancelling the annual cross concert. “We will however continue with the overarching vision of the Cross Campaign that seeks to remind believers about the cross of Jesus Christ as the essence of our Christian faith and a reference point for the salvation of souls, irrespective of affiliations and denominations. “The mandate which began in 2016 has been gaining momentum and making impact around the world. “We have shared over 100, 000 cross lapel pins free-of-charge and marked the World Cross Day on the first working day after the Easter holiday, courtesy of our Cross Partners. “We shall continue propagating the message of the cross via various media platforms towards raising an army of persons across all races, all walks of life and socio-economic strata, who proudly wear a cross on the Cross Day. “Like the many heroes of faith in historical and contemporary times who defied fear, persecution and threat for the sake of their faith, each of us shall unite with voices declaring our love for Jesus Christ throughout this Easter season and beyond. “Towards the 2020 Cross Day, we will distribute free cross lapel pins. We encourage you to stay tuned to our platforms and join the campaign, especially on social media, using the hashtags – #ILoveTheCross and #WearACross. “We pray for healing for everyone that has been affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and wisdom for those working to find effective solutions to end the scourge.”