 All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart Bola Ahmed Tinubu has commended Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu for his stay-at-home order for 70 per cent of the civil servants to prevent the spread of COVD-19 (Coronavirus Disease). In a chat with reporters after a meeting with the governor at Lagos House, Marina, Tinubu said the leadership of the party, satisfied with the handling of the situation by the governor, assuring that the governor has the full backing of the party. He added that the governor will get the party’s backing, if there is the need for him to order a total lockdown of the state. Tinubu said: “I congratulate the government of Lagos State for what has been done so far about regular information on the mysterious disease. Nigeria needs a lot of education in this challenging period. “We are facing mysterious enemy in Covard-19. We need to observe that social distancing. It’s a new culture that we have to abide with.  “You must respect the governor’s directive for the workers to stay at home, particularly our students and market women. “We must obey the government. We thank religious leaders who have asked their followers to follow the governor’s directives, both Muslims and Christians alike.” Tinubu also urged market women to follow strict hygiene and abide by government’s directives. “The activities in the market must reflect the new culture. It will teach us a new thing that we are not used to such as hygiene, washing of hands, not having handshakes and eliminating hugging. “We are to prevent the spread of this mysterious disease. In bus stops or various environment, we must maintain distance, stop handshake and do what is necessary so we can save lives. We don’t have enough hospital spaces. “It is not only by prayer; it’s by us observing what is necessary to stop the disease that is ravaging the world. My appeal is for people to respect the information coming from the Government House. We endorse the position of the governor. “Stay at home, pray in your house and observe hygiene. To the market women too, it’s very important.” On possible total lock down of the state, Tinubu said: “If the government decides there is need for total lockdown, I am in support of it. He has our support. We have reviewed it with him and he’s also reviewing it with his cabinet.”