As spate of insecurity in the country increases, the Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers (NCRIB) has  called on the Federal Government overhaul its security apparatus and enhance collaboration with governments and institutions within and outside the country to an end the menace. The council believes the reported cases of kidnapping, terrorism and other criminal cases have reached a preposterous dimension which  is adversely affecting the pace of economic growth as genuine foreign investors are scared putting their monies into the economy. NCRIB President, Dr Bola Onigbogi spoke at the February edition of NCRIB Members’ Evening hosted by Linkage Assurance Plc in Lagos. She said: “As a critical player in the national economy, the onus is on the NCRIB to express grave discomfort about the increasing spate of insecurity in the country, in spite of government’s efforts to improve ease of doing business and reflate our national economy. There is hardly a day that passes by without reported cases of kidnapping, terrorism and other criminal cases that is fast making our country dreadful to live in. “We are calling on President Muhammadu Buhari to for instance rejig and reposition the National Orientation Agency (NOA) to conscientise Nigerians continually on the need for them to be their brothers’ keepers by breaking down belief systems, be they religious or cultural, militating against peaceful coexistence and sanctity of human lives. “Also, we implore government to join the league of developed countries of the world who have resorted to using Information Communications Technology (ICTs) to combat crime. It is not out of place for the federal, states and local governments to deploy the use of CCTV in all towns and cities in the country. This device would assist the law enforcement agencies to keep better tap on criminal activities throughout the country.” Meanwhile, the Managing Director/CEO of Linkage Assurance Plc, Mr. Daniel Braie, has assured the brokerage fraternity that his company would meet the new capital base of N10 billion. Braie said Linkage is not looking outside for funding to meet the recapitalisation requirement, but that it has the internal capacity to raise the needed funds. “Linkage Assurance will conclude its recapitalisation process on or before the end of second quarter 2020. We are financially strong and have the capacity to meet our obligations as and when due. The NCRIB members, unanimously commended Linkage Assurance for their professionalism and response time and gave their endorsement, charging the company to continue its exemplary leadership role in claims payment and customer service.