 Lagos State All Progressives Congress (APC) has advised Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain Chief Olabode George to face the challenges confronting his party, instead of focusing on Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. The party noted George’s declaration of presidential ambition on the pages of newspapers. Its Publicity Secretary, Seye Oladejo, berated the retired naval officer for fantasy and advised him to show leadership in his chapter before nursing a higher ambition. Oladejo said in a statement in Lagos that George has a phobia for Tinubu, whom he has exclusively focused on in his recent interviews. He wondered why the retired naval officer decided to evade reality by attributing the serial defeat of the PDP in Lagos to rigging. The statement read: “Our attention has been drawn to the purported presidential ambition of Chief Bode George through newspaper interviews. “The dreamy Nollywood ambition itself would ordinarily not have been dignified with a response, but for his focus on his political nemesis, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. “It’s apparent from the interviews that Chief Bode George has a phobia for Asiwaju Tinubu who he solely holds responsible for his consistent political failures since the advent of democracy in Nigeria. “In his recent interview, he attributed his constant defeat in Lagos State to rigging. It was convenient for him to forget that he has not been able to hold the Lagos State PDP together with all his assumed experience. “His party oftentimes makes the headlines for violent crisis like rudderless sheep. The fact that PDP in Lagos State only comes alive a few months to national elections is only suggestive of political yahoo yahoo. “Our candid advice is that Chief George should first provide leadership in his homestead before venturing beyond. His inability to deliver his polling units during elections speaks volumes about his electoral value. “His major selling point of having become a governor at 42 years and the not so glorious stint at the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) should best be confined to the dustbin of history. “A word is enough for the wise. Perhaps the age of Methuselah has nothing to do with the wisdom of Solomon.” 