 BRITISH world champion Anthony Joshua will fight Kubrat Pulev at Tottenham Hotspur Stadium on Saturday 20 June. Bulgarian Pulev, 38, is the mandatory IBF challenger to take on Joshua, who holds the WBA, IBF and WBO titles. Joshua won back the belts with a unanimous points victory over Andy Ruiz Jr in December. “I am happy to have the opportunity to show the world how strong I really am,” said Pulev. It will be Joshua’s first fight in the UK since beating Alexander Povetkin at Wembley in September 2018. He was initially due to fight Pulev at Cardiff’s Principality Stadium in October 2017 but the Bulgarian withdrew after suffering a shoulder injury in sparring, with Carlos Takam stepping in to replace him at 12 days’ notice. Promoter Eddie Hearn said last week that talks were also underway for an all-British unification fight between Joshua and Tyson Fury. Fury beat Deontay Wilder to claim the WBC title last month, meaning the British heavyweights now hold all of the division’s belts between them. However, American Wilder has triggered a rematch clause, meaning a third Fury vs Wilder contest will take place before any potential bout between Fury and Joshua. Meanwile, Tyson Fury and Deontay Wilder will run it back for a third time. They will also do it back at the MGM Grand in Las Vegas. Back on Feb. 22, the two had their highly-anticipated rematch at the MGM Grand. There, it was Fury who got his hand raised by seventh-round TKO. The Englishman dominated the fight from start to finish. He even dropped Wilder twice and forcing his corner to throw in the towel. Following the fight, Wilder said the costume he wore the ring played a factor in the fight as he tired out his legs. So, he triggered the rematch clause and now according to ESPN, the trilogy is set. ESPN is reporting the trilogy will happen July 18 in Las Vegas, just one weekend after UFC 252 which is International Fight Week. The event will once again be a co-promotion between Top Rank and PBC. But, this time it is split 60 percent for Fury and 40 percent for Wilder. Pulev, a former European heavyweight champion, has suffered just one defeat in 29 bouts, a fifth-round knockout by Wladimir Klitschko in November 2015.