Worried by escalating insecurity, typified by killings, kidnappings, rape and large scale destruction, Catholic Bishops, at a recent procession, urged the government to protect the lives of Nigerians. GBENGA OMOKNUNU who was part of the procession reports Catholic bishops and other Christian faithful have continued to sustain prayer processions over the escalating violence and general insecurity in the country. Leading the procession was the Catholic Bishops Conference of Nigeria (CBCN), on the platform of the Catholic Secretariat of Nigeria (CSN). Led by the President of CBCN, Most Rev. Augustine Akubueze, the procession started from the Ecumenical Centre, Central area and terminated at Our Lady Queen of Nigeria Pro Cathedral, Area 3, Garki, Abuja. The large crowd of Catholic faithful was dressed in black to mourn victims of violent killings and also offered prayers for peace and unity. The push was to seek God’s intervention in the deteriorating security situation in the country. While deploring the senseless killings across the country, the Bishops emphasised the sanctity of human life and stressed the fact that the life of every citizen is worth protecting. Apparently to forestall a breakdown of law and order, the procession, which was closely monitored by security operatives, attracted both the young and the old. Addressing the gathering, the President of CBCN, Most Rev. Augustine Akubueze expressed anger over the frightening situation and prayed God to put an end to the killings. Charging faithful not to be engage in any form of reprisal, Akubueze urged Christians to embrace peace at all times and shun acts capable of destroying the country. The Bishop advised Christians to speak with one voice, irrespective of denominations. Condemning the killings, he called on the government to come to terms with the reality that the country is under siege and find to put an end to the carnage. He frowned at the way some government officials are handling the security situation, saying that all hands must be on deck to tackle terrorism and other related challenges. The cleric urged Christians to be hopeful and pray for peace now and always. Bishop Akubueze said, His words: “our nation Nigeria needs the light in this moment of darkness. The darkness is so noticeable that even the blind can feel it. We live at a time, a very difficult time in the life of this nation that we all know. In the coming days we shall examine how the word of God can be a light for us. How can the word of God be a light for us? As a church let us continue to pray for Nigeria and the church. We all should be working for peace. Bishop Abubueze, in an emotion laden voice, said, “We are praying for our brothers in the northern parts of the country. We can imagine what you are going through because of your faith. The faith you believe in will grow faster than the terrorists who are killing and holding our Christian brothers and sisters hostage. Our Christian values are more important than anything in life. As a church, we cannot forget the kidnapping and killing of our reverend father. Our eyes are still filled with tears. Their blood shall never be in vain. Government officials pass through federal roads with heavy security and they see what is going on. This is a clear sign that all is not well. What Government can do is to accept this fact and work on it. Government must work to tackle terrorism in the land. The presence of terrorists in our land poses serious danger to the nation”. Pausing for a while, the Bishop continued, “The word of God is one and the same. Our God will not fail us. We must never lose hope in Nigeria. We must continue to be hopeful. Our hope will not fail us. Hope is not about the present but about the future. We are hopeful that the future will be better. We have to collectively raise our voices in condemnation of recklessness in government and abuse of power. We must raise our voices against killing of innocent people and the insecurity of our lives and property. Let us ask, with faith, that God should bless Nigeria and make it a prosperous country. Let God make Nigeria to become a nation that provides safety for all citizens, a nation that allows free expression of religious differences, a nation that people can travel without being kidnapped on the road.” Vice-President, Yemi Osinbajo, urged Nigerians to pray for government in the present situation. Osinbajo, who was represented by the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi said it was difficult for government officials to speak at the event even as he repeated the plea for prayers for people in government. President of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Rev. Samson Ayokunle called on President Muhammadu Buhari not to rest until peace is restored across the country. He advised the President to monitor the operations of the security agencies and to overhaul the nation’s security architecture. The CAN President urged politicians to always be of good behaviour and emulate the church in all their endeavors. Ayokunle, who was represented by Pastor Garuba Umar, commended the Catholics Bishops for spearheading the teaching of the Catholic doctrine in Nigeria. Pastor Umar said, “I wish our political class can come here and borrow a leaf from you on how to conduct a transition process that is free of rancour, acrimony, violence and abuse. The church has a lot to offer our politicians if they could come down from their high places and our country will be a better place. Permit me to commiserate with you all on the death of a seminarian and a good Shepard in Kaduna State who was kidnapped and killed. His death was a tip of the iceberg of what the security architecture has become. Regretting that Nigeria has become a no-man’s land, Umar lamented that terrorists, kidnapers and other gangs have taken over the country and that security operatives appear powerless. Speaking further, he said, “All well-meaning Nigerians, including the House of Representatives, have been calling on President Buhari to overhaul the security agencies with the aim of injecting new blood and new ideas in them. “I urge you all to use this great forum to intercede for our dear country. The outcome of this conference shall bring the long awaited solution to every problem confronting the country in Jesus name.” The Metropolitan Archbishop of Abuja, Most Rev Ignatius Kaigama during the sermon, said permanent peace and solution will continue to elude the country if the people do not repent, change their ways and turn to God for help and healing. Kaigama urged Nigerian leaders to bring both Christians and Muslims together no matter the situation and avoid complacency or lack of interest. He cautioned the government against playing politics with religion and the security situation in the country. His words, “In contemporary Nigeria, perhaps one of our biggest temptations is one of believing in our country against all odds. For quite a while now, it appears that it is our country’s destiny to always dance on the edge of the perilous precipice. Otherwise how does one explain the uninterrupted movement from one crisis to another? If it is not the murderous insurgents ravaging rural communities in the Northeast, it is the herdsmen laying waste towns and villages and leaving tales of death and destruction in their trail. Most recently, the wanton kidnapping of citizens for ransom has taken a brutal and deadly turn with very grave and sickening consequences. Although those in authority continue to assure the populace that they are doing everything in their power to arrest the ugly  trend, permanent solutions and peace will continue to elude us if we do not repent, change our ways and turn to God for help and for healing”. The cleric charged the political leaders to strive to bring Nigerians together and to use all the resources that could be mustered to confront the challenges. He urged the leaders to avoid creating the impression that suggests complacency or outright lack of interest in the plight of innocent victims. “The trend of resorting to self-help is indicative of the distrust of the government and its security agencies who are seemingly overwhelmed by criminals. All these call for concerted and harmonious efforts from all leaders – political, traditional, religious to work together to pull our people away from the precipice. This is no time to play politics of division or to exaggerate fault lines of religion and ethnicity to further set one segment of the country against another. This is not the time to bicker over who could be the best President, the best minister or the best army chief. It is equally shameful to reduce our misfortunes into an argument about which faith has suffered more. He said it’s shameful and regrettable that dozens die everyday, regardless of whatever faith they belong to. “When we allow such rhetorics of division to dominate the socio-political space in the face of a grave danger, then the terrorists and criminals carry the day. We cannot afford to give people without conscience the honour of dividing us further or determining our daily discourse. In normal climes, terrorism and violent crimes are very hard to rout out. With disunity, distrust, fault-finding and finger-pointing, the hope for solution is dead on arrival. Yes, we cannot pretend that all is well with Nigeria. Neither can we give up hope of overcoming our challenges and of building a united and prosperous nation. We cannot afford to give in to the culture of disillusionment and despair, of grumbling and perpetual lamentation.”