Corona College of Education (CCED) Lagos matriculated 176 students for the 2019/2020 academic session. In his welcome address at the fifth matriculation, its Provost, Dr. Martin Obinyan, said the multi-dimensional support from stakeholders had helped the college to be one of the best in Nigeria despite its young age. He said: “We will not relent on our collective efforts, and we will continue to manage the college with deep commitment, transparency, and accountability to achieve international benchmarks. “It will interest you to note that in the last PQEI assessment examinations, conducted by the Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria (TRCN), the college scored 98 per cent pass rate which amounts to the second-best result ever in the history of the TRCN examination ever written.” Obinyan urged the students to respect the rules and regulations of the college and remain focused on their studies. Oghenetega Awhinawhi, a graduate of Corona College of Education (CCED),  and  also  the proprietor of Khan Foundation Junior Academy, a tuition- free school in the Makoko slum, described the course at CCED as impactful. “I considered going for a teacher’s training course after experiencing some challenges in running a school and opted for Corona College of Education. I got first-hand training on how education evolves in Nigeria and how to manage schools. I met a wonderful set of classmates. The Provost, Registrar and members of staff were also very helpful. The management of CCED visited my school and were moved by what we are doing. This spurred them to grant scholarship to some untrained teachers in my school. This has made their teaching more deliberate, producing better results in the pupils. CCED laid the foundation for me, he said. The Class Governor of PDE Cohort 1, Corona College of Education,Mr. Babatunde Popoola said: “I have been teaching for a decade now; I teach in Silversands All School Lekki, it was of great essence to come for this programme because teaching has now been professionalised in Nigeria.” According to him, the teaching profession in Nigeria still has a long way to go, looking at what is obtainable in the developed countries of the world. Also speaking, Adikat Omotawa Olusesi, Deputy Governor PDE Cohort 2, Corona College of Education, noted that  the lecturers have been helpful in imparting skills needed  in the classroom for the growth of the children. She noted that  Corona College of Education has so far made it very easy for everybody to have access to a professional certificate in education.