 IN a clearly unpopular move that runs against the expressed wishes of Nigerians, a bill seeking to extend immunity to cover principal officers of the legislature has just scaled Second Reading in the House of Representatives. The move entails tinkering with Section 308 (3) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), which provides for immunity only for the president, the vice-president, state governors and their deputies. The immunity conferred on the above members of the executive is intended to free them from distractions to attend to their critical roles in governance. The bill, sponsored by Odebunmi Olusegun who represents Surulere/Ogoluwa Federal Constituency of Oyo State has drawn the ire of many Nigerians, who believe the priority of the lawmakers show that they have lost touch with reality and the yearnings of the people. In contrast, the bill has the backing of the majority of the lawmakers who say it is important to safeguard the sanctity of the National Assembly. In supporting the bill, Majority Leader, Ado-Doguwa said: “It should be passed for the simple reason that it provides protection for leaders of the legislature considering the important work of the legislature.” Nigerian lawmakers currently enjoy immunity from prosecution for what they say on the debate floor. But what they now seek is immunity from all kinds of prosecution. However, this development does not go down well with the House Minority Leader, Ndudi Elumelu. Reacting to the proposal, he asked the lawmakers to place the interest of their constituents above personal interest. Elumelu said: “Outside here, our people are being killed and butchered. We are coming up with a bill on the issue of immunity, while some of us are saying that people should be held accountable for what they do. I think it is wrong and it should not be allowed.” A retired Commissioner of Police, Alhaji Abubakar Tsav said such a bill will legalise corruption if it becomes a law. He said: “The immunity currently being enjoyed by the president and the governors is causing a lot of problems in the country because many of the governors particularly steal whatever they can steal because there is nobody to control them. At the end of their tenure when they are taken to court, they will resort to all sort technicalities and plead not guilty. Nobody in the state can control them; state money is like personal money, they do whatever they like with it. “If the National Assembly succeeds in their bid for this immunity, we might as well declare corruption legal in this country. This is why there are no developments in some states, while other ones are forging ahead. What is responsible? Stealing! And the lawmakers are now trying to extend the same right to steal to another set of Nigerians.” Tsav said the body language of the lawmakers shows that it is business as usual and nothing has really changed. The elder statesman said he was shocked to read in the newspapers recently that the Speaker of the House of Representatives Femi Gbajabiamila was planning to organise 90th birthday celebration for his mother in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. He added: “The other day, we read in the papers that they rejected Nigerian-made vehicles for foreign-made ones. They are the ones that are supposed to lead the way in encouraging locally produced vehicles. “Our lawmakers are not patriotic; they have lost touch with reality. In the midst of the suffering of Nigerians, politicians are not ashamed to flaunt the wealth they amassed at the tax-payers’ expense. The Almajiri system of Islamic education practised in the north, for instance, is a ticking time bomb that will explode in our face one day. We are grooming soldiers from infancy and someday they will begin to cause trouble and the whole country will not rest.” Former Chief Whip, House of Representatives during the aborted Third Republic, Olawale Oshun said the lawmakers are the ones that make laws for the ordinary citizens and that there is no reason they should be above those laws. He said: “Laws are meant for human beings. Those who are making the laws should realize that they must be bound by those laws. They want to be immunity from what? Is it from stealing or violating another person’s rights? You have made laws that should protect every ordinary citizen of the country. “There have been arguments by people that even the president and the governors should not be granted immunity. I disagree. I believe that because of the enormity of the decision-making process, the governors and the president and their deputies should be granted that immunity, which is not even on a permanent basis; it is only for the period they are in that office. “I absolutely see no reason why it should be extended beyond those two categories because you who are making the laws, if you have confidence in the laws you are making; you have to subject yourself to that law. So, I don’t agree with the lawmakers at all.” Similarly, former General Secretary of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Dr. Peter Ozo-Eson said immunity from prosecution for principal officers of the legislature while in the office is something that is not in the best interest of the nation. Dr. Ozo-Eson said: “The immunity that is already granted to chief executives such as the president and governors are actually standing in the way of holding them accountable and to broaden it to include a new set of people would be an unfortunate development that would weaken the bid to bring sanity into governance. I do not agree with the lawmakers striving to bring this about.” The trade unionist said though there have been some indications that the 9th National Assembly may not be working in tandem with the wishes and aspirations of the people such as the budget for the renovation of the National Assembly complex and the purchase of exotic cars for lawmakers, but that it is too early to judge assess their performance. He added: “Let us still give them the benefit of doubt; let us give them more time to see how they will do their work. It is still too early to give a definitive judgment on them.” A senior lecturer in the Department of Political Science, Federal University of Technology, Wukari, Taraba State, Dr. Godwin Dappa, also believes that the move is likely to encourage corruption and impunity. His words: “It is not a good idea because if you are giving immunity to members of the National Assembly, you are encouraging more corruption, more impunity and crisis within our political system because these persons are our representatives from the constituency level and at each point in time they are supposed to give us feedback and an opportunity to get our views on prevailing issues. “This is the main reason why we sent them to parliament to represent us; to give us dividends of democracy. If they grant themselves immunity, the likelihood is that they would hide under that immunity to deny us the service they are supposed to render to the people.” Dappa said if the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), which dominates both chambers of the National Assembly, wants to fight corruption, the idea of granting immunity to principal officers of the National Assembly should not be its priority. He said: “For instance, the immunity being enjoyed by state governors is making them behave like demigods. By extension, if you grant the same immunity to some members of the National Assembly, it will also turn them into demigods in the eyes of their constituents that voted them into power. “If we really want to practice democracy, we should not allow this to happen. We should be careful with the future of our democracy in Nigeria. We are toying with the future of our democracy; members of the National Assembly in the United States of America (USA) do not enjoy such immunity. Let us practice democracy the way it should be practised. “Members of the National Assembly must try to interact and listen to the people they are supposed to be representing. There should be a close connection between the lawmakers and the people they represent. A situation where there is a huge gap between the yearnings and aspirations of the people and what is going on in the chambers of the National Assembly leaves much to be desired.” The senior lecturer advised the National Assembly under Senator Ahmed Lawan and Gbajabiamila to remain focused on the interests of Nigerians, rather than that of the ruling party and the President Muhammadu Buhari-led executive. He said a bipartisan approach is needed most times to advance the interests of the people, rather than a partisan approach to issues. He said: “That is why we have not been able to handle insecurity because we are not yet focused on what is in the interest of the people. They are still playing partisan politics by hobnobbing with the executive. They are doing the bidding of Mr. President and the privileged minority and, so, have not been able to legislate for the people. Democracy should be for the people and not for the cabal represented by a group of people.” The Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) said the lawmakers are in support of the bill because it will give leaders of federal and state legislatures immunity from prosecution for corruption. Its Deputy Director, Kolawole Oluwadare, said the move is tantamount to ripping up the nation’s constitution. He, therefore, called on the lower chamber to immediately withdraw the bill; otherwise, SERAP would challenge the decision. Oluwadare said: “Providing immunity for presiding officers against crimes of corruption is tantamount to ripping up the constitution. It’s a blatant assault on the rule of law and breach of public trust. The leadership of the House of Representatives must immediately withdraw this obnoxious bill. We will vigorously challenge this impunity,” the statement read in part.” He recalled that “countries like Guatemala has voted unanimously to strip their president of immunity from prosecution for corruption, our own lawmakers are moving in the opposite direction”. SERAP warned that if the lawmakers have their way by passing the bill into law, they will succeed in denying Nigerians of their rights to make leaders accountable to the people. This is not the first time the National Assembly would be attempting to extend the immunity enjoyed by members of the executive to their own principal officers. In 2016, when former Senate President Bukola Saraki was standing trial at the Code of Conduct Tribunal for alleged false declaration of assets when he was Governor of Kwara State, the lawmakers had initiated a similar process to shield presiding officers of the assembly from criminal and civil prosecutions while in office. But, at the end of the day, that effort failed. In recent times, some Nigerians have been calling for the removal of the immunity enjoyed by members of the executive. For instance, one of the recommendations of the 2014 National Conference organized in the dying days of the Goodluck Jonathan administration is the removal of the immunity clause from the constitution. Earlier, the late President Umaru Yar’Adua had surprisingly made a similar pronouncement in 2009 in Davos, Switzerland, while being hosted by the Partnership Against Corruption. Experts say the National Assembly should not be a refuge for fugitives. There are a number of former governors in the Senate, who are being tried by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) for alleged theft of public funds running into tens of billions of naira. If the lawmakers have their way, it means that the corruption cases against some of them will be put in abeyance. 