Worried by the high rate of corruption in the educational sector in the state, Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo state on Friday said dismissal and prosecution awaits anyone caught sabotaging government’s efforts through corrupt practices. To however handle corruption cases in the state, the governor said the board that will ensure the operationalisation of the Oyo State Economic and Financial Crimes Commission will soon be inaugurated. Makinde made the disclosures while receiving the leadership of the Oyo state chapter of the Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT), who paid him a visit at his Agodi Secretariat office, Ibadan. Bemoaning what he described as pervasive corruption in the education sector of the state, Makinde disclosed that no fewer than 80 percent of cases of corruption brought to his attention, since assumption of office, happened in the educational sector. He gave the cases of the corruption to include, reports of some school administrators collecting money from their students for the conduct of mock examinations, reports of some civil servants collecting money from teachers to have them promoted or posted to choice areas. He further pointed to instances of some local inspectors of education asking for gratification from principals before handing over the books purchased by government for free distribution to students as well as incomplete information about how the N526 million first term grant was distributed. Makinde added that some school heads and teachers also blackmailed parents into paying some sums of money for their children/wards in their schools. Noting that his administration’s free education policy was being implemented to lessen the burden of parents, the Governor said he is personally monitoring the education sector to ensure that government gets value for money it continues to invest in the sector. Though he noted that he awaited complete reports about the distribution of grants to schools for first term, Makinde assured that he will not hesitate to give grant to schools for the second term. While assuring of commitment to the welfare of teachers and the entire workforce in the state, Makinde urged the NUT leadership to enlighten teachers on not engaging in sharp practices or acts that sabotage government’s investment in the education sector. He said, “Out of maybe ten cases of corruption that has come to my attention, 80 percent actually came from the education sector. We have the School Governing Board (SGBs) and we asked that they should be signatories to the grants as well as the principals. “Right now, I have had reports that in some schools, they are collecting money for mock exams. When they bring me a file asking for permission to spend money to print examination materials, I approve it. “We want to lighten the burden on our parents and majority of our people. In certain schools, they are being blackmailed into doing certain things. Enlighten your members that I will not back off. “I have taken it upon myself to monitor the education sector because we have committed a lot of money into it and we want to get value for money. However, the feedback that I am getting has not been encouraging. “I carried out a sting operation. First, I have had to let a woman go because she was collecting money from teachers to get promoted or to be posted to choice areas. Second, there is the case of four people collecting money at TESCOM and were caught. They are going to be dismissed and they will be prosecuted. It is a decision that is painful but we have to ensure that we get value for whatever we are committing. “They brought the file to me asking to approve the grant for this term and I asked them to give me a breakdown of how the grant for the first term, over N500 million, was distributed. It’s about accountability. “After about five weeks, they brought back incomplete information. However, I asked that we go ahead and give the second term grant while we are looking into the returns for the first term.”