After touring the world for over two decades, entertaining millions of people from different races with rib-cracking jokes, widely traveled and celebrated comedian, Amb Francis Agoda, popularly known as “I Go Dye” has announced his 25 years on stage with his signature event, “IGoDye Standing: “Kinging with the Kings,” Platinum edition 2020 The event which will be held on Easter Sunday in Benin City is part of a series of events to mark I Go Dye’s 25 years on stage. According to the humour merchant, “It’s a refreshing experience, celebrating 25 years on stage and bringing ‘I Go Dye standing; “Kinging” with the Kings,” Platinum edition on April 12th 2020, Easter Sunday at Best Western HomeVille Hotel, G.R.A Benin City, It’s been a journey, that was made possible by God Almighty and with your inspiring cheers and love. ‘Igodye Standing’ , will commence with a series of events across Lagos, Abuja, Port Harcourt and Warri. We had great times together all these years, your presence at shows where I performed and those that I personally organised have taken me to where I am today. Honestly speaking, without you, my fans, families, friends and clients there will be no me. I am really indebted. We have to put smile on the faces of those with beautiful dreams to keep their hope alive, am doing the little I can, through the shoulders you used to lift me up, while hoping to expand my capacity in the following years by God’s grace. Please, once again, join Seaside Entertainment company and Primeview Label to spread the love and share our joy this Easter Sunday at “Igodye standing: Kinging with the Kings” Widely regarded as Africa’s funniest “King of Jokes”, I Go Dye in a statement says “I Go Dye Standing: Kinging with the Kings”, Platinum edition is in partnership with Prime View Records in collaboration company, Seaside Entertainment. I Go Dye who has in his previous events never failed in featuring top entertainers in music and comedy says this is mother of all. In his first show held in 2009 in Benin for instance, I Go Dye singlehandedly featured the entire Mo Hits crew including D’Banj, Wande Coal, D Prince, Ikechuku MI and others while he also sold out the 02 Arena in London to mark his 20 years on stage in 2015. The visionary comedian and social crusader has over the years made meaningful impacts right from childhood. He was the first high school student in Africa to build a flying helicopter, a hovercraft ship, radio transmitter and a solar table fan which earned him a scholarship to study structural engineering at the prestigious New York University. But his passion for comedy brought him wider acceptance and popularity which he realized was a means to address challenges affecting millions of Nigeria youths. He was a victim of the Warri Crisis between the Ijaws and the Itsekiris, where he was shot and lost some of his friends. This experience made him shoot a documentary, “Peace in Sight” in 2008 for the United Nations to promote peace and rural development. That same year, he toured the world with America Point Gate to promote peace and fight against drug abuse and racism. In this last 25years, I Go Dye has always been at the fore front of youth development and empowerment, a charge he has also extended to top Nigerian professionals.