A mattress and bedding products manufacturer, Mouka, has  called on Nigerians  to adopt healthy sleeping culture. He made this call at the World Sleep Day in Lagos. The celebration  with the theme: Better sleep, better life, better planet, held at its head office, Ikeja, Lagos. According to the firm’s Chief Executive Officer, Mouka, Raymond Murphy, the company would continue to propagate healthy sleep culture on the continent. “As a first choice brand, that has been proven by an independent research, we owe it to our consumers to educate them on the importance of sleep and for the well-being of the population. Mouka has been at the fore front of the healthy sleep culture and production of sleep solutions specially designed to cater to the needs of virtually all segments of the society,’’ he said. He said the company was focusing on sleep as a pillar of health which improves better decision-making and cognitive understanding and by extension, improve the quality of life. The event also highlighted some of the problems of sleep disorders such as insomnia, sleep apnea(abnormal breathing patterns while sleeping), narcolepsy,(a sleep disorder that typifies falling asleep suddenly as well as extreme sleepiness during the day) and restless leg syndrome, a sleep disorder that causes an uncomfortable sensation and an urge to move the legs while trying to fall asleep. The Vice President of Nigeria Society of Physiotherapy (NSP), Nnenna Chigbo, said good quality sleep consists of seven to nine hours,  and, among other things, reduces labour-related and road transport accidents as well as improve circadian clock which ultimately leads to reduced premature ageing. “Better understanding of sleep conditions and more research into the area will help reduce the burden of sleep disorders in the society. Avoid heavy spicy or sugary foods, four hours before bedtime. Exercise regularly but not right before bed. Use comfortable bedding and keep the room well ventilated. Block out all distracting noise and eliminate as much light as possible,”he said. The company’s Head of Marketing,Tolu Olanipekun, noted that the Mouka ensures that consumers enjoy quality sleep as it has provided a wide range of sleep solutions that meets their budgets. “A good night’s sleep has a positive impact on everything you do, how you relate with people and even your productivity at work,” she said.  