Nigerian gospel songstress,Osinachi Joseph a.k.a Sinach has received a gold plaque as she hit one million subscribers on online Google video streaming, YouTube. The renowned singer, who could not hide her joy, took to her Instagram page @therealsinach to share the good news with her fans She also used the opportunity to appreciate her fans, followers and also the Youtube team. “Look what came in the mail !! Thank you my friends for celebrating GoodNews music in a big way!! @youtube @youtubengcreators @youtubemusic @gosgem. “PRAY WITH ME: I see victories and possibilities only; I’m bold and courageous. ” I win, irrespective of the challenges and circumstances that I face; they are “bread” for me. “As I set my gaze on God’s unfailing and eternal Word, I walk continually in victory, health, success, prosperity and righteousness, in Jesus’ Name. Amen,” she wrote. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that gold plaque is given to performers with one million or more subscribers on the video streaming brand. “The gospel singer has over 1.14 million subscribers to her YouTube official account. NAN also reports that Nigerian songstress artist Yemi Alade has received the gold plaque with her music video to her hit song ‘Johnny’ which has over 100 million views on YouTube. The mother of one music video for “Way Maker” is the second most-seen Nigerian music video with a record 143 million views. Sinach whose real name is Osinach Joseph, is an award winning Nigerian gospel singer and songwriter. The Ebony born gospel artist is one of the most celebrated Nigerian gospel singers with many accolades to her name. She has written over 300 songs which include; Awesome God, More of You, Born to win, All I See Is You, Jesus is Alive, Presence of the Lord and son among others. She has also performed in several countries such as Kenya, South Afria, United States, Canada, Zambia and so on. Sinach is a recipient of numerous awards which include:
Best Female Gospel Artiste of The Year at Nigeria Gospel Music Awards, Best Female Vocalist at Nigeria Gospel Music Awards 2016 LIMA Songwriter of the Decade Award among others. She got married to her Christ Embassy’s pastor, Joseph Ogbu on June 28, 2014 and their union is blessed with wonderful child. (NAN)