By Toba Agboola  The Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG) has said it has no plan of shutting down, as the union assured Nigerians of a continuous distribution of petroleum products by its members for commercial, industrial and domestic uses in spite of coronavirus pandemic. The union has also commissioned hand sanitisers to all its petroleum loading depot across the country. Speaking during the commission and presentation of the sanitisers to leaders of the Petroleum Tankers Drivers (PTD), Lagos Zone at the NUPENG office in Jibowu Yaba, the union’s National President, Mr Williams Akporeha, said:“We came to the conclusion that the nation needed our essential services in the same manner the nation requires the services of all those in the front line of the fight to curtail the spread of the virus. “It was, therefore, unanimously resolved that all our members, on the value chain of distribution of petroleum products for commercial, industrial and domestic uses, shall continue to work. On the threat issue by the union last week to shut down if government refused to protect their member against the Coronavirus, he said everything has been resolved. In addition to government support in protecting their members, he said the union have decided to provide hand sanitizers to it member across the country. “We have decided to provide, within our meagre resources, hand sanitizers to all our members across the country.
“We commissioned a pharmaceutical company to produce specifically for our members across the country. “These hand sanitizers come in 10 litres jerry cans to serve as refill for dispensers that we are going to distribute as well with other kits such as hand gloves and masks,” he said. The General Secretary of the union, Comrade Afolabi Olawale said the union will be sending about 1,000 of these items (sanitizers) to it members at the depot every week until the siege is over. He said:” We have 154 petroleum loading depot across the country, but as we are talking we have 120 of these numbers in active operation. “Besides that Petroleum Tanker Drivers have about 300 places across the country that serve as their stop over points for resting and recreation , we will be distributing these items to all these places”. He urged all petroleum depots owners, operators, petrol station owners and industrial set-ups to provide necessary mechanisms and tool. He also urged members of the union to strictly ensure hygiene at work, home, on the streets and with everyone they would interface within their daily activities. He said that adherence to the safety measures would go a long way to check coronavirus spread and keep socio-economic activities of the country alive.