From Chris Njoku, Owerri  More than 100 defaulters were tried by the mobile court during the monthly sanitation exercise yesterday in Imo State. The defaulters were caught as the exercise was going on. It was gathered that some of the offenders were fined while others were asked as part of their punishment to join in the exercise. Speaking, the ENTRACO Chairman and Special Adviser to the Governor on Environment, MacDonald Ebere, noted that defaulters would be treated within the confines of the law as deemed fit by the mobile courts. He said that the massive turnout has demonstrated the love the people have for Governor Uzodinma. The ENTRACO boss assured that the government is desirous to see a healthy and prosperous Imo State. In his words: “This is a government that is committed to the good of Imolites, committed to the sanitisation of the people, a government that is sensitive to the health of the people.  I can assure Imo people that when the environmental blueprint is fully implemented within the next six months, Imo will reclaim its position as the cleanest in the country.” Ebere assured that the heaps of refuse seen around will be evacuated within the next 12 hours as over 80 trucks have been mobilised for that purpose. He reiterated that ENTRACO under his watch will work with a human face and urged all Imolites to take the monthly exercise seriously by restricting movement within the stipulated. Also, Imo State governor, Senator Hope Uzodimma, has expressed delight over the large turnout that greeted this month’s clean up exercise. The governor who spoke through his Chief Press Secretary/Media Adviser, Mr. Oguwike Nwachuku, assured Imo people of a healthy and clean environment, stating “Imo people must have an environment that guarantees their good health; that is the only way that a prosperous state can be assured.” He extolled the mobile courts for doing their job as over 100 defaulters were being tried as the exercise was going on. The governor warned that the government would leave no stone unturned in its quest to sanitise the environment, especially now that a lot of diseases are ravaging the nation.