 Nigeria now has 30 confirmed cases of the coronavirus (COVID-19), as Lagos, Oyo and FCT combined, added eight new cases on Sunday. Currently, Lagos has 22 cases; FCT has four cases; Ogun has two cases; Ekiti has one case; and Oyo has one case. This makes a total of 30 cases as at the time of filing this report. Of the six new cases in Lagos, 3 cases have travel history to high-risk countries in the last 7 days, 2 cases are returning travellers and one is a contact of a confirmed case. The NCDC disclosed that the cases in Lagos are being treated at the Infectious Disease Hospital (IDH), Yaba. The cases in FCT are being treated at University of Abuja Teaching Hospital (UATH), Gwagwalada , while the Oyo case is being handled at the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan. The NCDC explained that of the 30 confirmed cases, 2 have been discharged with no death. According to a statement by the Governor of Oyo state, Mr. Seyi Makinde: “The COVID-19 confirmation test for the suspected case at Bodija has come back POSITIVE.  The result was released at 17:35 PM of March 21, 2020. Oyo State Public Health Officials are collaborating with the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan’s team on the case. “A follow up on the Ekiti COVID-19 case revealed that the deceased was picked up directly from Lagos Airport to a private apartment in Ona Ara Local Government Area. “The Health Authorities have contacted the family concerned and the community has been alerted for intensified contact tracing and self-isolation of identified close contacts. “The information given that he stayed in some hotels in Ibadan has been found to be false. “Another returnee from Texas, USA, has also been identified at Oluyole Local Government Area. She has been kept in self-isolation with close monitoring by the State Epidemiological Team. All recent returnees are again urged to identify themselves to Ministry Officials and self-isolate for 14 days”. Concerning the actions the Oyo state government is taking, Mr. Makinde said: “We have released funds for activation of Emergency Operation Centre at the Ministry of Health, establishment of Diagnostic Centre for screening of Coronavirus and other related infectious diseases to be stationed at the UCH, Ibadan, and equipping of the newly designated Oyo State Infectious Disease Centre at Olodo that has the capacity for over 100 cases” The NCDC advises that if you‘ve returned to Nigeria from any country in the last 14 days, please stay in self-isolation.