The Nigeria Centre for Disease control (NCDC), on Tuesday said that its Director-General, Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu, was on a 14-day self-isolation and not quarantined as reported by a section of the media (The Nation excluded). It said that the reports stating that Ihekweazu is in ‘quarantine over coronavirus’, is false. The centre explained in a statement on Tuesday by its Communications Department that the DG embarked on the self-isolation in compliance with its advice to all persons that  travelled to countries battling the pandemic virus. News of the self-isolation by Ihekweazu coincided with that of  a coughing Chinese national, who was  taken straight  from  the Murtala Mohammed International Airport, Ikeja immediately an Ethiopian Airlines plane he boarded landed Monday evening. NCDC, in its statement recalled its DG   was among the 25 international experts that travelled to China for a nine-day World Health Organisation  Mission in China on the behavioral pattern of COVID-19. The   statement reads: “Between the 16th and 24th of February 2020, the World Health Organization deployed a high-level mission to China. The joint mission had 25 national and international experts, including the Director-General of the NCDC, Dr. Ihekweazu. “The mission met with counterparts in China to understand their response to COVID-19 and how the global community can learn from this. As recommended in NCDC’s public health advisory, travelers from countries with ongoing transmission of COVID-19 are advised to proceed on 14-day self-isolation, whether well or unwell. “The Director-General has adhered to this, to protect himself and the public. He has been tested since his return, and has shown no symptoms of COVID-19 infection. He remains in good health.” Ihekweazu also twitted yesterday, saying “I am well and have continued my duties from home since my return from China as part of the WHO-China Mission on #COVID19. The rumour that I am sick or in quarantine is obviously false. “I look forward to returning to the office after 14 days of self-isolation.” The Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, also explained that test  carried out on   Ihekweazu, after he  returned  from China proved negative. Ehanire, who briefed the leadership of the Senate on efforts being made to curb the spread of the disease in Nigeria, said: “We were honored that one of the scientists that WHO (World Health Organization) had chosen to go to China to study the disease was the DG of NCDC. “We are very proud and honoured that he was the only African who was among the experts. “They went there for nine days, during which time they carried out investigations. “But we have already established rules here that anybody who has been to China will go to self-quarantine. Coughing Chinese taken from MMIA to center for test A Chinese national aboard Ethiopian Airlines   flight from Addis Ababa -Lagos was on Monday   evening taken straight from the MMIA to the  state  Center for Disease Control for test. A source at the airport said the Chinese coughed a couple of times  during  the flight and twice in the arrival hall of the MMIA, a development that made his co-passengers to feel  he had been infected. The state Health Commissioner,Prof. Abayomi,who  said the Chinese  was isolated, also disclosed that a fourth test would be conducted on the infected  Italian  today to check if  had become free from the virus. Abayomi disclosed that the three earlier tests done showed he (the Italian) was having improved health and case, especially as his temperature had dropped. The Chinese was later confirmed free from the virus by the Health commissioner. “Samples were collected from the patient and the test which turned out negative was carried out at  the  state Bio-security Level 3 laboratory located within the premises of the Mainland Care Centre,” he said  in a statement by Tubusun Ogunbanwo, the ministry’s Director, Public Affairs.