Nollywood actress and filmmaker Ego Boyo has called for government’s intervention in Makoko community in Lagos State, which she spotlighted in her film, ‘The Ghost and The House of Truth’. Boyo is a veteran actress popular for her role as Ann Haastrup in classic TV series, ‘Checkmate’ ’ and as actress/producer for the critically acclaimed 90’s film, ‘Violated’. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the film follows a counsellor’s actions after she discovers her 15-year-old child is missing. Speaking with NAN, Boyo said: “Makoko is one of those things you have to see to believe.” The film shares startling shots of Makoko community framed to show the issues its inhabitants go through. Makoko is a neighborhood community across the Third Mainland Bridge located on the coast of Lagos Mainland. A third of the community is built on stilts along the lagoon and the rest is on the land. With a population of over 85, 000 people, according to the National Population Commission, Makoko is famous in the media for being an impoverished slum. The extent of the poor living condition was shown in Boyo’s film, ‘The Ghost and the House of Truth’. “It became a euphemism for the rot and decay not only of that particular area, but also of the entire city and the psyche of the individuals who live there.” On the importance of showing the community in the film, Boyo said: “The aerial shots of Makoko reveal clearly to anyone the need for a clean-up of that community and of the state. It is a physical clean-up as well as a psychological one.” She noted that the intervention in the community should be holistic and one that the inhabitants will be part of, in order to guarantee its success. Boyo said: “My hope is for the Lagos State Government to move into that community in a new and meaningful way.” “The solution does not lie in throwing the residents out, but getting them involved in a planned and targeted transformation drive. “They need to engage in a public and private sector driven initiative to design a road map for improvement in that community, commit resources and manpower to turning that community around.” She added that despite the intermittent interventions that have gone on at Makoko over the years, a joint intervention would be effective. The actress said: “Over the years, individuals, non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and foundations have tried to leave a footprint on that community, but I think it has to be a joint endeavour. This involves the residents of that community as well. “It cannot be something done to them or for them, but something they actively support, encourage and embrace as well.”