 PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari on Sunday acknowledged the positive impact of his deputy, Professor Yemi Osinbajo (SAN), on the general performance of his administration. During a call to the Vice-President on his 63rd birthday, President Buhari noted that Osinbajo had made huge impressions on the administration’s economic and social intervention programmes. A statement by the Senior Special Assistant (SSA) to the President on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, said President Buhari hailed the Vice-President for his loyalty and dedication to the administration. “President Buhari congratulates most heartily the Vice-President, Prof. Osinbajo (SAN), as he celebrates his 63rd birthday anniversary. “In a telephone call Sunday afternoon to his deputy, the President commends Prof. Osinbajo’s loyalty and dedication to the administration. “President Buhari notes that the intellectual capacity of the Vice-President has impacted positively on the overall accomplishments of Federal Government, most notably in the economic and social intervention programmes. ‘The President joins family members, friends and associates of Prof. Osinbajo in wishing him joyous birthday celebrations. “He also prays Almighty God to endow the Vice-President with greater wisdom and long life to continue to serve the nation and humanity.” Northern Governors Forum (NGF) described Osinbajo as an outstanding politician and administrator. NGF Chairman and Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong conveyed the forum’s greetings to the Vice-President. In a statement yesterday by Lalong’s Director of Press and Public Affairs, Dr Makut Macham, the NGF said Osinbajo is a unique gift to the country. “As chairman of the National Economic Council, Osinbajo has shown his deep knowledge and understanding of the challenges facing the Nigerian economy as well as deployed his versatility, team spirit and mobilisation skills in advancing practical solutions to its improvement. “The Vice-President has shown total loyalty not only to President Muhammadu Buhari, but to the nation by giving reliable counsel and carrying out his assignments with excellence,” the NGF said. It acknowledged Osibanjo’s input in tackling the challenges of Almajiri system, improving agricultural development, tackling insecurity as well as ending the farmer-herder clashes. Osinbajo was born on March 8, 1957. He is a Senior Advocate of Nigeria and a Professor of Law. Osun State Governor Gboyega Oyetola described Osinbajo as a great leader who has used his knowledge to assist the President in tackling security challenges, fighting corruption and revamping the economy. In a statement yesterday in Osogbo, the state capital, by his Chief Press Secretary, Ismail Omipidan, the governor hailed Osinbajo for the leadership qualities he has exhibited as the Vice-President and head of the National Economic Council (NEC). The statement said: “I thank God on your behalf for the remarkable achievements and accomplishments He has enabled you to record both in private and public life. You are a great leader whose attributes are worthy of emulation by the younger generation of Nigerians. “I also praise you for being a faithful and dependable ally of President Buhari. You are doing well to assist the President in achieving his administration’s agendas.” Gombe State Governor Inuwa Yahaya also felicitated with Osinbajo on his 63rd birthday. A statement yesterday in Gombe by the governor’s Senior Special Assistant (SSA) on Media and Publicity, Mr Ismail Misilli, described Osinbajo as a cerebral leader with exceptional humility.  It lauded Osinbajo’s exemplary leadership, loyalty and commitment to nation-building. The Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, noted that the Vice-President “is quintessentially one of the most reliable, dependable and progress-oriented leaders we have in this era”. He added: “A perfect blend of intellectualism, work ethic, service to God and service to Nation, Our country has benefited, enormously, from his virtues. “On this auspicious day, I wish him the best of health, continued favour, grace, sustained love, protection and blessings of God.” Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) thanked God for Osinbajo’s life and the indelible contributions he is making to the development of the nation and the church in Nigeria. In a statement on Sunday by its National President, Rev. Felix Omobude, the PFN described the Vice-Prsident as an Ambassador for the Christian community, who is presently on national assignment. “We are proud of how he has continued to discharge his duties with the sense of humility, wisdom and dignity required of such high office. “We appreciate the grace of God upon his life and the work he is doing for our nation. “Our prayer for him is that he will continue to stand strong to the true dictates and tenets of the faith.”