The Imo State Government has disclosed of plot by the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the state to stage protests Thursday during which they will again pour insults on the Supreme Court Judges for refusing to reverse their earlier judgment on the Imo governorship case. The government, in a statement signed by the Chief Press Secretary, Oguwike Nwachuku said it is fully aware of the plan by the PDP to hide under the guise of welcoming ousted Governor Emeka Ihedioha back to Imo to stage the protests. “Their plan is to make it look like Imo people trooped out to welcome him and hide under that cover to display placards condemning the Supreme Court Justices for refusing to reverse their judgment in favour of Ihedioha and the PDP . The statement read in part, “From the airport they plan to proceed to Owerri, the state capital to continue with the protests. “Government is also aware that they have imported thugs from neighboring states for this purpose because the few members left in their ranks cannot make the impact they crave for.” The Government therefore called on the security agencies to take note of what it described as “this devilish plot by Ihedioha and the PDP and take necessary steps to ensure that there is no breach of peace in the state.” The statement stated further that as much as Imo people cherish the peace which the coming of Governor Hope Uzodimma has brought to them, it will not take kindly any act geared towards truncating it, more so if such acts are deliberate. The government noted that it was unfortunate that Ihedioha and the PDP have refused to accept the final judgment of the Supreme Court as truly final and have decided to resort once again to sponsored protests, perhaps to accomplish their earlier threat that if the Supreme Court failed to reverse their judgment, they “would make Imo State ungovernable. “However, the state government wants to make it abundantly clear that it will no longer tolerate unbridled affront on constituted authorities in the name of the exercise of freedom of expression “There must be an end to every litigation and that of Imo governorship tussle which came to an end on 3rd March 2020 cannot be an exception. Any further attempt by the supposed leaders and their cohorts to take laws into their hands will be treated for what it is and those involved will face the full wrath of the law.” The government advised Imolites to remain peaceful as it will not shy away from its core responsibility of protecting lives and property.