Police officers attached to the Abia (SARS) have reportedly rescued one Miss Solomon Kelechi from a gang of kidnappers that abducted her within Aba metropolis. Information has it that Miss Kelechi was abducted at MCC junction, off Aba-Owerri road, Aba. Sources within the Abia State Police Command told our reporter that the SARS operatives arrested three members of the kidnapping gang when they stormed their hideout at Obikabia in Obignwa Local Government Area of the state. A source told our reporter that some arms and other exhibits were recovered from the suspects during the raid. It was gathered that the suspects were swooped on when they were negotiating for ransom for the eventual release of their victim. It was learnt that the kidnap victim, one Miss Solomon Kelechi of MCC was rescued by the SARS operatives in an uncompleted building at Obingwa Local Government Area of the state. The source gave the names of the suspects as one Ikenna Eruba of No. 7 New Umuahia road Obikabia in Obingwa LGA. Benjamin Okoro (45years), David Nnabugwu (40years) from Owoahiafor Obingwa LGA. Narrating the incident, a source within the State Anti-kidnapping Squad who pleaded not to be mentioned said that the team led by its Commander, Johnbull Obioguru, a Superintendent of Police (SP), on getting hint of the kidnap, swung into action which culminated to the rescue of the kidnapped victim and arrest of the three suspects. “One Mr. Ezechi Ominihi of Ngwa road, Aba reported that some group of gunmen kidnapped his sister-in-law and took her to an unknown destination. “SARS swung into action and stormed one uncompleted building at Obikabia area in Obingwa Local Government and rescued the victim. “One Miss Solomon Kelechi of MCC junction Aba and arrested one Ikenna Eruba of No. 7 New Umuahia road Obikabia in Obingwa LGA. Benjamin Okoro (45years), David Nnabugwu (40years).” The source who disclosed that investigation into the matter was still ongoing, told our reporter that the suspects during interrogation, confessed to the crime.