 From Osagie Otabor, Benin Edo State governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki and a governorship aspirant of the All Progressives Congress, Engr. Chris Ogiemwonyi, yesterday trade words over the forth coming APC primaries. Ogiemwonyi had in a press statement said the alleged suspension of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole has made the Edo APC more united and would not lose focus in the quest to unseat Governor Obaseki. Ogiemwonyi however expressed dismay at the jubilation that greeted the suspension but called for calm among party faithful. He said: ” We were all dismayed by the shocking ruling of an Abuja Federal High Court issuing a purported order for the interim suspension of the National Chairman of our great party, APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole”. “However, no matter how distressing it may sound, I urge all to remain calm and steadfast as there is always room for redress in the courts, which to my understanding has been activated. “We continue to maintain our steadfast support for our leader, Comrade Oshiomhole as we continue our quest to reclaim our dear Edo State.  Do not despair or relent in your efforts. This is a fight we must win, and will win”.   ”I urge all once again to remain calm and to reject any form of violence. Victory surely will be ours”.    But Obaseki who spoke through his Special Adviser on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr. Crusoe Osagie, said Ogiemwonyi’s political career was initiated by his estranged wife, Senator Stella Oduah and was also terminated by her when she got fed up with him. Obaseki said Ogiemwonyi could not be trusted with the mandate of a local council let alone a state like Edo with a rich and sophisticated history. According to him, “Ogiemwonyi’s political career was initiated by Stella Oduah who was then his wife. She also ended his political career by withdrawing the ministerial appointment she once nominated him to hold. “Stella Oduah has since dumped him, bringing his brief venture into politics to an end. So, you can see that this man who cannot manage a woman and his home certainly cannot run even a local government let alone a state like Edo with all our historical and contemporary sophistication.” “Ogiemwonyi’s travails was advertised to the public when during her screening at the Senate, Oduah boldly told the hollowed chamber that her name is Stella Oduah with no reference to her husband. Since he is unable to get a hold of his household, it is only evident that he won’t be able to manage the affairs of Edo.”