Kehinde OLULEYEYOU  surely know about the Aneke twins’ lifelong friendship. These two Nigerian actress are always in the news for the right reasons and always together. What comes to mind when you think of celebrity twins?  Famous duos like Peter and Paul Okoye (of the Defunct Psquare) or Taiwo and Kehinde Adegbodu may come to mind. Fashion, fads and followers are three things common to most celebrities. Most of them are fashionable, they make and follow trends and they are loved by a huge number of people who are always on the lookout for the things they say or do. There are quite a few celebs that you likely never knew are twins. This week, we take a look at some of the stylish and dapper Nollywood celebrities, who are twins, command large followings and rock their garbs both on and off the red carpet.  Kehinde (Kenny Ogungbe) & Taiwo Ogungbe One of Nollywood’s most recognisable faces, Kenny Ogungbe, is a broadcast journalist, Nigerian DJ, executive music producer and television presenter. He is the founder of the label Kennis Music. Kenny Ogungbe’s twin brother, Taiwo Ogungbe, is a Disc jockey known as DJ T. He is also Kennis Music label executive and artiste manager.   Mary & Joseph Lazarus You may know Mary Lazarus as a Nollywood actress, TV personality, model and an entrepreneur, but did you know he also has a twin brother? While her twin brother opted for the oil and gas business, Mary pursued acting instead.  Eniola(Taiwo) Ajao & Kehinde Ajao Nollywood actress, Eniola Taiwo Ajao, has a twin sister, Kehinde, who is a successful business woman.  Elozonam & Kanso Ogbolu Former Big Brother Naija housemate (Pepper Dem Gang), Elozonam, is one of the popular contestants to come out of BBN (2019) show.  But you may not know he also has a twin brother called Kanso. Elozonam and his twin brother, Kanso, dropped a music video to mark their 34th birthday on March 4.  Taiwo & Kehinde Aromokun Famous Nollywood actress and movie producer, Taiwo Aromokun’s career is just one part of her life;  the other part, perhaps, the most important is family. That includes her fraternal twin sister, Kehinde.  It’s worthy to know that Taiwo gave birth to two sets of twins!  Eku & Kessiana Thorley Popular Nigerian actress, television presenter and model, Georgina Chloe Eku Edewor-Thorley, well known as Eku Edewor, has a twin sister, Kessiana, who works as an interior designer / fashion & marketing consultant. Kehinde & Taiwo Bankole Award winning actress, model, singer, TV host, Kehinde Bankole’s twin sister, Taiwo Bankole, is into event planning but also acts occasionally.  Chidinma & Chidiebere Aneke Chidiebere and Chidinma Aneke are identical twins in the Nollywood industry, popularly known as the Aneke twins. DNA Twins Identical artistes, Blair and Clinton Roberts, popularly known as the DNA Twins, first gained popularity when they auditioned for the Glo X-Factor competition. DNA was signed to Mavin Records, a music record label owned by Don Jazzy in February 2017.