President Donald Trump has said federal coronavirus guidelines such as social distancing will be extended across the United States (U.S.) until at least April 30. He had previously suggested that they could be relaxed as early as Easter, which falls in mid-April. “The highest point of the death rate is likely to hit in two weeks,” Trump said. He appeared to be referring to peak infection rates that experts fear could overwhelm hospitals. White House medical adviser Dr. Anthony Fauci had earlier warned that the virus could kill up to 200,000 Americans. Dr. Fauci said it was “entirely conceivable” that millions of Americans could eventually be infected. The U.S. now has more than 143,000 confirmed cases. As at on Monday morning, 2,572 deaths had been recorded in the country in relation to Covid-19, according to figures collated by Johns Hopkins University. The U.S. last week became the country with the most reported cases, ahead of Italy and China. However, the coronavirus pandemic is taking its toll on the New York Police Department (NYPD), according to the Commissioner of Police, Mr. Dermot Shea. Shea told reporters that the virus had claimed the lives of three officers and infected 868 others, including 88 civilian staff members who have been quarantined. He added that 4,342 uniformed officers, representing 13 per cent of the force, had called out sick as of Sunday. He stated that the number of infected officers was projected to rise to 900 by the end of Monday. New York is the epicentre of the coronavirus pandemic in the United States where the disease has infected no fewer than 141,000 persons and killed 2,300 others. According to data compiled by the New York Times, the state had no fewer than 59,568 cases and 965 deaths as of yesterday morning. The three NYPD members killed by the virus include a 23-year veteran identified as Detective Cedric Dixon, who died on Saturday morning. A police plaza custodian and an administrative aide died within a 24-hour period, according to local media. Shea said although the number of officers falling sick continued to grow, some of those infected had light effects and were “nearly ready to return to work”. Meanwhile, officers continue to visit restaurants, bars, supermarkets, salons and public spaces to remind individuals of the ban on congregating in public spaces, according to AM New York.