The Osun State governor, Alh Gboyega Oyetola has reassured citizens to run a participatory, inclusive and people-oriented government. The governor in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Ismail Omipidan on Tuesday said, Oyetola gave the assurance while receiving the Inter-Party Advisory Council in his office. Oyetola expressed gratitude to the leadership of IPAC for safeguarding the development and growth of the State. He lauded the leadership and members of the group for identifying with the government and reaffirmed his administration’s commitment to continue to ensure human-capital and infrastructural development in all strata of the economy. Governor Oyetola who appealed to members of the group to maintain their integrity as noble and credible individuals, said “you must continue to see yourselves as stakeholders in the affairs of the state. “You must contribute your quota to the development of our state. I commend your support. I noticed your collective and individual contributions, and I will continue to see you as collaborators in governance. “As a government, we shall continue to do the needful and we will not renege on our promise to run a participatory, all-inclusive and people-oriented government”, the governor said.\ Earlier, the Chairman of the Council, Pastor Olatunji Popoola the governor, Alh Gboyega Oyetola for reviewing the education policy in the state, describing it as a rebirth education”. His word, “I must say with all sense of responsibility and sincerity that your resolution on the education policy is a welcome development. You have given Osun education a rebirth and the people of our dear state would continue to be grateful to you for doing the needful even when it is perceived impossible,” Popoola said. He further said: “We want to commend you and your government for all you have been doing since your government came on board. One thing that is germane is the maintenance of peace. You have taken the issue of security to the front burner of policy formulation and implementation.