The Molecular Laboratory facility at the Virology Centre in Ebonyi State has commenced testing for Coronavirus. Governor David Nweze Umahi, stated this during a state broadcast to the people on the activities of the state government to curtail the dreaded COVID-19. He said the Centre, built by his administration was upgraded to a Covid-19 testing centre with the support of the federal government through the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). According to him, the centre is the 7th Coronavirus Testing Centre in the country. He said: “with the assistance of the Federal Government, reagents have been configured to fit into the screening machines owned by the State Government. According to the Governor, eight suspected cases were examined at the Lab which all tested negative adding that they would be accordingly discharged The Governor also announced that holding/observation centress have been established in 6 locations across the state on equality of zones. He noted that with the three treatment/isolation centres being put in place and the check points at the various borders of the state, the state is battle ready to prevent the spread of coronavirus to Ebonyi State. The Governor further stated that the directive on closure of all borders, entry and exit points of the state as well as ban on gatherings of religious worshipers, movement of Vehicle and persons in and out of the State, drinking joints, burials, wedding ceremonies and other social events are still in force except those on essential services. He charged the political office holders at all levels and security agencies to ensure full enforcement of the directives of Government on the COVID-19 pandemic. Meanwhile, the Ebonyi State chapter of the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) have called on the state government not to send recalled aged workers to the field to fight the virus. In a statement by the Chairman, John Where and Secretary, Nwoye Chukwuemeka, the Association said the state government should rather employ young and jobless health workers in the state to fight the virus. “Deployment of retired health workersay be good because of their wealth of experience especially if they will work at the background l, far from the battlefield. Health workers and the elderly are the most vulnerable with higher case fatality compared with general public. “It is our opinion that there are many young doctors, nurses and other health workers who are jobless in the state. They could be recruited and trained to help at this time “The association also called for improvement welfare for health workers in the state to boost their morale in fighting the virus. “Now is the time to motivate health workers who are in the front line battle against the epidemic. Such motivation may include but not limited to improvement of their hazard allowance, insurance policy, and increment in the take home package for the government at all levels” The Association further called on Leaders of all religious organisations in the state to stop congregation of their members at worship centres. “Now is the time to pray at home. God will surely answer our prayers and end this pestilence. While we ask people to stay at home, government realise that many cannot survive except they go out to look for their daily bread. Government should cushion the effect of stay at home,” the added.