 To ensure youths play greater roles in the affairs of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), CBN Governor Godwin Emefiele has disclosed that youth in the bank will be assigned more responsibilities. Speaking at the assumption of duty of Dr. Kingsley Obiora as Deputy Governor Economic Policy Directorate, Emefiele said: “deliberate effort was being made by the Management of the Bank to assign more responsibility to the youth.” These youth, he noted “possessed energy that must be put to positive use for the good of Nigerians.” Emefiele urged all staff of the bank “to work together to enable the Bank to achieve its objectives, and strive to etch their names in the annals of the Bank as having contributed their quota to the overall development of the country.” According to Emefiele, members of staff of the Bank are “part of the monetary policy team that had to play the role of upholding the integrity of the Bank and policies that translate to making lives better for most Nigerians whom they represent in the Bank.” Welcoming Obiora on board, Emefiele congratulated him on his appointment, noting that he was assuming duty at a time when his experience was needed to ensure stability in the Nigerian economy. While assigning the new Deputy Governor to the Economic Policy Directorate, Emefiele charged him to go beyond upholding the interest of the CBN to upholding the interest of Nigeria and Nigerians, majority of who he said desired positive impact in their daily lives. In his remarks after subscribing to the relevant oath administered by the CBN Board Secretary and Director, Corporate Secretariat Department, Mrs. Alice Karau, the new Deputy Governor expressed joy to be back at the CBN, promising to add value to the processes even as he solicited the cooperation of all in achieving his tasks. Dr. Kingsley Isitua Obiora was nominated Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria on Thursday, January 16, 2020 by President Muhammadu Buhari and his appointment was confirmed by the Senate on Thursday, January 30, 2020 paving his replacement of the Dr. Joseph Okwu Nnanna who retired from the services of CBN on February 2, 2020. Kingsley Obiora formally assumed office as Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), replacing Dr. Okwu Joseph Nnanna, who exited from the Bank on February 2, 2020.