The General Overseer of the Redeeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor Enoch Adeboye, on Sunday said ‘only those whose time has come will die’ as the world and Nigeria battle the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic.” He said the siege of the current COVID-19 saga will soon be over. According to the latest breakdown by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Lagos State leads with 59 cases, followed by 16 in Abuja, Ogun – 3, Oyo – 7, Edo – 2, Bauchi – 2, Enugu – 2, Osun – 2 while Ekiti, Kaduna, Rivers and Benue states have one case of the infection each. While one death has been recorded, at least three patients have so far been discharged after they fully recovered from the disease. Pastor Adeboye, who addressed his congregation across the globe via a live broadcast on Sunday on DOVE Television with the topic: ‘Peace, be still’, said: “There is no reason to fear, only those whose time has come will go (die),” the former lecturer said. “Also, if He is in your boat, your boat can never sink. But if He is not in your boat, who can you call upon when trouble comes? It is only in the family of God that there is security when trouble comes.” “I am also on a compulsory holiday. I was supposed to be in four nations this April for ministers’ conferences and Holy Ghost services but now I cannot go. All I do now is wake up in the morning, eat a good meal and enjoy the day. Is that not a good thing,” He also took a swipe at those “who criticised him for saying God knew about the ongoing Coronavirus outbreak urging the congregation to “just pray for them”. He went further that: “God wants to prove he is the one still In-charge. Those who are saying that this thing has nothing to do with God proving himself, keep praying for them. “Just keep on praying for them. Because I remember saying to the almighty God, let there be people who will not believe that this has anything to do with you. If I tell them as usual they will mock. “I told you before that, the world will be on compulsory holiday because God wants to prove that he is still in-charge. Since that is already coming to pass as you can see, then you should believe also that you should relax. I am talking to those of you that are my children that no evil will come near you at all. “When I spoke to my daddy about my pain, concerning all people who are dying and those that will yet die, he assured me that only those whose time to die has come will die. So if your own appointed time hasn’t come relax and enjoy your holidays. “The problem (COVID-19) will soon be over. As soon as God has proven himself, as soon as all the nations of the world big and small has served this compulsory holidays  the problem will be over”.