The outbreak of Covid-19 and its fatalities have had a defining impact on the application of the tools of information communications technology (ICT). The Hague Centre for Strategic Studies report showed that specific digital contact tracing and quarantine measures (CTQ) have recorded success, LUCAS AJANAKU writes that collaboration among stakeholders will provide a resilient digital platform to harness the potential of the industry to face further challenges.  The impacts of the liberalisation of the telecoms sector by former President Olusegun Obasanjo have been phenomenal. From less than 300,000 analogue lines and investment estimated at less than $50million, the transformation has broken the barriers. According to statistics from the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC),  access to telecoms services gaps in communities, which used to be 217, has been narrowed down to 114 in the last five years while over $70billion cash has come into the economy by way of foreign direct investment (FDI). Voice subscriptions have moved from about 160million to over 185 million while teledensity has gone past 100 per cent. In the area of broadband penetration, it has increased from between four and six per cent to over 38per cent while the sector’s gross domestic product (GDP) contribution to the economy has moved from eight per cent to 11per cent.  Challenges Accordging to the Association of Licensed Telecoms Companies of Nigeria (ALTON), the challenges bedeviling the industry are many. They include wilful infrastructure damage. “Operators continue to suffer various forms of infrastructure damage across the country, leading to sudden outages or poor Quality of Service (QoS). A typical scenario is a situation where hoodlums break into a site, kill or injure the guard on duty and cart away valuable equipment such as the power generating sets, BTS equipment and air conditioners among other things,” the group said, stressing that this development leads to network outages in the area covered by the vandalised facility. At the peak of the insurgency in Northeast, operators were also at the receiving end of the destruction that took place in the region. In Adamawa, Borno and Yobe states, 100s of BTS sites were either bombed or affected due to dependence on a bombed site. This has resulted in loss of coverage in places, such as Dikwa, Gamboru, Monguno, Bama, Konduga and Damaturu. Illegal sites lock-outs is another headache of operators. Telcos say this is a major cause of drop calls and poor QoS in general. State governments and local government or their agents on the one hand and landlords/communities over disputed taxes, levies or rent as may be applicable. Operators sometimes get into disputes with states and local governments over taxes and levies or with landlords over rent. These often arise when the government’s agencies attempt to impose illegal taxes and levies in a bid to raise their Internally Generated Revenue (IGR). NCC CEO, Prof Garba Dambatta had intervened in Ogun and Kano states in 2016 where he collaborated with the state governments to ensure unsealing of already sealed BTS. About two years ago, he also ensured that Kogi State unsealed more than 70 BTS sealed by agents of the state. Anther issue is lack of statutory permits for infrastructure roll-out particularly in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) where the Federal Capital Territory Administration and its subsidiary agencies have refused to grant the statutory approvals required by operators to build more sites. “As the existing infrastructure get to full capacity, operators need to build more facilities to accommodate excess call, SMS, data and USSD traffic. Unfortunately, in the past seven years, the FCT administration has not granted approvals for telecommunications sites to be built. They continued to argue that the BTS facilities are in breach of the city’s masterplan,” ALTON said. Another cause of poor QoS in major cities such as Lagos and Abuja is that most large buildings are built without adequate consideration for deployment of ICT infrastructure especially for mobile telecoms services. Best practice in resolving these issues remain deploying mobile telecommunications coverage solutions in existing large buildings. There has been serious proliferation and deployment of unlicensed wireless repeaters/boosters in many market locations and residential premises across the country which have now become a major bane to GSM network QoS. Mobile repeaters are wireless devices which are used in practice to enhance GSM mobile coverage by amplifying and re-transmitting mobile signals to improve coverage in areas where it is poor. One of the key issues operators face is power instability resulting in damage to active equipment. The instability leads to loss of communication and invariably poor customer experience. In some cases, they result in massive fire outbreak in the telecommunications infrastructure/ facilities. ALTON said there is a significant number of handsets in the market which are not compliant with the 3GPP standards. These products are uncertified and are often limited in performance even in perfect network conditions. The impact of these rogue devices does not only impact user experience, it can also degrade network performance. This is in contrast with the objectives of both the NCC and MNOs to provide quality service to mobile subscribers  Way forward The NCC initiatives in the areas of InfraCos licensing, guidelines on commercial satellite operations to complement fibre deployment, trail of 5G, regulations  on the TVWS – unused broadcast spectrum for the deployment affordable broadband services in rural, underserved and under-served areas – among others are commendable, the executive arm of the government has a huge role to play. President Muhammadu Buhari appeared to have hit the nail on its head on this matter by directing the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy Minister, Dr Ibrahim Pantami, to work with all the relevant government agencies to ensure full protection of critical national infrastructure. This presidential directive is based on the recognition of the fact that the minister needed to truly deploy his influence among the political class to tackle issues. For instance, the minister should get the FCDA  to invoke the process of reviewing the Abuja masterplan to accommodate emerging needs and technology such as mobile telecoms that were not in place decades ago when the masterplan was conceived. He could also use the same influence to get the Critical National Infrastructure Bill before the Natiobnal Assembly expeditiously passed into law. Through this, more Nigerians will have access to voice and internet/broadband services,  businesses and organisations will be able to leverage digital platforms to achieve more efficiency in their daily activities while more growth will be recorded in the telecom industry. “The Ministry work harmoniously with NCC to address the myriad of industry challenges. This is key to truly achieving  a Digital Economy that the Minister is championing for the country. “The NCC should also continue its engagements with stakeholders across the geo-political zones to sensitise them on the centrality of protecting telecoms infrastructure, increased regulatory measures in monitoring QoS of MNOs, all in a bid to ensure that Nigerians have unhindered access to telecoms services,” a sector analyst said. Buhari issued the directive at the unveiling of the National Broadband Plan 2020–2025, commissioning of the Communications and Digital Economy complex, flag-off of the Digital Innovation and Entrepreneurship Training and launching of the Abuja Emergency Communication Centre and the National Emergency Toll-Free Number 112. – All this will help to ensure universal services to Nigerians regardless of their location and circumstances so that there is digital inclusiveness. – New Broadband Plan has recently been unveiled with a plan to achieve 70per cent penetration in the country by 2025. Buhari has unveiled the National Digital Economy Policy & Strategy, in a bid to further champion Digital Nigeria. Apparently  realising the centrality of robust telecoms infrastructure to the nation, President Muhammadu Buhari at an official function in Abuja DIRECTED the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy to join with NCC in this regard by working with states and other relevant MDAs towards protecting critical National Infrastructure, especially telecoms services.