As the Central Bank Governor explained it, the reasons for extraordinary financial intervention are a no brainer. Hence Godwin Emefiele noted that the pandemic known as Covid-19 has a paralytic effect not only on the lifestyle of every citizen but also on the economy, which essentially is his forte. Hence he announced a package of palliatives that would help those in households and businesses, especially those affected by Nigeria’s version of the welfare state. He therefore announced that the Nigerian top bank will now pare the interest rate from 9 percent to 5 percent. He also unveiled a N50 billion intervention fund to the Nigeria Incentive-Based Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL), which came into being in 2011 to furnish farmers and other agriculture-related persons to boost agricultural output in the country. It will also cover households and Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, which will include hoteliers, airline providers, healthcare merchants and others. The healthcare industry will also, predictably, benefit. In justifying the action, Governor Emefiele could not be more succinct: “The Coronavirus pandemic is having consequences for both the global and the Nigerian economies. It has already led to unprecedented disruptions in global supply chains, a sharp reduction in crude oil prices, turmoil in the global stock and financial markets, widespread cancellations in sporting, entertainment and business events, lockdown of large source of the movement of persons, in many countries and intercontinental travel restrictions across critical air routes across the world. “These outcomes have had adverse effects for key sectors, including Oil and Gas, airlines, manufacturing, trade and consumer markets. In furtherance of its financial systems stability mandate, the CBN is committed to providing support for affected households, businesses, regulated financial institutions and other stakeholders in order to cushion the adverse economic consequences of this pandemic on our people.” The 5 percent loan will cover not only agriculture but a wide gamut of intervention programmes that include the Anchor Borrowers Programme, the Commercial Agriculture Credit Scheme, the Micro and Medium Enterprises programme or through our ASMIES programme. The CBN has, in the course of the past few years, intervened with N3 trillion through the Deposit Money Banks. Again, the CBN also adds that it will grant businesses a moratorium of at least a year to households and businesses with loans. This means that those businesses with existing moratoria will enjoy the cushion of at least another additional year on their principal payments starting March 1. This is one of the prompt responses to the scourge of coronavirus, just like the cutting of the price of petrol. Other countries, especially in the West, like the United States, France and Britain have drawn up packages for their vulnerable citizens to tide them over these turbulent times. This is an important time for government to see its role not only to stimulate productivity among the so-called captains of industry, but to reach down to the string of companies of the lower cadre that employ a majority of the workers in the country. Some of these intervention actions have been read in the past as political in motive but today, we cannot afford the luxury of partisan imputation because Covid-19 conjures a fear of great suffering ahead if palliatives do not come early in terms of new drugs to take the pandemic out of lives. We also believe that the banks will follow the CBN’s lead in earnest. The N50 billion intervention is a huge outflow but we expect that it will not turn out to be a source of disaffection among recipients by opening wounds of favoritism, bureaucratic delays and diversion.