Police in Ebonyi State on Wednesday confirmed that nine persons from Ndiagu Orie, Umuguduakpu Ngbo community in Ohaukwu Local Government Area of Ebonyi State were killed in a boundary clash with their neighbours from Agila community in Benue State.. Police Commissioner in Ebonyi Awosola Awotinde confirmed the killings, adding that a reinforcement of mobile policemen has been sent to the area. It was learnt that properties worth millions of Naria were destroyed. The chairman of Ohaukwu council, Clement Odah also said nine persons were killed, but residents claimed 12 persons died in the clash. Odah said, “We recorded a resurgence of Ngbo/Agila boundary crisis on Wedesday. But let me put on record that the government of Ebonyi State under Engr. David Umahi has made efforts to ensure peace in that area. “It is a thing of worry and shock that inspite of the efforts put so far, this magnitude of injury will be done to our people. We feel very bad about it. We condemn the killings”,he said. Mr Odah also called on the National Boundary Commission to hasten up with the boundary demarcation to forestall further loss of lives. “We use this opportunity to call on the federal government and specifically the National Boundary Commission(NBC) to hasten up and do the needful. “We have attended several meetings in Abuja at the instance of NBC. We have attended several other peace meetings in Enugu, Benue and Ebonyi States. All these meetings we geared toward restoring lasting peace. The source said when the attackers emerged from the disputed land into the community, some community members who saw them felt they were part of the team that has earlier visited the community not knowing. But when the men got close they unleashed mayhem on the community killing anyone they could lay hands on. A resident of the community, Mr. Eze Ituma expressed shock that despite heavy security presence in the area the Agila people carried out the attack unstopped. The police and the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) have traded words over the killings. IPOB leader Nnamdi Kanu, in a statement, claimed suspected herdsmen attacked the area with security agents’ support. But the police said the attack was carried out by Agila people. Kanu said suspected herdsmen were armed and camped at neighbouring Agila community in Ado Local Government Area of Benue State. He claimed some were dressed in military uniform and were supported by security agents. “These herdsmen in collaboration with the Nigerian Army invaded the community and killed 20 persons. Police spokesperson Loveth Odah debunked IPOB’s claims. She said: “The attention of the Ebonyi State Police Command has been drawn to pictures circulating on various social media platform misleading the reading public that it is herdsmen attack in Ebonyi State. “To set the record straight, the Ebonyi State Police Command wishes to state that pictures showing the killing of persons is as a result of renewed communal crisis between Agila Community in Ado L.G.A of Benue State and Umuogudu Akpo Ngbo community in Ohaukwu L.G.A of Ebonyi State, an incident which is in itself most regrettable”. “However, the command wishes to state categorically that this crisis is a re-enactment of the age-long border crisis between the two warring communities which has led to a loss of lives and destruction of property worth millions of naira. “On 10th of March, 2020, the Divisional Police Officer in-charge of Ohaukwu Division received information through a phone call from the vigilante chairman of Umuogudu Akpo Ngbo in Ohaukwu L.G.A of the state, stating that the people of Agila in Ado L.G.A of Benue state numbering about 35 persons attacked the people of Ndiegu Orie in Umuogudu Akpo Ngbo. “The Police Command swiftly mobilised to the area and discovered that one Fidelis Ali Omem ‘m’ 70yrs old, one Helen Ali ‘f’ 55yrs old and seven (7) others have been murdered while one Titus Ugadu ‘m’ 50ysr old was seriously wounded and admitted in the hospital, some houses and yam bans were set ablaze by the rampaging assailants”. “The Commissioner of Police Ebonyi State, CP. Awosola Awotunde, undertook a tour to the crisis areas where he admonished the people to remain calm and not to carry out any action that will further jeopardise the peace process already initiated by the Government, both at the State and Federal level.” Odah said the National Boundary Adjustment Commission is slated to visit Makurdi on March 26, 2020, for demarcation.