 Lagos State House of Assembly should be emulated by other states legislative Assemblies for applying the rules to sanction its erring members despite that they belong to the ruling party, the Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State, Mr Seye Oladejo has said. Oladejo told our correspondent in a telephone interview that people should not misconstrue what happened in the House as a crisis but should see it as disagreement on principles and fundamentals. The leadership of the House, he said, should be commended for applying the rule of the House against members who belong to the ruling party. The House had removed two of its principal officers and suspended two members indefinitely on grounds of misconduct. Oladejo said members could have sweep the matter under carpet because they belong to the same party but they refused to compromise. “As a matter of fact, the party doesn’t interfere in the affairs of the House. That tells you that democracy is working perfectly in Lagos,” he stated. Oladejo disclosed that the leadership of the APC in the state is in the process of reconciling aggrieved party members with a view to bringing them back into the fold.  According to him, the Chairman, Alhaji Tunde Balogun has been addressing the issues raised by the feuding members so that they can return to the party.  He said that will happen in due course. “In fact we are doing this to make the assignment of the APC  National Reconciliation Committee headed by our father and leader Chief Bisi Akande easier whenever they come to Lagos. We hold Baba Akande as a person in high esteem and the committee he’s heading. We shall cooperate with them”. The APC spokesman said the Peoples Democratic Party is not a threat to Lagos APC because “we are on the ground.” He said for 20 years the PDP has failed to produce a governor in the state. “It’s a party in perpetual crisis, the quarrel over little things, most of their influential members have joined the APC.  The party lacks the capacity to dislodge APC from power, “ he added. 