 WHEN exactly did the name, Odia Ofeimun, come into my consciousness? I guess it was as a young secondary school student at Ilorin, Kwara State, shortly after Nigeria hosted the Second World and African Festival of Arts and Culture (FESTAC) in 1977. On the literary terrain, at least, that surely was another country. The public library located at the Sabo Oke area of Ilorin was well stocked and efficiently run. Virtually all the titles published under the rubric of the famous African Writers Series (AWS) was available in the library. Of course, there were other books of diverse genres and subjects available to the reading the public in the modest two-storey building. Not only could we read, we were allowed to borrow books for periods of up to two weeks at a time if I recall correctly. To the best of my knowledge, hardly were the books ever defaced or stolen. It was at the library that I came across an anthology of writings from the FESTAC event comprising short stories, poems, drama and essays. I borrowed the book for extended periods and avidly read through the literary offerings. I remember in particular being fascinated by one or two short stories by Cyprian Ekwensi as well as poems by one Odia Ofeimun in the book. One of Odia’s poems I read over and over then was titled ‘Emotan’ although I cannot remember now what so struck me about the poem or even details of what it was about. But Odia Ofeimun’s poems were amongst those that stimulated my interest in poetry and even my attempts to try my hands at poetry. Years later as an undergraduate at the University of Ibadan, I actually joined ‘The Poetry Club’ established by the late Harry Garuba and even though I religiously attended meetings of the group at the Faculty of Arts, I always felt too timid to recite my poetry scribblings as they did not appear to me meet the standards of poetry set by Ofeimun and other poets I read. I was thus amazed when Professor Femi Osofisan actually published a number of the poems I had only half heartedly sent him in his literary journal, ‘Opon Ifa’. Even then, I was not encouraged enough to continue my adventures in poetry. At the commencement of the politics of the Second Republic with the formation of political parties in 1978, I found the welfarist policy platform of Chief Obafemi Awolowo compelling and was naturally attracted to his newly formed Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN). Even as a 15 year old teenager, I was a UPN polling agent in Ilorin in the series of elections that ushered in the Second Republic much to the discomfiture of my father. Although an ardent Awoist himself, my father was naturally concerned that I was too young to thrust myself into the ‘ebullition’ of Nigeria’s all too frequently violent politics. But I was passionate enough about Awo’s progressive policies to take the risk. Again, on the political terrain, I came across the name, Odia Ofeimun. He had been appointed as private secretary to Chief Obafemi Awolowo. Given Awo’s legendary self discipline, capacity for hard work, attention to detail, uncompromising commitment to punctuality, integrity and diligence, it was obvious that not just anybody could qualify to be employed as his personal staff. Even though Ofeimun was to leave the job in controversial circumstances and his personal integrity unjustly and wrongly impugned, the truth was later uncovered and his innocence established even though the great man reportedly never personally apologized for the error as Odia eminently deserved. Yet, it is a tribute to Odia’s moral integrity and ideological fidelity that, even though he parted ways with Awo on a personal note as his staff, he remained committed and faithful to the sage’s politics, ideas and programmatic agenda for Nigeria. As a student at the Department of Political Science, University of Ibadan, in the early to mid 1980s, the name Odia Ofeimun was again thrust into my consciousness. The poet and polyvalent intellectual had graduated with a Bachelors degree in political science from the Department years earlier. For my undergraduate research essay, I had chosen to write on ‘The Political Thought of Chief Obafemi Awolowo’. My supervisor and professor told me that Odia Ofeimun was at the time working on a doctoral thesis on the politics and ideas of Awolowo and that he was coming up with a very fascinating and original perspective. Even if he does not complete it as a doctoral thesis, I think Odia stills owe the world a definitive work on Awlolowo’s role in the political and socio-economic development of Nigeria. One of the essays in Odia’s book, ‘A House of many Mansions’ is titled ‘Obafemi Awolowo: Nigeria’s Man of the Century’. In the essay, he illustrates his uncanny ability to link personalities and issues that appear superficially distant when he reflects on the impacts of Lord Lugard and Obafemi Awolowo on Nigerian politics. In his words, “While Lugard, his ideas and legacy, dominated the first half of the century, Awolowo was, pre-eminently, the personage whose ideas and political struggles most positively defined the second half”. He continued, “Of course, the paradox needs to be emphasized that, antithetical as their different legacies appear, both Awolowo and Lugard put their stamp on time and events through a lusty commitment to intellectual labour, personal discipline, the pursuit of organizational rigour and administrative proficiency. What the historian M.I. Okonjo writes of Lugard in his ‘British Administration: A Nigerian view”, is also true of Awolowo: of having ‘more than unusual preoccupation with the business of documenting and justifying…a passion for detailed definition of principles and rules…’ and ‘an obsessional zeal’ induced in ‘activist loyal disciples’. The essays in ‘A House of Many Mansions’ illustrate the encyclopedic knowledge and catholic interests of Ofeimun, a man of character and intellect, a devotee of the life of the mind, a patriot who takes Nigeria seriously and has committed his life to contributing to her rapid development and socio-economic transformation. As his admirers celebrate the ‘House of 70 mansions’ that Odia Ofeimun’s life is at  70, this column wishes this great man a very happy birthday and even more fruitful and fulfilling years ahead.