Our Reporter The Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi, has urged Governors Seyi Makinde (Oyo) and Gboyega Oyetola (Osun) to cede the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH), Ogbomoso, to one state. Alaafin spoke when members of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Oyo State Council, visited him in his palace. The team was led by its Chairman, Ademola Babalola. The monarch maintained that two states cannot manage a university successfully in Nigeria. LAUTECH, established in the early 90s, and owned by Oyo and Osun States, has been embroiled in ownership crises in the last few years. Alaafin insisted that the best way to solve the LAUTECH crisis is to end the joint ownership agreement because the joint ownership is the source of crises. According to the monarch, differences in political parties, ideologies and polices will not allow the governors agree on some issues affecting the university. He urged Makinde and Oyetola to cede the university to one state so that the future generation will be protected. He said: “Have you heard of two men marrying one woman at the same time? There is no way two states will run one university in Nigeria. There are times they will come from different political parties. “No, two states cannot manage one university successfully. Even when they are from the same party, they will have different polices. For example, the education policies introduced by Rauf Aregbesola have been cancelled by Oyetola. So, there is no way two states can manage the university successfully”. Oba Adeyemi, who added that journalism is a tasking profession with many hazards, urged journalists to always be careful while carrying out their duties. Babalola praised the monarch for his leadership role in the country, and called on governments at all levels to carve a special role for traditional rulers in the administration of the country. He added that traditional rulers are too important to be ignored to ensure smooth running of the country. He said: “Kabiesi, we are glad to be in your palace. We appreciate you and pray that you will continue to play your fatherly role in Yoruba land and Nigeria as a whole.”