Although it has been over 12 days since an Italian tested positive to Corona Virus in Nigeria, many still doubt the existence of the virus in the country, while others say they know very little about the disease. Some Nigerians who spoke to The Nation during the week described reports about the virus as “another scam, an opportunity for those in the ministry of health to make some good money.” They alleged that there is no Corona virus in Nigeria. Others, however, believe there is indeed an Italian being treated for Corona virus in Nigeria, but they want the government to do more to ensure that we do not have more infected people coming into the country, as this may prove really fatal for us as a people. “Can’t you see they want to review the budget? Didn’t you hear that Dangote Foundation has donated N200million? Abeg, there is no Corona Virus in Nigeria; they just want to make money,” said Miss Ejiofor, a nurse. She even queried why the government has not mentioned the name of the Italian who was said to have contracted the virus. Mr. Shadrach Obam also believes the report about the Italian being treated of Corona virus is cooked up. “I believe this virus is not in Lagos. What they have done is just to make a name for the health minister and probably defraud the state of some money,” he alleged. Obam’s claim is based on his belief that if truly the Italian was infected, more people who came in close contact with him would have tested positive by now. But, that, he said, is not the case, instead “the so-called Uber driver that was said to have conveyed the man from the airport to wherever he was going to has come out to deny the fact in a viral video.” While some people our reporters spoke with doubted the veracity of the claim that Nigeria has recorded one case of Corona virus, many others believe that Lagos State has recorded one Corona virus case and they are taking measures to protect themselves from being infected, while a few others are altogether indifferent. For Mrs. Raimi, a mother of one who lives at the Ijanikin area of Lagos, Corona Virus is real and has in fact killed hundreds already in Nigeria. “Madam leave that thing joor. You no hear say many people don die for Abeokuta? They are lying to us that only one Italian was quarantined. “As for me, my daughter has stopped going to school since. I had her after nine years of marriage and she is already eight years without another child; so I don’t want to lose her,” she said. Asked if she had seen or heard of anyone who has tested positive to the virus, she said she had not. Unlike Raimi, our reporters, who visited different parts of Lagos from Badagry to Mile 2, Oshodi to Ayobo and Badagry to Agbara, Ogun State, noticed that commuters did not seem to pay much attention to Corona virus. They hardly saw people wearing face masks. Maybe the reason many people were spotted without face masks is Daisi Olaseinde’s reason for refusing to wear face masks. “I don’t carry hand sanitisers everywhere. But I wash my hands as often as possible. You see, I deliberately didn’t mention wearing of face masks because the information I’m getting is that most people are misusing it. I heard the coloured part outside means you’re infected. But most people, even a caricature of a senator wore it to the red chambers. Who does that?” Olaseinde, however, believes the Lagos State government is doing very well in fighting the virus. “I give credit to the Lagos State government for being proactive. They are doing a good work in handling the case and giving requisite information to the public,” he said. Mrs. Ruth Ebong also believes that “we have a case of the Corona virus in Nigeria. My major concern now is how prepared we are? What are the strict measures at our international and local airport? All foreigners coming from countries where there have been outbreak should be quarantined whether they show symptoms or not,” she said. Asked what she’s doing to protect herself and family, Ebong said, “Personally, preventive measures to take are the normal personal hygiene; you should always wash hands, avoid handshakes for now, make use of hand sanitiser. I ensure my kids wash their hands as soon as they get back from school. I pray and believe that like the Ebola saga, this will pass too.” Anuoluwapo cannot understand why people doubt the veracity of this claim. “I believe there is a case of the virus in Lagos as I was privileged to speak with a friend who works at Lafarge and he gave me the full details of how the guy was invited for some sort of appraisal of their machineries or so and he fell ill, was rushed to their clinic,” she said. Asked how she ensures she does not get infected, Anuoluwapo said, “I am protecting myself by washing my hands regularly and I have a hand sanitiser attached to my bag.  I actually think the government needs to stop flights from China and Italy from coming in for now.” A medical doctor, Victoria Udofia, believes the virus can be contained if everybody practices regular hand washing and hygiene. “Personally, I ensure I wash my hands/use hand sanitisers almost every time I touch surfaces.” For a business woman, Angela Momoh, whether the claim of Nigeria recording a case of Corona virus is true or not, she has maintained her regular hygiene routine. “I’m on the fence about that; it may be true and it may not. They may not want to reveal the identity of the Italian for diplomatic reasons but then, I wouldn’t put anything past this government. No special precautionary measures, I just maintain normal hygiene. I always wash my hands when I come indoors and I have always used hand sanitisers.” A Quality Analyst at NIVEA, Olabode Kehinde, said, “I’m aware of the outbreak and even before the outbreak, I have always practiced good hygiene. I have my personal sanitiser at home and also at my workplace. Concerning the way I handle my naira notes, I don’t have any special way for now but what I do is that I always wash and sanitise my hands whenever I handle any naira note.” On the part of a market woman who sells perishable goods at Mushin market, Madam Caroline Adamu, she said: “I know people are talking about the virus but I’m not practicing any hygiene for now; it is not my portion. I don’t have a particular place that I keep my money.” A banker in Lagos, Mrs. Esther Adeola, whom the reporter met at her desk while counting notes without a mask, said, “I am aware of the outbreak of Corona virus and I’ve been taking precautionary measures both at home and in the office. I have my personal sanitiser and I also ensure that my children practice personal hygiene. “On the issue of handling notes, I’ve not been taking any precautionary measure in that area yet.”