Experts have emphasised the  importance of strong organisational culture in achieving impressive corporate performance. Speaking at a culture training organised by SmithsWorks Limited tagged, “A Live Session with David Eaton” at the Stock Exchange House in Lagos, experts agreed that there exists positive relationship between organisational culture and corporate performance. Head, Shared Services Division, Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), Mr. Bola Adeeko, said strong corporate governance practices help in building organisational culture. According to him, in the workplace, organisational culture has been identified as critical to the success of an organisation. This is as a result of the need to adapt to evolving external forces, achieve internal integration and deliver on an organisation’s strategic objectives. He noted that maintaining the intricate balance between internal and external forces in any organisation can only be achieved through strong corporate governance practices. He added that the NSE in its role as regulator and thought leader provides various directives and initiatives that help drive the adoption of these good practices among issuers. He pointed out that one of such initiatives was the NSE’s partnership with the Convention on Business Integrity (CBi) to launch Nigeria’s foremost framework for ranking companies on issues related to corporate governance, the Corporate Governance Rating System (CGRS), in 2014. The CGRS was designed to rate companies listed on the NSE based on their corporate governance and anti-corruption posture, thereby improving the overall level of confidence and trust in Nigeria’s capital markets and business practices. Globally recognised culture transformation expert, Mr. Dave Eaton highlighted the critical role of inclusion and strong corporate governance in framing, cascading and aligning the corporate culture with the business objectives of an organisation. He engaged participants through a series of case studies and practical exercises. Participants were asked to identify the position and aspirations of their organisations across these seven dimensions: power, perspective, creativity, time, independence, communications and inclusion. Eaton went on to highlight the importance of the exercise. According to him, the Lucky 7 Culture Survey is expected to amplify the collective voice of those within the organisation in the journey to achieving higher operational excellence. Defined as a set of basic values, perceptions, wants and behaviours learnt by a group of people within an ecosystem, organisational culture is of utmost importance in enhancing performance, promoting teamwork and achieving the organisation’s strategic aspirations. With benefits ranging from greater share-price increases, lower employee turnover, more employment applications, less absenteeism, greater employee productivity and greater customer satisfaction levels, it has been proven that culture can improve and sustain corporate performance. Commissioner, Lagos State Ministry of Establishments, Training and Pensions, Mrs. Ajibola Ponnle, who was the special guest of honour at the event, expressed delight over the event and highlighted the importance of positive corporate culture. “Among the many factors that affect an organisation’s ability to innovate, compete and engage employees and customers is corporate culture. Organisations should, therefore, focus on the unification of values, vision, mission, and the day-to-day aspects of communication, interaction, and operational goals that create the atmosphere that affects the way people work,” Mrs Ponnle said. The training, co-sponsored by NSE, Axa Insurance, Seevest and Bovas, was attended by senior human resources managers, talent management practitioners, corporate culture shapers and business leaders across industries.