As members of the House of Representatives move to endorse the Southwest Development Commission Bill, TONY AKOWE writes that the bill, if passed, may open a floodgate to demands for its replication in other geopolitical zones.Will this not bring confusion to the nation’s body polity.  Barring any last minute hiccups and probably the denial of presidential assent after the bill has passed its second reading, the Southwest zone is on its way to have its own development commission. This will bring the number of development commissions in the country to three. The pioneer, the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), is undergoing a forensic audit, triggered by alleged under-hand dealings and financial fraud. There is an avalanche of requests by other geopolitical zones for the establishment of development commissions of their own. However, there are doubts as to the reasonability of some of the requests before the National Assembly. Many are of the view that the setting up of some of the commissions was justified given the circumstances that led to their coming into existence. But some still questioned the rationale behind the agitation for more in view of the stench of alleged financial infractions in some existing ones. Observers are of the view that rather than improving the lives of the people, some commissions have become conduit pipes through which funds are siphoned by those appointed to run them. Despite these contradictions, individuals and interest groups have continued to press for the establishment of commisions in their various zones. On February 26, the House of Representatives debated the general principle of the bill to create such commission for the Southwest. Without a single dissenting voice, the lawmakers stood in support of the bill, which was sponsored by 80 lawmakers. When the bill was presented for first reading on December 11, 2019, it was marked as House Bill (HB) 597, with sponsors listed as Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila and 80 others. However, Olufemi Fakeye ((APC, Osun), who presented the bill for second reading and who led the debate, told The Nation that the Speaker was not involved in the bill and that his name was included at the initial stage in error. The beauty of the bill is the broad spectrum of those who signed up as its sponsor. They cut across the six geopolitical zones. At the general principles stage, the Speaker who is also from the Southwest, refused to allow members from the Southwest to contribute to the debate. “Members from the Southwest, put down your hands and allow others to fight your battle for you,” the Speaker said. The bill seeks to establish the commission saddled with the responsibility to, among others, receive and manage funds from the Federation Account, including donations and gifts for the reconstruction and rehabilitation of roads, houses and other infrastructural damages suffered by the region; and the need to tackle the ecological problems and any related environmental or developmental challenges in the Southwest states. Fakeye said as a result of the slave trade that took place in its coastal areas centuries ago, the Western Region was exposed rather early to, and embraced, western education. He said as a result of that, it was natural that the regional government would be the first to develop and implement a free primary school education policy. According to him, the condition of infrastructural development in the southwest today is precarious because the population has not only increased, but remained mostly agrarian, with exports still largely consisting of primary produce items from the same old plantations that are yearning for replanting. He said: “For several years now, moving cargo for export or import through the two active seaports in Apapa and Tin Can Island, or through the Murtala Mohammed International Airport, has become a nightmare for the few businesses that have managed to survive, putting a veritable dent on the same ease-of-doing-business index that Nigeria is trying so hard to improve upon.” Of particular concern to the sponsors of the bill is the heavy vehicular traffic in the Lagos metropolis at the moment. With an estimated population of over 20 million, Lagos is chaotic because there is no mass-transit alternative. Yet, Lagos remains the country’s major business hub and window to the investment world. The chaotic situation in traffic situation in Lagos, the lawmakers believe, has an impact on investment in the zone as a lot of foreign direct investment opportunities are bypassing Nigeria and flowing into other investor-friendlier destinations in West Africa such as Ghana. This has continued to leave Nigeria the targeted market that would end up importing just about any item manufactured in the sub-region and in Africa as a whole. The trend is more pronounced with Nigeria signing the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) treaty. If the AfCFTA would have any meaning for Nigeria, our industrial base and hub must be strengthened and the passage of this Bill would be a right step towards achieving that. Fakeye said the bill seeks to legislatively explore how to cure some of the ailments in the Southwest, just as has been done and would still be done for other geopolitical zones. It will also seek to redirect federal budgetary attention to some areas of growth that could have multiplier effects of geometric proportions, such as Agriculture, Transportation, Information and Communication Technology (ICT), Environment, etc., on the overall economy. This aspiration is one of the reasons lawmakers from the six states of the Southwest and their other colleagues are proposing this historic bill.  He told the lawmakers that: “In passing this Bill, we would be demonstrating the courage as national leaders to lift a finger towards turning the current sordid socio-economic fortunes of the zone (and, therefore, of the country) around, so that our youths could confidently channel their collective energy into productive endeavours that would yield for us a better future rather than them, out of frustration and misguided desperation, engaging in anti-social practices that tend towards criminality.” House Chief Whip Tahir Mongunu said members should give the bill the same speed of passage that was accorded to the Northeast Development Commission Bill, which has since been signed into law by the President. He reminded his colleagues that when the Northeast Development Commission Bill was brought before the House, it was passed without any opposition. He believed that considering the nature of Lagos as the gateway to the country and the Southwest to the economic development of the country, there is the need to have a vehicle that will drive the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the region. He said the bill became necessary as a result of the reversal of the economic fortune of the country. “Sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander,” he said. Similarly, Nkiruka Onyejeocha, who is the Deputy Chief Whip, believes the bill is a wake-up call for the legislature. Hon. Yusuf Buba described Lagos as the commercial capital of Nigeria, which does not belong to anybody but all Nigerians. Buba said: “If we develop the commercial nerve centre of the country, we are indirectly developing the country because the revenue base of the country will increase as a result of more investors that will be coming in and there will be more money for other states to use.” Also, Hon. Ossai Nicholas Ossai said Lagos has the biggest seaports in the country and, therefore, immense pressure is brought to bear on facilities in the area. Ossai argued that as a result of activities at the seaports, a lot of articulated vehicles that ply the roads in Lagos have destroyed such roads. “If you want Nigeria to develop, you have to first develop the southwest,” he said. While many believe that the overwhelming support of the lawmakers for the bill has to do with the fact that the Speaker is directly or indirectly involved in it, some others believe that those from other zones supporting the bill are doing so to prepare ground for their own development commission bills. A similar bill from the Southeast was said to have been thrown out by the same House. But the Southeast Development Commission Bill has resurfaced again in the House. But, the question being asked at the moment is, what will be the status of Ondo State when the bill is passed, since Ondo is currently part of the Niger Delta Development Commission? Similar questions are also being asked about Abia and Imo states, which are under the NDDC, in the event of having the proposed Southeast Development Commission Bill passed. Will the states remain part of the NDDC and be part of the development commissions for their zones? Will that not be to the detriment of the Niger Delta or will the NDDC change its name to Southsouth Development Commission or will lawmakers from the zone come up with their own commission? There are many questions begging for answers as the House prepares to hold a public hearing on the desirability or otherwise of the proposed commission. In all, will the President see the need to sign the bill into law when passed? At the moment, both the NDDC and the NEDC are expected to draw funding directly on first line charge from the Federation Account. Will there be a Southsouth commission that will also benefit from the same source? With the huge financial scandal being investigated at the NDDC, is it really desirable to have another commission just to create jobs for the boys?