Sacked Council bosses in Oyo state under the aegis of Association of Local Government of Nigeria (ALGON) have pushed aside their political differences to join the list of well wishers praying for quick recovery Governor Seyi Makinde. Makinde, on Monday, joined the list of people who tested positive to the novel COVID-19. A statement by the Chairman of the group, Prince Ayodeni Abass-Aleshinloye, on Tuesday said instead of trading blames as to the cause(s) or venue(s) of the infection afflicting the governor, everyone should concentrate on how to combat coronavirus, which has become a common enemy and grave danger to humanity and global economy. The statement entitled: “Get well quick, Your Excellency, Engr Seyi Makinde” added that a lesson to learn now is to be one brother’s keepers in togetherness and common objective which is to see a COVID-19 free Oyo State, Nigeria and the entire world. The statement reads in parts, “ALGON Oyo State prays for the quick recovery of Engr. Seyi Makinde, Executive Governor of Oyo State, as he undergoes treatment for CONVID-19 in the isolation centre. “Instead of trading blames as to the cause(s) or venue(s) of the infection afflicting the governor, we should concentrate more on how to combat coronavirus our common enemy that has now become a real danger to humanity and its health and economic prosperity globally. “Coronavirus disease knows no frontier, no class, no political party, religion or ethnic origin, so we must unite for its containment and cure because no one is safe in as much as the dangerous virus is still in anyone’s cell. “A lesson to learn now is to be our brother’s keepers in togetherness and common objective which is to see a COVID-19 free Oyo State, Nigeria and the entire world. “We equally wish all those who have been afflicted well and quick recovery. Please let us obey all medical directives and government’s order of a lockdown. The limited sacrifice from all of us is better than mass death, sorrows and tears. God forbids. “We shall definitely overcome. “We eagerly look forward to welcoming His Excellency, Mr. Seyi Makinde, back on his seat and leadership position of our pacesetter state, hale and hearty. Get well soon your Excellency.”