Adeniyi Adewoyin It was a night of premium entertainment on Thursday March 19 when Trace hosted indigenous rapper cum singer Phyno at the Trace Live with Phyno, themed “Trace Live: Deal with It”, a tag off Phyno’s recently released album. The live music event which held at Terra Kulture, Tiamiyu Savage, Victoria Island, Lagos had industry heavyweights like Paul Okoye “Rudeboy”, Jude Okoye, Kcee, Zoro, Black Jersey and others in attendance.  The show started with rib cracking jokes from comedian, Pencil who gave a classic performance dishing out jokes to cheer the crowd. The comedian said various jokes and got the fans laughing for about half an hour before the man of the night came up on stage looking super dapper in his black ensemble.  Phyno sure gave his best performance to his fans who sang along with him word for word as he dished out several hits from his debut studio album ” No Guts No Glory” which was released in 2014 to his third studio album “Deal with It”, released last year. He performed songs like ‘Get the Info’, ‘Parcel’, ‘One time’, ‘Alobam’ ‘Get the Info’, ‘Parcel’, ‘Link up’, ‘Isi Ego’ and ‘Konnect’ among others using a live band. Sighting Jude ” Engees” Okoye during his performance, Phyno stopped for a moment to make a revelation. The O set singer revealed that Jude was the one he ran to when he needed money to shoot the visuals for one of his songs title Man of the Year. “Na Jude borrow me money to shoot that video. One million naira. I don chop your money sha”, he said jokingly as they all laughed.  However while there were fears of Corona Virus and social distancing has been a major way of avoiding the spread. The organizers mad sure everyone at the entrance got their hands sanitized before gaining entry into the venue. Another major highlight of the night was the raffle draw by LG which saw Five lucky guests go home with units of XBoom Bluetooth boxes. Trace Live is presented by Trace in partnership with Bolanle Austen-Peters and proudly sponsored by Lord’s Gin, Pepsi and LG. 