 BEING in a relationship is both exciting and challenging, exciting because of the feelings involved, challenging because of the down time and other sacrifices one will have to make.  As a couple, you will experience highs and lows, this is very normal and not peculiar to one person. However, you can stay strong and even make the relationship stronger if you take constant efforts, sacrifices, and countless ways to show how sincere and committed you are with each other. You don’t always have to do something grand though to make a relationship work. Simple things can work and attention to little details can make a difference. Here are just a few I would like to share with you below: Eat together No matter how busy you are, make sure you spend some time and eat together.  A couple that eats together stays together. Be appreciative You might be too used to seeing your partner being extra caring to you, but he/she has to feel that you appreciate his/her efforts- small or big. Share a good laugh Throw each other some jokes. Share your funny childhood experiences. Laughing together is one secret of a lasting relationship. Do silly stuff together Doing silly stuff together can spice up your relationship, so don’t hesitate to show that crazy yet lovable side of you. Say the magic words While the words seem overused, don’t forget to express your love. Say “I love you” to your partner, and, of course, mean it. Speak your mind Speak up if something is bothering you or if you find something wrong in the relationship. Solving a relationship problem starts with making each other aware that there is a problem. Be constructive Choose your words when talking to your partner. Be constructive to avoid any further misunderstanding. Listen to each other While you can always voice out your concerns, take the time to listen to your partner for you to understand his/her side. Compromise One way to fix relationship problems is coming up with a compromise. Talk about what you can do for each other. Find a middle ground. Say sorry While it’s hard to set aside your pride, learn to say these words when you know you’re the one at fault. Be honest to your partner Don’t praise your partner when he/she is not supposed to be praised. Tell him/her what you see as mistakes. Be honest because it’s the right thing to do. Be loyal and faithful Trust and loyalty go hand in hand. Be loyal and faithful to your partner for you to deserve the trust he/she is giving you. Believe in yourself This might not be too simple to others, but you just have to believe and trust yourself for you to be capable of trusting your partner. Believe in what your partner says Trusting your partner means you believe in what he/she says. Only doubt when there’s an explicit reason to do so. Trust your love for each other Remember that your love for each other is greater than any other temptations. Hence, have faith in your love. Be there during the dark times Your partner might be depressed right now. Be that someone who he/she can lean on. Let your partner vent out Let your partner vent out if he or she’s too stressed at work. He/she needs someone to listen to him/her, and he wants that someone to be you. Give pieces of advice Whenever your partner is going through something, don’t hesitate to give your pieces of advice. That’s you showing how much you care about him/her. Be a partner and a best friend Don’t just be  a partner; be his/her best friend. You will surely strengthen the foundation of your relationship. Respect your differences You may have different personalities, but the key is to respect each other’s differences. Listen to your partner’s sensible points You may have different preferences in things, but this won’t be a problem if you listen to and accept your partner’s sensible points. Respect your partner’s values and principles It’s expected that you will have differences in terms of values and principles. The key is not forcing each other to believe in your principles. The key word is again respect. Put yourself into your partner’s shoe In order for you to easily understand your partner’s actions and choices, put yourself into your partner’s shoe. Be patient with each other Learn to be patient with each other. Give each other as well as the relationship time to grow. Accept each other’s imperfections Remember that he/she is your perfectly imperfect partner. ‘Embrace each others flaws. Don’t forget your cuddling moments Make ample time for cuddling. It doesn’t always have to lead to sex, but remember that physical contact is one important language of love. Binge watch together Spend your night by binge watching your favorite series. You will certainly share laughter, fear, and anger while watching the shows. Have a dinner date at home You don’t always have to go out just to spend quality time with each other. Set up an intimate dinner at home and enjoy each other’s company. Go to museums together Are you the artsy type of couple? Go to museums together, appreciate the beauty of art, and create more wonderful memories together.