 The Ekiti People’s Democratic Party chairmanship aspirant, Dr. Tope Aluko on Friday raised the alarm over alleged plot by the outgoing Gboyega Oguntuase-led State Working Committee to manipulate ward congress schedule to begin this Saturday. Aluko alleged that the Oguntuase-led have been making moves to manipulate PDP authentic membership register by removing and replacing names in favor of its preferred aspirant. The Ekiti PDP congresses is scheduled to begin on March 7 where the party’s ward executives would be elected. Addressing journalists in Ado-Ekiti on Friday, the former state Secretary of the party claimed the Oguntuase-led SWC has been perfecting plans to foist their preferred candidate as chairman of the party, which he said was antithetical to the wishes of the teeming loyal party’s members in the state. He vowed to resist any move to impose aspirant by some ‘unscrupulous elements’ within the party hierarchy, saying every contenders must be ready to test his popularity at the congress. “I wish to bring to the attention of the members of PDP in Ekiti that the Oguntuase-led SWC are making moves to alienate some teeming loyal PDP members from participating in tomorrow’s ward congress to satisfy their paymaster. “This sad development could be regarded as the highest of impunity and plot to impose chairman on the party. This is the same practice that nearly consumes our party. “There is no specific role in the party constitution for the SWC as regards congress. It supposed to be the affairs of the is National Working Committee through the congress Committee. But I am surprised that the SWC are saying aspirant should return the forms. “I am not surprised by the desperation being displayed by the Oguntuase-led SWC with a view to foist chairman on the party since their paymasters have realized their preferred aspirant do not enjoy desired acceptability among members of the party”, he said. In a swift reaction, Oguntuase described the allegations as baseless, spurious and tissues of lies, saying the party does not has preferred aspirant. He assured that the guidelines set for the conduct of the congresses by the party’s legal framework would be strictly adhered to in ensuring the congress stand the test of credibility and transparency. Aluko, however, urged members of the party in Ekiti State to vote for a credible executive at the party congress, saying the bastion of any political party is reflected in the type leadership elected at the grassroots level. He said the failure of the Governor Kayode Fayemi-led administration in the state to deliver the superlative services desirable from democratic governance has created the opportunity for PDP to take back power if leaders that are sincere were elected