President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday gave reasons for the early adoption of digital economy by his administration, saying it was targeted at diversifying the economy, fighting corruption and using the deployment of technology to address the security challenges facing the country. The President made the remarks while inaugurating the Digital Economic Complex located at Mbora, Abuja, built by the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC). The President, who also launched the Nigerian National Broadband Plan 2020-2025 and inaugurated the Emergency Communications Centre and Toll Free Number 112, lamented that the dwindling price of crude oil affected the country’s budgetary projections hence, the urgent need to diversify the economy. His words: “I am delighted to commission a number of projects today, all of which will embrace the development of our national digital economy and support our efforts in diversifying the economy. “The dwindling price of crude oil has vastly affected our budgetary projections and it has increased our sense of urgency with regards to the diversification of the economy. “The digital economy will also support us in fighting corruption. Digital technologies have become a useful platform for economic diversification and we recognize the benefits of these technologies. “We have decided to adopt the digital economy very early. This informed our decision to expand the reach of the Federal Ministry of Communications to include the digital economy in line with global best practices. “The Ministry has since developed the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy for the realization of digital Nigeria, which we unveiled last year. We are also aware that mechanisms have been put in place for its implementation. The development of the national broadband plan is in line with the objectives of the Federal Government to provide broadband for Nigerians. “The Plan is also expected to support our objective of deploring 4G technology across the country. The Federal government is aware of the challenges operators face including vandalisation of telecommunications equipment.” The president, however, said his administration was committed to ensuring that all stakeholders have a conducive environment to ensure the successful implementation of the broadband plan. “I have directed the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy to work with all relevant government agencies to ensure that critical national infrastructure are protected. I, therefore, urge the mobile network operators to ensure full attainment of the target set in the plan and also give sufficient attention to un-served and underserved areas while deploring their services,” he said. Buhari also stated that the inauguration of the Emergency Toll Free Centre showed the administration’s resolve to keep Nigerians safe, adding that “Nigerians in distress are only a dial away from the relevant emergency response institutions in the country”. He said the facility would go a long way in supporting government’s efforts to improve the security of lives and properties. “The digital Nigeria program is one of the Federal Government’s key initiatives that will empower innovators and entrepreneurs with skills required to thrive in our emerging digital economy,” the President said. In his remarks, the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Ali Pantami, commended President Buhari for the support of his administration in executing projects that have direct impacts on the lives of the citizenry. He said the development of the Broadband Plan aligns with global best practices and members of the committee who are 32 industry experts worked assiduously to prepare the plan as a way of addressing critical infrastructure issues and bridging access gaps in providing telecom services to Nigerians.