Dear Ma, On May 13, 2017, Ocean Vuong, a novelist and poet, wrote a piece in The New Yorker titled “A Letter to My Mother That She Will Never Read”. The piece was drawn from a talk Vuong was billed to deliver at the Smithsonian’s Asian American Literary Festival in July 2017. Vuong is the author of the novel “On Earth We’re Briefly Gorgeous” and the poetry collection “Night Sky with Exit Wounds”, which won the 2017 T. S. Eliot Prize. Unlike Vuong’s letter, I am sure you will read this. Maami, my own Titilayo, the daughter of the late Owolodun Agbomeji of Ogunle Lane, Epe who fondly called me “Baba” because he believed I was his father’s reincarnate. The first time I met you in 1978 after I had lived inside of you for nine months, I knew not who you were. I knew not you were the descendant of Ogunle. You fed me milk from your breasts, which you once nicknamed “obrokoto”. With time you fed me with Cerelac and later pap and solid food followed later. We left Apata Street, Somolu, in 1980 for the then ‘bush’ now known as Ayige Street in Orile-Agege. Your husband, the one and only Kayusco, was some sort of distributor of Nigerite roofing sheets at the time, and was not keen about living in a place like Orile-Agege, but his older friend and perhaps Nigerite’s number one dealer, MAT, ‘tricked’ him into buying a land and eventually building a house in the ‘slum’ that was at some point home to ace Fuji musician General Kollington Ayinla. In Ayige, you continued showing me kindness, even when you were harsh on Sister Funke who had cause to wonder if you were her real mother. There were only five of us at that time: Funke, Sola, Muyiwa, Bukola and me. Seun did not join us until that day in 1984 when I came back from what is now known as Orile-Agege Primary School and, if I remember correctly, you asked me to help you get water into the bathroom. You took your bath and went to Betta Hospital, which was then at the beginning of Coker Street. This was long before it moved to its permanent site on 9/11 Coker Street, Orile-Agege. You returned home with Seun the following day. It was in Agege that I once stole your money; the clever you got us all to come out of the house, and you subsequently asked us to go in one after the other, with the order that whoever took the money must return it. I returned it, thinking it was a secret between me and God. Years later, I confessed to you and you laughed. I was shocked to find out you knew I was the petty thief. Unknown to me and the rest of us, you were peeping from the window as we went in one by one and you caught me red-handed returning my loot. Thank God there was no camera phone; you could have recorded me live and direct! What would I tell Opemipo and Toluwanimi if the video evidence exists? You combined motherhood with your career as a businesswoman. At some point, you were going, I think, up North to buy goods but had to stop when you came back one day and met me with a swollen mouth or lip. I had engaged Tunbosun, the elder brother of my childhood friend Deji, in a Kungfu fight in front of Daddy Oduntan’s house. I had assumed from what I saw on television that I was an expert and carried my ‘saara’ beyond the Mosque by engaging an older and stronger person in a Chinese-style bout. Later, you sold rice at the popular Daleko Market in Mushin Local Government Area of Lagos. At another time, you had a shop in Iyana-Ipaja selling groundnut oil. You had earlier sold Kings brand of groundnut oil in a small shop in our Agege home. Your business also took you to London via Paris, and Paris was so beautiful to you that you wanted to have more than a glimpse of it. After all, they say “See Paris and Die”. I did not know why you stopped going to London until last year or so when you told me the story, which you never told our father. It was a scary tale and if God had not used a human-being as an angel, you could have ended up in a British jail for drug smuggling. The facilitator of the London trip had sewn cocaine into a pair of slippers you were to deliver to someone on arrival. You were about leaving innocently when someone secretly alerted you. Fear gripped you and you abandoned the trip and stayed away from the facilitator. Maami, with Daddy, you took me to Ansar-Ud-Deen Grammar School, Isaga-Orile when it was time for secondary school. I was the first in the family to go to a boarding school. You were emotional that day as you and Daddy left me and Olumide Ogunekun, my bunkmate. You were to return later to see me and my elder brother, Muyiwa, who joined me months later in the school. But a time came when we saw less and less of you. I believe this started around 1993. You became ill. It was about this time that Sister Sola also began falling ill and she was to leave this sinful world after years of being up and down! It was a tough period for Daddy and the rest of the family. It was a period that tested our faith. It was a period Daddy had to take desperate decisions and, in my view, he was duped by many of those he thought could help him heal his wife and daughter. I remember coming home from Isaga-Orile once and telling you how the principal of my school then, the late S.A. Bodunrin, was always praising me for my brilliance and rubbing it in on my classmates. I told you I was worried there could be witches and wizards among my mates who would ensure I failed as a way of punishing me for enjoying Mr. Bodunrin’s praises. You were concerned and you told our father, who allayed our fears by saying his teachers were always hailing him, too. I eventually passed the Senior School Certificate at one sitting! Maami, as you turn 70 tomorrow, March 15, I thank God for your life. This is even though for some 27 years of your years on earth, illness has seen you being up and down. It was severe initially, but in the last two decades, the severity has been downgraded. Doctors say what is keeping you down occasionally now is a peptic or chronic ulcer. When it weighs you down, you squeeze your face, you gnash your teeth but we remain grateful you have seen your grandchildren starting with Mariam and a great-grandchild in Alex. You are a daughter, a mother, a grandmother and a great grandmother, and excellent at all these roles! Because of the up-and-down nature of your illness, the day your husband died, your younger brother, the one and only Bentilo, was screaming “ki lo se sister mi” when he heard of the death at 26, Ayige. But nothing was wrong with you. Illness is not death. Millions of people who are dead were never critically ill or were never ill at all. Death is in a class of its own. It comes anyhow. My prayer is that it will let you stay with us for more decades. You will not bury any of us again. I look forward to writing to you again at 80, 90 and 100. After then, I can permit you to go and join Kayusco!