 President Muhammadu Buhari has described the General-Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor Enoch Adeboye, as a steadfast preacher who has been telling the truth to power for years. President Buhari, who congratulated the eminent cleric on his 78th birthday anniversary, also saluted the clergyman’s dedication to the service of God. The President, in a statement by his Special Adviser (SA) on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, recalled an interaction he had with the pastor of one of the largest Christian congregations in the world. He eulogised Pastor Adeboye for his kindness, warmth and ability to always see the goodness in others. “President Muhammadu Buhari joins the Christian community in celebrating General Overseer of Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye, at 78, saluting his dedication to God, welfare of the church and consistency in preaching and living the gospel for many years.  “The President felicitates with the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), members of Pastor Adeboye’s family, which includes many spiritual children, within and outside the country, and his associates, commending the positive influence the preacher has had on the country and its citizens, with a wide network that hugely impacts on education, infrastructure and health. “President Buhari notes, with delight, the extensive contributions of Pastor Adeboye to the growth of the country, especially his forthrightness in telling the truth to leaders, regular mobilisation of members of his church to civic responsibilities and relentless courage in taking the gospel picto every part of Nigeria, and almost every country in the world. “As the General Overseer turns 78, the President recalls his interactions with the pastor over many years, underscoring his warmth, kindness and commitment to seeing the good in others, while vigorously pursuing the divine vision of creating an enabling environment for worship and living the teachings of the Bible. “President Buhari prays that the almighty God will grant Pastor Adeboye longer life, good health and more wisdom to continue sharing the love of Christ,” the statement said. Also, Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom described Pastor Adeboye as a true spiritual father whose selfless service and guidance in the Lord’s vineyard have won millions of souls for God. He said the RCCG General Overseer has demonstrated uncommon humility and the love of God through his teaching, preaching and lifestyle. He prayed for sustained good health and strength to enable the renowned man of God do more for the church and humanity.