From Bolaji Ogundele, Gbade Ogunwale, Sanni Onogu, Abuja and Yusufu Aminu Idegu, Jos  President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday hailed former President Olusegun Obasanjo for his sacrifices for humanity, especially in Africa. The President’s commendation was contained in a message he sent to Obasanjo on his 83rd birthday. He said the ex-President’s commitment to Nigeria’s nationhood had been outstanding. In a statement by his Special Adviser (SA) on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, the President prayed to God to grant Obasanjo longer life and strength so he can continue to serve the world. “President Muhammadu Buhari sends warm greetings to former President Olusegun Obasanjo on his 83rd birthday on March 5, 2020, congratulating him for a life of courage, dedication and service to Nigeria, Africa, and humanity in general. “President Buhari joins family members, friends and associates of the former President in celebrating the milestone, saying Chief Obasanjo’s commitment to Nigerian nationhood remains outstanding and commendable, while also underscoring his sacrifices for the continent, including standing up for democracy in many countries. “As the former President celebrates the auspicious occasion, President Buhari prays that the Almighty God will grant him longer life, good health and strength to keep serving the nation and the continent,” the statement said. Senate President Ahmad Lawan yesterday felicitated with Obasanjo on his 83rd birthday celebration. In a statement in Abuja by his Special Adviser (Media), Ola Awoniyi, the Senate President said the ex-President has made indelible contributions to the unity and development of Nigeria for over five decades at the vanguard of nation-building. He said the elder statesman has served his country with courage, wisdom and sense of history. At 83, former President Obasanjo has played critical roles that have etched his name in Nigeria’s historical records forever, Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege said yesterday. In a special letter he personally signed, Omo-Agege said: “As we express our felicitations with former President Obasanjo on his 83rd birthday, we also wish him good health for the years ahead. “As a soldier, politician and elder statesman, Chief Obasanjo is one of the few who have immensely impacted the post-independence political history of Nigeria to such an extent that no documentation of epochal developments of such era can be complete without a mention of his name.” Members of the Northern Governors’ Forum (NGF) have also felicitated with Obasanjo on his 83rd birthday. In a congratulatory message yesterday in Jos, the Plateau State capital, by its chairman and Plateau State Governor Simon Bako Lalong, the NGF praised Obasanjo for his visionary and patriotic service to Nigeria, Africa and the world. Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa said: “On the occasion of your 83rd birth anniversary on Thursday, March 5, 2020 (today), I write to heartily rejoice with you and your family on behalf of the government and people of Delta. “In the past 83 years of a life of outstanding accomplishments and great personal fulfilment, you have served our nation at the highest levels with an uncommon sense of patriotism and unwavering dedication.  “You also ensured the peace and unity of our nation when you fought in the war to keep Nigeria one.” Also, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) National Chairman Uche Secondus, former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar and former Anambra State Governor Peter Obi have showered praises on Obasanjo on his birthday. Atiku served under Obasanjo from 1999 to 2007. Secondus said: “Mr President, sir, as you celebrate, please, note that the country, which unity you fought for, is being torn apart with its citizens in despair due to poor leadership.” Atiku said: “It is not an exaggeration to describe you as the preeminent political colossus in Nigeria, a nation that owes so much to you. Indeed, many Nigerians would read about your birthday on their GSM devices, which are one of your legacies to the Nigerian people. “Your love for Nigeria and commitment to her unity, good governance and stability has prevented you from retiring, a sacrifice that my family and I deeply appreciate. “From The Congo, to South Africa, to Angola, to Liberia and São Tomé and Príncipe, your democratic fingerprints on the African continent are indelible. You have served and still serve as a beacon of democracy and a guardian of constitutionality…” Obi hailed Obasanjo for his patriotism and huge sacrifice to the nation. The former governor said history would be kind to the former President for his contributions to the development of the country. Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun said: “As governor of your home state, I am proud to note that you have been a worthy Ambassador of the premier positions of our state in all noble endeavours. We are proud of your uncommon pedigree that has earned you a respected position all over the world over 50 national and international honours. You are a detribalised Nigerian and a patriot like no other.”