Ondo State Governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, has denied that his convoy crushed an okada rider simply identified as Jimoh Aladeniyi. A statement by the State Commissioner of Information and Orientation, Mr. Donald Ojogo, descried the news trending on the social media as false. Some reports in the social media had accused Akeredolu of abandoning an accident victim caused by his convoy. It was gathered that late Jimoh rammed into stationary Nissan jeep marked UK 475 KJA and parked closed to the Government Technical College, Owo at about 8pm on Sunday night. The place where the jeep was parked has been marked by the police when journalists visited the scene. Some witnesses said the okada rider was avoiding a clash with Governor Akeredolu convoy when he rammed into the parked car. Ojogo said the clarification about the incident was necessary due to the misleading narrative that has trailed the unfortunate death of the motorcyclist who had collision with a stationary vehicle. The statement reads, “This, without prejudice to Police investigation, is the outcome of our preliminary probe on the heels of the anxiety understandably generated by the deliberate news slant. “The incidented vehicle is now at the Police Station in Owo for inspection and possible verification by Journalists as well as the public. “Notwithstanding that the Governor’s convoy was not involved as erroneously painted in the reports, Governor Akeredolu sympathises with the family of the deceased and prays God for the repose of his soul. “This incident, unfortunate and avoidable as it seems, underscores the need for caution on our highways.” Police spokesman, ASP Tee-Leo said investigation showed the Governor convoy didn’t hit the okada rider. ASP Tee-Leo noted that he visited the accident scene to get first-hand information about the incident. He said, “It is good to correct the impression on the social media. Journalism is abot factual reportage. “I went with some journalist. The car involved was parked and the cyclist rammed into a stationary vehicle. It is wrong for people to say it was the Governor’s convoy. “The jeep is with us for proper investigation.” My convoy didn’t crush okada rider – Akeredolu Osagie Otabor, Akure Ondo State Governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, has denied that his convoy crushed an okada rider simply identified as Jimoh Aladeniyi. A statement by the State Commissioner of Information and Orientation, Mr. Donald Ojogo, descried the news trending on the social media as false. Some reports in the social media had accused Akeredolu of abandoning an accident victim caused by his convoy. It was gathered that late Jimoh rammed into stationary Nissan jeep marked UK 475 KJA and parked closed to the Government Technical College, Owo at about 8pm on Sunday night. The place where the jeep was parked has been marked by the police when journalists visited the scene. Some witnesses said the okada rider was avoiding a clash with Governor Akeredolu convoy when he rammed into the parked car. Ojogo said the clarification about the incident was necessary due to the misleading narrative that has trailed the unfortunate death of the motorcyclist who had collision with a stationary vehicle. The statement reads, “This, without prejudice to Police investigation, is the outcome of our preliminary probe on the heels of the anxiety understandably generated by the deliberate news slant. “The incidented vehicle is now at the Police Station in Owo for inspection and possible verification by Journalists as well as the public. “Notwithstanding that the Governor’s convoy was not involved as erroneously painted in the reports, Governor Akeredolu sympathises with the family of the deceased and prays God for the repose of his soul. “This incident, unfortunate and avoidable as it seems, underscores the need for caution on our highways.” Police spokesman, ASP Tee-Leo said investigation showed the Governor convoy didn’t hit the okada rider. ASP Tee-Leo noted that he visited the accident scene to get first-hand information about the incident. He said, “It is good to correct the impression on the social media. Journalism is abot factual reportage. “I went with some journalist. The car involved was parked and the cyclist rammed into a stationary vehicle. It is wrong for people to say it was the Governor’s convoy. “The jeep is with us for proper investigation.”