If the mindset and ensuing actions were different, 28-year-old Miss Moradeun Balogun would perhaps be alive today. Sadly, she is not. She died on December 2, last year, because she failed to receive necessary urgent medical attention after she was allegedly stabbed in the neck and robbed at dusk by armed bandits in Gbagada area of Lagos and rushed by Good Samaritans to R-Jolad Hospital. A public inquiry this week into the fate of young Moradeun and other victims of life threatening emergencies at the hands of healthcare givers again highlighted the following: (i) that hospitals and their personnel should be fully conscious of the primacy of life and the necessity of doing everything warranted at the spur of moment to save a life under threat – treat first and ask questions or settle associated financial accounts later, and (ii) that there is need to rigorously apply already existing laws against violations. The dominant narrative is that Moradeun was denied treatment by the private hospital where empathisers rushed her allegedly because a police report was not brought along by those who picked her up where she had been attacked. She eventually bled out and died. On the heels of that incident, R-Jolad Hospital issued a statement denying that it rejected the victim because there was no accompanying police report. Rather, according to the hospital, two of its doctors who assessed her condition determined that she needed immediate attention of a vascular surgeon and referred her to the closest general hospital, namely the Gbagada General Hospital. It was apparently in-between these formalities that Miss Balogun died. At the public inquiry on Monday, Lagos State Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Moyosore Onigbanjo, insisted there could be no justification for any hospital withholding instant medical care from victims of life threatening emergencies. “There is no justification for any victim to be denied access to care when needed, especially in their most vulnerable state. In an emergency, the first responsibility of any healthcare worker is to save life, or at best administer first aid and stabilise victims,” he said. According to him, the right to health is entrenched in Nigeria’s Constitution, besides the National Health Act, 2014 and the Patients’ Bill of Rights. Section 20, subsection (1) of the National Health Act prohibits healthcare providers and establishments from refusing a person medical treatment for any reason, and prescribes punishment for violation. Onigbanjo, by those comments, reinforced warnings by his health counterpart, Prof. Akin Abayomi, who recently said public and private healthcare providers operating in Lagos must stop rejecting gunshot victims and other trauma patients on the excuse of requiring police report or allied documentations before commencing treatment. Noting that in most cases, such patients are never in position to discuss the incident or financial implications before accessing urgent medicare, Abayomi had said health workers were duty bound by their professional oath and laws like the Compulsory Treatment and Care for Victims of Gunshot Act, 2017 to accord immediate attention to trauma patients. “Such critical care should include, where necessary, all measures to stabilise the patient before onward referral to more equipped facilities,” he added. We can’t agree more with these Lagos officials, because the whole objective of medicare is to save lives. That objective should entail health institutions suspending all other considerations – including legalistic requirements and associated financial implications of their service – in treating victims rushed in to them in throes of death. This is not to utterly dismiss the financial factor, especially as relates to private medical institutions, since they are in reality also business concerns that must be sustained in their operations. To this end, governments at the federal and state levels must do more in ensuring health insurance coverage for citizens. But life is utterly paramount and there is no acceptable reason to dally on saving it. None.