Bolaji Ogundele, Abuja  The Presidency, on Thursday, assured that President Muhammadu Buhari is busy working to keep Nigerians safe from the ravaging Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) Pandemic. Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, in a tweet on his Tweeter handle, @FemAdesina, also lashed out at some people, whom he alleged had been spreading lies and evil. In the tweet, Adesina said those spreading lies and evil had been afflicted with diseased mind and incapable of clean and edifying thoughts. Adesina’s tweet read “why do some people imagine vain things and concoct lies and evil? Simple. Their minds are diseased, and incapable of clean and edifying thoughts. President Buhari is on top of ensuring that Nigerians are kept safe from Covid-19. The good work continues.” Although the Presidential spokesman was not specific about those he was referring to or their actual offense, there were indications he might have been reacting to an audio making the rounds on social media that President Muhammadu Buhari and his Chief of Staff, Abba Kyari has been flown out for medical attention abroad. A lady, whose identity could not be ascertained, had claimed that she has a friend whose husband is an air force pilot and was asked to fly the President and his chief of staff out but could not because he’s under quarantine having recently returned from Dubai. The unnamed lady claimed that another pilot was allegedly procured and flew Buhari and Kyari out to receive treatment outside the country. However, it would be recalled that The Nation, on Wednesday, reported that President Buhari was in his office at the State House on Wednesday. On Thursday, a presidential source disclosed that President Buhari was at his official residence, saying “President Buhari is at home”. President Buhari, as well as Vice President Yemi Osinbajo (SAN), had tested negative to COVID-19 earlier in the week, but sources within the State House informed that the Chief of Staff to the President, Mallam Abba Kyari, tested positive.