The All Progressives Congress (APC), Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege and House of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila on Saturday congratulated Vice President Yemi Osinbajo ahead of his 63rd birthday today. The APC described the VP as a patriotic and dogged partner in ensuring the development of Project Nigeria. National Publicity Secretary of the party, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, in a statement in Abuja, spoke of the “untiring efforts of the vice president in partnering and assisting President Muhammadu Buhari, in tackling insecurity, fighting corruption and resetting the nation’s economy on the path of growth and development.” The party particularly noted his “massive contributions in the success of the APC-led administration’s Social Investment Programme (SIP), which is reputed to be Africa’s biggest and most ambitious social welfare policy for the most vulnerable in our society.” Issa-Onilu added: “Our great party also applauds the Vice President’s headship of the National Economic Council (NEC), a development, which has ensured a more beneficial synergy between the federal and state governments in quickly and frontally addressing issues that are pertinent to the welfare of Nigerians. “Our party is not in any doubt that the commendable partnership of the President and the Vice President would take Nigeria to the Next Level of peace, progress and prosperity.”  Osinbajo has shown exceptional loyalty, says Lawan Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, yesterday felicitated with the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, on his 63rd birthday. Lawan in a statement by his Special Adviser (Media), Ola Awoniyi, noted the many outstanding achievements of Osinbajo as an erudite lawyer, distinguished scholar, revered clergyman and political leader. “The Vice President has shown exceptional loyalty in government and dedication to his duties. “Professor Osinbajo has brought his diverse experiences to bear on his role in government and demonstrated that one can actively participate in politics at the highest levels and yet maintain personal integrity and high reputation.” The Senate President said he is proud to join Osinbajo’s family, friends and associates in celebrating a “great Nigerian leader and role model.”  Omo-Agege: ‘He’s a prime figure in driving APC agenda’ Deputy Senate President Omo-Agege described Osinbajo as one of the prime figures driving the APC and President Muhammadu Buhari’s change agenda. According to him, the robust stature of the vice president’s intellectual presence and his pragmatic actions in the area of public sector reforms, have their roots in noble antecedents. He said: “Our Vice President, Professor Oluyemi Oluleke Osinbajo, GCON, was a remarkable Commissioner for Justice and Attorney-General credited with undertaking far-reaching noteworthy judicial reforms in Lagos State. “Among other achievements, he addressed access to justice for the poor by establishing relevant institutions in the Office of the Public Defender (OPD) and the Citizens Mediation Centre (CMC). “He is not only a successful lawyer; he was a member of the International Bar Association, the British Institute of International and Comparative Law and has served in the Nigerian Body of Benchers and the Council for Legal Education of Nigeria with a great record of active involvement in the pursuit of legal education reform in Nigeria. “Today, I join his family, associates and other citizens of our great country in wishing our dear Vice President a happy birthday and many more years of active contribution towards the upliftment of the masses and our people-focused agenda. “Mr. Vice President, you are heading a legacy of cerebral contributions and active roles towards genuine populist change in Nigeria; once again, I wish you a happy birthday.” ‘He’s the most honest person I have ever met’, says Gbajabiamila House of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila said Osinbajo stands out as one of the most honest persons he has ever come across. The speaker recalled how Osinbajo served as the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice in Lagos State for eight years to the satisfaction of all. He said: “Our Vice President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo, who is marking his 63rd birthday today, is someone very dependable in all ramifications. Apart from being a reliable human being, the VP is one of the most honest people I have come across in my life. I make bold to say that the VP has qualities worthy of emulation by other Nigerians. “On his 63rd birthday, I wish Vice President Prof Yemi Osinbajo continuous good health and God’s protection.”