 THE police on Tuesday allowed access to the national secretariat of the All Progressives Congress (APC). The party’s headquarters was sealed of last week following a  leadership tussle. A Federal Capital Territory (FCT) court barred National Chairman Adams Oshiomhole from parading himself as such while a Federal High Court sitting in Kano ordered maintenance of status quo in the party’s leadership. The police then locked the secretariat. Some chieftains of the party were sighted at the national secretariat yesterday. But there was no meeting of the National Working Committee (NWC). Those sighted include: Acting National Secretary Victor Giadom; National Vice Chairman (Northeast) Salihu Mustapha; National Vice Chairman (Southwest) Bankole Oluwajana; National Organising Secretary Emma Ubeduro; National Youth Leader Abubakar Sadiq; National Women Leader Hajiya Salamatu Beiwa and Acting National Auditor Isa Mabuchu. Also at the secretariat was the factional Edo APC Chairman Anslem Ojeszua. An official said there was no meeting. “We just came to office”. Also on Tuesday, the National Publicity Secretary of the Forum of APC State Chairmen, Lawal Liman, said the Forum will meet next week. According to Liman, who is the Zamfara State Chairman, “all issues would be resolved at the next NEC meeting and, hopefully, we will hold a meeting of the Forum before the said NEC meeting.” In Edo on Tuesday, a socio-political group – Safe Edo Movement pitched tent with Oshiomhole and Osagie Ize-Iyamu. Led by its President Chris Etuakhor, the group reaffirmed its solidarity with the leadership of Oshiomhole. Members of the group made the pledge during a solidarity visit to Ize-Iyamu. Etuakhor said Oshiomhole should count on the group’s loyalty in the struggle, which he described as one between progressive and reactionary forces. The group, which also called on Ize-Iyamu to contest for the number one seat in the state, said Edo needs a government that could deliver on the development needs of the people. He said: “We want dividends that draw from the core aspects of infrastructural and social development. “On a moral plain we believe that as a pastor, you understand the fear of God and will imbue in our children, youths and even adults the fear of God. “You will engender a psyche that anchors on the absoluteness of morals as the defining integral of the human essence.” According to him, the group has a mission to save the state and evolve a safe Edo. He added that the group was committed to a change of government in Edo, stressing “this is the testament of faith we will not negotiate”. “We desire a man of the appropriate political sagacity, mental endowment and psychological wellbeing to regenerate hope for our people. “We are here to implore you to contest for the 2020 governorship election in Edo, because we believe that you will offer a new narrative for Edo and its people, our people, your people.” Ize-Iyamu said the attraction to politics were ideas, manifesto and eloquence, adding that today people become governors without history of political participation and manifesto. He assured that those plotting against Oshiomhole will fail. He added that the call by the group was also because the group had identified the need for a change and agreed that something must be done. He appreciated the group for identifying with the plight of the people, adding that he accepted with “every sense of humility and responsibility”. 