 Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Sunday directed civil servants in the state from levels 1-12 to stay at home for 14 days as part of the precautionary measures to curtail the spread of the dreaded Coronavirus. The governor stated this during a statewide broadcast on the Coronavirus pandemic in the state on Sunday after new cases were recorded. The governor also advised members of the public to refrain from visiting public offices and to transact as much as possible through telephone and on-line channels. He however said that, “the stay at home order does not affect medical personnel, fire service, LASEMA, LAWMA and other first respondents and essential services.” The governor also urged the private sector to take similar steps to ensure that as many people as possible are able to stay at home for the foreseeable future. “All traditional rulers should instruct all of their subjects and sensitize them on the need to avoid all traditional ceremonies and gatherings at this time”, Sanwo-Olu said. “We are shutting down almost 70 percent of our workforce from Monday, 23rd of March 2020. We are shutting down levels 1-12 in our public service for the next 14 days,” he said. “We know the enormity of the task at hand, and we are ready for it. We are working with market leaders and even public transport unions to ensure social distancing. “We are working to ramp up our capacity to take on new cases as they are confirmed, other health facilities will in due time be developed to support the Mainland Infectious Disease Hospital. “We are setting up more facilities in Yaba, to contain a likely upsurge in coronavirus, more health workers are being trained and retired health personnel are being put on notice that they may be recalled to serve in this trying times,” Sanwo-Olu said. Self-Isolate for at least 14 days if you are just returning from abroad. That would be the right thing to do. “We must always rise to our challenges. We will win with the cooperation of Lagos residents. We have done this before, we will do it again.”