 THE former acting national Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief Victor Giadom on Sunday justified the proposed Emergency National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting called for March 17. He said he had taken over the running of the party from national chairman Adams Oshiomhole. Arguing that the national chairman was suspended on the order of an FCT High Court which restrained him from parading himself as the chairman. Giadom in a statement in Abuja said his attention had been drawn to a Notice  dated “March 7, 2020 and signed by Babatunde Ogala Esq Mallam Lanre lssa-Onilu and one Are. Waziri Bulama which declared the March 17 Emergency NEC meeting illegal. The APC chieftain said the statement was aimed at discrediting his position calling of an emergency National Executive Committee Meeting as Acting National Secretary to create mischief and mislead esteemed members of the NEC and the general public. Giadom said: “For the purpose of clarity and putting the issue in proper perspective, I wish to state that the decision to call an emergency National Executive Committee Meeting for March 17. 2020 was taken in strict compliance with the Constitution of the Party. It is on record that the erstwhile National Chairman. Comrade Adams Oshiohmole has been suspended by a Court of Competent Jurisdiction. The two Deputy National Chairmen are no longer in office. The next most senior party office: should be the Secretary General of the party. But as we all know. The erstwhile National Secretary in the person of Hon. Buni Mai Main is now the Executive Governor of Yobe State. Hence. as the Acting National Secretary. I have the Constitutional Power to steer activities of our great party. “By Article 14.4 (i) of the Constitution of our great party. The Deputy National Secretary is empowered to act as National Secretary in the absence of the National Secretary and all the actions taken since the emergence of Hon. Buni Mai Mala as Executive Governor of Yobe State are taken in my capacity as the acting National Secretary. By Article [4.3 (ii) of the Constitution of the party. being the acting National Secretary, l have the power to issue Notices of meetings of National Convention, National Executive Committee and the National Working Committee of the party. “This is the power I exercised on the March 6 and March 7. 2020 calling for an emergency National Executive Committee of our great party in line with Article 25 (B) (ii) of the Constitution of our great Party”. He added that Article 25 (B) (i) of the party’s constitution declared that, “The National Executive Committee of our great party shall meet every quarter of a year”. It is on record that the last National Executive Committee meeting was held on the 22 of November 2019 which is about 4 months to 17″ of March fixed for the NEC meeting which itself is a breach of the party’s‘s constitution. “While Article 25 (B) (ii) provides that National Working Committee of our party may summon an emergency National Executive Committee meeting at any time provided at least 7 day’s notice of the meeting is given to those entitled to attend. The Notice given on the March 6. 2020 is in strict compliance with the provision of the Constitution”. The acting secretary then urged members of the national working committee to attend the meeting slated for 17th day of March. 2020 as it will serve as an avenue to find solutions to the present state of quagmire the party had found itself in. He said: “the meeting will provide way forward for the party. knowing that the National Executive Committee is the highest organ of the party after convention. As such. It cannot be shut out of its responsibilities as provided by the Constitution of our great Party”. The acting national secretary also faulted Bulama’s position who he said purportedly signed the document as the party’s National Secretary. Giadom maintained that Bulama was never a member of the National Executive Committee or National Working Committee “as his alleged nomination as National Secretary of the Party has no legal footing because it fails to meet the requirements provided by virtue of Article 20(l) (a) of the part) constitution. He is definitely not the National Secretary of the party. 