The Enugu State Ministry of Health has residents not to panic due to the confirmation of two coronavirus patients in the state, as health personnel were already responding to the situation. An update from the Nigeria Center for Disease Control (NCDC), on Friday night, reported that two cases in Enugu State tested positive for COVID-19. Earlier, the Enugu State government had announced the closure of all markets, land borders and inter-state transportation in the state till further notice, except those on medical emergency services. Reacting shortly after the NCDC announced the two cases in Enugu, via its twitter account, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Health, Dr. Ifeanyi Agujiobi confirmed that “the two patients, who presented on their own, tested positive for Corona Virus (COVID-19)”. He disclosed that the patients were returnees from United Kingdom (UK), stating: “It is important to inform the public that the patients voluntarily contacted the Enugu State Ministry of Health, on arrival from United Kingdom (UK) and requested for the COVID-19 test which came out positive”. “So far, the patients have remained in isolation and the Enugu State Multi-sectoral Rapid Response Team has commenced contact tracing”, he said. He encouraged all those who returned recently from overseas to contact the Enugu State Public Health Department, through the following dedicated lines – 08182555550 or 09022333833. Closing the borders and markets, the state government in a statement by the Secretary to the State Government, Prof. Simon Uchenna Ortuanya, stressed that all markets in the state, no matter the size, will be closed till further notice, with effect from 6pm on Tuesday, March 31. The statement added that other categories exempted from the closure include “those dealing on food items, water, pharmaceuticals, medical equipment and other basic items of daily domestic need which must comply with the standard hygiene protocol as stipulated by the Nigeria Center for Disease Control (NCDC), including frequent hand washing with soap, use of sanitizer and social distancing.” 