Rasaq Ibrahim, Ado-Ekiti  An Ekiti State High Court sitting in Ado Ekiti has sentenced six persons to death for murder and attempted murder. The convicts are Oniyelu Olu (63), Folorunso Oluwatoba (65), Peter Ajayi (73), Tijani Arowolo (80)who died during the pendency of the suit in court, Dolamu Olaide (29), John Ojo (77) and Lateef Arowolo (45). Pronouncing the death penalty by hanging on the accused persons, Justice Lekan Ogunmoye said the prosecution has successfully established a prima facie case of conspiracy, attempted murder and murder against them. According to charges against the condemned persons, the offences are contrary to Sections 516 of the criminal code Law,CAP C16,Section 320 of the Criminal Code Law CAP C16 and Section 316 of the Criminal Code Law, all Laws of Ekiti State, 2012. The prosecutor informed the court that the offence was committed on or about 7th day of February, 2017 at Ilupeju Ekiti when they conspired to murder one Sola Adeniyi (27).
According to the charge sheet, they also attempted to murder another okada man, Ojo Olaoluwa (22) who gave evidence that the 2nd accused person (Folorunso Oluwatoba) stopped him on that fateful day when he was about to mount his bike. Olaoluwa told the court that noticed blood drops from Oluwatoba’s bag, he asked him to open the bag because of police checkpoint ahead. According to the bike rider, the convict answered that it was grasscutter and he cannot open the bag. Olaoluwa said when it was perceived that the content may be incriminating, Oluwatoba took to his heels only for him to receive gunshot from back. To prove his case, the prosecutor, Oluwakemi Daniel called 5 witnesses. Exhibits tendered include; confessional statements made to the police by the accused persons, photographs of the severed body of the deceased, medical report from Ekiti State University Teaching Hospital, Dane gun,locally made single barrel and one cartridge. On conspiracy and attempted murder, all the accused persons bagged 5 years imprisonment each except the 2nd accused person who was sentenced to 10 years. All the accused persons spoke in their own defense through their lawyers Chris Omokhafe, Sule Longe, Busuyi Ayorinde and Emmanuel Adetifa, they called no witness.