Having achieved and even surpassed broadband target contained in the National Broadband Plan 2013-2018 driven largely by the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), LUCAS AJANAKU writes on fresh moves to push its frontiers.  Broadband remains the driving force for tramsforming modern economies. This underscored the eighth-point agenda of the Executive Vice Chairman, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) Prof Umar Dmabatta.  He said: “Broadband still remains the next frontier in the information communications technology (ICT) industry which will help in the speedy transformation of the Nigerian economy. This formed the basis for our eighth-point agenda.” Globally, broadband has become  the major index of development in every ramifications of human endeavours. The international Telecommunications Union (ITU)-United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) Broadband Commission for Sustainable Development, considers broadband as the oxygen of modern day economic development. It is against this background that the Federal Government first set a target of 30 per cent broadband penetration in the country. Driven by the regulator under Prof Dambatta, the country attained 30.9 per cent broadband penetration in November 2018. The implication of this is that a total of 58,965,478 were connected to the internet through 3G and 4G networks out of 108,457,051 internet subscribers on the telecom networks. By December, the figure rose steeply to 60, 087,199, taking the penetration depth to 31.48 per cent. Through diligent implementation of the Eighth-Point Agenda, the growth trajectory continued such that at the twilight of last year, broadband penetration had hit unprecedented 37.80 per cent. The penetration figure was 8.5 per cent in 2015 before the appointment of Prof Garba Dambatta. That the  2013-2018 target was surpassed by the NCC is indicative of the commitment of the leadership to deliver. “From less than nine per cent broadband penetration when he came on board in 2015, the NCC has helped in pushing Broadband Penetration to 37.80 per cent as of December, 2019,” a sector analyst said. From successful auction of six slots of 2x5MHz in the 2.6 GHz Band, to re-planning of the 800 MHz band for LTE, and to assigning of 2×10 MHz Spectrum to Glomobile for trial in the 700 MHz, the Commission continued. It regularised the 2×10 MHz Spectrum in the 700 MHz band previously assigned to MTN by NBC for the purpose of providing LTE services, and opened up 70/80 GHz band for both last mile and backhaul services, among other numerous spectrum managements. Expectedly, stakeholders in the industry have commended the regulator for the feat achieved so far. The stakeholders, including the Assosciation of Telecoms Companies of Nigeria (ATCON), Association of Licensed Telecoms Operators of Nigeria (ALTON) and Communications and Digital Economy Minister, Dr Isa Pantami. He commended the NCC for its excellent regulatory role at the recent ITU Study Group 3 on Standardisation Workshop hosted by the NCC, on behalf of the country, at the Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja.  Expanding frontiers In line with the desire to digitalise the economy,  Dr Pantami inaugurated another National Broadband Policy Committee headed by the  Chief Executive Officer, MainOne Company, Ms. Funke Opeke. The Committee has since submitted its report to the minister ahead  deadline given to it by the Federal Government. The Committee’s work was to develop a new National Broadband Policy 2020-2025 for the nation to chart a digital future where the country would deploy necessary technologies that would bring government services closer to the citizens through superfast broadband internet services provided by the mobile network operators (MNOs).  Key success factors For the NCC to have  achieved the 30 per cent target and surpassed it, there is no doubt that given the necessary support by the Federal Government, the Commission could do more. Initiatives such as Broadband Infrastructure Companies (InfraCos) licencing, use of Television White Space (TVWS) technology for affordable broadband services in rural, underserved and unserved areas of the country are some of the key winning streaks for the regulator. It is the target of the NCC to narrow the gap of the number of people without access to telecom services from 45 million to 35 million. This will be pushed through the services of the InfraCos across all the 774 Local Government Areas (LGAs) across the county as they are expected to build the metro fibre infrastructure that will help in taking the about 40 terabit of bandwidth capacity lying in the shores of Nigeria to the hinterlands across the country. This will help to deepen intra and inter-city fibre connectivity that will help businesses, public institutions and individuals to have digital access to various services across industry verticals.  5G revolution The push of the Commission  to facilitate the deployment of 5G networks in the country is another commendable area. Already, Proof of Concept (PoC) trial has been conducted by MTN through the platform created by the Commission to test its speed, latency and capacity, which 5G offers ahead of other generational technology platforms, such as 2G, 3G and nascent 4G.  Currently, the Commission is pushing for the approval from the Federal Government for counterparts funding to be disbursed to InfraCos upon each of the InfraCo’s achievements of key milestones in their deployment within their respective areas of operations. Another impetus to drive the  Commission is the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy (NDEPS) launched by President Muhammadu Buhari in November, last year. The  NDEPS is a blueprint showing  how the country plans to navigate through the digital space to acheive a digital and knowledge driven economy. The outcome of the Funke Opeke-led National Broadband Plan Committee 2020-2024 will also set a new challenge for the regulator to drive. Analysts say the regulator has very imporatnt roles to play in the realisation of the aspirations of the NDEPS while the Executive Order being proposed by Pantami to address issues on recognition of telecoms as critical national security infrastructure (CNI), if given the needed push, will also help to ensure resilience of existing infrastructure to be able to serve the generality of Nigerians in terms of telecoms services provisioning. Constant engagement with the Nigerian Governors Forum will also need to be sustained by the Minister, in collaboration with the NCC, so that they would come to terms with the fact that cost of right of way (RoW) should be pegged at N145, as contained in the National Economic Council’s (NEC) resolutions, they add.  