 National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole has declared the party will bounce back stronger and better despite the recent crisis it went through. Addressing members of the National Working Committee (NWC), which had in attendance pro and anti-Oshiomhole groups, the chairman said the NWC of the party was united. According to him: “Despite what we have passed through, this NWC is not divided.” The chairman, who admitted that the party may have gone through some challenges and disagreements, argued that the actions and inactions of NWC members were not to destroy the party but for its progress. He  urged members of the NWC to put all that happened behind them in order for the party to forge ahead. Oshiomhole, who went philosophical, noted that God must have allowed the party to pass through the recent travails to teach everyone a lesson and for everyone to readjust their disposition towards their responsibilities. “I think that God is never wrong, He has allowed what has happened to happen so that we all can learn, everybody re-examine his conscience, strengthen those bonds of friendship, bonds of solidarity and work as a family.” Extending olive branch to his opponent, Oshiomhole admitted that he may not have been the best chairman but pointed out that nobody can fault his sincerity of purpose, stressing he was prepared to reconcile his style of leadership. “I am the first to admit that I am not the best chairman in the world and I will never be. But no one can fault the sincerity of my purpose. My style can only be my style. But, I recognise that I must reconcile my style to others so that we can meet in the middle of the road,” he stressed The chairman then commended President Muhammadu Buhari, for granting listening hears to those who approached him with a view to ensuring that our party remains on course. He also expressed appreciation to the role APC Governors played in resolving the party crisis. He said the attendance at the NWC meeting would shut the mouth of detractors who thought NWC members will be coming to fight. “I wear no boxing gloves. I wanted to wear complete white to send a message of peace. And, I think everybody came here with a good heart and may God see us through this moment. We are going to bounce back stronger and better.” The chairman arrived the party secretariat at about 12:50 pm to the waiting hands of some loyal party members, APC States Chairmen who came in solidarity. No fewer than 17 States Chairmen were on ground to welcome him. On arrival, the chairman went straight into his office where he held a brief meeting with some loyal members of the NWC before moving into the Conference room of his office for the meeting. The acting national Secretary, Chief Victor Giadom, who arrived as early as 11:27 am had earlier parked his car at the space meant for the national secretary before he took the seat of the national secretary during the meeting as Arc. Waziri Bulama who was nominated for the post was not in attendance. The National Deputy Chairman, North, Alhaji Lawan Shuaibu was equally absent at the meeting. The pro-Oshiomhole NWC group at the meeting include: National Deputy Chairman Chief Abiola Ajimobi; the National Vice Chairman South-South, Prince Hillard Eta; National Legal Adviser Babatunde Ogala; National Organising Secretary Emma Ibiduro and National Publicity Secretary Lanre Issa-Onilu. Others were: National Woman Leader Salamatu Hassan Beiwa; Acting National Auditor Paul Chuwkuma; National Treasurer, Abu Fanda and National Welfare Officer Ibrahim Masari; Northcentral vice chairman Ahmed Wambai Sulaiman and National Youth leader Sadiq Abubakar. The anti-Oshiomhole members at the NWC meeting were: the acting National Secretary Chief Victor Giadom; National Vice Chairman South-West Pst. Bankole Oluwajana; National Vice Chairman North East Comrade Mustapha Salihu; National Vice Chairman North West Inuwa Abdikkadir and Special (physically challenged) Leader, Misbau Didi.