The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) said it has provided infrared thermometers in all the 36 states, including the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja to prevent the outbreak of coronavirus in its orientation camps. The scheme also said that it has provided hand sanitisers, washing hand basins and soaps in all of its secretariats and at strategic locations at the orientation camps of the scheme nationwide. The Director, Press and Public Relations of the NYSC, Adenike Adeyemi, disclosed this in a statement on Wednesday night in Abuja. The statement said the scheme had embarked on proactive measures in order to guard against the contraction of the deadly virus by corps members following the outbreak of the disease. It noted that sensitisation leaflets on Lassa fever and coronavirus have been shared to all the 2020 Batch ‘A’ corps members currently undergoing orientation course in all its camps nationwide. The statement reads: “Following the outbreak of Coronavirus, the National Youth Service Corps ccheme as a proactive measure embarked on far reaching actions in order to guard against the contraction of the deadly virus by corps members. “Accordingly, the scheme has been in constant touch with Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, as well as the Federal Ministry of Health which have been playing very supportive roles by lending technical support to the scheme. “It is gratifying to note that infrared thermometers, as well as hand sanitisers, wash hand basins and soaps have been provided in all the 37 NYSC Secretariats and at strategic locations at orientation camps of the scheme nationwide. “Similarly, sensitisation leaflets on Lassa fever and coronavirus have been shared to all the 2020 Batch ‘A’ Corps Members currently undergoing Orientation course, so as to arm them with the requisite information on the viruses and how to prevent infection. “Additionally, the camp communities and other serving corps members are regularly sensitised on the best approach to adopt in order to prevent contraction of the viruses. “The management of the scheme wishes to assure the parents and guardians of the corps members that there is no cause for alarm as the scheme remains alive to its core responsibility of catering to the welfare of corps members.”