Precious Igbonwelundu  The Lagos State Police Command Wednesday appealed to hoteliers to render only lodging/accommodation services and ensure they have fewer numbers of workers on duty for now. The command also banned all swimming pools, conferences and events as well as any other service that could attract crowd to hotels, urging hoteliers to comply with directives of the state government aimed at containing spread of the Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19). According to a statement by spokesman Bala Elkana, enforcement of social distancing has been extended to open markets, malls, eateries and other business concerns which do not fall under the essential commodity category. For eateries, the police urged owners to serve eat-outs to their customers, adding that both clients and workers should not exceed 25 persons at any particular time. Elkana said: “Lagos State Police Command has in the last six days deployed its resources across the state to ensure that the guidelines and directives issued by both the Federal and State Governments to prevent the spread of Coronavirus are fully obeyed. “The enforcement team shut down eight clubs, 15 schools, six event centres and eight places of worship for non-compliance. “With the directives issued by Lagos State Government on Tuesday, March 24, the enforcement will now be extended to all markets and stores, except markets that are selling food items, water, medicine, pharmacies, medical equipment and other related essential lifesaving products, with effect from Thursday March 26. “Corporate bodies such as financial institutions, telecommunication companies and businesses not affected by the ban should also ensure that both their employees and customers are not more than 25 in number at a time. “Staff should be posted to ATM stands to ensure that customers using the services space themselves to avoid body contact. “Eateries should encourage their customers to use take away services and those who must sit in the restaurant should apply the required spacing guidelines. Eateries should not have more than 25 persons at a time, including their staff. “Hotels should only operate lodging and accommodation services with minimal number of staff on duty. Conference and event halls, swimming pools and other services attracting crowds should be suspended in line with the order and directives of the government. “The Commissioner of Police (CP) Hakeem Odumosu enjoins the good people of Lagos State to obey the safety regulations put in place by government for the benefit of everyone. Violators will be dealt with in line with extant laws. “Together we can prevent the spread of COVID-19. For information or complaints regarding noncompliance call the following numbers 09010512285, 09010512286, 09010512287 and 09010512288.”