 A SUGGESTION that the estimated N37 billion proposed for the renovation of the National Assembly and the purchase of vehicles for representatives and senators be diverted to solving Nigeria’s problems with out-of-school children may have been well-meant, but is inappropriate nonetheless. Mr. Farah Dagogo, representing Degema/Bonny Federal Constituency on the ticket of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP), made the suggestion while speaking to the press after a special plenary session of the House of Representatives devoted to the issue. Dagogo was firm in his conviction that the out-of-school crisis clearly required radical solutions: “… I think using a legislative backing to rework the N37 billion already budgeted for the renovation of the National Assembly for our out-of-school children should be thoroughly considered. Also, the planned purchase of vehicles for members should be jettisoned now; the money should be channelled into the project.” By literally putting its money where its mouth is in this manner, he claims that the National Assembly “will prove it is a group who are willing and ready to sacrifice their comfort for the benefit of the masses, who are also our constituents.” In a polity dominated by public office-holders who routinely put their personal interests ahead of the needs of the majority of citizens, such sentiments must be praised for their unusual altruism. By pointing specifically at the huge funds set aside for renovation and the purchase of vehicles, Dagogo has implicitly underlined the essential illogicality of devoting so much money to what are essentially the creature comforts of a few at the expense of the betterment of the many. Nor is the issue an irrelevant one. With between 10.5 million and 16 million children not attending school of any kind, Nigeria has the largest out-of-school population in the world. According to the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), only 61 per cent of the nation’s six to eleven-year olds regularly attend primary school, and a mere 35.6 per cent of children aged between three and five benefit from early childhood education. This lamentable situation is a complex amalgam of deep-rooted cultural practices, inadequate governmental attention, the rise of insurgency, and widespread incompetence and corruption. In the global knowledge economy, any nation that cannot ensure that all its youth receive a comprehensive education is its own worst enemy. There is no doubt that Dagogo’s heart is in the right place. But if his proposal is well-intended, the suggested  mode of its implementation is clearly misplaced. Nigeria’s budgeting processes do not allow for the kind of arbitrary diversion of monies the lawmaker is proposing. All spending proposals must pass through the stages of drafting, legislative approval, implementation, and monitoring and evaluation. It is obvious that attempting to simply shift spending from one line-item to another in the way Dagogo suggests is impossible. This gap between intention and implementation points to the need for the country’s public-office holders to ensure that their proposals for national development are founded on workable policies rooted in reality, grounded in the constitution, and backed by legislation. Thus, the National Assembly, as the third arm of government, should seek to reflect its development concerns in its own attitudes and behaviour so that its policy pronouncements can have the desired impact. Legislators who consistently refuse to disclose how much they are paid, who insist on repeatedly padding the National Assembly budget every year, and who place their own comfort ahead of urgent requirements elsewhere really cannot be expected to be taken seriously. Perhaps a better means of bringing legislative clout to bear on the vexed issue of out-of-school children lies in the special plenary session itself. Convened by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Mr. Femi Gbajabiamila, the session sought to find solutions to a problem whose disastrous potential is simply too significant to be imagined. The decisions arrived at during the session should form the basis for the necessary outreach and consultation with relevant stakeholders which will engender the policy formulation, legislation and budget proposals that will ensure that the out-of-school crisis is properly financed, diligently monitored and ultimately resolved.