Dauda Taoheed COVID-19 otherwise known as Coronavirus in Wuhan County, started in part of China territorial division in December 2019. The home-grown province sows the devilish seed, undesirably, but collectively and optimally harvested by the world. The deadly virus has travelled to more than a hundred countries, jetting without a visa or international passport and entering without knocking or consent of gatekeepers. Therefore, lacing the stratosphere of the globe with panic and engraving its dishonourable footprint on the soil of universe remembrance. Like a susceptible Alzheimer’s patient, Nigeria easily forgets the 2014 plague of West Africa Ebola tsunami that shook the world. Wise countries with upright leadership took a precautionary approach by investing more in their health sector. But, as a frequent loser to vigilance, we conceded a home goal of knock-out and we return to our vomited debris of improvident. Being an unrepentant adamant bummer that turns a deaf ear to the wise saying that; “you don’t fall victim of a repeated phenomenon twice.” Nigeria did not only belie the statement, but she also acted like an ‘ogbanje’ at the bank of a river. No doubt, coronavirus landed on Nigeria soil on February 24 2020, through Lagos airport by the Italian host that housed the infectious disease. My country retreats and felt calmness as if we’ve been promised of a coronavirus free zone, fatuously deceived by the hot-weather inadaptability of the virus. Knowing absolutely well that we lack the infrastructure to handle the crises should in case it flare-up. Evidence from the petition that the daughter of a 70-year-old woman, who fell victim of our decay health system, wrote to Enugu state government on the manner and ways that her mother was handled unprofessionally. Suffering from the three- day confinement without adequate health care, she later gave up the ghost. This shows the level of unpreparedness of states in the fight against the pandemic. Despite pressures from Nigerians on the federal government to shut down borders, flight keeps coming in even from the seedbed of coronavirus. It was not until Wednesday, March 18 when Nigeria issued a travel ban on 13 countries. But, unfortunately, the antidote cannot remedy the long taken poison. She wept for her preventable cut. We welcome more new cases. On March 24, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos state released a directive on the immediate closure of markets for seven days except for essential market stores such as food item sellers and pharmaceutical stores. This restrictive measure was taken to break the cycle of COVID-19 in the state. These unavoidable preventive measures of Lagos state imperative and other similar states intervention in containing the spread of the virus wouldn’t have been our opted interventionism theory if we had shut-down our borders and thereby places a total ban on hot-bed countries with the virus. The Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr Chris Ngige, was reported to have said that doctors who feel they want to relocate in search of greener pastures are free to do so as the nation has enough medical personnel. He added: “Who said we don’t have enough doctors? We have more than enough. You can quote me. There is nothing wrong with them travelling abroad, they earn money and send them back home here. Yes, we have foreign exchange earnings from them and not just oil.” Fast forward to March 23 when the federal government through the Health Minister, Dr Osagie Ehanire made the disclosure that retired doctors and nurses could be reabsorbed in states to help in the fight against coronavirus. The conflicting statements of the ministers reveal the deceit and damaged that has longed be done to the health sector. Clamour of the masses to stop the stupendous migration of our doctors was thrown in the bin. Brain drain escalated and our credit surplus of medical personnel turns into deficit within 11 months away from the statement. When lies travel for thousands of years, a day will come when it becomes prey to truthfulness. Pinpointing this saddening occurrence becomes important. The behaviour of some unscrupulous Nigerians is worrisome to the extent that they batter the pandemic situation for a profitable venture. This shows how empathy has truly deserted some people. Turning Giffen commodities into luxurious goods. Hoarding nose cover, sanitizer and some necessity goods in this trying hour. Thereby, creating an artificial scarcity of the good and consequently skyrocket the price. Our mutual collective probity ought to be the legal tender. As of 28th March, Nigeria statistic of the virus has clocked 81 cases. Out of these, three had recovered and discharged we have recorded one death. To prevent a further spread of the virus, there should be a synergetic effort between the citizens and the government. Our role is to respect and obey the directive of the federal government under the umbrella of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). Stopping the spread of fake news and let NCDC be out last resort for information. Staying safe also requires suspending religious activities in accordance with the instruction of the federal government. An erroneous mixture of ‘covidiot’ attribution with spirituality will result into a suicidal miserable death. Mistakenly thinking he died as a martyr not knowing he committed self-sacrifice. Many of the people that exhibited such traits are religious bigot that are ignorant of the teachings of their Books that spelt out of being obedient to our leaders and also, part of what religion came to protect is the preservation of lives. Yes! The rosy days have come and gone when Nigeria leaders get to port and board with ease. But now, rough days are hovering around like a hungry hawk searching for prey. Wanderlust politicians are at the dock waiting for an aircraft that would never show-off let alone taking off. We both need to prepare the banquet for the unwelcome visitor! Dauda Taoheed writes in from Lagos