 The Minister of Works and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Fashola on Tuesday said the Federal Government had completed 19 out of the 43 internal road projects being constructed in different tertiary institutions across the country. He disclosed this on Tuesday at Federal University, Oye-Ekiti while handing over some 1.33km of roads rehabilitated and constructed by the federal government. Fashola said the intervention on roads in tertiary institutions was part of effort to bridge the infrastructure gap in the country, stressed that the president Muhamnadu Buhari-led administration had stepped up work in all sectors of the economy. The Minister, who was represented by the Federal Controller of roads in Ekiti State, Mr. Ishiaq Lawal said 19 out of the 43 ongoing road projects had been completed. He noted that the rehabilitation and construction of internal roads in tertiary institutions was targeted at making learning less stressful, saying the students had expressed enthusiasm with regards to attending classes because some defective roads have been made motorable. “It is undebatable that quality education will be impacted by the quality of infrastructure and the learning environment and those who doubt it should simply listen to some of the feedback from students in the schools where this type of interventions has taken. “There is no doubt that the gap of our infrastructure needs is steadily been bridged by gradual process of repairs renewal and construction on the highway and it has reached the schools. “Currently there are 43 such interventions in internal roads within tertiary institutions across Nigeria, and the students are expressing their new enthusiasm with regards to attend the classes because of defective routes have been restored to motorability”, he said. In his remarks, the institution Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Kayode Soremekun who applauded the initiative of the federal government, describing the project as relief to the university community. Soremekun said projects would not only improve on the learning process of the students but also impacted on the ambience of the university, assuring the project were maintained to serve the desired purposes. He said the university needed more of such interventions in the area of infrastructures to further enhance the academic profile of the university in order to adequately compete with its contemporaries on the global realm.