A row between the National Universities Commission (NUC) and the Medical and Dental Consultants Association of Nigeria (MDCAN), over the expediency of the PhD qualification for clinical teachers, was resolved last week with both parties agreeing that the PhD was not compulsory for clinical teachers.  However, doctors are unhappy about the seemingly elevation of the PhD over the postgraduate fellowship, reports KOFOWOROLA BELO-OSAGIE. After about two months of fighting the National Universities Commission (NUC), over its circular that stated that medical doctors with PhDs would progress faster in their careers than those without, the Medical and Dental Consultants Association of Nigeria (MDCAN) got victory last week with a reversal that made the PhD optional. The resolution followed an intervention meeting hosted by the House Committees on Health and Health Services and Tertiary Education last week Tuesday; and another on Wednesday between both parties as well as the National Postgraduate Medical College of Nigeria (NPMCN), Nigerian Medical Association (NMA), and other stakeholders in medical education. A statement signed by the MDCAN President, Prof. Ken Ozoilo, and Secretary General, Dr. M. P. Chingle, noted: “At the end of the meeting, the following resolutions were reached: That the Fellowship is the highest qualification for clinical specialists and remains the qualification for employment for clinical lecturers into the university (Lecturer I); That the PhD is the highest academic qualification in the university; That the possession of PhD by clinical lecturers is voluntary and optional; That non-possession of PhD will not hinder the clinical lecturer from being promoted from one rank to the other up to the level of professor in the Nigerian university system.” However, the situation did not completely return to status quo.  The NUC announced the introduction of a PhD programme in Clinical Sciences. In a circular, the Executive Secretary, Prof. Abubakar Rasheed, said the programme was introduced to create a clear qualification path for medical doctors who teach in the Nigerian university system (NUS). He said: “In its renewed commitment to reposition medical education in Nigeria for optimal impact in the society and in line with global best practices, the National Universities Commission (NUC) has been conferring with officials of the National Postgraduate Medical College of Nigeria (NPMCN) and other critical stakeholders on the way forward in the delivery of quality medical education in Nigeria. One of the issues on the front burner is the postgraduate training for medical academics, which has no clear-cut guidelines for Masters and PhD programmes in the Clinical Sciences. “To this end, after exhaustive deliberation at series of meetings held between the Commission and the Management of the National Postgraduate Medical College of Nigeria (NPMCN), stakeholders unanimously agreed to introduce PhD programmes in the Clinical Sciences in the Nigerian University System, for the postgraduate training of interested medical practitioners, especially for those in the academia.” Currently, medical students are taught clinicals by academics in medical schools and consultants from teaching hospitals. The pathway to specialisation in various fields of medicine is through the Fellowship training by the National Postgraduate Medical College of Nigeria (NPMCN), West African College of Physicians (WACP) and West African College of Surgeons (WACS), among others.  It entails examinations in various stages and a dissertation. Medical doctors working in teaching hospitals need this training to become consultants. Academics in the Colleges of Medicine have on the back of Fellowship been promoted to professorial cadre. However,  noted that the new PhD in Clinical Sciences was optional, when he said: “For the avoidance of doubt, the PhD degree is highly recommended but optional”, many medical doctors think introducing the PhD could stand as a road block to their careers in future. To get the PhD, which the NUC stipulates should last between six semesters (full-time) and nine semesters (part-time), fellows of the NPMCN are only required to do a thesis. He said: “For candidates with Full Fellowships of the National Postgraduate Medical College of Nigeria (NPMCN), the West African College of Physicians (WACP) or the West African College of Surgeons (WACS), the course work shall be waived. However, they shall be required to submit and defend a thesis for graduation in 24 months.” But medical doctors think the Fellowship is rigorous enough and should not be overshadowed by the PhD – which they equate with the MBBS, being a dual degree.  Some under MDCAN feel the PhD was an attack on the Fellowship. One of them said: “Well, the NUC circular didn’t categorically say that Fellowship is the highest qualification for clinical lecturers. It in fact, stated that it is expedient for fellows to acquire the PhD.” Another doctor said the PhD was a ploy to exclude clinical lecturers from teaching in medical school. The source noted: “I still insist that no medical practitioner in clinical practice requires a PhD for anything! This is one of the fallouts of the policies of MDCN/NPMCN to do away with non-doctors teaching medical students by 2019.” Yet, another asked: “If a fellow needs to do 24 months to get a PhD, what then is the fellowship?” How strong is the Fellowship? In an interview, Provost, College of Medicine, University of Lagos (CMUL), Prof. Foluso Afolabi Lesi, said Fellowship training was rigorous. He said: “Well the clinical teachers themselves have gone through a course of study which include a research that has led to the award of their fellowship which is unlike any other.  It is a fellowship that has gone through it rigorous and scientific scholarship and all that. So, for years the NUC have accepted that the clinical teachers do not require a PhD. But the PhD is a good qualification to have for those who are just in the “For teaching in medical schools, the practice abroad is not a requirement. Looking at the staff faculty of medical schools across the country, of course you will find people who are actively involved in research and they have PhDs; you will also find a significant number (majority)of people who do not have PhDs and are teaching. PhD is good, I’m not saying that it is a bad qualification to have, but it is not a requirement in this case. Besides, in the medical profession there is a doctrine to medicine which in itself is probably equivalent to a doctorate in science that is also a high degree that medical doctors and dentists can aspire to have, but it is not a requirement for teaching undergraduate in universities.” A renowned Professor of Medical Microbiology and Parasitology, who does not want to be named, also said the Fellowship was rigorous enough.  He said PhD should remain optional given the practical nature of medical practice. He said: “Medicine has its practical side so you cannot separate teaching aspects from clinical aspects.  After university education, you gain MBBS.  There should be a comma between MB and BS becuause they are two degrees – Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery.  After the MBBS and you get registered by the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria (MDCN) some may just begin to practice while some may opt for fellowship to become specialists. Training during Fellowship is very intense.  It has to do with laborartory services, patient care; you learn under a consultan; you learn how to write papers and carry out research because at the end of the Fellowship you submit a dissertation based on quality research.  When they finish, some become consultants, some go into teaching line, continue writing papers and can become professors.”  He said this should remain the case. He advised that further qualifications should be based on individual interest.  Using himself as example, he said he obtained M.S.C PhD and M.D after his medical degree out of interest and desire to keep learning and engaging in research.  He however noted that the focus should be on teachers engaging in continuous research activities that add to knowledge rather than gathering certificates. “People should continue learning.  Let funds be generously available for teaching and research; salaries should be attractive so people won’t go abroad.  Our people are doing well abroad,” he said. Dr. Ona Utuama, A family physician hospitalist and public health researcher practicing in the U.S., said the current practice is standard international practice. “If we follow the American or British system, what we are doing now is what is standard. Medical degrees are doctorate degrees, medicine is made of theoretical non-clinical and then clinical…my question is, is this the problem with our country’s medical educational system?” she said. On her part, Dr. Ndidi Obadan a Fellow, American Society of Nephrology, said decision to remain in clinical or research track should rest with the medical practitioner. “In the U.S. the Academic professors mostly have PhD to allow them write grants, carry out projects and in general provide their expertise as Academicians. PhD can do laboratory research or clinical research (that is with patients). “The clinical professors have demonstrated excellence in acquiring all the clinical degrees necessary to practice medicine in the hospitals. They are treating patients in the hospital and in their offices.  They do not necessarily have research degrees if they are not planning to conduct research. “Some doctors in the US want to do both clinical and research.  Like me, so I have fulfilled all my clinical responsibilities. Including a clinical fellowship but that didn’t stop me from getting my master’s degree.  Eventually I intend to get my PhD. My title now is MS, MS. When I get my PhD it will be MD PhD. “In the US some medical schools offer a dual degree MD PhD which is slightly longer than just MD and has a lot more requirements to graduate. “