A graduate of Biochemistry from the Federal University of Technology, Akure (FUTA) Miss Success Olaleye, was among the eight 2019 Batch ‘A’ National Youths Service Corps members that were honoured for their outstanding performances during their service year in Anambra State. In this interview with EMMA ELEKWA, the dimunitive 25-year-old Oyo State indigene enumerated the projects she embarked on in the state under the NYSC community service development (CSD) programme.  What stood you out for the award? I won the Chairman’s honours award for carrying out various projects in Orumba North Local Government Area of Anambra State where I served as a teacher in one of the secondary schools. I taught three classes. Among the projects I carried out under the Community Development Service (CDS) programme of the NYSC include sensitising students on drug abuse, menstrual and hygiene management, sexual purity, sensitising the locals on lassa fever, importance of water, stress management, as well as distribution of free sanitary pads to students. What motivated you towards those projects? Before I was mobilised for the national service, I’d always loved social development and being impactful to the people around me. As an undergraduate, I visited schools to speak to youngsters. I’m passionate about this set of people getting it right in terms of career and morals. Even before I came to camp, I knew of a platform in NYSC called CDS from my friends that have passed through the scheme. But I didn’t get approval on time when I indicated interest. Besides, funding was a huge challenge. That affected the number of projects I carried out. I had planned to give out more free sanitary pads, and provide free skills acquisition for the youths. All the same, I was able to maximise the little funds at my disposal. Besides, I didn’t have the opportunity to be properly mentored beyond my parents while growing up; even though I’m not wayward or irresponsible. I weep when I see young people that their morals and values are nothing to home about. What other challenges did you encounter aside funding? Getting cooperation from the stakeholders and the direct beneficiaries in the communities themselves was a huge challenge. It was difficult convincing them that they needed such services. Again, I was eriously sick for about two months while carrying out the project. On a good day, I’m an achiever. Once I set out to do something, I achieve it. But because of the health challenge, I couldn’t pursue the projects with the required vigour. Is there anything you think NYSC can do to remedy this situation, particularly funding? I think the NYSC can liaise with certain relevant bodies, including ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) so that corps members carrying out certain projects can approach the ministries which are into the projects they are embarking on for assistance. For example, it could have been much easier for me getting assistance from the Ministry of Youths and Health if such synergy existed. What do you intend doing after now? Before coming into NYSC, I had in mind of setting up an NGO that is focused on youth development. I’m trusting God to get that rolling. But aside that, I want to go into entrepreneurship. I’m an event planner and I make cake and cook. I’ll be setting up my business which is registered already. Didn’t your stature pose challenge to you? It’s the way you carry yourself that matters. The way I carry myself makes it difficult for people to see me and deny they didn’t recognise my presence. I  have an effective communication skills which is the first thing I showcase. When you hear me speak, though funny voice, but I communicate effectively. I don’t get threatened by my size. If at all, maybe that was during my junior secondary school day. I know what I carry. I know I’m a gift to the world with potentials inside of me. I’m not bothered with my size. It’s not about the container, but the content. 