UFC star Conor McGregor has called on Ireland to go into ‘full lockdown’ in a bid to stop the spread of the deadly coronavirus – and has backed it up by buying €1million of equipment for hospitals in his home country. The 31-year-old posted an impassioned speech to his official Facebook account shortly before Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar announced new restrictive measures on Tuesday evening. The Irish government has told people to stay at home and only go outside if they need to travel to work, go shopping, exercise or care for the vulnerable. McGregor, however, believes that the whole of Ireland needs to follow the likes of China by taking things further before the problem gets worse. And he has shown just how serious he is about the issue by following up his plea with the purchase of €1m-worth of personal protective equipment. McGregor shared a private conversation with Ireland’s Minister for Finance, Public Expenditure and Reform, Paschal Donohoe, in which he revealed that he had bought face masks, gloves and more for hospitals in the Leinster region. In one of his messages, McGregor wrote: ‘Today I am purchasing myself, €1million worth of personal protective equipment to be deployed to all the fighting hospitals in the Leinster region. Our most affected region, to this date. St James. Mater, Tallaght. Beaumont. Vincent’s. ‘Where we would be without these brave men and women, I do not know. May God bless over them and keep them safe. We need more units on the street to enforce this lockdown Paschal. It has been too lax!’ In a two-minute clip posted to his social media accounts on Tuesday, McGregor said: ‘Hello everyone, hello Ireland. I would like to address my nation. ‘While we are all currently debating a full lockdown, I feel that we must. ‘Any time spent debating this is needless time from the clock. I know a good, tough fight when I see one, and we have one on our hands now. ‘I want to call upon my people – the great people of Ireland. This fight needs us all. ‘We’re all in the red corner together, awaiting the bell. So let’s gather together and ring the bell ourselves, including the people of the rest of the world.