   LIKE plants that must first wither away before they can sprout again, it is when human beings have reached the end of their tether that they begin to show signs of regeneration. This columnist is willing to take a bet on this, but in all the current global tragedy arising from the Corona pandemic, nothing has been more heart- warming and uplifting than the sight of Cuban medical personnel arriving in Italy to help the country stem the tide of the Corona incubus. They arrived to universal cheers and applause. It was a mainly Caucasian caucus cheering. And the Cuban cast being cheered were all black. In all likelihood,  the modern medical Hercules were descendants of Black slaves originally taken to the sugar cane plantations of Cuba in conditions of appalling dehumanization and monstrous suffering. Some survived and many perished. Now their descendants are returning to teach the civilized world one or two lessons in kindness and generosity of spirit. Suffering truly ennobles and material want often purifies the soul. Despite the pervading tragedy, this is one of those moments in human history when there is something noble and soul-stirring to take away. Fidel Castro might have got a few things wrong in his quest to transform a class-ridden, semi-feudal Hispanic enclave into a modern egalitarian society. But there are many things he got right, particularly the eradication of illiteracy and the provision of medical facilities to his people. Today, despite persistent poverty, the rate of literacy in Cuba is higher than the US and their health care programme far superior in its outreach and intense compassion for the afflicted. It is this compulsive compassion for the medically challenged that has led Cuban doctors to the gates of the Vatican. Spartacus and all the ancient slave heroes who rose against the inequities and debauchery of the Roman Empire would be smiling in their graves. It is a radical vision of the human condition driven by empathy and emotional intelligence which is largely absent in modern day western societies nudged on by intense competitiveness and the cut-throat rivalry of the capitalist mode of production. Whatever his faults, Fidel Castro was a radical humanist driven by a towering rage at the deplorable plight of fellow humans pushed to the edge of perdition by poverty, want and immiseration. This is a vision of a truly emancipated and egalitarian modern society shorn of the divisions of race, class and creed. It is this envisioning of a robustly novel society that also powered the American Revolution, the French Revolution, the Russian Revolution, the Chinese Revolution and the Ethiopian Revolution with differing and sharply differentiated results based on prevalent national complications as well as the dominant historical complexities. The harshly realist view is that without the intense competition and clockwork rivalry innate to capitalism modern society can never achieve the prosperity and surplus needed to furnish and transfer resources that build a truly egalitarian society. Until a truly superior mode of production gains ascendancy, it will be left to those who order the affairs of humanity to moderate and modulate this permanent economic siege and war of all against all in a way that the poor and the disadvantaged are not crushed by superior forces. Humankind is yet to achieve the nobility of spirit which will make people produce surplus and prosperity for others without first satisfying their own innate greed and the psychological satisfaction that comes with having beaten others in a tough game. Self-preservation is the first law of nature and the modern jungle.  The Cuban medical expedition to Italy would have been unthinkable and impossible had the Cubans not achieved surplus and internal saturation in that field of human endeavour. This is why the post-Corona world is going to be one of deep introspection and intense self-interrogation for the human community. It has been said that for the best of government, let fools contend. But in the coming world order, it is not only fools that will contend but a lot of surprising contenders. The modern state, particularly its post-colonial simulacrum in Africa, will be subject to sharp and severe cross-examination. The interventionist state is likely to stage a grand return after the allocutus of the inefficient and incompetent post-colonial state that is if the entire post-colonial heritage in Africa is not thrown into the trashcan of history. After revolting against their historic humiliation in the hands of local and western powers, the Chinese came up with their notion of a highly disciplined and well-organized state capitalism. But see where this has led the world! Chinese state capitalism has bequeathed to the world its first truly global pandemic.  As we stated in this column three weeks back, something no longer adds up in China. China’s sterling achievements in the last seventy years of state capitalism cannot be controverted. It is the very first time in the history of humanity that some ruling elite have succeeded in lifting so many people out of the poverty trap within so short a time. As a result of prudent and disciplined management of national resources, the Chinese leadership have turned China into a legendarily rich and well-provisioned country beyond the imagination of its people. Within a time frame, the Chinese Communist Nomenclatural have transformed their country from a feudal backwater which was the butt of savage jokes and derision by western societies to a magnificent modern society replete with all the glittering and dazzling paraphernalia of a modern nation on its own terms. From a vast, chaotic and primitive land whose more powerful neighbours took turn to rape and humiliate, China has become a first class military power and leading economic stronghold. This is a modern miracle which is as stunning as it is staggering. But it is not the entire story. Despite the rapid modernization, there are still pockets of primitivism and fetishism embedded in the vast Chinese landscape. It is obvious that there are areas of China still living in the sixteenth century in all their hideously unsanitary conditions that modernity has not been able to work over. Even from the hellholes of post-colonial Africa, anybody who has watched the viral video of the Wuhan market for wildlife will feel sorry for humanity. Hyper-globalization spreads infection faster than anybody can imagine. A virus can be picked up in Ulan Bator in Mongolia and the next day the carrier is in Cape Town, South Africa. It is this virtual abolition of time and space that has brought the world to the edge of a global catastrophe. The post-Corona world will never be the same again. It will resemble a world after a truly devastating earthquake. The theatre of human governance will experience revolutionary ripples leading to state upheavals and a radical redefinition of some nations in certain instances to bring them at par with emergent post-Corona realities. Despite the Cuban example, there will be a sharp retreat into one-nation nationalism. The walls of continental and global cooperation have already crumbled and it will take some time to bring them back. It has taken a truly monstrous pandemic to undo what took a century of visionary and painstaking statesmanship to build. But just as the First World War was preceded and accompanied by the rumblings of crumbling empires, the Corona pandemic is also accompanied by the rumblings of crumbling nations. Before the First World War, you had the Russian, German, Austro-Hungarian, Chinese and Ottoman Empires. After the war, they all vanished from the face of the earth in varying degrees of collapse. The Cuban show of love and affection in the time of Coronavirus will not help a crumbling world order. The tumult and tempest attending to the pandemic is a sure sign of a global order that has reached the end of its historic, economic and political possibility. No one is sure of how this will pan out. Is this the end of the post-Westphalia nation-state paradigm as we have come to know it? Ultimately, it will be discovered that since what has drawn the world together in the last six hundred years is greater than what pulls it apart, the emphasis will still be on global cooperation rather than self-isolation. In the interim, it is a big win for advocates of state intervention and massive public sector spending. Once again, the descendants of Lord Keynes are in sharp ascendancy. Writing about this bifurcation and swinging pendulum in the political economy of advanced western nations, particularly Britain and America, Karl Polanyi, the great economist and philosopher, noted a tendency to swing along two extreme poles. There is a ruling elite consensus about this which cannot be disturbed or disrupted until a great crisis comes along with new enforcers who are also spawned by the system. When Harold Macmillan, a Conservative grandee, famously proclaimed that his compatriots had never had it so good, he was building on the great welfare reforms pioneered by the post-war Labour administration of Clement Atlee. Once the stick of reaction and right-wing neo-liberalism is bent too far in the direction of a harshly autocratic and uncaring state, contrary forces arise in the society to bend it in the other direction of a compassionate and caring order. But once the feeding bottle state goes too far in encouraging indolence and vagrancy, the milk snatchers and no-nonsense neoliberal warriors come back to roll back the state. In Nigeria where the post-colonial state has only the most tenuous of hold on a captive nation, the coming tempest and tumult arising from the Coronavirus in combination with subsisting economic, political, religious and security tensions will have to be better imagined. With our infrastructure in a parlous state, with our educational system devastated and with our Health Care System in a shambles, foolish Nigerian intellectuals and IMF technocrats who joined in the neo-liberal clamour for rolling back the state in a very fragile nation in the mid-eighties can now see where they have led us. Thirty five years after the situation is dire. After rolling back its responsibility, the Nigerian post-colonial state has become even more frankly incompetent, mired in abject self-abasement, a mendicant abroad and a prodigal at home.  There are no core values that drive governance. Nobody builds on anything because there is nothing to build on. The paradox of neo-liberal reforms as we have seen in the west particularly in America is that while absolving the state of its responsibility, it frees resources that should have gone to critical public sectors for the most outlandish instance of arms stockpiling and war gaming that the human race has witnessed for the benefit of the military-industrial complex and their contractors. The chickens are coming home to roost in New York. Nigeria has been sold an ailing mutant of this neoliberal rogue state by the military and their civilian adjutants.  As we have seen with the Fourth Republic so far, freeing the state of its responsibility in critical public sectors has resulted in massive executive and legislative freeloading the like of which has not been seen in the history of state larceny in Africa. As the economic crisis unfolds and as the pandemic lockdown grinds everything to a halt, it is obvious that the fiscal recklessness of both the executive and the legislature can no longer be sustained. Unfortunately, the mismanagement of ethnic and religious diversity which many concerned patriots have railed about has now teamed up with an unravelling economy and Coronavirus pandemic to produce a perfect storm. Welcome to the post-pandemic conundrum. 