Senator Solomon Adeola (Lagos West), on Friday, commended President Muhammadu Buhari for the grant of N10 billion to Lagos as part of efforts to contain the spread of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. Adeola described the grant as timely. He said that the money is much needed at this time to “complement the untiring yeoman efforts of Lagos State government under Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu in stemming the tide of the viral infection in the mega city of Lagos State.” In a statement by his Media Adviser, Kayode Odunaro in Abuja, Adeola said: “I want to specially thank Mr. President for the grant of N10 billion to Lagos State for the fight against COVID-19. “The grant is not only merited on the basis of the pioneering and continuing role of Lagos State in combating the scourge of the deadly virus but in terms of the massive and concentrated population of Lagos State estimated at over 20 million of all tribes in Nigeria.” The Senator who is the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Finance, however called on all his constituents in particular and Nigerians in general to adhere to precautionary medical directives from all relevant authorities including social distancing and staying at home for a period to stem the tide of the disease. He added that the pandemic has once again throw into bold relief the status of Lagos as not only the commercial and economic nerve of Nigeria but the need for a special status and funding for Lagos State in the Constitution as the former capital of Nigeria. “It is clear now that Lagos State is special in several respects. “We play host to hundreds of thousands of Nigerians from all parts of the country and even nationals from many countries. “Many national socio-economic institutions of the nation are still domiciled in Lagos state putting additional burden on infrastructure that the state government must look after in the national interest as it has been shown in the management of this pandemic” he said. Senator Adeola called on President Buhari to make it one of his many legacies by granting special status and funding for Lagos State before the end of his administration – a feat which is “ultimately in the national interest.”