SIR: Life can change in a heartbeat. Like a caterpillar taking wings, ashes can become beauty in an instant. Also, in the fraction of a second, sophisticated beauty can become a cadaver. It is happening in Nigeria that within a year, hitherto untouchable politicians are improbably  finding room in prisons for offences which uniformly revolve around the Nigerian commonweal – that mercilessly battered and abused symbol and source of many a Nigerian problem. From former governors to high-ranking party officials whose words were law under dispensations that  were  with us as recently as yesterday, the walls of Nigerian prisons which have over the years seen  the many tears of frustration and howls of anguish incarceration can bring, are playing witnesses to an exotic and expanding   batch of Nigeria‘s high and mighty prisoners. Former PDP megaphone Olisa Metuh was the latest to swap his expensive robes and the refreshing air of liberty for prison garbs and the stale air of prison. With what has happened in this country, it is safe to predict that he will in no way be the last to go in. Every society that yearns for genuine development craves for the sanity and order that law creates and maintains. Where the law works and is treasured, it serves as the ultimate equalizer, the ultimate elixir for a better society. Conversely, chaos and inequity would fill every crack left by bad laws or no laws at all in societies where the powerful dictate what happens out of the abundance of their whims and caprices. Nigeria has had to contend with its fair share of situations where the powerful have shown nothing but contempt for the delicate mechanic s of law and law enforcement. As this condescension towards the law and the lawful has raged, every aspect of Nigerian life has taken a battering. None more than the public office. Visionary leadership has proven a mighty struggle in Nigeria, a holy grail, much to the consternation of Nigerians. Public officers have shown themselves bankrupt of the ideas and morality that conduce to a decent and dignified society and by so doing, they have carved out yawning cracks in the Nigerian public office. Through these cracks, the vermin of corruption have poured in, in droves, attacking with fury and savagery. Public funds meant to lay out, improve and maintain public infrastructure, protect Nigerian lives and properties and engender a virile society have been the worst affected. As accountability and transparency in public affairs and accounts have receded, Nigerians have looked on in horror as a select few grow fat out of public resources while majority starve. Today, corruption continues to beset the country and clog the wheels of Nigeria‘s exceedingly ponderous bureaucracy. In addition, the monster has succeeded in squeezing the life out of public confidence   and patriotism. To his credit, no sooner had the Independent Electoral Commission declared Muhammadu Buhari winner of the 2015 Presidential Elections than he identified corruption as a common enemy and fired a historic salvo at it. Hopes soared then and though a lot has transpired over the years to dry that hope, Nigeria‘s anti-corruption agencies, particularly the EFCC, have shown a resilient steadfastness in prosecuting the anti-corruption war. A lot of problems persist however and mentalities and attitudes must change. To effectively go after all those who  because they had a shot at public offices turned public funds to personal funds and to enlist Nigerians fully in the war, those who lead the fight against corruption must strictly colour within the lines of the law. The spirit of the law must be strictly adhered to, to eschew persecution, partiality and nauseating politics in the war against an enemy that has left Nigeria in no man‘s land. The anti-corruption war must be fought in such a way that each and every hiding place for those who plunder public funds or even remotely participate in such plunder is identified and torn down with its human contents moved to real prisons.