Segun Toriola is one of Nigeria’s most decorated athletes and the first Nigerian to feature in seven Olympic Games, making his debut at Barcelona 1992 in Spain. Toriola’s commitment to Nigeria is indisputable as his contributions to table tennis and his records in the game are there for all, which have been recognized by the African Table Tennis Federation (ATTF). Despite several challenges, including disappointments while representing Nigeria, the 45-year-old remains committed to the land of his birth. Toriola’s latest efforts to secure more glory for Nigeria by setting a new record as the first table tennis player and African athlete to compete in eight Olympic Games was halted at the African Olympic Qualifying Tournament in Tunis. But the Ogun State-born athlete forges on…writes Olalekan Okusan When Segun Toriola made his debut at the 1992 Barcelona Olympic Games in Spain as a teenager, it was enough for the youngster to just be part of the party. But then the debutante caught the Olympic bug and he could not imagine that the biggest sporting event could go on in subsequent years without his participation. Such was the love of the Games planted in Toriola’s heart that for the next seven editions he was present as a playing participant. When he featured at Rio 2016 Olympic Games in Brazil, Toriola was inducted into the 7 Club – the exclusive group of players who have appeared in up to seven Olympic Games – by the International Table Tennis Federation (ITTF). While he has missed out on the Tokyo Olympic Games, the former African champion continues to cherish every moment he had competed at the games.  The legend of table tennis said: “For me competing at the Olympic Games has been a big experience and I’m very happy because it is not easy to compete at the Olympics for 32 years. I always love to be part of the Olympics because it is a special event and it is a tournament that you compete and your spirit will be lifted as if you are a legend. “The experience at the Games Village is something you would not want to forget in a hurry because at the Village you will meet other top athletes from across the globe, particularly those regarded as super stars like you. “The Olympics for me is a very special event and competing for 32 years is like winning a jackpot. My first Olympic Games were like a surprise to me even to everybody in the Nigeria team because I was the youngest in the team and nobody believed I was going to qualify. “Since my debut at Barcelona 1992, I was always determined and eager to go back every four years. The feeling I had during my first outing at the Olympic Games has always inspired me to be determined to go back again and again. Every time I finished an Olympic Games, I usually redouble my efforts and continue to work harder so that I can go back again. So going to the Olympic Games requires hard-work,” he said. It was at Beijing in China that Toriola made a significant impact at the Olympic Games, after reaching the Men’s Singles last 16. To get to that enviable stage, Toriola beat amongst others former world number 1 Jean-Michel Saive as well as Canada’s David Zhuang. His round of 32 match-up with the Belgian was seen by many as one of the highlights of the Men’s Singles Tournament. He narrowly lost 4-3 to heavily favoured Korea’s Oh Sang-Eun in the round of 16. “There’s been a lot of memorable moments for me at the Olympics because for me Olympics is special, I cannot say this particular one is special but the only one I could remember was Beijing 2008 which I can say for me is different because I played very well and all the whole world was surprised I could play the way I played. So I think Beijing Olympics is more special for me in terms of playing,” he said. While he has several laurels in his kitty, Toriola has no national honours to show for his service to his Fatherland. But he is unfazed by this development. His words: “Well I don’t regret sacrifice my time playing for Nigeria because I’m a Nigerian; I love to be a Nigerian and I’m proud playing for Nigeria. I know there is a lot of disappointment going on in Nigeria. But I am used to it. Disappointments should be expected by every Nigerian athlete. “I think they (athletes) should not get upset because Nigeria has a way of disappointing its athletes. So for me I’m not regretting because I choose to play for Nigeria till the end of my career. If I didn’t want to choose Nigeria, I would have changed my nationality a very long time ago.” He enthused further: “Well, I’m not bothered that I have not been given a national honour by Nigeria. Although it is not good for Nigeria athletes but for me I am not surprised Nigeria doesn’t know the value of its athletes. It is very sad that nobody in Nigeria honours me or our past athletes who have won a lot of medals for the country. “For me, my own case is even special because I’m the longest serving athlete in Nigeria that played so long and won several medals for Nigeria more than any athlete. It’s sad to hear that I have not been honoured by my country but most of the time, I don’t think about it.” Toriola could not hide his disappointment for not making it to Tokyo 2020. He said: “I’m going to miss a lot apart from participating. I am going to miss my friends from other countries. I am going to miss the Olympic Games a lot because if any athlete passes through the Olympics, he or she would not want to miss the next one because if he misses the next one then he or she is going to miss a lot.” On plan to aim for Paris 2024 Olympic Games, Toriola said: “No I’m already done with Olympics and also for the national team of Nigeria. I had already told the Nigeria Table Tennis Federation (NTTF) when I played at Rio 2016 that after that I will try to qualify again for Tokyo. But that if I qualify or not, I will quit. “Later this year I’m going to call a world press conference to announce my retirement from the national team. But when I stop playing for national team, I am still going to continue my professional career. Also I will still continue to be around the players because for me, moving away from the national team is going to affect some players and that has been the problem we have in Nigeria which prevented us from improving in table tennis.” Toriola is also not ruling out coaching. “I’m thinking of coaching but for me my first priority is if I want to be a coach, I have to be around Nigeria because the players need coaches and someone that can help them a lot. “So for me I just want to be around Nigeria and that is my priority, no matter how I have to plough something back. If table tennis is not improving in Nigeria it will affect me too because ex-players are going to ask me what is going on in Nigeria table tennis. People respect Nigeria in table tennis all over the world, so I am going to stay around Nigeria even if I’m going to coach any other country.” “If I am given the opportunity to coach Nigeria, first of all I have to first look at the players in terms of their quality coupled with the problems they are facing. I also need to talk with them as well as with the federation because if you are a coach and you cannot make your decision but allow your Federation makes decisions for you then your work is not going to show. “Then after that I will start working with them. I need to teach them (athletes) not only on the table but mentally also because people believe you have to only train athletes on the table alone but that’ is not so as you need to give them advice, as well as the secrets of staying long in the game,” he added. On the secret of his long stay in the game, Toriola said: “The secret first of all is working hard and training regularly. You need to train, make some sacrifices in your lifestyle because some athletes want to live two lifestyles, which is not possible. Sports lifestyle is different from social lifestyle. You need to have a good plan for your lifestyle. What really helped me is that my age is not in my brain, what I have in my brain is that I am just 20 years old and that really helped me a lot and motivated me. As an athlete you don’t always think about your age because it is just a number but when you believe you are still young then your brain will motivate you to practice more.” The erstwhile Commonwealth champion remains grateful to his father for sowing the seed of table tennis in his life. “I’m very happy with what I have achieved in the sport and I must praise my father for that because he wanted me to play table tennis. I remember when I was young I didn’t have the opportunity to play with other children but I had my own table at home made by my father. This afforded me the chance to play regularly at home before moving out,” he said.