The African Petroleum Producers Organisation (APPO) says the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) is the leader in local content development in Africa. The regional oil group notes that NCDMB has developed indigenous capacity in skills acquisition and technology development, and highlights some issues in the regional and sub-regional oil industry, reports EMEKA UGWUANYI.  THE African Petroleum Producers Organisation (APPO)  Secretary-General Dr. Omar Farouk Ibrahim has said the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) is promoting local content on the continent,. He spoke at the just-concluded sub-Saharan Africa International Exhibition and Conference (SAIPEC), organised by the Petroleum Technology Association of Nigeria (PETAN), in Lagos, He added that NCDMB is the regional leader in local content. Ibrahim stated that Nigeria’s Local Content Policy is a model worthy of emulation by other African nations and extolled NCDMB for catalysing the development of infrastructural and human capacities in the oil and gas industry. However, he regretted that member countries of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), which are more developed, had begun to initiate discriminatory policies towards hydrocarbons as primary energy sources, which discourage research and investment in the sector, noting that such actions would eventually make fossil fuels less accessible and more expensive, and position other sources of energy as viable alternatives. He noted that these developments were taking place when Africa is making more finds in oil and gas, hence making it imperative for African nations to take their destinies into their own hands and pursue the development of local capacities to operate the oil industry and use energy to fuel the national, sub-regional or continental economies. He acknowledged that significant progress had been made by some countries, pointing out that “Nigeria’s example is worth emulating. I wish to commend the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board for the support it has been giving to a number of African countries.” Ibrahim underscored APPO’s belief in the “need to domesticate the oil and gas technology on our continent. No nation or continent will transfer technology to us. We should encourage local content development in the oil and gas industry on our continent”. He promised to facilitate more experience sharing between Nigeria and other African states, noting that APPO plans to develop exchange programmes among staff of the oil industry of member countries.  “We also believe that partnership in the development of cross-border energy infrastructure in oil and gas pipelines, electricity, and joint refineries, among others are key to sustainable development of the energy industry in Africa. No one country can do it successfully in isolation,” he added. APPO is an organisation of African countries that produce oil and gas. The 32-year regional body serves as a platform for cooperation and harmonisation of efforts, collaboration, sharing of knowledge and skills among African oil producing countries. Making presentation on “Sub-Saharan Africa local content collaboration strategy”, the Executive Secretary, NCDMB, Simbi Kesiye Wabote, stated that the increasing discovery of hydrocarbon resources in Sub-Saharan Africa is sufficient motivation for governments and operators to collaborate closely. He said such collaborations could be deployed using infrastructure development, legal framework, trade agreements, human capital mobility, common industry standards, supply chain development, finance beyond borders to achieve local content practices on a wider scale. The NCDMB chief maintained that such collaboration would be a boost towards achieving sustainable development, especially if it is approached from the “comparative advantage” point of view. He said Ghana, Sierra Leone, Liberia, Mozambique, Kenya, Tanzania, and Senegal had joined the league of countries with hydrocarbon resources between 2005 and 2015 and more countries would join by 2025. On local content, Wabote said it is a sure way to develop local capacities and capabilities across all sectors such that values are retained in-country and by extension in-continent.