Troops attached to the Operation Hadarin Daji in Zamfara State have rescued 12 kidnap victims including the District Head of Wuya, who were abducted a week ago. The troops also recovered a total of 667 cows and 300 sheep from the bandits. Nine of the bandits were killed, while 14 of them were arrested and have confessed that they were taking the rustled cows to Zaria where they will be disposed. The Acting Director Defence Media Operations, Brigadier General Benard Onyeuko, disclosed in statement that “troops of Operation HADARIN DAJI in Zamfara State closed up on bandits  in a subsidiary operation  CHINGABA in the past week. “During the operation, troops successfully released 12 kidnapped Civilians by the bandits, including the District Head of Wuya, who was kidnapped a week earlier. The victims have been united with their families”. The statement added that, “also, in other clearance operations conducted at Gidan Usman, Gidan Babagoji, Gadauna, Gidan Janari, Kekuwaje, Gidan Sarki, Gardi and Bingi all in Bungudu Local Government Area of Zamfara State, troops killed in contact nine Bandits and arrested 14 as well as 13 houses of the bandits were cleared and set ablaze by troops. “A total of 67 cattle rustled by the bandits were recovered and handed over to the district heads of the communities”. According to the statement,  “in same vein, troops of Operation Hadarin Daji, engaged some bandits who attacked Julee Vilage and rustled goats. The Bandits came under the fierce firepower of the troops,  abandoned the goats and fled into the forest. The troops recovered the goats and handed over to the owners. “Similarly, troops on patrol at Nasarrawa Vilage, close to Tunga Haki in Gusau Local Government Area of Zamfara State intercepted nine suspected bandits and recovered 600 Cows and 300 Sheep. After due interrogation, bandits confessed to have rustled the animals and were proceeding to Zaria to avert possible arrest by the troops. “The recovered animals are currently in the custody of troops of Operation HADARIN DAJI. Proper handover will be done after investigation in conjunction with local authorities to confirm the owners. “Furthermore, the Nigerian military, in conjunction with other security agencies conducted an assault operation at Gabyer Village in Bugundu Local Government Area of Zamfara State, on 28 March 2020. The troops came in contact with armed bandits and after a fire-fight, the armed bandits withdrew in disarray into the forest. Exploitation was carried out by the land component after own aggressor aircraft had engaged fleeing bandits. “The Armed Forces of Nigeria will not relent in its resolve to restore peace, law and order in our dear Nation”.