By Olabisi Salau  The Acting Chairman, Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities (SSANU), University of Lagos chapter, Comrade Olusola Sowumi, has chided the Federal Government for its insincerity on the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS), noting that SSANU members had not been paid since last November despite enrolling. Speaking at a family meeting with the institution’s Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe  last Friday at the school’s main auditorium, Sowumi said the union was uncomfortable with government’s implementation. He said: “We have other issues that school cannot attend to which are the national issues.  But concerning IPPIS, we are not comfortable with the way the government is handling the issue. They make us drive into things they are not grounded for and we actually went for the migration exercise in November thinking by December, they would pay as promised. Till now, still no action on payment.  It is disheartening. It shows the Federal Government is not sincere with us at all.”  He noted that the family meeting was imperative because they were trying to address the agitations in the university while charting a way to move the institution forward. “We had tried so many areas and avenue we could exploit for communication, but none had worked and given good feedbacks. We needed to bridge the gap.  We thought of a family meeting with the management of the institution to understand the reason for the gap and address other related issues. We found out negotiation was key in solving problems,” he said. In his remarks, the VC, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe while lauding the union for initiating the meeting, noted that it was important to keep its members abreast of happenings in the university. He disclosed that the university was committed to the development of non-teaching staff by ensuring they participate in a training which had already commenced. He also said that committees had been set up to address the issue of staff misdemeanor while adding that the union had the right to sanction erring members. Ogundipe urged all unions to be united towards contributing their quota to the university’s growth and development. 