 TRAVELLERS from the United States (U.S.), United Kingdom (U.K.) and 11 other will not be allowed into Nigeria beginning from Saturday, the Federal Government said on Wednesday. Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, who announced the ban, said it will be in force for 30 days and subject to review. Besides, the SGF told reporters at the State House that said those who arrived in the country in the last 15 days from the 13 countries, would be subjected to supervised 14 days self-isolation. Mustapha, who was accompanied by Health Minister, Dr. Osagie Ehinare, explained that the ban became necessary because of the countries high-risk status in terms of the spread of the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. He added that the Visa-on-Arrival policy had been temporarily suspended even as he urged Nigerians with travel plans to the affected countries to either cancel or suspend such plans. Mustapha said: “This (Wednesday) morning, we have found it necessary to brief Nigerians on further measures being taken after an assessment of the global situation. “The Federal Government of Nigeria is restricting entry into the country for travellers from the following thirteen (13) countries; China, Italy, Iran, South Korea, Spain, Japan, France, Germany, Norway, the United States of America, the United Kingdom, Netherlands and Switzerland. These are all countries with over 1,000 case domestically. “All persons arriving in Nigeria, who might have visited these countries, fifteen days prior to such arrival, will be subjected to supervised self-isolation and testing for 14 days. “The Federal Government is temporarily suspending the issuance of all visas on arrival. The Federal Government is also counseling all Nigerians to cancel or postpone all non-essential travels to these countries; and “The Federal Government urges public health authorities of countries with high burden to conduct diligent departure screening of passengers and also endorses these travel advisories to their nationals to postpone travels to Nigeria. “These restrictions will come into effect from Saturday, 21st March, 2020 for four (4) weeks subject to review,” the SGF said.