From Osagie Otabor, Benin  Factional Chairman of the All Progressives Congress in Edo State, Col. David Imuse, has said that Governor Godwin Obaseki would not enjoy any right of first refusal in the party. Imuse said Obaseki must subject himself to the party primaries if he wants to get second term in office.  Imuse who spoke at a press briefing in Benin City accused Governor Obaseki of shopping for any political party that would accept him for a second term ticket. He said the Edo APC ticket would go to the person who “is able to persuade members that he deserves their trust and confidence. ”  His words, “We will not be harassed, bombed, intimidated or arm-twisted to give our support to any person.  ”We wish to sound a note of warning to Governor Obaseki and his co-travelers who are determined to destabilise our party cohesiveness that they will not succeed in their dastardly plans. “Any person who aspires to contest the forth coming elections to the office of Governor of Edo State should conduct themselves appropriately as outlined in the constitution of APC.  “  Col Imuse stated that Governor Obaseki planned to denigrate the person of Comrade Oshiomhole over his suspension from the party.  But Special Adviser to the Edo State Governor on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr. Crusoe Osagie, said Col. Imuse was not an executive member of the Edo APC and has no right to make statements on behalf of the party in the state.  Osagie, in a statement, said Col. Imuse was a product of the misadventure of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and the Edo Peoples Movement (EPM), a body which he tried to use to factionalise the Edo APC. According to him, “One Col. Imuse addressed the press today purportedly speaking on behalf of the Edo APC. We want to inform the public and Edo people that Col. Imuse is not an executive member of the APC in Edo State and he has no right to make any statement on behalf of the party. He is an imposter and a product of the ill-fated plot of the suspended National chairman to destabilise the APC in Edo State. “We urge all well-meaning members of the APC in Edo State, Edo State indigenes and residents and Nigerians in general, to disregard his comments, as they are not only a nullity but of no effect whatsoever,” he said.