 THE International Award for Young People in Nigeria (IAYPN) has presented the Duke of Edinburgh Bronze Award to 179 pupils in Lagos senior secondary schools under the Agboju Education District. The presentation held at the Awori Ajeromi Senior Grammar School in Ajeromi-Ifelodun Local Government Area. Those selected have completed award requirements involving emotional, intellectual, physical, spiritual and social development programmes. They successfully underwent skill learning, social services engagement, physical/sporting activities and adventurous journeys. The award recipients were drawn from 19 schools in the district. IAYPN National Director, Oshoke  Bello, thanked the pupils for persevering throughout the programme. He said the award provided participants “a global framework for non-formal education and learning, which challenges young people to dream big, celebrate their achievements and make a difference in their world. “Through developing transferable skills, increasing their fitness levels, cultivating a sense of adventure and volunteering in their community, the award helps young people to find their purpose, passion and place in the world.” IAYPN trustee Mrs. Folake Elizabeth Fawunmi congratulated the pupils for having joined the millions around the world, who had participated in the programme. She urged them to apply the lessons learnt during the awards to make positive impact wherever they find themselves. An award recipient – Abdul-Wujud Alabi – from Heartland Senior Secondary School, said he chose reading, teaching, basketball and water production exploration as his main activities for the programme. “It was indeed, an opportunity to have gone through this framework. I will continue to remain grateful,” he said. Another awardee, Oloola Rukayat Jumoke, from Ojoku High School, said public speaking was difficult for her before the programme, but the programme helped her to conquer that challenge. “I do not regret participating in the programme,” she added. The participating schools are: Ajeromi Ifelodun Senior Secondary School, Adeolu Senior Secondary School, Mokoya Senior Secondary School, Expressway Senior High School, Ojoku Senior High School, Ojo Senior Secondary School, Newland Senior Secondary School, Navy Town Senior Secondary School, Community Senior Secondary School, Kuje Senior Secondary School, Lagos State Senior Model College, Creek Senior Secondary School, Alakoto Senior Secondary School, Agboju Senior High School, Army Cantonment Girls, Awori Ajeromi Senior Grammar School, Amuwo Senior High School, Army Cantonment Boys Senior Secondary School and Reservation Senior Secondary School.