 The Medical and Dental Consultants Association of Nigeria (MDCAN),Ondo state branch has decried the circular directing the Vice Chancellors (VC) to start implementing ‘ no PhD,no career progression’ for all Clinical Lecturers. The group expressed the danger posed by the ‘obnoxious’ circular released by the National University Commission(NUC) ordering the VCs to recognise only the possession of PhD by all academic staff including Clinical Lecturers. At a news conference in Akure,the State Capital, MDCAN’s Vice Chairman, Omolayo Olubosede said the purported circular is rejected in its entirety,stressing that the document should be withdrawn immediately. It gave two-week ultimatum to NUC to return the system to status quo,stressing that after its expiration,NEC would reconvene to appraise the situation and explore other available options. According to its Vice Chairman,” we call on the NUC to desist from meddling in Post Graduate Medical Training,which is the purview of the National Postgraduate Medical College of Nigeria. “The MDCAN is not aversed to the possession of PH.D, but should remain voluntary and optional for Clinical lecturers,we therefore call on the National Postgraduate Medical College of Nigeria to live up to its statutory power of awarding degrees to postgraduate trainees. ” That the existing medical education structure has produced medical doctors and specialists that sought after outside the shores of Nigeria. “The failure to withdraw this obnoxious circular would leave us with no other option than to withdraw our services from medical education in all Nigerian Universities”. It emphasised that the overall aim of medical education at both undergraduate and post graduate levels is to produce doctors and specialists,competent enough to safely practise and preserve lives. The professional body noted that the problem being faced in Nigeria today was not about the quality of products,but dismal number of the ratio of doctor,patient population which presently stands as 1: 6,000 as opposed to 1:4000 recommended by the World Health Organization(WHO). MDCAN pointed out that if the NUC circular is allowed to stand,would worsen the already precarious health situation in the country by encouraging continuous brain drain of the best from the University system.