As Odia Ofeimun turns 70 today, it is an apt occasion to celebrate the poet who penned the poem with an intriguing title, “The poet lied.” It was his way of saying poets are supposed to be voices of truth. His thoughts on the writer’s role, expressed in an interview, give an insight into his writing life: “It is possible to tell the truth and on the basis of the positions you take, try to change public policies… I think a writer will be deceiving himself, if he believes he can draw a line between himself as an artist and himself as a citizen of society who has positions that he considers right and deserving expression.” Practising what he preaches earned him the 2010 Fonlon-Nichols award, given to “an African writer for excellence in creative writing and contributions to the struggle for human rights and freedom of expression.” Ofeimun is not just a poet; he is a man of letters. He is a cultural and political thinker whose ideas reflect his passion for social progress. It is a testimony to his continued reflections on the state of the country that the two-day conference to celebrate his 70th birthday will focus on “Taking Nigeria Seriously,” which is also the title of one of his books. The range of Ofeimun’s exertions illustrates his multidimensionality: his poetry and dance drama productions, his role as a literary theorist and critic, his cultural and political activities, his work as private secretary to Chief Obafemi Awolowo, the late larger-than-life Nigerian political leader,  his vibrancy as a public intellectual, his  involvement in writers’ organisations, his journalism years and his publishing venture. Born in Iruekpen-Ekpoma in present-day Edo State in 1950, Ofeimun had worked as a reporter, factory labourer and civil servant before he got into the University of Ibadan to study Political Science. Winning the first prize in a literary competition in the university in 1975, and having his work published in the anthology Poems of Black Africa edited by Wole Soyinka, in the same year, inspired Ofeimun. His poem, “I am a writer,” demonstrates his commitment to writing and his sense of self. According to him, “Exactly 10 years after the British High Commission denied me a visa to enjoy a facility provided by the British Council to see the London Book Fair, and then relented, only for General Abacha’s goons to seize my passport, my visa application was rejected again, this time, with a sticker on my passport, which says ‘he claims to be a writer.’ The poem’s five stanzas start with the striking line: “I do not claim to be, I am a writer.” He has authored more than 40 books, including volumes of poetry, cultural books and political books. His published volumes of poetry include “The Poet Lied” (1980), “A Handle for the Flutist” (1986), “Dreams at Work” and “London Letter” and “Other Poems” (2000). In the 1990s, his poems for dance drama, “Under African Skies” (1990) and “Siye Goli – A Feast of Return” (1992), were performed in Western Europe. His latest poem for dance drama, “Nigeria the Beautiful”, has been staged in Nigeria. Notably, Ofeimun was President of the Association of Nigerian Authors (1993 – 1997), after being publicity secretary (1982- 1984) and general secretary (1984 – 1988) of the group. He is a founding member of the Pan African Writers’ Association. His involvement in journalism reflected his conviction that writing should be a tool for social change. His articles in various top-rated newspapers and magazines showed the fecundity of his mind and the consistency of his standpoint. He was a columnist for The Guardian, and chairman of the editorial board of the defunct daily, A.M. News. However, Ofeimun is yet to publish his long-awaited memoir on his time as Chief Awolowo’s private secretary. Becoming a septuagenarian should not stop him.