 The Federal Government has agreed to provide funds for the provision of critical infrastructure in public universities, as a first step towards calling off the strike embarked on by members of the Academic Staff Union of Universities. The government also agreed to pay the earned academic allowances of the university lecturers. These are some of the new proposals tabled before the leadership of ASUU led by its President, Prof. Biodun Ogunyemi, at the resumed meeting with the government team on Tuesday, which was held at the Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment, Abuja. The government has so far released N220 billion for revitalisation and paid N25 billion for earned academic allowances to lecturers of public universities, after signing a Memorandum of Action (MoA) with ASUU for the union to call off its strike in February last year. The meeting, which was chaired by Minister of Labour and Employment, Sen. Chris Ngige, had the Minister of State at the ministry, Festus Keyamo (SAN), Executive Secretary of the National Universities Commission, Prof. Abubakar Rasheed, Minister of State for Education, Emeka Nwajuiba, Accountant-General of the Federation, Idris Ahmed, permanent secretaries in the ministries of labour and that of education, William Alo and Sonny Echono in attendance. It was gathered at the meeting that the government team appealed to the union leaders to allow its members enrol on the contentious Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS). It was further gathered that ASUU leaders at the Tuesday meeting agreed to table the new proposals made by the Federal Government team to its members at its National Executive Council meeting on Friday. The leadership of ASUU is expected to report back to the government team on Saturday. A source said: “The bottom line is that there are some things they have been asking from the government. The government has conceded to some; such as the issue of their earned allowances, and also some money for revitalisation in universities to provide facilities. “They are talking of subsequent tranches because it is meant to be a continuous process.” Ogunyemi, at the end of the meeting at about 11:06pm on Tuesday, said that no pronouncement would be made until after presenting the new government proposals to members of the union. Leader of the government team, Ngige, also told reporters that both parties had fruitful deliberations on contentious issues, especially the issue of Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System. He said: “The meeting was longer than anticipated because we had to look at all the issues that were in our 2019 Memorandum of Actions, especially those that had not been fully addressed. We made new proposal on behalf of the Federal Government to ASUU. “These issues range from funding, revitalisation of public universities, earned academic allowances, salary shortfalls in Federal University of Akure and the issue of state universities. “We also addressed payment of earned academic allowances to University of Ilorin. “On the Nigerian University Pension Commission, certificate was issued last year but operational certificate had not been issued because we do not have a permanent PENCOM board in place. “We have made proposal on how NUPENCO board will be able to fulfill its obligation especially in terms of preparation of annual audit reports. “Issue of visitation panel to the universities has been on the table since last year. The government side made progress in that approval has been gotten and we are waiting for the gazette of the membership of the visitation panel. “Issue of IPPIS was also discussed and options and solutions were advanced. Government has a proposal which had been given to ASUU. ASUU will take these issues that are outstanding back to its National Executive Council for them to be on the same page before they get back to government. “We have agreed that tentative date to get back to government is before the weekend runs out. We expect ASUU to write government before then to see if there will be need for further meeting.” ASUU President, Ogunyemi said the lecturers were eager to go back to the classrooms because it was of national interest. He added that members of ASUU were only defending the Nigerian universities.a