The Chief of Defence Intelligence, Air Vice Marshal Mohammed Sani Usman, has identified lack of a secure communication platform, inadequate capacity of real-time intelligence gathering and joint intelligence training of member countries as impediments to counter insurgency. He also called for the establishment of military intelligence centre in the West African sub-region, in the fight against insurgency. The defence chief stated these Friday as a guest speaker at the first quarter colloquium of the Buratai Centre for Contemporary Security Affairs, Igbinedion University, Okada, Edo State, tagged: “Intelligence Support for Counter Insurgency in the Sahel Region of Africa.” AVM Usman, who was represented by Maj.-Gen. Chukwumadu Martins, also identified overbearing external influence in the affairs of member countries as a major constraint militating against intelligent counter insurgency in the sub-Sahel region. He noted that the military intelligence centre in the region would serve as intelligence training centre, thereby helping to build military capacity of member countries. The military chief called for a reduction of external influence by colonial masters in the internal affairs of their former colonies, while advocating joint acquisition of Intelligence surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) satellite in the region. The Vice-Chancellor of the private university, Prof. Lawrence Ezemonye, earlier in his welcome address, stated that the higher institution had incorporated security affairs in its 2020/2021 academic session as General Studies (GST), as part of its contributions to fostering security consciousness in the country. He noted that the choice of AVM Usman as the guest speaker was carefully made by the university’s authorities, following the role of intelligence in devising appropriate strategies and tactics in counter insurgency. Prof. Ezemonye disclosed that Igbinedion university’s accredited post-graduate programmes had increased from ten to nineteen, while describing the higher institution as a great citadel of learning.