 THE departure halls of old and new domestic terminals of the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA),Ikeja, Lagos were empty on Monday  as increase in the number of cases of Corona Virus in Nigeria  continue to scare passengers away from the airport. Amid fewer vehicular and human movement around the airport axis, commercial activities remain at low ebb. Sources at the airport said many airline counters were empty as only a few passengers turned up for scheduled flights at both the General Aviation Terminal (GAT), and MMA Terminal Two (MMA2). Car hire operators and other who render ancillary services complained of low patronage. An operator, who identified himself as Mr Martins Ola, said business has been very poor since COVID-19 escalated in Nigeria. Besides car hire operators, clearing and cargo agents at the domestic wing of the airport also complained of low patronage. Travel agents and protocol officers at the GATand MMA2 complained of low patronage as passenger traffic was dropping on domestic routes. But, officials of airlines operating at the terminals said flights are not interrupted. Air Peace, Arik Air, AZMAN Air, Max Air , Overland Airways are still running flights. Meanwhile, National Union of Air Transport Employees ( NUATE) has expressed its concerns over the heavy toll COVID -19 was having on global aviation. In a statement, its National President, Comrade Ben   Nnabue,  said Covid-19 has ravaged aviation through high exposure of airlines and airport personnel to danger. He said: “The break out and wild spread of corona virus has taken a heavy toll on aviation globally. From high exposure of airline and airport personnel, through the near total collapse of international travel, to the closure of some airports, it is very obvious that aviation has taken the hardest hit from this pandemic. “The colossal losses arising from this state of affairs has created a very serious labour challenge. As the airlines, especially the international carriers, and the companies dependent on them count their losses.’’ “All stakeholders must share the worry of the affected aviation companies. We truly sympathise with their situation. And there is a genuine fear that some of the smaller entities might be unable to survive the crush. This type of circumstance calls for sober thoughts. “On the other hand, it cannot be denied that the workers of these companies are real human beings with real human needs. The unfortunate situation of their companies does not diminish the bills they have to bear. If anything, the psychological trauma imposed by this condition may likely lead to health issues and cause greater spending. This unfortunate, paradoxical inter-relationship between the companies and their workers truly begs for understanding of the deepest kind. “We use this opportunity to commend the Federal Government who, through the Central Bank of Nigeria, has announced an intervention fund of N1trillion to mitigate the negative impact of the corona virus pandemic. We are grateful that aviation has been named among the beneficiaries, and hopeful that the sector will actually be given the lion share.