Nwanosike Onu, Awka & Emma Elekwa, Onitsha  Three persons, including two women, lost their lives on Friday in two separate fatal accidents in Onitsha and Awka, Anambra State. The two women reportedly lost their lives in the Awka accident while a male died in that of Onitsha. The Nation gathered that the accident at the state capital involved a tanker and a Toyota Hiace bus without a visible registration number. An eye witness who identified himself as Okafor said he was washing his car at the kwata junction when the incident happened. “The shuttle bus was discharging passengers near the traffic light when we saw the truck approaching at a high speed and the conductor was shouting that the brake has failed. “Even when the traffic warden attempted to stop the truck from beating the traffic light, it refused to stop and all we saw was the truck climbing on top of the shuttle and ran over it,” he said. He however said the shuttle driver survived together with a woman carrying her baby and three others. He added, “A woman trapped in between the truck and the shuttle was rescued by the police and FRSC men but the other woman in front of her had her head buried inside the crushed engine of the shuttle. “The woman that was disembarking from the shuttle was crushed by the truck beyond recognition and her mangled remains were packed inside a bag.” The State Sector Public Education Officer, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Pascal Anigbo, Confirmed the incident. He said one person died in the Onitsha accident, while two persons died in that of Awka. He said, “A hit and run bus whose details could not be gotten, killed one person at mgbuka 2nd gate, Onitsha-Owerri expressway today Friday 27 March, 2020. “The crash which was caused by over speeding occurred at about 9.45am. The deceased was deposited at Gateway Mortuary, Oba. “In another fatal road traffic crash which occurred at 10.57am today Thursday 27 March, 2020 at Kwata junction, along Awka-Onitsha expressway, Two (2) deaths were also recorded. (2 female adults). “The fatal crash which was caused by over-speeding and loss of control involved a tanker with registration number ENU921ZK, a Truck with registration number XQ679EPE and a Toyota Hiace bus without a visible registration number. A total of Eighteen (18) people were involved (14 male adults and 4 female adults). Anigbo said the victims have been rushed to Princeton orthopedic hospital for medical attention. “The State Sector Commander, FRSC, Andrew A. Kumapayi warns drivers against speed limit violations, especially at built up areas. “He also warns drivers against driving dangerously, admonishing all to be tolerant while using the road. He consoles with the family of the dead and wishes the injured victims quick recovery,” he added.