Technology is transforming the workplace and fundamentally changing the way companies around the world are hiring talent, Aptech Limited said on Wednesday. Its International Head and Vice President, Kallol Mukherje, who spoke in Lagos, said skills, both technological and human, are quickly becoming the new professional currency, a benchmark by which managers and human resource leaders are evaluating candidates. He said more and more, employers are evaluating candidates first and foremost based on their skills rather than on their previous job titles or formal degrees. The most sought-after candidates have technology skills combined with human skills, a blend that translates into success in today’s rapidly changing workforce He said for the nation to have a reservoir of tech skilled manpower, he said the manpower arm of the organisation, Aptech Computer Education, will continue to offer skills that define individuals’ career success He said: “The employer wants to see value to the organisation by skills. Education needs to be skill-based and industry relevant. Only theoretical knowledge won’t lead to career success. “Information technology is a dynamic field. If one wants to stay ahead in IT, one needs to know the latest trends and technologies. Concepts like programming, Artificial Intelligence (AI), Machine Learning, Data Science are among the most in-demand skills of the future. “Aptech ensures skilled in the latest technologies with a legacy of 33 years in education and training,  imparting skill-based learning to more than seven million students across 40 countries. It’s been over two decades since Aptech commenced operations in Nigeria.” Mukherje said there more than 25 centres spread across the major cities of Abuja, Lagos, Kano, Abeokuta, Alagbole, Awka, Ikorodu, Ibadan, Owerri, Port Harcourt, Ajah and Asaba, that have trained thousands of students in Nigeria and continue to empower millions in this nation. “Bridging the skills gap of the students and enabling them to secure employment is our main motive. We have career courses like Advanced Diploma in Software Engineering (ADSE), Aptech Certified Network Specialist (ACNS) and Aptech Certified Nxt-Generation Professional (ACN Pro) which aim to launch your career in the booming IT industry. We take pride in our updated curriculum which adds value to your education making you skilled in the right way. “We have alliance with top-notch universities like Middlesex University, London and Lincoln University College, Malaysia which help you obtain international degree through credit transfer facility. “We also offer Level five Diploma in Computing from NCC Education, a top awarding body in UK that offers certifications. Life at Aptech is filled with productive learning and enriching interactions that enable holistic development of our students. We believe that skills are the new global currency and if you want to sustain the competitive and ever-changing world of work, you need skills to drive your growth,” Mukherje said.