 EIGHT new cases recorded in  the Federal Capital Territory, Lagos and Oyo states at the weekend have shot the number of COVID-19 cases in the counntry to 30. Lagos now has 22 cases; FCT, four; Ogun, two; Ekiti, one and Oyo   one. Of the six new cases in Lagos, three have travel history to high-risk countries in the last seven days.   Two of the three are returnee travellers and one is a contact of a confirmed case. FCT’s four cases are among the 39 whose blood samples were screened as at Saturday.  Thirty five others are on watch list. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) said the cases in Lagos are being treated at the Infectious Disease Hospital (IDH), Yaba. The cases in FCT are being treated at the  University of Abuja Teaching Hospital (UATH), Gwagwalada,   while those in Oyo State are being handled at the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan. The NCDC explained that two of the 30 cases – the Italian index case and the female UK returnee – whose nuclear family was quarantined, had  been discharged. The disease control centre reiterated its call on those who arrived Nigeria from abroad   in the last 14 days to stay in self-isolation. “Of the confirmed cases, two have been discharged with no death,” the NCDC said. Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde, who gave further insight into the positive virus case in his state, said: “The COVID-19 confirmation test for the suspected case at Bodija came  back positive. “The result was released at 17:35pm March 21, 2020. Oyo State Public Health Officials are collaborating with the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan’s team on the case.” The governor also dismissed the attribution of the Oyo first positive case to a suspected American COVID-19 carrier  whose  cab driver became the first positive case in Ekiti State. Makinde said: “A follow up on the Ekiti COVID-19 case revealed that the deceased was picked up directly from Lagos airport to a private apartment in Ona Ara Local Government Area. “The health authorities have contacted the family concerned and the community has been alerted for intensified contact tracing and self-isolation of identified close contacts. “The information given that he stayed in some hotels in Ibadan has been found to be false. “Another returnee from Texas, USA, has also been identified at Oluyole Local Government Area. She has been kept in self-isolation with close monitoring by the State Epidemiological Team. “All recent returnees are again urged to identify themselves to Ministry officials and self-isolate for 14 days”. The governor added that his administration had “released funds for the activation of Emergency Operation Centre at the Ministry of Health, establishment of Diagnostic Centre for screening of Coronavirus and other related infectious diseases to be stationed at the UCH and equipping of the newly designated Oyo State Infectious Disease Centre at Olodo that has the capacity for over 100 cases.” The Director of the FCT Public Health Department, Dr. Josephine Okechukwu, told reporters  that out of    39 suspected  carriers of COVID-19  screened,  four were positive . Okechukwu added that as part of its measures toward effective management of the deadly virus, the   FCTA authorities  had  inaugurated  an  Emergency Epidemic Response Committee, comprising representatives of the FCT Health secretariat,  NCDC, Federal Ministry of Health, World Health Organization (WHO), tertiary and private hospitals.