As Africa is waiting for the continent’s first FIFA World Cup triumph, FIFA is acknowledging and celebrating the series of historic successes that put the continent on the Olympic Football Tournament map. Captained by the great Nwankwo Kanu, who had recently won the UEFA Champions League with Ajax, Nigeria entered Atlanta 1996 with high hopes and would have appropriately been tagged tournament dark horses. After all, this generation had been successful at various youth world championships, most notably finishing runners-up at the 1989 World Youth Championship—the talent was clear to see. Kanu led by example, scoring the lone goal in the Super Eagles’ opening 1-0 victory over Hungary in Group D. Facing a Japan team on a high from stunning Brazil 1-0, Nigeria scored two late goals – capped off by the wickedly skilful Jay-Jay Okocha. A fresh-faced Ronaldo led Brazil to a 1-0 win over Nigeria in the group’s final game but Jo Bonfrere’s Super Eagles sealed a first-ever qualification to the knockout stage thanks to goal difference. In the quarter-final against Mexico, Okocha and Celestine Babayaro were the heroes in a match that saw both teams reduced to ten men. Just six days after Nigeria faced Brazil in the group stage, Bebeto and Co stood in the way of the final. Ronaldo had scored four goals in four games and Nigeria went down 3-1 by half-time. Victor Ikpeba gave Nigeria a lifeline in the 78th minute before Kanu took over. The gangly forward leveled matters in the 90th minute before finding the golden goal four minutes into extra time for the Super Eagles to seal a 4-3 win. Perhaps it was destiny. Another South American giant challenged Nigeria in the final, but even Argentina’s 2-1 lead thanks to Hernan Crespo’s spot kick wasn’t enough. Daniel Amokachi’s beautiful chipped finish in the 74th minute was followed by Emmanuel Amunike’s (pictured top) left-footed volley in the final minute that broke Argentina’s offside trap and proved to be the strike that made history. His team-mate Sunday Oliseh summed up the emotions so eloquently. “I guarantee you that as I talk to you now, everyone in Africa is celebrating. There is no sleeping tonight. Everyone will be happy. This is for all the African countries.” At Sydney 2000, Nigeria were tipped to repeat as title winners, but Cameroon wanted to make history of their own. Coach Jean-Paul Akono combined youth and experience perfectly. No African nation has won the Men’s Olympic Football Tournament since Nigeria in 1996 and Cameroon in 2000. Côte d’Ivoire, Egypt and South Africa will represent the continent at Tokyo 2020.