The Chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) and Governor of Ekiti, Dr Kayode Fayemi, has implored his fellow Governors and all those who attended the Wednesday, March 18 NGF meetings to go for test. Fayemi, who is currently on self-isolation and awaiting his COVID -19 test result, gave the advice in a statement issued by Abdulrazaque Bello-Barkindo, Head, Media and Public Affairs of NGF Secretariat, in Abuja on Wednesday Fayemi implored his fellow Governors and all those who attended the Wednesday March 18 meetings and other subsequent meetings to tread on the path of caution and do everything necessary to test for the virus and self-isolate. These, according to him, include the personal aides of those governors, so as to ensure that the spread of the disease remains at its lowest in the country. “In the same vein, he calls upon all Nigerians who attended functions, at which at least one person was positively identified with COVID – 19, to immediately self-isolate and come forward to the NCDC for identification and to do tests. “Hiding from the public and self treatment, places the entire public at risk. We should all do our part to stop the spread of this highly infectious disease. “COVID -19 virus infection is treatable. The earlier it is identified the better. “The Chairman wishes all persons with COVID-19 in Nigeria and worldwide, full recovery. For all those who lost their lives, may their souls Rest In Peace.” Fayemi said that test became imperative after having attended a series of meetings with a few individuals who have tested positive with COVID -19. He chaired the Forum’s meeting held on March 18 and also addressed an audience that attended an exclusive breakfast meeting between governors and the World Bank the following day, Thursday March 19. In both instances, there were persons in attendance, who eventually turned out to be positive carriers of the Coronavirus. Subsequently, the NGF Chairman attended the National Economic Council meeting and the All Progressives Congress (APC) Governors meeting, all of which involved same or other persons positively identified with the COVID-19 virus. In a tweet on Wednesday morning the Chairman said, “I just took a Covid-19 test, having gone into self-isolation since yesterday evening. “I’m asymptomatic and feel well, but I was in meetings with two people who had since tested positive. I look forward to an all clear and have encouraged all my colleagues to take the test. JKF”. The NGF Chairman has been in the forefront of the advocacy for strict adherence to the protocols that help mitigate the spread of the novel virus. He has advised all staff of the NGF and their families, particularly those whose duties included secretarial services at the meetings, to self-isolate. Fayemi said this should be done in accordance with the existing procedure and regulations already outlined to ensure public safety and to try whenever or wherever possible to get tested. The governor urged all Nigerians to heed the stay at home order by the government unless on essential duty. (NAN)