 EDO State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki has indicated the willingness of his government to access long-term funds from the capital market to support ongoing developmental agenda for the state. Obaseki spoke in Lagos during a courtesy visit to the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) as part of mobilisation campaign for the forthcoming National Sports Festival (NSF). Edo State will be holding the 20th NSF tagged ‘Edo 2020’ in Benin City from March 22 to April 1. Obaseki, a leading financier and founder of Afrinvest West Africa, one of Nigeria’s major capital market operators, was honoured with the ceremonial beating of the closing gong. While he did not provide details of the capital raising plan, the governor said the state would come at an appropriate time to raise one or two instruments for developmental projects. He solicited the support of the capital market community towards the successful hosting of the forthcoming sports festival noting that the capital market has traditionally been playing important roles in the development of sports. According to him, about 25 years ago, the President of the NSE then, the late Chief MKO Abiola had chaired the fund-raiser for the Olympic for that year. “Today, we are here to solicit the support of the capital market community in participating and supporting the National Sports Festival. The National Sport Festival is very important as it not only caters for the interest of young people but it is an event put together in uniting the country,” Obaseki said. He pointed out that the NSF and the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) were among the policy instruments put in place by the government to unite the country after the civil war. He added that Edo State is using the sports festival as one of its contributions towards enhancing unity of the country. Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), Mr. Oscar Onyema, commended the government of Edo State for many developmental initiatives, including civil service reforms, Edo Production centre, Edo Innovation hub and the new enterprise and industrial hub among others. He reiterated the support of the capital market for the state’s developmental agenda noting that all the initiatives require funding, which the market can provide. 