Members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Working Committee (NWC) loyal to the National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, on Saturday declared as illegal, the proposed March 17 National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting. Notice of the meeting was issued late Friday by the deputy National Secretary, Chief Victor Godiam. He invited all members of the National Executive Committee to be seated before the arrival of the President at 3pm. However, the APC National legal adviser, Babatunde Ogala, the National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu and, Arc. Waziri Bulama, in a statement last night said that the convener of the March 17th meeting lacks the locus to convoke such a meeting. They drew attention to the APC constitution which provides that  “a National Executive Committee meeting shall be convoked as follows: Article 25 (B) (i) and (ii) The National Executive Committee shall meet every quarter and or at any time decided by the National Chairman or at the request made in writing by at least two-third of the members of the National Executive Committee provided that not less that fourteen (14) days-notice is given for the meeting to be summoned.” The said: “Without prejudice to Article 25(B)(i) of this Constitution the National Working Committee may summon an Emergency National Executive Committee meeting at any time, provided that at least seven (7) days notice of the meeting shall be given to all those entitled to attend. “Neither the National Chairman nor the resolution of two thirds of members of the National Executive Committee has directed nor made any request to summon a National Executive Committee Meeting of the Party. “The said Victor Giadom is not vested with any Constitutional Powers to convene any Meeting of the National Executive Committee. Neither has he been so directed by the National Chairman. “The National Working Committee therefore disassociates itself from the said illegal and unauthorized Notice of Meeting of the National Executive Committee. “Members of the National Executive Committee and the totality of the members of our great Party are therefore requested to ignore the said Notice and/or invitation as a product of mischief that should not be given any probative value.” They assured party members that the “National Working Committee (NWC) shall continue to protect our Constitution and convene its meetings and the National Executive Committee Meetings in accordance with the provisions of the Party Constitution.”