The death of Egypt’s former President, Muhammad Hosni El Sayed Mubarak, once again highlights the paradox of authoritarian rule in Africa, where a rigid emphasis on national control creates the precise conditions which facilitate social revolt and political instability. The trajectory of Mubarak’s life and career reflects an almost-inevitable rise to power, prestige and pharaonic preeminence. Born on May 4, 1928 in the Nile Delta, Mubarak entered Egypt’s Air Force Academy in 1950 and rose to become the country’s Chief of Air Staff in 1967. After serving with distinction in the October 1973 Arab-Israeli war, he was promoted to Air Marshal. Two years later, he was made Vice-President to Anwar Sadat. After Sadat’s assassination in 1981, Mubarak became President of Egypt and inaugurated a regime which was characterised by a harsh crackdown on dissident groups, the limiting of social freedoms, the opening-up of the country to foreign investment, the development of ever-closer ties to the United States, and the creation of an elaborate personality cult. As is characteristic of authoritarian regimes, the Mubarak administration ultimately collapsed under the burden of its own contradictions. The suppression of human rights could no longer be justified by overriding security concerns; the blatant rigging of elections only served to whet the citizenry’s appetite for real democratic change; the increase in investment inflows merely served to underline growing socioeconomic inequalities. The irony of the situation is underlined by the fact that it took a scant 18 days to end Mubarak’s 30 years in power. The Arab Spring, which erupted in Tunisia in December 2010, hit Egypt a month later, triggering huge protests and demonstrations which spiralled beyond the control of the security forces despite the liberal use of lethal force. Barely three weeks after they began, Mubarak was forced out of office. Put on trial for the murder of some 850 protesters during the protests, Mubarak attended court sessions in an encaged hospital bed. He evaded conviction on the most serious charges, but was found guilty of embezzlement and sentenced to three years in prison. His poor health kept him in a prison hospital rather than outright jail until his death last week. Mubarak’s rise and fall contain all the elements characteristic of the typical sit-tight ruler. There is the initial idealism, characterised by his status as one of the major figures in the anti-imperialist, people-oriented patriotism of Gamal Abdul Nasser that overthrew Egypt’s effete monarchy in 1952. There is the steady rise through military and political ranks, seen in his transition from academy recruit to Chief of Air Staff in 17 years. There is the cult of personality, distinguished by a fawning press, outrageously rigged elections, the steady flattery of foreign leaders, and the liberal use of photoshopped images. There is the desperate attempt to cling on to power in spite of increasing evidence that he had clearly overstayed his thirty-year welcome. Although he differed from his predecessor in deepening the state’s clampdown on human rights and other democratic freedoms, Mubarak was a commendably non-ideological leader who remained faithful to Egypt’s momentous decision to seek a separate peace with Israel. Refusing to give in to the temptation to follow prevailing Arab attitudes in isolating the Jewish state, he steered a middle course by keeping to the basic provisions of the peace treaty, but declining to pursue deeper ties. This ended decades of conflict and strengthened the possibility of peaceful approaches to the issue. Mubarak was, in essence, the personification of Egypt’s so-called “Deep State,” the extremely powerful military clique which was accountable to no one other than itself, and which ran the country in pursuance of its own narrow interests rather than those of the majority of citizens. It is a testimony to the staying-power of this group that, despite popular revolt, democratic elections and the pressures exerted by the international community, Egypt has come full circle to remain what it was under Mubarak: an autocracy firmly under the thumb of a leader with the full support of the military. Such stagnation is a fitting epitaph for a leader who was instinctively resistant to change.