Set to make his mark on the music scene, upcoming Afro highlife musician Kene, recently dropped his debut five-track EP titled, Ote The EP. In this interview with DUPE AYINLA-OLASUNKANMI, the artiste, who hails from and lived in Udi, Enugu State, reveals his musical journey to Lagos, his expectation in the industry and why he looks forward to doing a collabo with Flavour. Excerpts  Why music, do you see it as a quick way to making money? Music has been a part of me since I was a child. The journey all started with my stay with my grandfather who would tell me stories back then, where we responded with songs. Educational background I had my primary in my home town, also secondary school. But after then I started having issues with my parents who were against my taking up music as fundamental, than my studies. So I decided to focus more on my musical career, because of the in-built passion. That was when I later joined Tenstrings Music School to know more about my passion. But I later gained my parents’ support though the battle of winning them over was not an easy one. As a kid, I had lot of experiences by helping the neighbourhood with fixing up their animals, and kids. I will sing to the kids while attending to them to help ease their pain and this made most parents bring their kids to me, whenever they had minor accidents. So my parents had this notion that I was going to become a doctor and I agreed to it then. So after secondary school and I informed them about my desire to become a musician, they kicked against it, saying it was meant for those that were wayward. I later left home to train myself and now they love what I am doing. Making me understand not to forget who I am and where I came from. How was the struggle of becoming a voice to be heard? I joined several cultural groups back then in the village, and started earning some little money. I also joined the choir, where I learnt how to play the native drum. The first time I came to Lagos was in 2007 with the mindset that when I get to Alaba Market, I will make it. This has been the story that we hear. I came in and stayed with my elder brother who was very supportive and was in Lagos then too. So I came in, went to Alaba and was told I have to do a master tape. I also went to Classic FM, and was told that my music is good, but it has to go the other way round; which involves money. I didn’t have the kind of money they were asking and also my brother who was just starting up a business then. And staying back would affect him. So I had to go back to the village. Getting back to the village, I organised my first show and kept doing my stuff; going to the studio, and writing songs. That was when I did a song, Igodo; the sound I got from our cultural songs that we call ‘Odo’ which we sing for masquerade during our cultural festivals. So I made the song to be more commercial for the public to enjoy. And it became a song that was played at every festival we had. How did you have a break? It came at a show that I attended and was one of the upcoming artistes asked to perform. The show was called Ibobo Cultural Night. That was in 2016. I met a man who came up to me and said my music is good, but I needed to learn more to become successful. He gave me his contact and I went to meet him. He advised that if I wanted to be a musician, I have to go to a music school first. Not just because I sing and play, then I can call myself a musician. That there are some basic things that I needed to know which will guide me. So in 2017, I came down to Lagos and went to Tenstrings Music School. After a while, he called and said he has a record label and he was willing to sign me up. That was how I became a signee of Tonic Music Record Label in 2019, after the completion of my schooling. How would you describe your kind of music? I will call it Afro-highlife. You know, highlife is a kind of music of telling people (something) or sending a message to people. That is what I do with my kind of music. You are dancing to it and at the same time, I am sending you a message. For me, it is trying to bring more of the highlife back, and not just to dance to my beat. All my tracks have different messages to pass on different issues of life. Don’t you think your music is mainly for the Igbo audiences? That is why I have different tracks in the EP. I have Eledumare, and one other one. They are mixed languages, so it is easy for you to get the message I am passing across. You sound like Flavour N’abania? Yes, I have heard people say that. But I am only trying to do what I know how to do. He is doing his and I am doing mine too. We do the same genre of music, so we are likely to sound alike, and that his highlife. I am looking forward with collaboration with him and other artistes too in the future. I have done collaborations with Kcee, Cezza Milli and Nationwise. He is a new artiste. So, do you see yourself changing your kind of music to suit what will be trending later? I will say all that will happen because of what is happening in the Nigeria music scene. Sometimes, you give them what they want. Like the track Ote, you dance to the beat, but also on the same EP, I have tracks that still tell you the message I need to pass across. Any plans to go back to school? Yes, but to study more about music. And not any course related to medicine or accounting like my parents wanted. Artistes tend to misbehave when they start gaining fame Yes, but thank God for where I’m coming from. Like the Ibobo night that got me to where I am today, I was not paid any money. But whenever I am doing music, there is this inner joy and peace, which is what I enjoy most. I didn’t go into music because of the money. And I know keeping up will be hard work for me. And I plan not to relent. Do you see yourself having issue with your deal later? My signing is as a songwriter and musician. And there is a signed agreement on the percentage that comes to me. So I think what makes artistes have disagreement or break-up with their record label is greed. The issue can be either from the artiste or record label. I feel that if there will be any change in agreement, it should be after the first contract have been completed. Then we can sit and renegotiate. Don’t forget that you had nothing when you came onboard; they took the risk for you. That is why I say it all sums up to greed.