Linus Oota, Lafia  Nasarawa State Governor, Abdullahi Sule has revealed that he actually come into contact with two confirmed cases of coronavirus at the presidential villa Abuja while carrying out his official duties. He disclosed that the virus is not a death sentence for anybody infected because it is treatable. “We have come to realise that coronavirus is real, it is also deadly, but more importantly and more pleasing is that it is curable, so far in Nigeria, we have continued to see increase on the daily basis about the number of people who are infected by this deadly disease. “But the good news is that we are seeing the number of people who are also being discharged especially in Lagos after they had been treated, it is confirmed that it is a deadly disease but also curable” he said The governor who was tested negative of the virus stated this on Friday at the government house while addressing journalists on the state government’s efforts to curtail the spread of coronavirus in the state. “Few days ago, I went into self-isolation, the reason why I decided to do that is because I came into contact with about two confirmed cases at the presidential villa as a result of carrying out my responsibilities and those two cases were confirmed positive. “I believe I should show example by going into self-isolation, I gave the medical team the opportunity to actually conduct their test and to show example, I should stay away from the public, my aides and family in case I’m infected, so that I don’t spread it. “I’m happy to tell you that the result came out negative, my deputy who is always with me also tested negative, the Emir of Lafia who also came into contact with some of the infected person at the villa also tested negative” He said that due to the proximity of the state to Abuja “it is important for Nasarawa state to take most stringent steps to curtail the spread, the treatment and care of affected persons is extremely high and as a result of that , we don’t have a test center, we are not yet well equip in Nasarawa state. “We are so lucky that there is a test center in Abuja, Nigeria as a whole has limitations when it comes to severe test for this particular virus,” he said The governor explained that the state government cannot equip all the isolation centres in the state due to lack of funds but will equip few selected centres based on their proximity to the FCT. He directed the closure of churches, mosques and motor parks as temporary measures to avoid the spread of the disease. He maintains further that all social gatherings such as naming ceremonies, weddings and other gatherings are unnecessary at the movement. He said that all almajiris who are not from the state will be evacuated back to their state while government make efforts to take care of the feeding of indigenous almajiris who are confined in one place.