Augustine Okezie, Katsina  The crisis rocking the Katsina state branch of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, got messier Monday when aggrieved aspirants who claimed they were denied the purchase of forms and thereby prevented from participating in the exercise demanded the cancellation of the congresses already held at both Ward and local Government levels in the state The aspirants, who protested at the state party headquarters in Katsina, also demanded a cancellation or a re-run of the exercise. The leader of the aspirants, Alhaji Dauda Kurfi who is contesting for the position of Public Relations Officer, told news men at the party Secretariat that they were denied their fundamental human rights to contest the election after having purchased forms and were prepared to participate in the exercise. He further alleged the abuse of party’s constitutional process and procedure during the exercise He said “there was no sale of forms despite the fact that some of us traveled all the way from Abuja in order to buy it. “Due to the subsisting court order obtained on March 12 by one of us who was refused the purchase of forms, some of us abstained from taking part. ‘’We are asking the committee to cancel all the Congresses purported to had taken place in Katsina state. ‘’Similarly, we request the committee not to conduct or cause further election to be conducted due to existing court order of a competent court of law’’. When contacted for his reaction, the Katsina state PDP Chairman, Alhaji Yusuf Majigiri, denied all the allegations raised by the group. He said, “Local government and wards Congresses were well conducted in Katsina state and are done in compliance with the rules and guidelines of the party and the electoral laws’’. “The ward, local government and state congresses, including the national congress, is the sole responsibility of the National Working Committee, the NEC has approved the time tables for the conduct of those Congresses’. “As far as I know there is no item in the provision of our guidelines that has violated any law as far as the conduct of the wards and local government Congresses are concerned.”