The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) on Thursday arraigned Ope Saraki at the Kwara State High Court in Ilorin for an alleged N220 million fraud. Saraki was special adviser to ex-Governor AbdulFatah Ahmed on Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The defendant, who is being tried on a-two count charge of corrupt practices, pleaded not guilty. After the defendant’s plea, EFCC’s lawyer Sesan Ola urged the court to remand him in prison. He said: “In view of the defendant’s plea, we apply for a date for trial and urge the court to remand him in custody pending determination of the case.” But the defendant’s lawyer, Joshua Olatoki (SAN), opposed the prosecution’s application, praying the court to grant his client bail pending trial. He said: “As senior counsel speaking from the bar, I submit that the two count charges are the same material particular before a Federal High Court. Trial started before the Federal High Court, Ilorin, in 2015. The defendant is on bail by self-recognition. What led to this case started in 2013, and the EFCC had granted him administrative bail till Thursday. It is time for the court not to allow its integrity to be undermined by any party. “Having been granted bail, I submit that he has not misused the opportunity. I urge my lord to grant him bail in this charge. His international passport is in the possession of EFCC, so he cannot run. He has reliable sureties within the jurisdiction of this court. “This is a matter that is ordinarily bailable and the court has the discretion to grant bail without any formal application. I also urge my lord to grant him bail on liberal terms. Alternatively, if he is to be remanded, I suggest he be remanded in EFCC’s custody.” Justice Adenike Akinpelu admitted the defendant to bail on N300 million and two sureties pending the formal application for his bail. She said Saraki’s international passport should remain with EFCC. The judge adjourned the case till April 16 to hear the bail application and trial.   