Kunle Adegoke is a former Secretary of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) North East Task Force which provides legal service for Boko Haram victims in Adamawa, Borno and Yobe. In this interview with journalists in Lagos, he speaks on the Supreme Court’s judgment on Imo and Bayelsa states’ governorship tussle, judicial corruption among others. ROBERT EGBE was there.   What are your thoughts on allegations of judicial corruption? To a large extent, no one can claim that he is not aware of the allegations of corruption in the judiciary. Way back in 2007, a retiring justice of the Supreme Court mentioned it that corruption had eaten deep into the judiciary and had even found its way into the Supreme Court. That doesn’t mean that all the justices are corrupt. We know of noble men and women who will never engage in corrupt practices. But there are bad eggs in the judiciary, we must acknowledge that. Nevertheless, we must note that people have a tendency to level allegations of bias against a judge if a decision doesn’t go their way, and that is one thing that I normally run away from. As a lawyer, if I lose a case and I disagree with the decision of the judge, I prefer to go on appeal. If (I lose) even up to the Supreme Court, well, that is how God wants it and I go home. When you damage the reputation of a judge, he is not in a position to come out and say, ‘no, it is not like that.’ He cannot go to the press and you would have succeeded in damaging his reputation. And in Nigeria, we are a nation of no consequences, nobody will even immediately arrest you for such a statement. But if you have concrete evidence against a judge, a number of judges have been removed from the Bench on the basis of concrete evidence of having collected money or having been compromised. “If we want to curb corruption, I don’t want to believe that judges are not well paid, generally. In some cases I know that  judges are not well paid, but an average Justice of the Supreme Court or of the Court of Appeal is not really complaining of hunger. “Fundamentally, the process of recruiting or appointing judges should be looked into. There are some judges that when you appear before them, you will be wondering what they are doing on the bench. You’ll be wondering how he/she managed to get on the bench. You can’t expect anything tangible from such a judge and if he/she gives a judgment that is correct, it is by happenstance. “In many cases, those who are appointed judges by the influence of politicians, that means they are still coming back to the influence of politicians. In many cases, the governor wields too much power over who becomes a judge and when an incompetent person becomes a judge, he will worship the appointor, who facilitated how he got on the bench. “But judicial office is a sacred office. It is more important than the office of the president. If the president misbehaves, his case will come before the judiciary. So, judges need to caution themselves. I believe in many cases, it is a lack of contentment that pushes some judges to want to look like politicians, fly first class, stay in five-star hotels, have streets named after them, ride in a Rolls Royce. It is better for such people to not get on the Bench. Stay at the Bar and be collecting your professional fees. Name any amount, if your clients can pay, they will. If they can’t pay, they’ll go elsewhere. Politicians and some lawyers have raised concerns about the Supreme Court’s judgments on the Imo and the Bayelsa states governorship elections. What is your view? I have read the judgments and I want to believe that the Supreme Court is right. It’s not because I am a lawyer. I think the apex court is in order considering the facts placed before it. If you look at the Imo case, the gentleman (Hope Uzodinma) was only making a similar complaint that Adekunle Ajasin made against Omoboriowo in 1983. It is the duty of the court to do electoral justice, to ensure that correct figures are tabulated. Looking at the results, the guy (Uzodinma) said over 300 polling units were excluded, some were nullified. When the court looked at these documents all together, it saw that with the results that the man said were excluded, if you add everything, the number of votes in favour of the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate was more than those gathered by the rest. The case of Bayelsa was sequel to internal crisis of a particular party. Governorship is a bipolar structure; it stands on two legs – governor and deputy governor. The deputy governor is a governor-in-waiting, if anything happens to the governor. If, for instance, the governor goes senile, the deputy becomes governor. That is why the Constitution designs both offices differently. The governor exercises nearly all the powers; the deputy governor is like ‘I’m waiting for you to die.’ So, without one, the other is a goner. Now, you must have competent candidacy, because the two of them are like one candidate, so, if one is incompetent, the other is not competent.  The law is structured in a way that once the governorship candidate is elected (in a party’s primary) he will now choose the deputy and that is when he has a competent candidature. Without someone to run with him he (his candidacy) is a nullity. Can someone go into a marriage without a wife or a husband? It’s not possible. They cannot be said to be a couple if one is not a wife and the other is not a husband. That’s the case in Bayelsa. So, once the court nullified the candidature of the deputy, it will affect that of the governor, because that means he ran for the election without a deputy. How do we stop or reduce this phenomenon of what someone described as ‘democracy by court order’? The populace should be more interested in how candidates of political parties emerge. They should not just wait for parties to produce just anybody, whether an idiot or a lunatic. Civil society organisations, non-governmental organisations should show more interest in the candidates of political parties. Many things are in the public domain now. Practically everyone knows that if a party does not conduct a valid primary, it does not have a candidate, that it must field the winner of the primary. Unlike the situation where they’ll go and submit the name of someone who did not even participate or performed woefully. Should the Independent National Electoral Committee (INEC) not be empowered to verify candidates’ documents? Even if INEC were to do that and it is discovered that you forged a document, INEC does not have the power to disqualify you in law, because by the time INEC is doing that, one day, some people will come and use INEC to witch-hunt people. That’s why the courts said no, INEC should not be allowed to do so.