Eminent lawyer, Chief Wole Olanipekun (SAN), has said he did not regret asking the Supreme Court to review its judgment on Bayelsa State governorship election of February 13, 2020. The lawyer led a legal team of the All Progressives Congress (APC) during the legal battle for the review of the apex court’s verdict. Olanipekun, who spoke yesterday in Ikere-Ekiti, during a thanksgiving service at the ultra-modern church auditorium he donated to St. Peter’s Anglican Church. He said his action was within the best tradition of legal jurisprudence. Olanipekun pledged to break his silence on the apex court’s judgment at the appropriate time, saying: “The truth about the matter will be revealed soon.” The Supreme Court, on February 13, disqualified the APC candidate, David Lyon, on the basis that his deputy, Chief Degi Biobarakuma-Eremionye, forged his academic certificates. The court declared the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Duoye Diri, winner of the poll and asked him to be sworn in as the governor. Dissatisfied with the verdict, the APC and Lyon, through Olanipekun and Chief Afe Babalola (SAN), filed an application before the apex court to seek a review of its earlier judgment. The Supreme Court dismissed the application, declaring that it was without merit and amounted to an abuse of court process. Justice Amina Augie, who read the lead ruling, said the application was an attempt to make the court violate its rules and provisions of the Constitution. The apex court awarded N10 million cost against the appellant to be paid by Chief Babalola and Olanipekun. It ruled that each of the lawyers must pay the N10 million to each of the three respondents – the PDP, Governor Diri and Bayelsa State Deputy Governor Lawrence Ewhruojakpo, bringing the total amount to N60 million. Speaking on the verdict, Olanipekun said: “I have never regretted any of my actions since I started my legal practice because I always abide by the ethics of the job. “The truth about the matter will be revealed soon. But I have the conviction that I have done no wrong, because this is a profession I love so much. “I saw legal profession as a ministry. I am convinced and knew that what we did was within the best tradition in law. I can tell anyone about this. “But I will speak about the whole thing at the appropriate time. I won’t say more than that now.”