By Kene Obiezu  Sir: All is fair in war and tactics   and strategies are justified and valid as long as they end in victory. What was once a disturbing rumour is gradually congealing into troubling reality as a feverish attempt to reward Boko Haram through the creation of an agency is meandering its way through Nigeria‘s National Assembly. The jewel of the irrefutably perverse crown would be the foreign education to be extended to the terrorists who have supposedly hit the road to Damascus. Now, this is hugely portentous for very obvious reasons. Every discerning Nigerian and even the most indifferent of   neutrals would agree that for over a decade Nigerians have not had a jot   of peace because of the activities of Boko Haram. The serenity that comes from safety has been ripped away from Nigerians as news of one attack after the other overwhelms   news channels. To put it mildly, since 2009, the activities of Boko Haram have turned Nigeria turtle. The effects have been both devastating and   cascading. In a word, they   have been generational. Yet, it would seem that in a show smacking of nothing but cowardice, complicity and compromise, some of those who carried out iniquitous crimes against Nigerians are about to be given juicy carrots instead of very dry sticks. To their credit, since the ravenous beast that Boko Haram is reared its indescribably grotesque head, Nigeria‘s security forces have given as much as has been thrown at them under wildly difficult circumstances. They have confronted   a dark force with heroic courage. A good number of them have with their own blood etched their names into Nigeria‘s ever expanding chronicle of woes. It was not long ago that some of the bereaved spouses raised the alarm that a well- hatched plan was in the offing to reintegrate and reintroduce so-called repentant Boko Haram members into the Nigerian society.  Experience has shown that the worst evils can come from absolutely good intentions. Nigerians have for decades nursed   a simmering suspicion of those who represent them at the National Assembly. Some of them have been shown up many times as self-serving and little else. It would seem to   explain   for example why some truly horrifying bills that should be discarded in minutes are allowed copious amounts of legislative time. Nigerians being so accustomed to extending the benefit of doubt are anxiously waiting to see the path the current National Assembly would tow on issues of national importance. Nigerian is in the throes of insecurity. In the face of such stygian darkness, to mince words that may shine light would amount to complicity. It must be made clear to those who are actively championing this charade to reward Boko Haram‘s savagery that any attempt to placate or coddle them in any way would constitute a betrayal of both the living and the dead. It takes a lavish amount of naivety to think that a leopard can change its spots. It is a dangerous illusion to think that Boko Haram members can repent or be de-radicalised. Those who have brought Nigerian so much agony can have only one place in the country and that should be beyond prison bars. As it is already, the waters have been muddied and bloodied. Innocent Nigerians are doing everything they can to keep their heads up and above. To re-introduce into these troubled waters the barracudas who upset its serenity in the first place under any guise would amount to an unpardonable betrayal of the Nigerian people and all the sacrifices wrung and wrenched from them in the war against Boko Haram. On this, Nigerians are eagerly watching to see those who would   enlist in the army of Judas. 