 MERISTEM Wealth Management Limited has opened acceptance list for initial public offering (IPO) for two Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs), providing investors with opportunity to diversify their assets and benefit from professionally managed funds. Meristem Wealth Management Limited, the wealth management subsidiary of Meristem Group, is offering 50 million units of N10 each in its Meristem Growth Exchange Traded Fund and another 50 million units of N10 each under its Meristem Value Exchange Traded Fund. The Meristem Growth Exchange Traded Fund will track growth stocks on the  stock market while the Meristem Value Exchange Traded Fund will track value stocks, both providing investors opportunities to earn above average returns from the basket of underlying stocks. Meristem explained that the ETFs are style indices which provide investors with a wide array of diversified stocks, professionally selected after satisfying the criteria. Managing Director, Meristem Wealth Management, Sulaiman Adedokun; said Meristem is seeking new and innovative ways to create wealth opportunities for clients. He explained that as a way of adding unique value to investors, Meristem Growth ETF is designed to track growth stocks while Meristem Value ETF will track value stocks. “This strategy avails investors a dual purpose, with an investment style that allows them to meet specific need using abroad product portfolio,” Adedokun said. He noted that the Meristem ETF can be described as “The Jack of the Trade” as it offers investors opportunities to achieve their investment desires in the equity market while shielding them from excessive risk. According to him, the Indices being tracked by the ETFs are reviewed semi-annually, to ensure that all stock selected under each index keeps delivering on their promise. Head, Asset Management, Meristem, Taiwo Yusuf explained that all ETFs earn the underlying dividends of their constituent stocks and the dividends are paid net of all fees. Head, Wealth Management, Meristem, Damilola Hassan added that Meristem ETFs offer hassle-free and cost-effective investment option to investors. “With a minimum of N10,000, investors can have access to a wide range of stocks across different sectors including banking, industrial goods, conglomerate, agricultural sectors and a host of others that meet their investment style criteria,” Hassan said. According to her, with the Meristem Growth and Value ETF, one is able to easily track the performance of the selected stocks without going through the rigor of stock analysis and selection. She added that at the close of the offer, the ETF will be available for trading on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) and investors can trade through the Meritrade app, a fully electronic trading platform that delivers speed, efficiency and transparency. The platform which launched in 2014 is available on Playstore and iOS, with Meritrade investors can easily access and trade all listed stocks on the NSE, including the ETFs in real time. Hassan said Meristem has for the past 16 years been consistent in value creation and innovation within the capital market space. “In 2018, the Nigerian Stock Exchange awarded Meristem as the best digital broker of the year. In 2018 also, Meristem became the first Nigerian asset management firm to attain compliance with the Global Investment Performance Standards (GIPS) by the CFA Institute. In 2017, Meristem handled the single largest trade in the history of the Nigerian Stock Exchange. The firm has remained a leading player in Nigeria’s competitive investment market with a solid reputation as a highly professional and client-centric firm,” Hassan said. ETFs are professionally managed vehicles designed to give investors broad exposure to the market by tracking an index or specialized themes that consider factors such as value and growth investing. The ever-growing investment vehicle gives institutional and individual investors access to a wide range of asset classes such as stocks, bonds, commodities, real estate and investment themes, including Shariah investing, sector bias, dividend yield and more. ETFs can be purchased on the NSE just like stocks and bonds through dealing member firms as well as online trading platforms. NSE offers a fully electronic trading platform that delivers the benefits of transparency, tremendous speed and efficiency. In December 2011, the first ETF, tracking the price of Gold, was listed on the NSE’s ETF Board, since then a number of equity and fixed income ETFs have been introduced to the Nigerian market.      