 An original equipment manufacturer (OEM), itel Mobile has unveiled its A56 smartphone whihc it dsecribed as a vivid description of what a big capacity smartphone should offer to a user. Although in the entry-level segment, the device is eyeing to be the first among its peers in the marketplace with some amazing benefits. Speaking on its value proposition of Bigger is Better, its Marketing Director,Yan Yu said: “The new itel A56 from itel Mobile will find a special spot in the hearts of customers. Its bigger memory, battery, appealing screen and other features carves an edge for the smartphone among competing devices from other brands. The customer gets to enjoy all of these features at a pocket-friendly price.” According to him, the new device is a gift from the OEM as the first quarter of the year races to a close. It reaffirms its culture of providing trendy, affordable, and durable smartphones for everyone. He said the device delivers on value and making users happy with a bigger capacity non-removable 4000mAh battery.“This equips the user with the means to watch more videos, play music, games, and get more important stuff done.  “The device is fitted with an eight-function fingerprint sensor. With this feature, you can unlock apps, customise shortcuts, and record calls and videos. You can also explore taking a photo, stopping your alarm clock, and unlocking the phone. itel A56 assures better security for the user. With a new bio-detection feature, the Liveness Mode prevents others from unlocking and having access to the device. The Face Unlock also guarantees safety and puts the user in charge of unlocking the phone anytime, anywhere. He said with the device’s memory capacity – 1GB RAM + 16GB ROM and a 32GB expansion option – the user is at liberty to create and save memories with more space for videos and photos. Fewer light apps on the device gives the user the means to enjoy this benefit. The smartphone’s bigger screen feature offers immersive entertainment experience to the user. With its 6.0” in-phone switching (IPS) screen, itel A56 serves as a mini pad and pocket cinema. “One more thing you should know- itel Mobile has partnered with Easy Buy to make purchase of the itel A56 easier, and you can do this without stress. Simply locate an itel branded phone store around you, talk to any Easy Buy representative and make an initial 30 per cent down payment. You will also be required to take along a valid means of identification, your Bank Verification Number (BVN), and your ATM card. The scheme runs till March 31, 2020,” Yu said. 