Last week, three Nigerians booked their places in the table tennis event of Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games in Japan. OLALEKAN OKUSAN, who was at the Africa Qualifying Tournament in Tunis, Tunisia, writes on how events transpired in the North African nation where Nigeria’s Olufunke Oshonaike set a record as the first African woman athlete to qualify for seven Olympic Games. Nigeria has been a regular participant in the table tennis event of Olympic Games since 1988 but the country’s profile rose exponentially at the 2008 edition in Beijing when Segun Toriola made it to the round of 16 in the men’s singles.  To achieve that feat, Toriola beat, among others, former world No. 1 Belgium’s Jean-Michel Saive and Canada’s David Zhuang before losing narrowly (4-3) to highly favoured Korea’s Oh Sang-Eun in the last 16. However, Toriola’s round of 32 match-up with Saive remains one of the highlights of the men’s singles in the history of the games. Since then, Nigeria has been making its presence felt at the Olympic Games. At the last edition in Rio, Brazil, record-breaking Aruna Quadri stunned the world with his quarterfinal finish in the men’s singles, which remains the best achievement by an African player. Having missed qualification at last year’s African Games in Morocco and at an Olympic Qualifying Tournament in Portugal in January, the Nigerian knew the qualifier in Tunisia was a do or die for the Nigerian team. At the African Games, it was the Egyptians who stopped the Nigerian team from booking an early trip to Tokyo. Egypt beat Nigeria 3-2 in the final of the men’s and women’s team events to qualify for the Olympic Games leaving Nigeria with a mountain in subsequent qualifying events. True to prediction, the Nigerian team failed to qualify for the games again at the World Team Qualification in Portugal, which had a lot of top players in attendance. The Nigerian team, led by Quadri, met a brickwall as it was eliminated by Poland. At this stage, qualification for the global sporting showpiece looked dicey but the Nigerian players were hopeful as the window narrowed down to the continental meet, the Africa Qualifying Tournament in Tunis, Tunisia. In the North African country, some of the best players battled for the tickets over a three-day period, which witnessed tension-soaked games with the Nigerian trio of Olajide Omotayo, Offiong Edem and Olufunke Oshonaike securing their spots in Tokyo. The Tunis tussle was not without its casualty as Nigeria’s best-rated player on the global ranking, Quadri, had to abandon his final qualifying match, no thanks to a thigh injury, which crippled the Nigerian star. Despite this setback, Quadri is still in the race to catch the Tokyo train. He will accomplish this either at an upcoming qualifier in Qatar or by virtue of his ranking at the end of June. Olajide Omotayo: Star-boy debutant going to Tokyo  The 25-year-old remains the only Nigerian player in recent times to have risen through the ranks having started as a cadet player to becoming a national junior champion. He is now an integral member of the men’s senior team. The Belgium-based Omotayo started his journey to stardom as a cadet champion at the annual Asoju Oba Cup and this earned him a place in Nigeria’s cadet team to the 2008 African Junior Championship in Alexandria, Egypt. Omotayo showed huge promise as a cadet player and this was evident in his rise to becoming the national junior champion when he led Team Nigeria to the 2013 World Junior Championships in Rabat, Morocco. Despite several unsuccessful attempts at breaking into the senior team, Omotayo was not deterred by the setbacks as he continued to work harder. His hard work paid off in 2017 when he made the team to the World Championship in Dusseldorf, Germany. As a debutant, Omotayo made his presence felt when he edged out Malta’s Daniel Bajada and rattled one of the world’s best junior star, Romania’s Cristian Pletea, to dazzle in his maiden outing. After his impressive debut performance, the rising star has cemented his place in the national team. His biggest feat to date was at the 2019 African Games in Morocco where he defeated some of the top players in Africa to become the men’s singles champion. For Omotayo, the journey to Tokyo started four years ago. It was completed in Tunis where the Lagos State-born star booked his debut appearance in the Tokyo Olympic Games. Offiong Edem: Four-time Olympian joins the Tokyo party Since making her debut at the Sydney Olympic Games in Australia in 2000, the urge to be part of the greatest sporting event in the world has always been strong for the 33-year-old Offiong Edem who is regarded as one of the most skilful female players in Africa. Her techniques stand her out as she continues to be a threat to top players on the continent. Even the best female player in the continent, Egypt’s Dina Meshref, described the Nigerian as a very dangerous player with a high level of tactical discipline. However, some pundits say that in the last four years, Offiong Edem has not attained her full potential as expected. This, they argue, always show in her game and has affected her performance in major tournaments. As one of the few female professionals plying their trade in Spain, Offiong Edem came to Tunis with a lot of determination and from the first competition – the ITTF Africa Top 16 Cup – she showed her class when she edged out home girl Fadwa Garci before ending the dream of Egypt’s Yousra Helmy in the semifinal. Despite being down by 2-0, Offiong Edem recovered against the Egyptian to win the tie at 4-2, setting up a final clash against African champion, Dina Meshref. Despite losing in a keenly contested tie to Meshref in the Top 16 final, Edem shrug off the setback and approached the Olympic Qualifying Tournament with renewed vigour and commitment to make it Tokyo. Her opponents soon saw a different Edem in the race for the Olympic ticket. The Nigerian star went through the first stage of the qualifiers unbeaten. She maintained her undefeated records until she was confirmed as one of the players heading for Tokyo 2020. The matchup against Tunisia’s Garci was the toughest game for Offiong Edem but she played doggedly and wriggled her way out of the contest to secure her fourth Olympic Games appearance. Edem has featured in three previous Olympic Games at Sydney 2000, London 2012 and Rio 2016. Now, the Nigerian female star player is heading to Tokyo for her fourth outing. Olufunke Oshonaike: Record-setting legend lands in Japan  At 45, Olufunke Oshonaike stands high up as the first and only female African athlete to qualify for seven Olympic Games. After the Rio 2016 Olympic Games in Brazil, Oshonaike had set her sight on Japan and she knew she had to work extra hard to achieve her dream. Four years down the line, the mother of two, has kept her promise. Expectedly, the road to Tokyo was very rough for the aging star. In the second round of the qualifiers in Tunis, the Nigerian legend was set up against one of her greatest rivals – Cameroun’s Sarah Hanffou. But came to fore as she defeated the Camerounian 4-0. She remained unbeaten throughout the qualifiers to seal a place at Tokyo 2020. With the feat, Oshonaike has equalled the record set by her male compatriot, Segun Toriola, who is the first African athlete to attend seven Olympic Games after his outing in Rio 2016. Unfortunately, Toriola’s effort to extend his record to eight was thwarted by the Egyptian duo of Omar Assar and Dina Meshref in the final of the mixed doubles at the Olympic Qualifiers in which Toriola paired Oshonaike. Oshonaike’s sojourn at the Olympic Games started at Atlanta 1996. Since then she had featured in all the games. Aruna Quadri: still hopeful of a place in Tokyo  Quadri may have missed the chance of picking a ticket to Tokyo 2020 in Tunis following his withdrawal from the qualifiers due to a recurring thigh injury, but there is hope for Africa’s best player. In Tunis, the Nigerian was in a vantage position to pick one of the four slots in the men’s singles. However, the injury he sustained in the tie against Senegal’s Ibrahima Diaw prevented him from showing up for the final match against Tunisia’s Adam Hmam, which handed the Tunisian the slot to Tokyo. However, from all indications, it is clear that the Nigerian may not miss the Olympic Games following the confirmation from African Table Tennis Federation (ATTF). Speaking through its President, Khaled El-Salhy, the ATTF said considering Quadri’s exploits globally, his presence in Tokyo is assured as it is expected to inspire other players from Africa in Japan. Against the backdrop of his Rio 2016 quarterfinal feat, the ATTF boss said Africa cannot afford to leave out players like Quadri from the Tokyo party. El-Salhy said: “For sure the participation of Aruna Quadri in the Olympic Games is very important to ATTF as the best-ranked player in Africa. A superlative performance is expected of him at such special event as he did in Rio 2016. Normally, he should have qualified in the African Qualification Tournament, unfortunately he could not continue due to a sudden injury during the third stage of group matches. “Now the situation is that we have fulfilled two qualification stages (Team Qualification and Continental Qualification). The ATTF will work with NTTF for the coming stages of qualification so that Quadri can sail through.” According to the ATTF chief, Quadri can secure qualification if he attends the final World Singles Qualifying Tournament in Qatar from May 28 to 31, with eight top players expected to qualify from the tournament. However, El-Salhy said the last option, which the Nigerian had met, is through the June 2020 ITTF World Ranking. The top 13 players in the world are expected to get automatic qualification through their world ratings. His words:  “I believe that a top player like Aruna Quadri has a very big chance to join the African team in Tokyo through one of the remaining two stages of qualification due to his ranking and performance when he recovers from his injury. “Quadri is a top player in Africa. His current ITTF ranking puts him among the top 20 in the world. His performance in all previous world championships, Olympic, continental and other sanctioned events in recent years has been superlative. I think he cannot afford to miss the Olympic Games this year,” El-Salhy said. Tikon thrilled by Tokyo tickets President of Nigeria Table Tennis Federation (NTTF) Ishaku Tikon, who is thrilled with the performance of the team in Tunisia, says that table tennis has justified its status among all sports in Nigeria. Tikon said: “I am so happy with the performance of the players because they gave a good account of themselves in the tournaments which started with the ITTF Africa Top 16 Cup. With the outcome, Nigeria remains a top table tennis-playing nation in Africa. We are still there in terms of quality.” Tikon observed that the Nigerian players understood the importance of making the nation proud when it matters most. “I watched all the matches and I can confirm to you that none of them was easy. But the players showed their class and they were able to pick three of the eight tickets at stake in the men and women singles. “It was unfortunate that Quadri has to withdraw due to a recurrent thigh injury because he had the chance to qualify. But based on doctors’ advice, he was asked to rest in order not to aggravate the injury. But our consolation is that he can make it to Tokyo based on his ranking because he is rated 18th in the world and most of the players ahead of him have all booked their spots at Tokyo. “From the qualification system, 13 players will be selected based on their world ranking and Aruna Quadri is the No. 1 among the expected 13, so we are happy that he will get this qualification through his world ranking,” he added. However, with old war-horse Toriola announcing an end to his Olympic participation after playing at seven editions and failing to qualify for Tokyo, the onus is now on the Nigerian Table Tennis Federation (NTTF) to groom new players that will take over from the legend.