 OIL marketers under the aegis  of Major Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria (MOMAN) on Wednesday backed Federal Government’s decision to cut the pump price of fuel by N20. MOMAN’s Chairman Tunji Oyebanji said the reduction will bring succour to Nigerians and also improve the petroleum industry. Oyebanji said that in line with the government’s approval for an adjustment in the pump price of petrol from N145 per litre to about N125 per litre, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) stations have been directed to change their pump price to N125 per litre from yesterday. According to him, “as at now we have not seen any official communication on the price reduction but what I will like to say is that certainly, MOMAN is in support of whatever policy government comes with to bring succour to Nigerian people at this very hard and trying period of the country. “We (MOMAN) will do whatever in our power to make any policy government comes up with to work. We are assured that in implementing this policy, government will have the best interest of industry at heart as we look forward to getting other details.” The MOMAN chief said the process will be beneficial to downstream sector of the oil and gas industry. He said: “We are not sure whether it’s a reduction or a complete deregulation. It is a bit difficult to say now, but we hope that in the process marketers’ margin will be improved within the industry so as to attract more investment in the business. “If our facilities and operations are safe, it will make delivery more efficient. We hope all these will be included in the package.” In a statement signed by its Group Managing Director, Mallam Mele Kyari, the NNPC said: “In compliance with the directives of the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources on PMS pricing, the Corporation has reviewed its ex-coastal, ex-depot and NNPC Retail pump prices accordingly. “Effective 19th March, 2020, NNPC ex-coastal price for PMS has been reviewed downwards from N117.6/litre to N99.44/litre while ex-depot price is reduced from N133.28/litre to N113.28/litre. “These reductions will, therefore, translate to N125/litre retail pump price. Despite the obvious cost implication of this immediate adjustment to the Corporation, NNPC is delighted to effect this massive reduction of N20/litre for the benefit of all Nigerians. Accordingly, all NNPC retail stations nationwide have been directed to change the retail pump price to N125/litre. 