 Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leaders  in Rivers State have narrated how Governor Nyesom Wike midwifed the party congresses that led to the emergence of a new state Working Committee, led by  Desmond Akawor without rancour. The leaders, who spoke during the Rivers State PDP State Congress at the weekend in Port Harcourt, said the governor had been sustaining the party through his leadership qualities. A member of the House of Representatives, Ken Chikere said the congresses from the wards to the state level were devoid of rancour. He said: “I thank God for the Governor he gave to us. The Governor is purposeful and committed to the development of the state and the growth of the party. I am satisfied with the congresses. “It has been peaceful from the beginning up to this level. My love for what has happened so far is the inclusiveness and the unity of members,” he said. An elder statesman, Chief  Sergeant Awuse said that Wike had been proactive in his leadership of the party adding that the governor’s approach was responsible for the successful congresses in the state. Another party stalwart, Prince Emma Anyanwu described the congresses as peaceful and an indication of the pro-people leadership of Wike. He said that Wike displayed capacity, strength and led the state PDP in the right direction. In his assessment, the Chairman of Obio/Akpor Local Government Area, Solomon Eke said that the PDP elective congresses were successful because of the leadership of Wike.  He said: “The ward, local government and state Congress of PDP succeeded because the leader of the party, Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike laid the right foundation. “Wike guided us properly to ensure that we head to the right direction. If you leave it to some people,  they will hijack all the positions for themselves.” Chairman of Ikwerre Local Government Area, Samuel Nwanosike said that Rivers PDP was privileged to be under the leadership of Wike, who understood the dynamics of leading a family. “Wike has shown capacity from the first Congress to the State Congress. We have held series of meetings and consensus reached. “In the areas, where we could not reach consensus, voting held. All interest groups in the PDP have been carried along. From the National Chairman to the least member of the party.” Wike, while addressing the congress, said PDP remained a force in Rivers because his administration delivered on its development agenda. He said: “We must continue to do what will sustain the hope our people have in government. If INEC conducts credible elections at any time, PDP candidates will win all the positions.” Wike called on the party to continue to support the state government for the benefit of Rivers people.