 In pursuit of its oversight functions, the Senate Committee on Communications has paid familiarisation and fact-finding visit to the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) in Abuja. It was an opportunity for the Commission to reel out its challenges to get legislative intervention. The CEO of the Commission, Prof Garba Dambatta, told the Committee Chairperson, Senator Oluremi Tinubu the major challenges confronting telecoms operators and sought the intervention of the Senate.  Challenges Dambatta identified power is one of the biggest challenges facing telecoms operations in the country. According to industry sources, operators spent N175 million daily or N45 billion monthly in 2014 on diesel for powering their Base Transceiver Stations (BTS) nationwide. But the NCC said it was working  to solve these challenges through the recommendation of the use of environmentally sustainable energy sources to the telecoms operators such as the use of solar energy to power the BTS. Another area highlighted by the regulator was multiple regulations and multiple taxation. As at the last count, the Chairman, Association of Licensed Telecoms Operators of Nigeria(ALTON),Gbenga Adebayo, there are about 40 charges in the industry. According to him, the taxes have no bearing with telecoms operations, such as parking tax, effluent discharge tax, social service levy, PAYE tax, right of way (RoW) tax, sewage tax, environmental/ecological tax, hawking levy, and building fitness levy. “The unfair taxes and billing levied on telcos constitute a drawback to infrastructure deployment in the telecoms sector. Engagements are ongoing with different tiers of government and government agencies at Federal, state and local government levels,” Dambatta said. Wilful vandalism of telecoms infrastructure and theft of batteries, deisel and other equipment at site were highlighted to the lawmakers too. Then the delays in securing approval for sites for new base.  Milestones The NCC told the visiting lawmakers that in 2017, the Commission received a Platinum Category Certificate of Award for exceptional Organisational Performance by the Bureau of Public Service Reforms (BPSR). The Bureau of Public Service Reforms (BPSR) considered, very strong business organisational structure, policies and practices that facilitate effective and efficient service delivery as some of the high points, before naming the NCC tops in institutional work processes in the country. The country attained 38.49 per cent broadband penetration last year December while the number of active subscribers stood at 184,699,409. Active internet subscription  by GSM stood at 125,728,328; fixed wired – 9,670; voice over internet protocol (VoIP) was 341, 001 bringing total to 126,078,999. Teledensity grew to 96.76 while total contribution of the sector to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) hit 10.60 per cent. In response to request from stakeholders request, the regulator also developed Spectrum Trading Guidelines to enable operators in possession of un-utilised or under-utilised frequency spectrum to trade such limited assets in the secondary market, thus freeing resources and eliminating spectrum hoarding in the industry. Efforts to leverage the television white space (TVWS) technology to extend affordable broadband services to Nigerians in the digitally excluded areas: Dambatta told the lawmakers of the trial of Fifth Generation (5G) network in the country, preparatory to its commercial deployment to improve digital services experienced by Nigerians while there is development of guidelines for commercial satellite deployment which has seen the registration of major satellite providers in the country. This will help to provide satellite-based broadband services to those hitherto excluded, among others. According to experts, spectrum  is the oxygen of the telecoms sector. Its management therefore is critical. The NCC has auctioned six slots of 2×5 megahertz (MHz) in the 2.6 gigahertz (GHz) band, to re-planning of the 800 MHz band for long- term evolution (LTE), and to assigning of 2×10 MHz spectrum to Glo Mobile for trial in the 700 MHz. Also from regularisation of 2×10 MHz Spectrum in the 700 MHz band previously assigned to MTN by National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) for the purpose of providing LTE services, to opening up 70/80 GHz band for both last-mile and backhaul services, among other numerous spectrum managements, the impacts cannot be gainsaid. The implementation of the Open Access Model for infrastructure deployment through the competitively selected Infrastructure Companies (InfraCos) called the InfraCo Project. The InfraCo initiative will provide, at a minimum, broadband fibre and connectivity to every Local Government Areas (LGAs) of the Federation, totalling 774 fibre Points of Access (PoAs) with a minimum speed of 10 Gbps which will translate to, at least, 28,902km of fibre deployment in the next four years. The Commission licensed six infrastructure companies (Infracos) to drive the deployment of infrastructure across the nation’s geographical zones and Lagos, while the remaining one (for Northcentral) is being processed. There was the Direction on Data Roll-over to service providers to  enable consumers to roll over unused data for a period, ranging from one to seven days, depending on the data plan, among other consumer- centric directives.  Senate  response Responding, Senator Tinubu said, given the myriad of challenges facing the industry and the achievements of the Commission so far, its regulatory interventions and performance deserves to be  appreciated and commended. She said: “We are here on a familiarisation and fact-finding tour to the Commission but I must say that we are impressed by the presentation made by the Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta, on the activities of the Commission so far in regulating the industry.  “We particularly see the Platinum Category Certificate of Award for exceptional organisational performance, which NCC received from the Bureau of Public Service Reforms (BPSR) in 2017 as a testament to your recognition as a performing agency of the Federal Government. However, we want you to do more for Nigerians.”  Others The commission said it has embarked on several engagements with the Nigeria Governors Forum on issues of multiple taxation and multipple regulation. The Commission engaged with the Ogun State governor to ensure 47 BTS were unsealed;  in Kano State, N200 million was waived on levies, while in Kogi State, 120 BTS were reopened. He recalled that 2017 was christened Year of the Consumer to underscore the importance of the consumers in the value chain. “When the campaign kicked off, fewer than 500 subscribers had activated the 2442 Do-Not-Disturb code initiated by the Commission in 2016 to tackle the menace of unsolicited telemarketing. By December 2019, more than 24 million subscribers had activated the Do-Not-Disturb and counting. The Commission’s second layer complaint toll-free line, 622, has also become a beehive of activities,” Senator Tinubu’s team was told. ” The Commission has entered into several memorandum of understanding (MoUs) in the area of strategic collaboration. For example with the Central Bank of Nigeria with a view to boosting mobile money service penetration and financial inclusion in the country. “The inter-agency partnership between the two giant regulators bore another fruit in 2018, saving a major service provider, 9mobile, from collapse. ” A new Department of Research and Development was created to improve the synergy between the Commission and the Academia in the area of research and development with the active collaboration of the industry. This is with the aim to boost telecoms related researches. ” To Promote and enhance public safety through the use of a particular number which shall be designated as the Universal Safety and Emergency Assistance Number for telephone services generally. “Telcos (MTN & Airtel) listing on the NSE, facilitated by the NCC has boosted capital market operations. MTN listed as part of the terms of the resolution of the fine due to regulatory infractions. ” Resolution of N1.03 Trillion Fine against MTN ” Promotion of the Code of Corporate Governance in the industry from voluntary to mandatory compliance. “Awarded the Value Added Services Aggregator licenses to 10 companies to provide VAS services, boosting the competitiveness of the telecoms VAS segment. ” The NCC developed the New National Numbering Plan to enhance opportunities from emerging Technologies. ” In 2019, ITU Telecom World gave Awards to NCC for its commitment as a valuable Partner. telecommunications infrastructure be so designated as CNI or CNII as provided in the Act. ALTON is happy to inform this distinguished joint committee that the Honourable Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami has taken the bold step to initiate a draft Executive Order which is currently being reviewed by the National Security Adviser (NSA) before being sent to the President for assent. We believe that once this declaration is made via an executive order and relevant stakeholders are sensitized, the issue of illegal closure of facilities will reduce significantly, if it does not stop completely. This will ensure that operators build more sites to accommodate the excess traffic that existing facilities have been struggling to cope with. If this is achieved, there will be less congestion in the networks and blinds spots will be effectively covered to improve QoS. Aggrieved parties must resort to either engagements, negotiations or the court of law to resolve disputes regarding taxes, levies, rent and lease.