Manchester United’s signing of Odion Ighalo has forced Anthony Martial to up his game at Old Trafford, according to club legend Roy Keane. The Red Devils raised eyebrows by bringing in the former Watford forward on loan from Shanghai Shenhua in January, but the Nigerian has impressed after notching three goals for the club. And Keane believes Ighalo has given the whole team a boost as well as providing a goal threat, raising the work rate of Frenchman Martial – who scored the opener in United’s 2-0 win over rivals Manchester City. “You’ve had a reaction as well from Martial,” he told Sky Sports. “Sometimes a new striker comes in, you praise the new striker, but then that pushes the other lads. “There’s almost been a reaction from Martial, thinking: “Oh, I’ve got another player to fight with for my position”. And there’s been a good reaction.” The former Monaco man has scored four times since Ighalo arrived on deadline day, and he has found the back of the net on 16 occasions in total this season – he’s also registered five assists. United had previously been playing without a recognised senior forward after Marcus Rashford was ruled out through injury and no striker was brought in to replace him last summer.  Nwankwo Kanu is hoping that Odion Ighalo reverses his decision to retire from the Nigeria national team. The forward called time on his international after helping the Super Eagles finish third at the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt. Ighalo joined Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s men on a temporary deal on transfer deadline day in January, as the club sought a short-term solution after Marcus Rashford’s serious injury. The ex-Watford man has hit the ground running since his move to Old Trafford, scoring three goals in seven outings. However, the two-time African Player of the Year feels the 30-year-old is still needed by Gernot Rohr’s men judging by his impressive form. “Nigeria needs every good player no matter where they are playing or their age,” Kanu told goal.com “If he performs in Manchester United, we will ask him to come back and tell him to forget what he said. “This is football and we have to watch and see how the situation would unfold. Not just Ighalo, Nigeria needs whoever is in form.” Having played a cameo role in Manchester United’s 2-0 win over Manchester City on Sunday, Ighalo’s focus will be on United’s Europa League clash with LASK on Thursday.