Founder, Investment Banking and Trust Company (IBTC), Mr Atedo Peterside, has identified a low-inflation and stable macroeconomic environment as the major enabler needed to stimulate investors’ appetite and achieve a stable stock market. Speaking after he was conferred with the Honorary Fellowship of the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS) during the induction of 62 newly qualified stockbrokers into associate membership in Lagos, Peterside said a single-digit low inflation rate regime and stable macroeconomic framework would support the growth and stability of the capital market. He pointed out that the fear of devaluation of the Naira in the wake of 12 per cent inflation rate with potential for further increase had elicited flight for safety, as local and foreign investors were taking short term bet on foreign currency as a hedging strategy. He urged the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to target a single digit inflation rate of about five per cent for enhanced conducive investment environment, re-build investor confidence and help stockbrokers to overcome market burn out. “The problem of the capital market is not the fault of stockbrokers but that of macroeconomic stability framework. In Nigeria, the inflation rate is currently 12 per cent, compared to two per cent in the United States of America. The inflation rate in Nigeria provides incentives for devaluation of the Naira and many investors fear devaluation,” Peterside said. According to him, the fear of devaluation in itself is pushing many investors towards buying foreign currency as a short term bet to speculate on exchange rate. He described as punitive the increase in the minimum Loan to Deposit Ratio (LDR) from 60 per cent to 65 per cent by the CBN. “With the current low interest rate, the policy is punitive.  The CBN should bring inflation down to five per cent to stabilise the economy,” Peterside said. In his address, President, Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS), Mr Adedapo Adekoje explained that the institute’s Board of Fellows approved Honourary Fellowship for Peterside in recognition of his intellectual and professional contributions to the growth and development of the capital market and the economy as a whole. Adekoje noted that Peterside had served Nigeria in various capacities, including chairman of Technical Committee of the National Council on Privatisation which culminated in the landmark privatisation of all electricity distribution companies in Nigeria and chairman of the Committee on Corporate Governance of Public Companies in Nigeria among others. Peterside is currently the Alternate Private Sector Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Industrial Policy and Competitiveness Advisory Council. Adekoje urged the 62 newly qualified stockbrokers who were inducted as associates to uphold the highest standard of professionalism in their activities.