 Barring any last-minute changes, Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde will  on Tuesday sign into law the bill backing the establishment of the Oyo State Security Network Agency codenamed Amotekun Corps, The Nation has learnt. The bill was passed with fanfare by the House of Assembly last Tuesday as lawmakers and members of staff wore fabrics with leopard design to the plenary. The bill was the sole discussion for the day. It passed third reading and was passed by a unanimous decision. The Nation gathered on Sunday that the Office of the Governor of Oyo State has started making preparations for the ceremonial signing of Amotekun bill into law by Governor Makinde tomorrow. The governor has played a pivotal role in the establishment of the regional security outfit due to the central location and importance of Oyo State to Southwest Nigeria. For instance, the security summit which gave birth to the idea of Amotekun was held in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital in July. The outfit was also jointly launched in the premises of Makinde’s office on January 9 before the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) Abubakar Malami (SAN) declared a regional security outfit illegal. Operation Amotekun was originally conceived as a regional security outfit by governors of Oyo, Osun, Ogun, Ekiti, Ondo and Lagos states. The governors agreed to give it legal backing by the legislature of each state to overcome its illegality in the face of the Nigerian constitution. The state assemblies and attorneys general of the six states worked together to generate the law backing the outfit. Though it was created on state-by-state basis, the outfit will still operate as a regional organization, wearing the same uniform, using the same operational guidelines, having joint training for personnel and working together across borders to prevent criminality or track down criminals . A source close to the state government told The Nation on Sunday that Governor Makinde was preparing to sign the bill into law on Tuesday, adding that directive had been given for staff to set the stage for the ceremony.