The University of Abuja has suspended 24 students indefinitely for their alleged involvement in in cultism. Their suspension was approved by the Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof. Abdul-Rasheed Na’Allah. In a statement on Friday by the Head of Information and University Relations, Dr. Habib Yakoob, the VC directed that the students be made to appear before the Students Disciplinary Committee for further investigation. The statement reads: “It would be recalled that the Police on 15th March 2020 arrested 46 students suspected to be cult members, following a tip-off from the University Safety Office in close collaboration with the community vigilantes, while they were planning to conduct initiation in Gwako village along Gwagwalada Road, Abuja. “This is the first batch of the arrested students to be suspended by the university management. Out of the 24 suspended students, who cut across various faculties including Science, Arts, Social Science, 7 were in 400 level; 10 in 300 level; 6 in 200 level and one spill-over student. “The affected students have been directed by the university authority to handover all property in their possession and vacate the hostels immediately. “The Vice Chancellor, who relied on the University Law clearly spelt out to the students during their orientation exercise, and for which a matriculation oath was taken, has also directed that the students be made to appear before the Students’ Disciplinary Committee for further investigation. “The University Management wishes to reiterate that it has zero tolerance for cultism and other related misconduct in the University, and is determined to, after due diligence, punish any staff or student who violates the university rules and regulations. “The university community is urged to be vigilant at all times and accordingly report any suspicious activities within the university that could undermine the safety and peaceful co-existence of its members. “The University administration assures students and staff of the University of its Maximum Protection, and that measures have been put in place to arrest any other suspect to serve as deterrent to others.”