Osagie Otabor  Traders on Wednesday defied Ondo State Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu orders on closure of markets. They refused to stay back at home. Governor Akeredolu had ordered closure of markets, malls and shops across the state for seven days in the first instance. Akeredolu said only the sale of life-saving and sustaining items like food, water and medicals would be allowed to be sold. But traders dealing in other items like clothing, tyre, shoes, phones and electronics opened for business. Many traders pretended to lock their shops but were attending to customers. Some big stores at Alagbaka opened for usual businesses. Markets at Isikon, NEPA, Ojo-oba and Erekeson were partially opened. At Ojo-Oba traders were at the gate waiting for it to be opened but as at press time the gates were not opened. Shops owners at a plaza along Oba Adeshida crowded in front of the plaza calling on customers. It was gathered that the Ondo State government planned to set up a task force to ensure compliance with the stay at home order and closure of shops. The Ondo State Police Command had on Tuesday vowed to ensure strict adherence to directives of the state government It advised residents to stay away from bar and buy any drink to their homes for consumption to avoid contact with others. The police called for the closure of all social gatherings, drinking joints, congregation of more than 50 persons in any worship centre, use of air-condition in any vehicle accommodating more than five persons and the carrying of more than one passenger on any particular motorbike at any particular point in time. Ondo State Commissioner of Police, Undie Adie, said he would implement forceful action against any person who intends to violate the state government directives. Andie warned all operators of beer parlous, and other social gathering businesses to close shop until a solution to the pandemic has been sorted out. He stated that the warning was imperative in order to save the lives of the good people of Ondo State.