 The Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) Ikeja branch has adopted Mr. Delel Adesina (SAN) as its presidential candidate for forthcoming NBA elections. It endorsed Adesina’s candidacy at its last monthly meeting in Ikeja. The adoption was unanimous for the former NBA General Secretary. Senior members of the Bar, friends and contemporaries of Adesina were among the attendees at the meeting. Branch Chairman Dele Oloke said the adoption was in line with the desire of the Egbe Amofin Oodua forum headed by Chief Wole Olanipekun (SAN). Chairmen  of the Southwest zones of the NBA, he added, had the mandate to impress it on their members that Adesina was the only candidate for  office endorsed by the Southwest zone whose turn it is to produce the next NBA president. Former Country Representative of the International Bar Association (IBA) Chief Richard Oma Ahunaruogho said he was particularly happy about the choice of Adesina (SAN). He urged members to give him their full support. A former NBA National Welfare Officer Mr. Adesina Adegbite explained that the Egbe Amofin Forum unanimously endorsed Adesina in November, 2019 and ratified the endorsement at a meeting last month in Oyo State. He added that Adesina, who once served as the secretary of the branch, national General Secretary of the NBA, has always been an advocate for lawyers’ welfare. Meanwhile, a former Chairman of the NBA Section on Public interest  and Development Law (SPIDEL), Chief Joe Kyari Gadzama (SAN), at the weekend  in Abuja described SAN as unbeatable in terms of his leadership capacity at the Bar. Gadzama stated this when Adesina and his team paid a courtesy call on Gadzama at the J-K Gadzama Court in Abuja. He said: “In terms of capacity in the present context, you are unbeatable. “But what is the assurance that the process will be transparent and the results of the exercise will reflect the votes and  will of the people? “You were the General Secretary of the NBA when I was chairman of Abuja branch and your record of achievements are there for all to see. ”I am a Bar leader and I believe  in the regional groups,  I am a trustee of the Arewa Lawyers Forum and therefore  cannot go against the decision of Egbe Amofin Oodua in their choice and endorsement  of their  candidate. Gadzama said when Adesina stepped down for Mr. Oluwarotimi  Akeredolu (SAN) in 2008 in respect for Egbe Amofin, “some of us were not happy with you because your capacity to lead the Bar is not in doubt. “You have a huge support base in my branch, most of the people in your entourage here are my people  and I cannot say no to you. “You don’t need NBA Presidency to get to the top, it is all about service to God and humanity. If you believe you can serve the association now, please go on I will consult with my people to boost support for you” Gadzama stated.  Also speaking, a former Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice in Bornu State, Mohammed Mongono, expressed support for Adesina’s bid. He said: “Be rest assured that you have no problem with me and those who will listen to me. Others may come but one is matured to take his own position, so feel free to visit us any time. “Nobody has the institutional memory of the Bar more than you  and therefore you have all of our support. Mr. Mongono  complained  that nobody was appointed into the Electoral Committee of the NBA   from Maiduguri, Biu and  Damaturu branches of the NBA and that as a former chairman of Maiduguri Branch, he  was disappointed at this and does not know what they have  done to deserve this. He assured Mr. Adesina of the support of the law firm in this journey. In another development, Mr. Damian Dodo (SAN)   in Abuja stated that this is the time for Mr. Dele Adesina SAN to lead and serve the Bar. He stated that Mr. Adesina’s track record  and respect for the  tradition  of the Bar makes him  the best candidate to provide leadership for the association at the moment. Dodo said: “ When you stepped down for Mr. Akeredolu in 2008 in obedience to Egbe Amofin resolution, you made us proud even thought was  painful experience for us then. Your track record as the General Secretary of the NBA is there for all to see. You have the capacity, institutional memory and clout to provide us leadership now and I support  you in this project” Dodo stated 