 THE Nigerian Association of Liquefied Petroleum Gas Marketers (NALPGAM) n Thursday said its preliminary findings show that Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) (cooking gas) did not cause the Abule Ado explosions of March 15. It, however, said it was awaiting the government’s findings and would continue to cooperate in the investigations. NALPGAM Executive Secretary, Bassey Essien, in a statement, commiserated with victims of the incident which left over 20 persons dead and several houses and vehicles destroyed. He said members of NALPGAM’s Technical, Monitoring and Surveillance Committee visited the scene in the aftermath of the explosions. “Our preliminary investigation revealed that LPG (cooking gas) was not the cause of the explosion. “An LPG plant in the vicinity of the explosion as well as two LPG storage vessels with their contents in a skid plant located in a petrol station close to the scene was intact. “Some quantities of 50kg gas cylinders with their contents intact belonging to a nearby gas retailer were not damaged. “This thus lends credence to the fact that the explosion had no direct or remote connection to LPG,” Essien said. According to him, NALPGAM is willing to make available its experienced members to assist the probe panel. “While we await the outcome of the investigation, NALPGAM wishes to commiserate with Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and the people of Lagos State over the unfortunate incident. “We commiserate with all the families that lost their loved ones, the pupils and management of Bethlehem High School, Abule Ado on the loss of their Principal, Rev Sister Henrietta Alokha, who displayed unprecedented gallantry in ensuring that she saved the lives of her pupils even at the cost of her life. “The unquantifiable number of properties lost, families rendered homeless and businesses destroyed as a result of the explosion is a national calamity. “This calls for sober reflection and support from well-meaning Nigerians to reach out to the affected families to ameliorate their losses,” he said. NALPGAM praised the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA), LASEMA Response Unit (LRU), Fire Service, National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) and security organisations for their crucial roles during the incident. “It is our collective prayers that incidences of this nature would not occur again and that the Almighty God will console all the bereaved families. May the souls lost in the incident rest in perfect peace,” Essien added.