When died in South Africa two weeks ago, Nigeria and Africa lost one of the most prominent literary scholars in our continent. Harry was Professor of English and Director of the Center for African Studies at the University of Cape Town (UCT),  South Africa’s premier tertiary institution and the most highly ranked among Africa’s universities. Perhaps second only to Kole Omotoso, Harry was the most distinguished among Nigerian academics and intellectuals in our South African émigré or diasporic community. I mention Kole here because he and a few of us who formed a collective of writers, critics and cultural activists had been Harry’s teachers at UI in the mid-to-late 1970’s. Harry was powerfully drawn to us, was indeed radicalized by our teaching and activism, but he was completely his own person. For instance, in my classes, he was often stoutly contrarian; indeed, he sometimes deliberately provoked long, disputatious conversations in the class just to show his independence of spirit and his refusal of automatic tutelage, earned or unearned. He drank a lot, chain-smoked, loved women, loved laughter and loved life. Harry Garuba was soft-spoken but he had a big, big heart. He joined others of his generation to form collectives of poets, artists, and cultural activists. He blended well with others within the collectives but had great belief in and accepted full responsibility for his own intuitions. Which is why, as strange as it may seem now, when Harry collected, edited and had published the groundbreaking anthology of the poets of his generation, Voices from the Fringe (1988), he did not include a single poem of his in the anthology, even though he was at the time the most prominent of the poets of that generational formation. This is why, to me, he was and always remained a romantic communard. Yes, the “commune” to which he belonged was a commune of the spirit, but at home and in the diaspora, in his youth and middle age, he remained the person around whom many points converged. There will be time to honour Harry’s life and work more memorably and lastingly. In this short tribute and celebration, I wish to share with others 8 poems from his first collection, Shadow and Dream and Other Poems (1982). In that collection, as can be seen in the following poems, Harry continued and extended the revolution in poetic diction and form that Niyi Osundare had launched against the more elaborate and “learned” versification gymnastics of poets of the older generation. But beyond this, Harry went back to more traditional and more “inviting” patterns of Anglophone poetic imagining and utterance. He was a poet of love, but love was for him also a passage to many other areas of life. This is why I cannot believe that I am succumbing to sentimentality when I argue that in some of the following poems, Harry is so evocative of many of our collective fears, tribulations, hopes and dreams that his voice as poet becomes prophetic, visionary, restitutive. For now, let that stand as an intimation of his legacy. And let the poem which bears the title of “Epitaph” serve as an epitaph for his transition to what Soyinka as called the “diaspora of no return”.  a band of worshippers insolently intone incantations beneath the tattered shawl of leaves a little bird flaps its wings in the thin air drenched in the full colour of sunset a leaf stirs with the light wings of a meteor and drops silently into my childhood nest of laughter and I recall, through frayed amber edges of a blurred past the memory of the strange quiet of an evening an evening in the tale of elders I recall a dream of wings and the horizon  To all compatriots  Brother, I stretch out my hand to reach for you in the dark feeling for the warmth of  love and life and all I the is slippery touch of cobwebs We are all in the dark a dark cave from which despair threatens we will braid these cobwebs into tiny fingers of scars and long threads of scars a lacework of struggle and suffering and then our laughter will roar on to the rooftops!  The wine we shared that night Did not grow out of our heads But out of the earth we trod The wine we shared that night Did not ferment in our souls But out of the earth we trod Between the kernel and the wine In the ancient womb of earth Has grown our brimful dream  Watching a little bubble inflate itself with the wind of a dream rising with the longing of hope to fly from the depth of despair to emerge from the quicksand of anguish to stand daintily on a little tendril of love to explode with the seminal fluid of sea-wine  I hold in my wounded breast the perpetual pain and its memory and hug with blood-warmth the secret eternal pain and dream of a bubble  (1949: Iva Valley, Enugu. For the murdered miners) He is a speck against the skyline, a lone bird, dawning, draped in the blood of a rising sun, out of the spent ashes of yesterday, rending the transparent evil of veiled clouds with the beak of love.  He is a lone bird, full-fledged with memories, dawning with the sun, against the counterpane of ashen sky.  We will be here when it ends Watching beyond clouds that Have lost the will to gather  We will be here when it ends Staring vacantly at cornices Where evil eyes had been  We will be here when it ends When the harvest comes On the fruit-fringes of rain  We will be here when it ends Watching dancing silhouettes of skeletons Drifting on a huge wave that leads to the desert.  In the midst of my pain I decked you in laughter-laurels I left a song at your doorstep  Though the wounds of that battle We fought that children may share In the grains of laughter have healed The echoing scars of the past remain  I will forever cherish These pearls of laughter And beads of song For those are our only legacy.  Here is one who let his soul expand With the wind of love One who let his soul explode With the fire of splitting pods That seeds may scatter and take flesh Within the fragile womb of dreams  Here is one who lives At the beacon of time He yeasted his blood with earth sod That tears may cease And fruits flourish on every farm He lives in the bounty of harvest And the fulness of song  His names are myriad:  Kunle Adepeju  Akintunde Ojo  Soweto Stars, etc., etc. Cherished crystals for the light of memory 