The police in Edo State have arrested and paraded forty one suspected criminals. Among the suspected criminals paraded Wednesday in Benin by the Edo police Commissioner, Lawan Jimeta, was Reverend Imoagadame Eseigbe John, who was described as a self-acclaimed pastor, residing at Ewu in Esan Central Local Government Area of Edo state, but he was arrested on February 23 this year for raping a 14-year-old girl. The police chief stated that a medical report obtained from an undisclosed hospital revealed bruises on the private part of the minor, while insisting that the elderly cleric would be charged to court at the conclusion of investigation. Jimeta also revealed that on March 4 this year, one Junior David, a 17-year-old boy was arrested at Ubiaja for allegedly raping and robbing 75-year-old Mrs. Helina Aborsi, a grandmother, of Onogholo Quarters, Ubiaja. The police commissioner disclosed that the minor, after raping the grandmother, robbed her of N10, 000, while armed with a cutlass, stressing that the case was still under investigation. He said: “Thirty suspected cultists belonging to different cult confraternitie  s were arrested at different locations within Edo State for engaging in cultism, disturbance of public peace, armed robbery and murder. Thirteen of them have been charged to court after the conclusion of investigation. The following items were recovered from them: four locally-made guns, 13 live cartridges, four expended cartridges, two beret caps, one Samsung galaxy A-50 phone and one unregistered motorcycle. “On January 8, 2020, three suspected kidnappers, namely: Mohammadu Sani, Abdullahi Idris and Jibrin Ibrahim were arrested in Igarra area of the state for the alleged kidnap of four lecturers and thirteen students of the Department of Geology, University of Benin (UNIBEN), who were in the area for field studies. All the kidnapped victims were rescued unhurt and have returned to their institution. “On January 11, 2020, two kidnappers: Aikhue Endurance and Aikhue Eligah were arrested at their criminal hideouts for the alleged kidnap and murder of Faith Esekhagbona, a female student of the Federal Polytechnic, Auchi, Edo State on December 9, 2019. The suspects have been charged to court and are currently remanded and are in safe custody. The following items were recovered from them: one Infinix X smartshone belonging to one of their victims: Faith Ojemire, one Itel 5606 phone, one Itel xn23 phone and four sim cards.” Jimeta also stated that in a rather nauseating development, Joshua John (26) and a 25-year-old lady, Ezinna Edwin, were arrested on March 3 this year along Third East Circular Junction, off Upper Sokponba Road, Benin with a set of twins and two other babies of different mothers (two males and two females) for conspiring with the mothers of the children: Mary Effiong, Rebecca Okon and Happiness Azukwo, and using them to beg for alms. He also disclosed that on March 6, at 8 p.m., Emeka Ani was intercepted and arrested with 13 bags of weeds suspected to be cannabis, along Lagos-Benin Expressway, stressing that the case would be transferred to the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) for further necessary action. Edo police commissioner acknowledged the continued assistance of other security stakeholders and the cooperation of the good people of the state in volunteering credible information that had led to the laudable achievements. Jimeta implored Edo people to be more vigilant and to report any clandestine activity in their domain for prompt attention of the police and other security agencies, while guaranteeing them of worthy stewardship and a safe community at all times.