 Counsel to the Kwara state government and Asa Investment Ltd Monday told a state High Court sitting in Ilorin reasons why out-of-court settlement on disputed Ile-Arugbo land collapsed. Asa Investment Ltd had instituted a suit challenging the state government’s revocation of the land belonging to the late kingpin of Kwara politics, Dr Olusola Saraki. The court had at its last sitting advised the parties involved in the case- Asa Investment Limited and Kwara state government to explore out-of-court option in resolving the issue in the interest of peace and harmony. Thereafter, counsel to both the claimants and the defendants held reconciliation meetings on February 6 and 11 at the Governor’s office, Ilorin. At Monday’s sitting, which was meant to be a report of the outcome of the peace talk, Saraki’s Counsel AbdulAziz Ibrahim and Salman Jawondo told the court that the peace talks on the matter collapsed over irreconcilable differences. Ibrahim listed his clients’ terms of settlement of the matter to include “the reversal of the revocation order placed on the disputed land, reconstruction of the partially demolished structures on the land and offering of apology to the aged women that were harassed on the night when the structures were pulled down.” He said the state government’s only term of settlement was the insistence that the revocation order placed on the disputed land stands because of public interest. He, however, expressed the readiness of his clients to forgo the second and third demands in the interest of peace. Mr. Jawondo said the peace talks collapsed “when the claimants came out frontally that their demand for the reversal of the revocation order placed on the disputed land was not negotiable.” Jawondo, who is the state Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, thereafter asked for an adjournment for a proper hearing of the suit. After listening to the argument and counter arguments by the counsel to the claimants and the defendants, Presiding Judge Abiodun Adebara commended both parties and their counsel for meeting twice in their attempts to find an amicable resolution to the crisis as advised by the court. Following the collapse of the peace talks Justice Adebara then fixed March 25th, 2020 for the hearing of the case. He advised them to still forge ahead on an amicable resolution of the dispute. He said that “however, since the two parties had not been able to reach an amicable resolution of the dispute, the suit ought to continue and it’s in this regard that the court will grant an adjournment for hearing. “I hereby adjourn the case till 25th of March, 2020 for hearing.”