A governorship aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, has hailed President Muhammadu Buhari; the National Leader of the governing party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu; APC governors and others for foiling the coup against the party’s National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. He stated this Monday in Benin, while addressing Edo APC leaders and members who came to welcome him, upon his return from Abuja, where he went to solidarise with Oshiomhole, a former governor of the state. Ize-Iyamu said: “We are very grateful, as indigenes of Edo state, because we would have been ashamed and disappointed, if our son, Comrade Oshiomhole, was removed from office. “President Buhari, Asiwaju Tinubu and other leaders of APC deserve commendation for foiling a coup, which was the product of a grand conspiracy, coordinated and funded from Edo State, for the removal as National Chairman of APC, an Edo son, Comrade Oshiomhole. “You can imagine a situation where few Edo indigenes were spending Edo people’s money to pay some persons to remove an eminent son of the state (Oshiomhole) as the National Chairman of APC.” The governorship aspirant also stated that members of the National Working Committee (NWC) and National Executive Committee (NEC), as well as the state chairmen of APC, including Edo chairman of the party, Col. David Imuse (rtd.), must also be commended for supporting Oshiomhole at the crucial period. He said: “Edo people are not ingrates. We appreciate persons who stood by us in times of need. We do not want the attitude of a few persons to give a wrong signal, because gratitude is in our DNA. “It is wrong and undemocratic for anybody to be talking of automatic ticket, as far Edo 2020 governorship election is concerned. It is also wrong to say that second term for Godwin Obaseki is non-negotiable. “In Edo State, where majority of the youths have no jobs, where there are no industries and there are no health facilities; how can anybody brag and say that he has earned a second term ticket. We should prepare for APC’s governorship primary election on June 2 this year, to change the way Edo is being governed.” Ize-Iyamu also urged all members of APC in Edo state to remain open to new members, while at ward meetings.