 Odion Ighalo has been nominated for Manchester United’s Player of the Month award for March. The 30-year-old faces competition from fellow January signing Bruno Fernandes, Harry Maguire and Fred as he eyes his maiden accolade at Old Trafford. Ighalo has boosted Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s team since his temporary arrival in January and they are unbeaten in all competitions since their 2-0 defeat to Burnley back in January 22. In March, the Nigeria forward scored three goals including a brace in their 3-0 win over Derby County in the FA Cup and also produced a man-of-the-match display against LASK where he scored a goal and provided an assist in their UEFA Europa League triumph last Thursday. Ighalo is yet to start a Premier League match for Manchester United but he has scored four goals in three starts already. With the Premier League suspended until April 3 due to the outbreak of coronavirus, Ighalo will be hoping to keep fit before fifth-placed Manchester United return to league action. Meanwhile, midfielder Bruno Fernandes was  voted the Premier League’s Player of the Month for February, in further recognition of his influential start to life at Old Trafford. It was  the third individual prize that the Portuguese has won since completing a transfer from Sporting on 30 January, after taking home our own fan-voted trophy and the PFA’s monthly gong. Fernandes made three top-flight appearances throughout the second month of 2020, contributing to a draw with Wolverhampton Wanderers before inspiring victories over Chelsea and Watford. So far, Bruno has played in nine United matches across all competitions, scored three goals, registered four assists and, perhaps most importantly of all, earned the love of the Reds’ supporters. In an interview with Sky Sports that aired over the weekend, the Portuguese magnifico explained he was delighted to receive such love from the fans, yet he remains humble amid the widespread praise. He said: “We can talk about a new start after Bruno but it is not about Bruno, it is about the team. One player doesn’t change a team. The team changes when everyone pushes together for the same side.”