 Good friend, why did you have to go?
Just when I was getting to know you
I’ll sing this song to show
You were a good friend
They don’t make ‘em quite like you
And in my memory
You’ll always be a good good friend to me –Kenny Rogers in “You’re a good friend”   IN the last two weeks death has robbed the arts world of two distinguished musicians whose shadows towered around the world. The two, who died in their 80s were able to write their names legibly on the sands of time. They did these in such a way that no amount of rain or winds could erase their names. It is firmly etched in the minds and consciousness of the world and would continue to ring bells until man ceases to exist or listen to music; impossibility by all standards. We are talking about Kenny Rogers who died in the United States of America last week at 81. He has gone to join his fellow country music legend, Don Williams, who died in 2017 at 78. The other is the Makossa king, Manu Dibango, who during the week died in France at the age of 86. He has been added to the statistics of those that have been consumed by the ravaging coronavirus otherwise known as Covid-19. The death of Dibango and Rogers are coming at a time the world is in need of healing and their soothing words to sooth the nerves that have been ruptured by the virus. Is it in anyway telling us anything that the two legends died at this time? Although Rogers was said to have “passed away peacefully at home from natural causes under the care of hospice and surrounded by his family,” it still fell under the shadow of these times. Dibango on the other hand was said to have died of the virus. As the world trains its attention to the more worrying pang of the coronavirus, we cannot fail to mourn these two great artistes who made the world good while they were here. The two musicians were very dear to me. Their music groomed me into adulthood. I feel very passionate about them and I cannot fail to write about them! In my youthful years, the pulsating music of Manu Dibango was a strong force in my life. I remember very vividly especially his album Makossa. Although I never got to understand the lyrics because he sang mostly in French, a language I am unfortunately an illiterate in.  However, I associated with his music because of his strong percussion and saxophone. Somehow I used to liken him or see in him the Fela figure and mystique. I cannot forget how much I played his music so loudly on my big Sony type recorder in those days. Those were the days of real music and strong percussion. His saxophone tells a lot of stories and the fact that he lived in France and was like a pariah in his Cameroun homeland made me to feel that he was one of those legends of Africa that our blind political leaders drove away with their strong arm tactics. I was a young man looking forward to changing the fate of the continent and his music and that of Fela became like the needed tonic to drive the message home. When he called himself a “Negropolitan” which later became “Afripolitan”, that is an African of the world, I agreed with him. It is sad that even at his death, no notable authority in his country of origin issued any word to mourn him. But this does not in any way demean his importance in the world of music; rather those who tended to ignore his contributions to world bank of knowledge have only demonstrated their own naivety and lack of appreciation. My tribute to him is concluded with the words of a critic said about him “Manu Dibango does not have to be in Cameroon, in Africa or physically in the world to continue to do things of relevance.” Yes. Just like Dibango, Kenny Rogers’ music defined my youth. His music was a constant feature on my music menu.  There is hardly any of his records that I don’t have in my collection because he sang from the depth of his heart. His music and that of Don Williams were music that I used as a young man to talk to girls and seek for love. At times of disappointments, either in love affairs or life pursuits generally, I often resorted to his music to bring me back on the lane of success. The death of Rogers has no doubt robbed the world of the poetry of country music and with Williams gone too, that genre of music is gradually losing its luster. I pray for their souls to rest in peace as I continue to listen to their music while reading my novels.