There was pandemonium at the Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education (AOCOED), on Monday as workers engaged the police to rescue one of their own called Haruna. The Nation learned that Haruna was already handcuffed by police from Ijanikin and was about to be taken to the station when the leadership of the unions stood their ground and wrestled him from the police. Haruna’s incident followed an earlier altercation between the leadership of the unions and management leading to accusations and counter accusations. The Nation learned that the unions-College of Education Academic Staff Union (COEASU); Non Academic Staff unions (NASU); Senior Staff Unions of College of Education in Nigeria (SSUCOEN); and National Academic Staff Technologists of Colleges of Education (NACEATYON), alleged both the Registrar and Bursar Messrs Shehu Muhideen and Adeyanju Adebisi respectively, of being culpable of financial instability and incessant friction between management and workers over time. The union later demanded that the duo should take a walk from the meeting to their homes without taking a pin from their respective offices to give room for proper investigation, a development that heightened tensions. Unknowing to the duo, their cars had been deflated on the directive of the unions, a development that eventually brought in the police who also arrested and handcuffed Haruna when he was found locking up the offices of the two principal officers. “They wanted to take him (Haruna) when they (police) found on him a sledgehammer, but we all had to engage the police and resist their attempt to take him to their station.” a source told the Nation. As at the time of this report, another meeting was ongoing between management and unions but without the aforementioned officers. Meanwhile the college Pro Mrs Funmi Makanjuola, pleaded that she would fully brief the media at the appropriate time, adding that management was on top of the matter to find lasting impasse. Also repeated calls put to Mr Muhideen proved abortive. Meanwhile a top principal officer told The Nation in confidence that the ongoing meeting might dragged till nightfall. “There is another meeting going on late this night and many workers are still around desperately waiting to know the outcome of the meeting.  I think the Registrar and Bursar have been asked to leave the premises for security reasons.” 