As sports betting continues to attract fans in large numbers, betting companies are capitalizing on the growing market. New technologies are rapidly being put in place to enhance user experience, and consequently, bring in more customers. Betway is one of the biggest betting brands in the world of sports, operating in several countries where betting is legal. Customers using Android and iOS have the luxury of downloading the Betway app for free, for a better experience. But what are the reasons you should download the app? #1. Convenience Internet users generally love convenience served in whatever manner. Smartphone apps are designed to make your betting experience as easy and straightforward as possible. For instance, with the Betway Ghana app download, users can easily find their way through a series of sections whenever they want to place a wager. The app comes in a friendly interface where every section is conspicuously placed for easy access. Additionally, unlike using the website to bet, the app is quick-flowing as everything has been placed in a compact design for one-touch application. #2. Quick access Beyond convenience, a betting app is just what you need on the go. It allows for easy access whenever you need to make a quick run through the day’s events. With everything clearly indicated, it takes only a few minutes to get all the selections in your final betting slip. Different sporting disciplines, markets, events for the day, different leagues, and a host of betting options can be seen right on the display. #3. Pocket-friendly Another aspect that makes the Betway app the choice for many is the fact that it is pocket-friendly. It is a light download that consumes very little of your gadget’s internal storage, and with the short-cut created on the phone display, it makes it easy to find it and go straight to the Betway platform. In terms of cost, less data is used in the app compared to betting via the website, meaning you will spend little through the entire betting process. #4. Swift loading With options such as live betting among the fans’ favorites, it can only be possible through a fast loading app. The Betway app loads fast, and allows users to navigate through different markets with ease. Typically, odds can change quite fast in live betting, and users want an app that allows them to tap into the odds as they are. That is exactly what you get from downloading the Betway app. #5. It is free In the market, there are all sorts of apps, some of which are paid for, while others are free, but with a very poor rating. This app is free for users across the divide, and has a good rating from previous users. Regular updates are available as required by the changing market trends, and users will always be notified whenever they need to make adjustments. All said and done, the above are a few of the many benefits of using the Betway app in the short term, but there are so many other benefits that customers will realize in the long run. The app can be downloaded from a prompt on the home website.