The Police in Anambra have arrested two persons for allegedly killing a Facebook friend and dumping the corpse in a bush in Nanka, Orumba North Local Government Area of Anambra State. The Commissioner of Police, John Abang, disclosed this on Friday while parading the suspects together with over 100 others at the Police headquarters in Amawbia, Awka South South Local Government Area of the state. Abang, who spoke through the Command’s spokesperson, Haruna Mohammed, said the suspects, Angus Chukwebuka Nwankwo and Chidiebere Omeyi, lured the deceased, identified as Willswags to Nanka from Owerri, Imo State. He said the suspects allegedly dumped the body of the deceased inside the bush in the area after robbing him of his valuables. He said, “On the 9/3/2020 at about 3:45pm, following intelligence report, Puff Adder operatives in conjunction with the Command Special Anti Robbery Squad (SARS) arrested at Nanka, one Angus Chukwebuka Nwankwo ‘m’ aged 30 years and Chidiebere Omeyi ‘m’ aged 20 years respectively. “Suspects had on 27/2/2020 lured a Facebook user simply identified as Willswags from Owerri in Imo State to Nanka. After robbing the victim of his belongings, suspects allegedly killed and dumped his body inside the bush at Nanka in Orumba North Local Government Area of Anambra State. “Meanwhile, suspects have confessed to the crime and led police to the bush in Nanka where the decomposing body of the victim was found. Corpse deposited at the mortuary for autopsy.” Abang further revealed that a Tecno phone belonging to the deceased was recovered from the suspects, adding that they would be charged after investigation were concluded. Other suspects paraded were 108 suspects arrested during a raid carried out in various parts of the state. The CP said 34 of the suspects were screened out, 20 were charged to court, while 54 out of which 21 are under aged are undergoing investigation after which they would be charged. “Exhibits recovered in their possession includes ten (10) locally made pistols, Eleven(11) machetes , Nine (09) cartridges, nine (09) battle axes, one (01)fabricated gun, three (03) cult regalia, eight (08) daggers, three(03 ) barrets, three (03) swords, seven (07) improvised bunkers for inhaling substances suspected to be cocaine,” he added.