 WELCOME to the concluding part of this teaching! I hope you were blessed by last week teaching. This week, we shall focus on: Engaging the Unlimited Power of Faith for Settlement! It is important to know that our settlement as believers is crucial to God. That’s why the Bible says, But the God of all grace, who hath called us unto his eternal glory by Christ Jesus, after that ye have suffered a while, make you perfect, stablish, strengthen, settle you (1 Peter 5:10).  From scriptures, we understand that every prophetic Word from God is designed for fulfilment. As it is written, And blessed is she that believed: for there shall be a performance of those things which were told her from the Lord (Luke 1:45). This is because prophecies are not psychological predictions, but the unveiling of divine plans. We must understand that God speaks according to His resources and not our scarcity. He speaks according to His integrity and not our fallibility. He also speaks according to His size and His unlimited capacity to make it happen (Isaiah 55:11; Numbers 23:19; Deuteronomy 18:22; Haggai 2:8; Psalm 50:9-11). In addition, it is important to know that only God’s hand can perform whatever He says. However, without our faith, we cannot take delivery. It is written, The Lord of hosts hath sworn, saying, Surely as I have thought, so shall it come to pass; and as I have purposed, so shall it stand (Isaiah 14:24). What Then, Is Faith? We must recognise that the Bible is a book of covenants and God’s covenant with man in scriptures is binding as long as the earth remains (Jeremiah 33:20-22; Psalm 89:34). However, we must understand that it is our faith in the settled Word of God that guarantees our settlement in life (1 Peter 5:8-10; Psalm 119:89). Having established that faith is the covenant force that guarantees our settlement, we must also know that God’s covenant is based on well defined terms and sealed with an oath to deliver. As such, we must believe and engage these terms to commit God’s integrity to perform (Isaiah 34:16). What Are The Terms Of The Covenant Of Settlement? In conclusion, God has an agenda of settlement for us but without our faith, we can never access it; and faith cannot be exercised unless we are born again. Are you born again? If you are not, this is an opportunity to do so. Simply say the following prayer: Lord Jesus, I come to You today. I am a sinner. Forgive me of my sins. Cleanse me with Your precious Blood. Today, I accept You as my Lord and personal Saviour. Thank You, Jesus, for saving me! Now, I know I am born again! For further reading, please get my books: Unlimited Power of Faith, Exploits of Faith, Born to Win and Satan get Lost. I invite you to fellowship with us at the Faith Tabernacle, Canaanland, Ota, the covenant home of Winners. We have four services on Sundays, holding at 6:00 a.m., 7:50 a.m., 9:40 a.m. and 11:30 a.m. respectively. I know this teaching has blessed you. Write and share your testimony with me through: Faith Tabernacle, Canaanland, Ota, P.M.B. 21688, Ikeja, Lagos, Nigeria, or call 01-4548070, 01-4548280, or E-mail: feedback@lfcww.org, Facebook: David Oyedepo Ministries International, Twitter: @DavidOyedepoMin.