 The United States of America has pledged to partner with Osun State on agriculture, school feeding program and other areas where the government need to be assisted. The US government through the Consul General of the US Consulate in Lagos, Ms. Claire Pierangelo during a courtesy visit to the governor,  Alh Gboyega Oyetola on Monday expressed commitment to strengthening the investment ties between it and Osun State. Pierangelo also commended Oyetola for revitalising the State’s health sector describing his administration as one of the few governments in Nigeria that had recorded unprecedented success in the implementation of Health Insurance Scheme. She said: “We are very glad to be here to have the opportunity to talk to you on the activities of the state and to be able to see the areas where we can strengthen cooperation and collaboration. “In particular, I want to compliment you and your team on the efforts to revitalise the health sector. We are aware that Osun is one of the best states in the implementation of Health Insurance Scheme. We must congratulate the state on this feat particularly for being the mother for a programme around the country. “We are here to register our intent to partner the state particularly in the areas of agriculture and school feeding programme and other areas that you feel the need for collaboration. The US Consul General maintained that the collaboration with the state would go a long way to build a healthy economy for the state and open windows of investment and business opportunities for the US and Osun. “We are glad to know that Osun is working hard already to bring investors into the state as this will help to fine tune our collaboration and cooperation. We are ready to strengthen the partnership ties in the education, tourism, technical and vocational sectors among others”, Pierangelo added. Responding, Governor Oyetola commended the United States for its interest in and support for Osun State particularly in the areas of economic growth and development; governance and development; security cooperation among others. His words “Our partnership with the US has dated several decades ago. US has been very supportive. I commend you for supporting us particularly in the areas of economic growth and development; governance and development; security cooperation among others. “Osun is happy to key into this very much beneficial partnership for development. We as a government, has been around for one year and two months and I am happy that you too recognised the so much efforts that we have made in the area of health.” Other members of the US Consulate on delegation are: US Consulate Vice Consul, Ross Conroy; US Consulate Political Specialist, Arnold Abulime; US Consulate Agriculture Counsellor, Gerald Smith; US Consulate Agriculture Specialist, Inches Nzeka and USTDA Representative, Josh Egba.