 In the creative industry, they are difference-makers. They speak on their feats in commemoration of the International Women’s Day 2020 with the theme: “An equal world is an enabled world” Mima (Jemima) Angulu is a passionate creative and entrepreneur. She is a dancer, a choreographer, a writer, a producer and the Founder of The Krump Dance Studios. How is playing in the dance Industry like? I must say it has been a really challenging and adventurous. When I started my business, it was a lot of hard work building structure and providing a service that was rarely structured and it was also very fulfilling because I provided direction, mentorship, and platforms for performers. But right now it’s also a different ball game. It is lot more than the hard work, the needs and methods change rapidly so it a lot more about identity and individuality so I am now experiencing and exploring new things in the same industry. What motivated you into choosing dance? Hmmm, it was just pure passion. I felt I could make a difference and affect people with dance. I saw it as a tool for transformation and I still feel a lot more can be done with dance. I know it might sound like a cliché but I think dance chose me. I have never had any other thought of working in another industry or taking other career paths so I don’t know how it feels to want something different. What keeps you motivated? I am motivated by dreams I have that are yet to materialise. I am motivated by the results I see and how dance has transformed people around me. I am motivated by the people that I am responsible for and I am motivated by God. How big is the dance industry in Nigeria, Africa and globally? The dance industry is much larger than just the performing dancers. It is composed of dancers, choreographers, dance directors, dance/entertainment writers, artist managers, dance studios, dance schools, dance companies, costumers, agents, set designers, dance photographer, dancer cinematographers, creative collaborators, dance institutions and lawmakers, lawyers, theatre and performance houses, light and sound technical experts, stage designers, music composers, dance teachers, dance historians and researchers, dance promoters, dance fitness instructors, producers, and the audience. In Nigeria, we have more of dancers, choreographers, studios, agents and a few producers, we need a lot more to build more so we have come a long way but we have a lot more spaces to fill in the above-mentioned segments that should be filled in by experts that would help the industry grow and build faster. The industry in Africa and the globe all have similar challenges but it’s easier to say that Asian, European and American countries are more structured and hence bigger. So the dance industry is generally composed of dancers and dance-centered specialist. What do you think Nigeria, Africa can do to achieve an equal world for both gender in politics, business, family and society in general? To achieve an equal world for both genders in politics, business, and society, we must choose to hire and work with people strictly based on ability:  their quality skills, expertise and experience and not on anything else. If anyone is to take on a role, the question should be what is their skill level? What is their expertise and what is their track record? Will you say there is an equal world in the dance industry? At this very moment, I would no, it is not an equal world in the dance industry. To be honest women get more roles than men. However, it is sad to say that it is not always based on skills but more on objectification, especially for the performers and so most people get to see only a small part of the dance industry because most of the highlighted performers are in music videos. If you had the opportunity to address the UN or a global platform of world leaders for 10 minutes about women what will be your message? When I was young, I wanted to be a boy. I thought men had the advantage. I thought men could be anything they wanted to be and women had to always be the ones to compromise… Now I know better, I know that women have the advantage. The advantage to be whoever they want to be, the advantage to be strong and yet caring, the advantage to think, care and act the role of WO-MEN (woman and man). Over the years, I have seen women do the stronger things whenever they put their mind to it. I have seen women lead nations and become successful at home and in their careers and I have known that being a woman is an advantage. I am an advantage! Any woman given a role or a position in leadership or any organization will be an advantage to that organization or community. Let us increase and develop our community advantage, let us empower even more women to lead and most especially empower more women to be whoever they want to be. (2) Cynthia Njoku uses photography as a tool to drive social change and possible re-engineering. Though a graduate of Applied Geophysics from the Federal University of Technology, Akure (FUTA), she also holds a certificate in Photojournalism from Nigerian Institute of Journalism, Ogba, Lagos. As a documentary photographer, she has documented festivals, concerts, street life and more. Her art has received international features: In 2018 two of her images were exhibited at the juried Power of Photography Show in Pensacola, Florida, USA where one of the images won a second-place award in the Lazer Image Award Category. How is playing in the Photography Industry like? It has been fun and challenging, the challenge comes from playing in a field that is seen mostly as a male-dominated one. The fun comes from doing what I love; I find joy and fulfillment from taking pictures and documenting moments. What motivated you into choosing photography? I am a natural-born creative and I have ventured into various fields as a way of expressing my creativity, I have done bead making, wirework design and I did a bit of tailoring before finally finding photography. For more than three years, I have been in the field. My creativity has found an expression point through the medium of photography. Over time, I have also mastered the art of photoshop for artistic purposes in the area of photoartistry and have undergone mentorship and training from masters in the field of Photoshop Artistry. What keeps you motivated? Motivation comes from the joy I derive from doing what I love, freezing time and capturing moments that will never again happen. The smile on people’s faces when they see their images, the constant encouragement from family and friends, international recognitions and random people telling me how much I and my works inspire them, all these add up to keep me constantly motivated. The bigger motivation though comes from the credit alert and the hope that more will come. How big is the photography industry in Nigeria, Africa and globally? Photography is a great tool for connecting people of various cultures, traditions, beliefs and ways of life such that people can visit and know about places they haven’t been to from just looking at pictures taken by those who have been there. Photography is big but could be bigger if those in the business of photography would do more. What do you think Nigeria, Africa can do to achieve an equal world for both gender in politics, business, family, and society in general? It has to start with grassroots re-orientation, the culture of Africans does not allow for an equal world for both genders even from the family which is the smallest unit of every community. If the girl child is taught and encouraged to compete healthily and allowed to aspire as much as the boy child is encouraged, then that would be a good starting point. The girl child is constantly reminded from childhood that her place is to depend on a man and she should not be bothered to aspire for anything, the boy child also learns that a girl is beneath him. When they both grow up, the boy only thinks the female is to be beneath him and therefore should not be encouraged to go into politics or any high ranking position in business, the girl, on the other hand, is made to give up her dreams and ambitions and to depend on a man. I believe in balance, let us go to the grassroots and teach healthy competition and equal opportunities for male and female. Will you say there an equal world in the photography industry? The photography industry is still dominated mostly by men and I believe that is because of the energy required to function in the industry. Contrary to belief, I have not been treated any differently from my male counterparts in the field. Once your clients like your job that is all that matters. You cannot hide under the robe of being a female and deliver a job that is not quality and then play the pity party when you are not patronised. You are more likely to be referred by clients if you are female and you deliver quality so I am encouraging more females to explore the field photography.  (3)  Tonye Maria Fred is the founder Of Tonye Maria Collections, which produces mother and baby nursing accessories. She is also a costumier for films. She is obsessed with special costume designing, Arts and Crafts. Tonye has worked in the formal and creative industries. How is playing in the film set design and costume industry like? Working on sets as a costumier is quiet demanding and requires a lot of detail keeping, pre-production plans, post- production plans, care, maintenance, documents and a whole lot more. What motivated you into choosing film set design and costume? Earlier I thought about working as an actor. I would go for all kinds of auditions. I can remember going for Tinsel auditions and I was dressed in my very own hand made shoes and dress. Mr Rogers Ofime told me “You’ll do better behind the scenes.”  I thought it through and I gave it a shot. Here I am working on more projects. What keeps you motivated? The quest to learn something new as often as I can; every project is unique and is treated as such. I love learning. I enjoy interpreting scripts using costumes; of course in relation to the story in the script. I working closely with the Director and his vision is also crucial in the process  How big is the film set design and costume in Nigeria, Africa and globally? The film industry is quiet large. So many production houses, new ones are springing up every day. There are so many stories to tell. Be it short films, documentaries, block busters,. It’s a really large industry that cannot go out of ideas. What do you think Nigeria, Africa can do to achieve an equal world for both gender in politics, business, family and society in general? I believe Nigeria is gradually aligning herself with the IWD 2020 goals because more women are actively involved in politics, business, being bread winners and actively engaged In all sectors of the economy  just as it applies to other African Countries and the globally. Will you say there an equal world in film set design and costume industry? For film making, in my own opinion I believe it’s an industry saturated by women. Better still, it gives an equal opportunity for male and female costumiers to express themselves creatively. All that really counts is the ability to interpret the story through the right perspective and how well you are able to deliver. I worked with MSS- African Magic Original films for 3 seasons, shooting over 40 films, with Amazing Directors (Uzodinma Okpeche, Solomon Macaulay, Pat Ogre, Alex Mouth, Chris Eneaji, Morafa (film Boy), not forgetting Joe Brown, Director This and Production Houses like Jane Gam Dede Production (Besieged), Native Media (Zone 222) (Till You are 16).    