Senate President Ahmad Lawan has urged the Nigerian Army University, Biu, in Borno State, to focus on military affairs instead of offering courses not related to military. Lawan spoke on Tuesday during the lead debate for the second reading of a Bill for an act to establish the Nigerian Army University, Biu, during plenary. The debate on the general principles of the Bill was led by the sponsor, Senator Mohammed Ndume, who is Chairman Senate Committee on Army. The Bill is titled: “A bill for an Act to establish the Nigerian Army University Biu to make comprehensive provisions for due management and administration and for related matters, 2020.” According to Lawan, he will prefer to have the Nigerian Army University completely focusing on anything and everything about the military. “If we allow the Nigerian Army University to start admitting people to read may be Sociology, like some of our universities are doing today, the purpose of setting it up will be lost. “So, I think, the entire defence-related institutions to be under the supervision of Ministry of Defence so that even the curriculum will be properly defined. “Otherwise, we may establish the Nigerian Army University, the Nigerian Air Force University and what have you. At the end of the day, you may not get the maximum benefit from those establishments,” he said. Leading the debate, Ndume said the Bill was read for the first time on Tuesday, February 18. The senator said the take-off of the university was approved by the Federal Executive Council (FEC) in April, 2018. He said that the university was established to encourage and promote scholarship and conduct research on restricted fields including entrepreneurship skills. “It will also secure the diffusion of knowledge throughout Nigeria in general and the Nigerian Army in particular. “It is also aimed at promoting research and other means of advancement of knowledge and its practical application to military hardware and software, social, cultural, economic, scientific and technological situations,” Ndume added.