 No fewer than three soldiers were killed, while scores of others were wounded during an attack on troops’ location by heavily armed Boko Haram fighters in Damboa Local Government Area of Borno State. Scores of the terrorists were also neutralized in the predawn attack by the gallant soldiers who engaged them in a fierce gun battle. The Nigerian Army Operations Media Coordinator, Colonel Aminu Iliyasu, in a statement, noted that the insurgents “met a crushing defeat in the hands of the resilient troops”. According to the statement, “a misguided attempt by some criminal Boko Haram elements to attack the troops of 25 Task Force Brigade (Army Super Camp 2) located in Damboa LGA of Borno State has met a crushing defeat in the hands of the resilient troops. “The marauding criminals mounted on Gun Trucks and with a number of their foot soldiers attempted to infiltrate the troops’ location from three different fronts in the early hours of 4 March 2020. “The troops responded swiftly, bringing to bear superior fire power against the criminals in conjunction with the Air Task Force Operation Lafiya Dole. The encounter which lasted over an hour witnessed one of the most debilitating defeats of the Boko Haram criminals in a single encounter since the turn of the year”. It added that, “So far, 19 Boko Haram criminals’ corpses have been recovered while many more were observed escaping with various degrees of gunshot wounds by the troops who are on vigorous exploitation of their initial success along the criminals’ withdrawal route. “Interestingly, the gallant troops captured from the Boko Haram criminals 5 AK 47 Rifles, one General Purpose Machine Gun and one Rocket Propelled Gun tube. “Regrettably, three valiant soldiers paid the supreme prize while four others were wounded in action. However, the wounded in action soldiers have been evacuated to a military medical facility for immediate and effective management. “To this end, the Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Tukur Yusufu Buratai hereby congratulates the troops of Operation Lafiya Dole for their decisive victory against the enemies of our country. “He further reassures the residents of Damboa and indeed the North East at large of the unflinching resolve of troops of Operation Lafiya Dole in protecting the lives and properties of all law – abiding citizens.”