The Medical Laboratory Science Council of Nigeria (MLSCN) has commissioned its National Laboratory Equipment Calibration Centre. The calibration centre, which is the first of its kind in West Africa sub-region, will ensure quality of equipment or instruments and ancillary products involved in the process of serving the end-user is not compromised. Also, the MLSCN received its accreditation certification by the South African National Accreditation System (SANAS) to the National External Quality Assessment Laboratory (NEQAL). Minister of State for Health, Adeleke Mamora, said: “This is a milestone which I believe will go a long way in strengthening Medical Laboratory science Council of Nigeria towards the actualization of its statutory mandate. This regulatory agency has been one of those driving the culture of quality in the health sector in line with the federal government’s policy on health. “By embarking on the daunting but laudable task of accreditation by the South African National Accreditation Service, you are leading by example and showing that you clearly understand what the process requires. “From such a humble beginning, the National External Quality Assessment Laboratory has grown into a flagship facility driving high standards through proficiency testing by in-laboratory comparison. “It has shown how the narrative of unreliable and inaccurate laboratory testing can be changed with determination and unwavering commitment towards higher ideals through a pragmatic and inclusive model that recognises the pre-eminent place of the critical stakeholders, the service users, the management of MLSCN has been able to inspire confidence in its external quality assessment framework. “Deservedly, therefore, the transformation of the processes and procedures used at your facility, the national external quality assessment laboratory at Saye, Zaria, has earned itself a global recognition through the presentation of the ISO 170432010 certificate of accreditation”. The Registrar and CEO of the MLSCN, Dr. Tosan Erhabor, said: “Before now we were not having an accredited facility in West Africa, now we have one here in Nigeria. Therefore, any panel that we produce has international standard, and can be used anywhere in the world. “Now that a lot of our facilities have keyed into it, those that are not doing well will know that they fall short of international standards, and can take corrective actions to make sure that Nigeria people get the adequate and quality results we want them to have. “Concerning the calibration centre, no matter how professional you are, if your equipment is not dispensing what it is supposed to or the certification is not complete, the result you will be getting will be bad”.