outgoing Vice President of Adekunle Ajasin University Akungba Akoko Student’s Union (AAUA-SU), Comrade Adaramola Folakemi, has called on females like her to throw their hats into the ring as regards students unionism. Folakemi, a 400-Level Political Science Education undergraduate speaks with Roland Bayode and Clarion Olusegun (AAUA).  How did you get to this post? Right from when I was in 100-Level, I never had the mind of aspiring for any position in this institution. But, when I got to 200-Level, my friends were like: ‘You are very bold and smart; why can’t you go for the vice president of our department?’ I told them I don’t dabble into students politics. However, with a lot of persuasion, I eventually gave it a try.  I had a lot of support then. So I emerged as the vice president of the Department of Social Science Education in 200-Level, second semester. When I was in 300-Level, certain friends came again and they said, ‘you are already popular in your department. You have the name already, can’t you aspire for AAUASU VP. I was like me, SU VP? So howdid you summon the courage ? They told me I could do it because of my outspokenness and maturity. Then I asked myself: ‘Can this fly?’ So I started the whole things with campaign. I started meeting with people and past leaders, telling them my aspirations. They told me to continue, that it is my relationship that would determine if I would emerge or not. So I created a very good rapport with students. And, people were like saying: ‘It seems she’s a very nice person, let’s support her’. The election came, and I emerged. To the glory of God, I am AAUA-SU VP today, we have a few months to leave the office. What actually motivated your passion for politics? My passion is education. I don’t take education with levity. When I emerged the vice president of my department, the first thing I did was to get my department constitution and read.  There, I realised that the document deals with academic welfarism. Interestingly, this is what I have passion for. I felt if I should go for this position, I would definitely do something that would help people. That is the reason I contested and not because some people persuaded me. Could you tell us your background? I grew up in Iyana-Ipaja area of Lagos, to be precise. I had my primary and secondary schools in public schools in Agege and Iyana Ipaja area of Lagos. Do you have any mentor? Yes, I have one. That is my Dad. Can you tell us about him? My dad is a civil servant. He is this kind of person that cherishes guidance. He doesn’t want any mistake to occur. In the event of emergency, he is my second consultant, after God. Even before I declared my ambition to contest for any post, I told him, and he advised that we first pray about it. Thereafter, he told me to go on, that God was at work and that I will definitely emerge. Did you have any ugly experience during your election campaign? Test, but I can’t call that an insult. When I was contesting, the election was few months away. So, a brother walked up to me and asked me to forget my ambition because I would not win. He said he alongside few others would man the technology that would be deployed for the election; and they would turn it against me. He, therefore, advised me to step down. I was like how do I step down, at this time when election was close by? I felt bad that day. Eventually, I pulled myself together, and said to myself: ‘With God, all things are possible.’ The rest, as they say, is history. What advice would you give female folk who consider going into politics? A scholar said politics is everywhere, even in the human mind. Politics is not something the male folk should dominate. In politics, there should be equal representation. In the world we find ourselves here in AAUASU, it is the other way round, though. Therefore, my piece of advice for the female folk is never to underestimate themselves that there are certain positions they cannot aspire for. I will beseech them to do what is right and just because when they leave, it’s their legacies that will speak for them.