 I first wrote about corona virus about four weeks ago or so.  Let me go straight to the core of the issue. Corona virus (aka Covid-19) is in Nigeria and has found its way to  few states. In addition, being no respecter of persons, the illness has hit the high end of the society too. The reality though is that the virus is in Nigeria and we have to deal with it. The consequence is that Nigeria has closed all international airports to in and out travellers. The Federal  and Lagos State governments have restricted crowding and limited aggregation of people. Imagine the huge economic consequences! At the time of writing this article, one death allegedly associated with corona virus has occurred. For the information of those who missed the earlier article, I will repeat a section of it here. Let me quote the World Health Organisation (WHO). “Coronaviruses (CoV) are a large family of viruses that cause illness ranging from the common cold to more severe diseases such as Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS-CoV) and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS-CoV). A novel coronavirus (nCoV) is a new strain that has not been previously identified in humans.  Coronaviruses are zoonotic, meaning they are transmitted between animals and people. Detailed investigations found that SARS-CoV was transmitted from civet cats to humans and MERS-CoV from dromedary camels to humans. Several known coronaviruses are circulating in animals that have not yet infected humans. The outbreak of novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) was first reported from Wuhan, China, on December 31, 2019.”  Sadly, as at the time of preparing this article, several thousands of people had died of the disease.   More facts:  Note that the virus does not settle in the air and hence it’s not transmitted by air. When it does fall on a metal surface, it may be alive for up to 12 hours. Thus, you may need to clean your tables, worktops with soap and water. Thankfully, the virus cannot stand high temperatures.  Signs and Symptoms of the disease: “Common signs of infection (novel coronavirus) include respiratory symptoms, fever, cough, (and) shortness of breath and breathing difficulties. In more severe cases, infection can cause pneumonia, severe acute respiratory syndrome, kidney failure and even death,” according to WHO. Coronavirus disease spreads primarily through contact with an infected person when they cough or sneeze. It also spreads when a person touches a surface or object that has the virus on it, then touches their eyes, nose, or mouth.  Who can it affect? Everyone is at risk; young and old. However, if a person is old and feeble, or suffering from some other illnesses, then the risk is greater. Young people are not necessarily free but their risk is much less than weak and or old people. Mortality:  Compare to the likes of Ebola with over 50 per cent mortality, Coronavirus has a modest death rate of 3.4 per cent on the average.  Even this figure is too high.  Prevention:  Self-protection: Wash your hands frequently with soap and water or use an alcohol-based hand rub if your hands are not visibly dirty. When coughing and sneezing, cover mouth and nose with flexed elbow or tissue – discard tissue immediately into a closed bin and clean your hands with alcohol-based hand rub or soap and water. Handle raw meat, milk or animal organs with care, to avoid cross-contamination with uncooked foods, as per good food safety practices. Maintain at least 1 metre (three feet) distance between yourself and other people, particularly those who are coughing, sneezing and have a fever.  Treatment: If you have mild symptoms, stay at home until you’ve recovered. You can relieve your symptoms if you: rest and sleep, keep warm, drink plenty of liquids,  use a room humidifier or take a hot shower to help ease a sore throat and cough, according to WHO. Travel advice and more information are available in WHO offices or their websites, state and federal ministries of Health.