Edo State government has withdrawn the operational licence of Famous Faithland Orphanage Home, over involvement in the selling of a baby girl for over N1.7 million. Commissioner for Social Development and Gender Issues, Mrs. Maria Edeko, who led other officials of the ministry and security personnel to the controversial facility, yesterday served the letter of notice to the orphanage located at 9, Osarenren Street, beside Deeper Life Bible Church, in Ohovbe Quarters, Ikpoba-Hill, Benin. Operatives of Edo State Taskforce Against Human Trafficking had on Wednesday rescued baby Deborah,  a victim of human trafficking and illegal adoption, who was sold by a 45-year-old woman, Maureen Ekuase, to 63-year-old Grace Idehen, for over N1.7 million. While addressing journalists yesterday in Benin, the commissioner stated that the state government frowned on all forms of human trafficking and abuse, noting that children are gifts from God and should never be traded as commodities. She noted that the major challenges faced by the ministry border on issues of child development as it related to adoption, allegation of sale and trafficking of children.  Edeko said: “Famous Faithland Home has been implicated in alleged sale of children. Since the report came, we started investigating the matter and today (yesterday), the Edo State government has withdrawn the temporary licence granted to the orphanage. The orphanage has not operated within the confines of the law. The 17 children in the home are being relocated to a safe place. “The Governor of Edo State is passionate about vulnerable persons, especially children. The state government is also working within the mandate and vision of the governor to train managers of orphanage homes in the state on how to operate the centres.” The commissioner also assured that Edo government would continue to monitor the operations of orphanage homes and those found not to be suitable for the children would be shut down. She added: “No child under the watch of Governor Godwin Obaseki will be trafficked, abused or sold. Anyone that wants to do otherwise should be ready to face the law. Orphanage homes should not be seen as a place to make money.”