Lagos Commissioner for Environment, Mr. Tunji Bello, has appealed to Lagosians to bag their wastes and neatly place them where Lagos State Waste Management Authority Agency (LAWMA) or other refuse disposal vehicles can pick them. Bello made this appeal at a Media forum organised by What Can I Give at Yaba, Lagos. With the theme: Climate Action as a Bio-Diversity issue: Beat plastic pollution by promoting awareness and action for the protection of our environment,” the forum attracted environmentalists, young entrepreneurs, students. media practitioners and government agencies. He said the government is aware of the problem caused by indiscriminate disposal of bottles and has been working to combat it in a sustainable manner. He expressed concerns about the reckless abandonment with which the masses dispose plastics. He lamented bottles have not only blocked a lot of drainage systems but are easily found littered on the roads. “The havoc being caused by this act of indiscriminate disposal of plastics by passers by and passengers in vehicles are being undermined by the perpetrators who are unaware of the negative effect on not only on the efforts of the government handling waste management but also on the climate change,” he said. He noted that while the government of Lagos State would continue to welcome constructive criticism, Lagosians are expected to guide against indiscriminate throwing of bottles. Commending “What Can I Give” for organising the symposium, Bello encouraged the NGO to get the data base of all NGOs working on environment and climate change with a view to having continuous collaboration with the government. Co-founder of What Can I Give, Olufemi Ibitoye, said:
“We are partnering with the Lagos State Ministry of Environment as the major stakeholder in the industry, knowing that there is no way we can talk about climate change without involving the Ministry as we would always need policies and enforcement which can only be provided by the Ministry.” He called on Nigerians to stop littering plastics because it would lead to environmental hazards such as blocking drainage, which could cause flood that endanger lives but also contribute to climate change.