One of the ingredients for  growing entrepreneurship is passion, the Group Managing Director of Access Bank, Herbert Wigwe, has said. Others include competence, commitment, excellence, leadership, focus, innovation, relationships, reading and hard work. He spoke at the Harvesters Entrepreneurship Forum (HEF 2020) organised by Harvesters International Christian Centre at the weekend. He said it was not true that Nigerians could not do something good. ‘’We can create our own institutions,’’ he said, citing Access Bank and Dangote Group. He noted that it is not the business of government to run businesses, saying that  job should be left to individuals. Such individuals, he said, should be competent, passionate and have a focused strategy of what they are doing. He also said such individuals should innovate always as the inability to do so could kill one’s business.These seemed like clichés, but they are true, he said. ‘’My theory: If you work harder than I, I will outsmart you. Follow your passion and you will do well. You must have excellence in your DNA. Build relationships. Network in the fields that are vital to you. If you are a recluse, it will not help you. You have to continuously improve yourself. Read voraciously like the late British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. But you do not have to be the most brilliant to excel in business.” He advised that money should not be the main objective of a start up, but the passion to be one’s boss. Entreprenuers,Wigwe said, should ready for shocks as business failures should not deter one from taking risks. Rather, they make one ‘’make one strong’’. Show me a man or woman who has made it in business and I will show you one who has failed many times, he said, citing himself. He noted that the building of a bank is the most difficult thing to do.’’You pay the price for every wrong decision,” adding: “No entrepreneurial journey comes with without pains. Entrepreneurs do not see  impossibilities.” Other pieces of advice, he gave were: Keep on refining your idea. You cannot think local. Because you will meet competition somewhere. Think big. Specifically, he praised the Dangote Group owned by Africa’s richest man, for putting Nigeria on the map of entrepreneurship. His parting shot: Do what others won’t do. Don’t compromise on your values. The Chief Executive Officer Interswicth Elegbe advised potential startups to focus on what they could control and that not having cash should be a barrier, adding that failures of the past should not deter one. Piggyvest founder Odun Ewenyi listed funding, the Nigerian factor and one’s sex as the three problems confronting the entrepreneurs.To her, entrepreneurship is for every one. It is not limited to only men. Her solution: “Meet the customer at the point of his need and solve it.’’ The convener of the event/Lead Pastor, Harvesters International Christian Centre Pastor Bolaji Idowu said the programme was well attended as it shot the envisaged number of attendees.  He disclosed that over 60000 participants registered for the programme aired in four centres in Lagos aimed at tackling poverty and unemployment. He said the time had come for Nigerians to take their destiny in their hands. He enjoined the participants to make the most of the opportunity given to them and ensured that they practised what they were taught. He said Africans in other parts of the continent would would have the advantage of participating in the next programme as they would be included for the first time. He announced the prize of $10,000 for any one with the best solution to a social problem on the continent. He also announced a name change for the programme. It would now called African Entrepreneurship Forum.