What is an academic community without intellectual honesty? When the University of Lagos (UNILAG) chapter of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) passed a vote of no confidence in the Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Council, Dr Wale Babalakin, on March 11, it was an instance of intellectual dishonesty. ASUU-UNILAG Chairman, Dr Dele Ashiru, was quoted as saying: “We are asking the Federal Government to remove Babalakin as Pro-Chancellor because our union is going to enforce that resolution. Babalakin cannot be seen anywhere on this campus as from today. “We want him removed for deliberately misinforming the Ministry of Education, which led to the cancellation of our convocation.  His prayer to the ministry was that Council did not approve the convocation. “Available evidence in the minutes states that the Council, during its January 21 and 22 meeting, was informed about the convocation and approved the budget for the convocation.” This has the complexion of a misrepresentation. The true picture was presented in a March 7 document signed by UNILAG Registrar Oladejo Azeez. This picture contradicts the position of ASUU-UNILAG: “The Governing Council of the University of Lagos at its meeting held between Tuesday, March 3rd 2020 and Thursday March 5th 2020 deliberated and resolved on the following issues: (i) 2019 Convocation Ceremonies; (ii) Appointment and Promotions of Academic, Administrative & Technical Staff and Junior Members of Staff; (iii) Report of the Sub-committee on University Budget and Budget Performance in the Year 2019 and (iv) Other issues critical to the University of Lagos. “On Wednesday, March 4th 2020, the Governing Council received and considered the letter from the Executive Secretary of the National Universities Commission (NUC) directing Management to suspend the 2019 Convocation Ceremonies slated for Monday 9th March 2020 to Friday 13th March 2020. “The NUC directive for the suspension of the Convocation Ceremonies was based on the exchange of correspondences between the Pro-Chancellor & Chairman of Council, Dr. Bolanle Olawale Babalakin, SAN, OFR and the Vice-Chancellor, Professor Oluwatoyin T. Ogundipe, FAS regarding claims that Management failed to obtain Council’s approval for the Convocation Ceremonies. “Council was guided by the Audio Recording of the Special Meeting held on Tuesday, 21st January 2020 and Wednesday, 22 January 2020 in order to clarify claims by the Vice-Chancellor that the Convocation Ceremonies was brought to Council for Approval. “The Audio Recording, the Minutes of these meetings as well as the Agenda/Notice of Meeting confirmed that the Convocation Budget was the only item formally brought to the January, 2020 Special Meeting. “Council was also verbally informed of the proposed Convocation Lecturer and this choice was discussed. However, the Convocation programme was not listed as an item on the Agenda of the Special Meeting of Council and there were no supporting documents on the programme tabled during the January, 2020 Special Council Meeting.” The question is: Was ASUU-UNILAG aware of the true situation as presented by the university’s registrar? The union has not faulted the registrar’s account. The union’s distortion of reality amounts to intellectual dishonesty. The registrar also said:”In respect of the Award of Honorary Degrees, Council directed that it will only consider the nominees for Honorary Degrees after receiving a detailed presentation from Management which will include; the Curriculum Vitae of the honorees, the recommendation of the Honours Committee of the Senate and the Senate itself as prescribed by the Rules Regulations and Law of the University. “The Management never presented any memorandum/supporting documents to Council on the subject matter. No Council approval was given to the Management. “It is noteworthy that Council had expressed dissatisfaction to Management about the manner Honorary Degrees were handled for the 2018 Convocation Ceremonies, and had stressed specifically at its meeting of March 2019 (as confirmed by Minutes of that meeting) that Management must provide all the relevant details of nominees for honorary awards to the Council early enough to enable Council deliberate properly on it. “Council had also cautioned that honorees must have made demonstrable Contribution to the society, the nation or the world at large. The Honorary Degrees will not be treated as a chieftaincy title to be given to the highest bidder. “The Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Council explained that his communication with regulatory authorities only took place on Monday, 2 March 2020, and this was necessitated by his letter to the Vice-Chancellor of Friday, 28 February 2020, which the Vice-Chancellor received on the same day but ignored, and proceeded to hold a Press Conference regarding the Convocation Ceremonies without deeming it fit to address the serious concerns and legal issues he raised in his letter under reference.” Clearly, the NUC had good grounds for stopping UNILAG’s convocation fixed for March 9 to March 13. Clearly, the university management had acted as though it didn’t need the Council’s approval for the Convocation Ceremonies, which amounts to intellectual dishonesty. Blaming Babalakin for the consequences of the university management’s omission, and accusing him of high-handedness, suggests that the union has a hidden agenda. A report said: “The lecturers moved round the campus, making a stop outside the institution’s main gate where they sang solidarity songs and carried placards bearing messages for Babalakin’s removal. “Some of the placards read: “Dictator Pro-Chancellor must GO”; “Remove Babalakin. When? Remove him NOW!” This public show was baseless and ridiculous. It tarnished the image of ASUU-UNILAG. It is noteworthy that Babalakin, a UNILAG alumnus, was Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Council of University of Maiduguri (UNIMAID) between 2009 and 2013. He was also Chairman of the Committee of Pro-Chancellors of Federal Universities in Nigeria. It is worth quoting a September 2012 report which highlighted Babalakin’s development efforts while he was Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Governing Council of UNIMAID: “It is on record that Babalakin coordinated the construction of a multi-million naira independent power project, which currently guarantees 20 hours uninterrupted electricity supply to the institution. “Besides, he has also donated over N13 million to the university to execute various projects, including over N12 million for the upgrading of its library in 2010 and also purchased stethoscopes for indigent students of the university’s college of medicine.” If there is anything Babalakin can be accused of in the unfolding UNILAG drama, it is intellectual honesty.