 National Youths Service Corps (NYSC) in Anambra State said it lost a total of four corps members last year in course of their service in the state. The State Coordinator, Kehinde Aremu disclosed this on Thursday in Awka during the passing out parade of the 2019 Batch ‘A’ corps members. Five corps members who distinguished themselves during their service year were also awarded by the scheme during the event. While praying for the repose of the souls the deceased, Aremu prayed God to console their immediate families and that of the Scheme. He however said that five of the corps members who have been found wanting in the discharge of their duties would have their service year extended ranging from one to four years. The Coordinator congratulated the passing out corps members, urging them to continue to live by the tenets inculcated into them during the service year. He said, “As your drop your khaki suits and jungle boots, please keep away from every acts of indiscipline and shun the get-rich-quick syndrome which is the easiest part to crime and disappointment. “The unity of Nigeria is a task for us all. Preach peace wherever you find yourself. Stay away from fake news and don’t be found in the assembly of hate speech makers.” Appreciating the governor for the uncommon transformation he had brought to the scheme, Aremu pleged to reciprocate same through posting of corps members in relevant organizatios to fill the manpower gaps especially in the education and health sectors. He urged them to take advantage of the numerous opportunities by the President Mohammadu Buhari’s administration to establish their own small and medium scale businesses. “I encourage you to settle down here in Anambra and seize the opportunities of the services of the Anambra State Small Business Agency which in 2018 disbursed more than N5billion in loan to encourage young entrepreneurs,” he added. The state governor, Willie Obiano applauded the NYSC management organising a full fledged colorful passing out ceremony marked by the pomp and pagentary, the first in the last five years. The governor, who was represented by the Head of Service, Harry Udu acknowledged the positive impact made by the corps members in the state, pledging continuous provision of enabling environment for them to effectively discharge their duties. “We especially take pride in the fact that we give the highest renumeration to corps members and we are poised to tip the scale in favor of those in difficult terrains, meant to inspire you to stay where you are posted and be efficient members of the scheme,” he noted. Obiano however regretted the nonchalant disposition of some of the corps members during their service, promising them of appropriate sanctions. “Some of you under various guises treated the period with levity and subsequently abandoned your duty posts. Let me make it clear that appropriate sanctions will be meted out to you. Nigerian youths must be relevant now and in the future,” he stressed. Photo: Representative of the governor, Harry Udu congratulating one of awardees during the ceremony. Emma Elekwa