Every generation is worse than the one before. No? Ask Mama or Papa or someone of their generation. They are likely to tell you that their world was considerably sane, that children were better behaved, and ladies covered up appropriately, unlike the picture of today’s streets where nothing is left to the imagination of the male beholder. How did their generation unwind? Of course, they will not play the pope and pretend that there were no boyfriends or girlfriends in their days, or that they did not listen to music or dance enthusiastically. But they are sure to tell you that when they danced, their dance was nuanced, more detailed, more expressive, like art, and that word again, sane. Not the stomping and kicking, nor the offbeat twisting and turning of today’s azonto and shaku-shaku. Was there violence in Mama and Papa’s day? Of course, otherwise there would have been no police and no jails. There was the occasional killer, the lone thief, even a highway robber (as the felon was once called, largely because he operated on the highways). You will feel the older generation’s horror and alarm as they broach today’s crime profile. But they need not bother. You also know the truth and are just as horrified as they are. Rape is now a pastime, as are murder, burglary, fraud, armed robbery, terrorism, kidnapping, and cybercrime, the last one being, perhaps, the EFCC’s worst nightmare. These days it is not uncommon to see in the papers pictures of as many as 40 young men, sometimes with a lady thrown in, lined up on suspicion of cybercrime or Yahoo, Yahoo, a common term in these parts. And it is not an isolated case in Ibadan, say, or Lagos, but a national malaise. Sometimes they are pictured with such odd items as a package of fetish or miniature coffin, complete with a juju man. The EFCC has their hands full. The suspects are having their day in court. But the army is growing by the day. Bandits attack communities in Kaduna, Zamfara, Jigawa and other places, going from house to house, in some cases, robbing, killing and kidnapping people, rustling their livestock, and not just cows but donkeys or whatever they can lay their hands on. Sometimes the hoodlums are gunned down by police and military personnel, but like the Yahoo boys, their army is growing. It is a peculiar era. This week a polytechnic student in Anambra State, after carrying a pregnancy full term, reportedly threw the newborn out of her boyfriend’s first floor hostel room which served as maternity room. It is not difficult to guess her intentions but the baby survived, though with a broken leg, a barbed fence wire breaking its fall and preventing its certain death. Reports say the runaway mom was later handcuffed and advised to breastfeed her unwanted child in hospital. This week two women were arrested on allegation of stealing two babies, while a 50-year-old man appeared in court for sexually assaulting an eight-year-old. The other day a machete-wielding man cut up a woman in Ogun State after chopping off her hands for daring to accuse him of stealing a phone. Also, a man burnt his five-year-old son’s fingers, mouth and buttocks for stealing fish. Throw in the report too of a 51-year-old man who sexually assaulted his 10-year-old daughter as often as pleased. What sort of a generation produced that man, and the lady who reportedly poisoned her teenage daughter to death, and killed herself too just to get back at a husband who neither loved her nor cared for his children? The National Bureau of Statistics once named Lagos as the state with the highest crime rate in the country followed by the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja with Delta, Kano, Plateau, Ondo, Oyo, Bauchi, Adamawa, and Gombe taking their positions in the infamous ranking. But take another look. As per capital, the FCT with just over 3 million people is leader of the pack, with Lagos (22 million people) coming second. Unemployment and poverty are among a raft of causes of crime in the country. What hope for the next generation?