 IN the good old 1980s when music was an instrument of meaningful communication, Veno Marioghae captured the essence of Nigeria as a country of resilient people with a song she titled Nigeria Go Survive. Delivered in pidgin, the lyrics of the chart-busting song that ruled the airwaves for years were as bold as they were inspiring. “If they steal our oil, burn our oil or even drink it, Nigeria will survive. No matter how hard they try, our roots are strong, our ancestors will not yield ground and the gods of thunder and lightning will unite to shield Nigeria,” she sang. The message of her timeless song re-echoed sometime in 1992 when the then military president of Nigeria, Gen. Ibrahim Babangida, in an interview with the editors of government-owned Daily Times newspaper, shockingly declared that the nation’s economy had defied all logic, wondering why it had not collapsed in spite of all that had been done to it. He said: “Frankly, I have kept on asking my economists why the economy has not collapsed till now. What is it that is keeping it up? Surely it is not our knowledge, it is not our theories, it is not anything that we have read.” The then head of state had made the declaration a few weeks after his regime devalued the naira by 100 per cent after a reported secret meeting with officials of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in Abuja. Before then, Nigeria had survived a civil war that lasted more than two years between July 6, 1967 and January 15, 1970. A prosperous nation re-emerged from the ashes of the war in spite of the destruction of property and loss of millions of lives in the conflict. The nation has also survived no fewer than six coups since the first one occurred in 1966. In 2014, the nation survived the deadly Ebola virus after about 20 cases were recorded and eight lives lost, including those of the index case, Patrick Sawyer, a Liberian-American who flew into Lagos from Liberia on July 20, 2014, and Dr Stella Ameyo Adadevoh, the brave female physician credited with curbing a wider spread of the virus by placing Sawyer in quarantine in spite of pressures from the Liberian government . The announcement of an index case of coronavirus in Nigeria by the Lagos State Government penultimate Thursday, weeks after the virus had ravaged China, Italy and other foreign countries, was essentially an announcement to Nigerians that their resilience was once again being put to test. Armed with celestial powers, a Nigerian pastor reportedly picked up the gauntlet and vowed to go to China, the hotbed of the deadly virus, confront it head on and destroy it completely.  The last that was heard of the audacious clergyman is that the virus gained the upper hand in the spiritual battle and left him bedridden in the hospital. We are nonetheless proud of his Nigerian spirit, just like we are of an Italian-Nigerian footballer, King Paul Akpan Udoh, who is reportedly down with the virus. Udoh’s case would serve as a lesson for Diaspora Nigerians who for reasons best known to them are never proud of their Nigerian roots. Until he was bedridden by the virus, Italian newspapers advertised him as a thoroughbred Italian without any reference to his Nigerian roots. But reports from Italian press since he became a victim of coronavirus have consciously described him as a Nigerian footballer based in Italy. I have no doubts that the Italian media will once again embrace him as an Italian when he recovers from the illness, particularly if his football career flourishes once more and he becomes one of the country’s noticeable soccer stars. Senator Shehu Sani had hinted at the hypocrisy of Europe in such matters in a tweet he sent out on his official Twitter handle on Monday, saying that it was nine days since an Italian was found as the index case of coronavirus in Nigeria but no one seemed to have the faintest idea as to what he looks like. But if it was a Nigerian that ‘exported’ the deadly virus to Italy the way the Italian brought it to Nigeria, the Italian government would have inundated their tabloids with the pictures of the Nigerian. Be it as it may, life has not been the same in the country since the index case was announced penultimate Thursday. The merit or demerit of whatever we say or do now is weighed by how sensitive we are to the outbreak of coronavirus. Our normal ways of life have practically been altered by the presence of the virus. The culture of handshake is now an abomination in many parts of the country, and has even been replaced with ‘legshake’ in some areas. Nigerians, including highly enlightened ones, are reportedly avoiding the Chinese simply because the virus is believed to have originated from their country! There were reports during the week of operators of Chinese Nigerians, who are not necessarily Chinese, begging Nigerians to come back to them. It matters nothing to the fleeing Nigerians that most of the Chinese food outlets in the land are owned and run by Nigerians. A manager of one of the restaurants was quoted as saying: “Nigerians are scared because of the average Nigerian mentality. Because of the name Chinese, they believe this is all Chinese stuff. To be honest with you, all the restaurants right now are complaining. I would like to make an appeal to Nigerians that we are all Nigerians. We don’t have a single Chinese person working here and most of the items used here are Nigerian-made goods. Rice is also not coming from China. I would like to appeal to Nigerians to continue patronising us in the interest of Nigerians that are working here.” It is one of the great mysteries of life that a creature so infinitely tiny you cannot see it with unaided eye has subjected the human race to such fear and trepidation since it broke out in China. 