Joe Mensah is a retired Nigerian boxing coach who led the Nigeria boxing team to six Olympic Games, one as an assistant and five as the head coach. He was an integral part of Nigeria’s golden age in boxing, first as an active boxer and as a coach with his wards winning three silver medals and a host of bronze medals for the country at the Olympic and Commonwealth Games. The veteran coach spoke to OLUWAMAYOMIKUN OREKOYA about his life, career and the several challenges facing boxing. How it started For every youngster, looking up to some great men as inspiration has always been a driving force. For 74 year-old Joe Mensah, the feat of legendary late Dick Tigers, the WBA middleweight champion, encouraged him to up boxing. He explains: “I started boxing in 1963 at the Igbobi Orthopedic Hospital Boxing Club and I was inspired to take up the sport after the legendary late Dick Tiger beat American Gene Fullmer at the Liberty Stadium, Ibadan to retain his WBA middleweight title. “At that time, boxing was the major sport across the world and Nigeria in particular as well as in West Africa. The likes of Hogan Bassey, Dick Tiger and Rafiu King Joe were seen as global superstars as football was not as popular as it is now. “I later moved to Abalti Barrack Boxing Club in 1964 where I joined the national team camp as the Lagos State welterweight champion for the first All-Africa Games hosted by Congo Brazzaville in 1965. I became the West African Welterweight Champion in 1966 and held the title for three years and also won the bronze medal at the 1973 African Games held in Lagos. “I also competed at the 1972 Olympic Games in Munich, Germany where I lost to Sergio Lozano of Mexico in the second round. I retired from active boxing after the African Games in Lagos before joining the late Hogan Bassey as an assistant coach. “ Trainer of champions Joe Mensah led Nigerian boxers to five Olympics Games as the national coach in 1984, 1988, 1992, 1996 before retiring after the 2000 edition in Sydney, Australia. He is a major factor in Nigeria’s boxing’s success story in the 1980s and early 1990s. He took over from Bassey as the coach of the boxing team and was at the 1984 Games in Los Angeles in Peter Konyegwachi’s corner when the featherweight fighter won Nigeria’s first ever silver medal, losing the final to Meldrick Taylor of the USA. “When I retired from active boxing in 1973, I assisted the late Hogan Bassey in the national team and I was at his side during the 1980 Olympics in Moscow. After Hogan Bassey retired, I was promoted to the position of the national coach, training Konyegwachi to Nigeria’s first silver medal. “I was also at the 1992 edition in Barcelona where Nigeria had its best boxing performance at the Olympics with two silver medals; David Izonritei in heavyweight division and Richard Igbineghu in Super heavyweight and I coached Duncan Dokiwari to a bronze medal in the 1996 Games in Atlanta, Nigeria’s last medal in the boxing event.” Apart from training boxers in the amateur ranks, Mensah also had successes training professional boxers like Henry Akinwande, late James Oyebola and Segun Ajose among others. “I trained Henry Akinwande, who was the WBO heavyweight champion from 1996 to 1997. He was also the Commonwealth heavyweight champion in 1993 and the European heavyweight champion from 1993 to 1994. “I also trained the late James Oyebola, who won the WBC International Heavyweight title in 1993 and the vacant British heavyweight title in 1994.” Mensah retired as a coach last year but not without leading Joseph Otto and Olaide Fijabi to African titles and the veteran trainer would like to see his former charges win world titles. “I would love to see one of the boxers I have trained recently win a world title. This is what would define my personal success.” Boxing’s dwindling fortunes Nigerian boxers may not be at the Olympics after the team missed the African Olympics Qualifiers last month due to lack of funds and Mensah is not happy with the sport’s leadership in the country. “It is sad that the government has neglected boxing in the country. The team could not even travel for the Olympic qualifiers in Senegal earlier in the year and now they think they can make it to the final qualifiers in France where they will face better boxer from across the world. “The present boxing leadership are a joke. They don’t care or love the sport. All they care about is being members of one international body or the other and travel around the world on free allowances,” he lamented. Mensah also decried the lack of medals from boxing events in international tournaments, adding that the standard of recruiting new talents has dropped drastically. “Nigeria went to the last Olympic Games in Rio, Brazil with only one boxer. Gone are the days when the boxing team had at least five boxers representing the country in international competitions. There are hardly any catch-them-young programme to discover new talents.” “Even the quality of boxers in the national team is very poor. In the past, you had to be very talented before you could even get to the national team camp talk less of making the team. That was why we were doing well because we had the best boxers.” He also argued that more attention should be extended to the development of boxing. “The dwindling fortunes of Nigerian boxing may continue unless drastic measures are taken to bring back the country’s glorious days. “This is a sport that has always won medals for the country. In fact, the first three Olympic medals ever won by Nigeria came from boxing. But it’s hard to imagine why the sport appears to have been abandoned. “In the past, boxers were highly motivated with adequate resources and training tours across the world where they pick up latest techniques, but now we hardly go for tournaments even the ones close to Nigeria.” Solutions “We need experienced administrators to move boxing forward; people who love the sport and not the ones who see it as an avenue to boost their resumé and the ones who are only elected for globetrotting. “There is also the need to stage more competitions annually if we are to develop world-class boxers and provide first class training programmes with quality training facilities to motivate the voracious boxers.” “Financial motivation is also very important to get the best out of the boxers. For now, boxers are poorly motivated in this country and this is discouraging many talents from taking up the sport.” Family The successful is also prolific at the home front. He is married with four children. He stated that none of his children are involved in the sport, noting that the challenges he faced in his career discouraged them from taking up boxing as a career. “I have been married since 1974 and I have four children and two grandchildren. One of my children is a lawyer, while another is a human resources manager. “None of my children are into sports and how would they be when they witnessed the challenges and sufferings I had to endure as a sportsman. “When I was the national coach, I was often left frustrated and neglected. There were times I had to use my connections to cater for the team and traveling for international tournaments was always a problem. “Who would see all these challenges and want to have anything to do with sports.  I am only grateful that with the support of my wife, I was able to train and give my children a comfortable life,” he added.