Chris Njoku, Owerri  Imo State Governor Hope Uzodinma on Monday sworn in his commissioners and other political aides amidst mammoth crowd and fear of the dreaded Coronavirus. The governor sworn in 22 commissioners with their various portfolios, 33 SSAs, and 38 SAs The ceremony which took place at the Heros’ Square, Owerri was attended by thousands of well-wishers, friends and relatives of the appointees. The guests attended the event notwithstanding the Federal and state governments’ directives for citizens to maintain a social distance to curtail the spread of the dreaded Coronavirus. However, the appointees later took their guests to separate hotels in Owerri to entertain them. At some of the hotels visited, it was observed that some precautionary measures were taken to sanitize the guests. Some of the waiters were positioned at the entrance of the halls with hand sanitizers which they sprayed on the palms of the guests before they were allowed to go in. Meanwhile, all primary, secondary schools and tertiary institutions in the state Monday were shut down in compliance of government directive and students directed to vacate immediately. The Governor has ordered the immediate closure of all primary, secondary and tertiary institutions in the state in his state broadcast on Friday. When our correspondent visited the two federal institutions in the state- the Federal University of Technology Owerri (FUTO) and Federal Polytechnic Nekede Owerri students were seen leaving their hostels. However, workers were seen carrying out their official duties. Some of them interviewed said that they have not received any directive to shut offices. In host communities, some the traditional rulers directed town criers to move round the villages to ask the students living outside the campuses to vacate their hostels immediately and return to their parents. One of the traditional rulers who did not want his mentioned said since the government has directed that schools be closed there was no need for the students to continue to loiter around. “Any student found around after the announcement is doing so at his or her own risk,” he said.