The curtain fell Monday on the reign of Muhammed Sanusi II as the 14th Emir of Kano. After five years and nine months on the throne, Sanusi was deposed by the Kano State government. He was banished to Nasarawa State. Emir of Bichi Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero was named as the 15th Emir of Kano. Bayero, son of the 13th Emir of Kano, Alhaji Ado Bayero, lost in the contest for the throne to Sanusi in 2014. Following the intractable crisis between the former emir and Governor Abdulahi Ganduje, the Kano State Government created four Emirates to whittle down the influence of the Emir of Kano. One of the Emirates is Bichi. The government yesterday appointed Nasiru Ado Bayero, another son of the late Ado Bayero, as the Emir of Bichi. Secretary to the Kano State Government Alhaji Usman Alhaji, who announced the new Kano Emir’s appointment, said it came after the recommendation by the four kingmakers in the Kano Emirate Council. He said the new appointment is in line with Section 11 (1) of the Kano Emirate Council Law 2019. The four kingmakers, who were with the SSG during the announcement, are: Sarkin Bai of Kano Alhaji Mutari Adnan; Alhaji Abdullahi Sarki Yola; Alhaji Yusuf Labahani Cigari and Alhaji Bello Abubakar. Announcing Sanusi’s dethronement in another statement, the SSG said: “The Kano State Executive Council under the chairmanship of His Excellency, the Governor of Kano State, Dr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, has unanimously approved the immediate removal/dethronement of the Emir of Kano Emirate Muhammad Sanusi II. “The Emir of Kano is in total disrespect to lawful instruction from the Office of the State Governor and other lawful authorities, including his persistent refusal to attend official meetings and programmes organised by the government without any lawful justification, which amount to total insubordination. “It is on record and in so many instances ,Malam Muhammad Sanusi II has been found breaching Part 3, section 13 (a-e) of the Kano State Emirate Law 2019 and if left unchecked will destroy the good and established image of the Kano Emirate. “This removal is made after due consultation with relevant stakeholders and in compliance with part 3 section of the Kano state emirate law 2019 and other reasons stated above. “The removal was reached in order to safeguard sanctity, culture, tradition, religion and prestige of the Kano Emirate built over a thousand years. “His Excellency Dr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje called on the general public to remain calm, law abiding and go about their normal businesses.” The crisis between Ganduje and the dethroned emir raged for a long time. The one-time Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) governor was accused of dabbling into partisan politics. He was also accused of financial impropriety by the Kano State Public Complaints and Anti-Corruption Agency. Sanusi was similarly removed from office as CBN governor on February 20, 2014. His grandfather Muhammad Sanusi I, who became emir in 1953, was deposed in 1963. He was the 11th emir of Kano. There was tight security in Kano after Sanusi’s removal. Security was beefed up around the Emir’s palace and strategic places, including Government House area within the Kano metropolis to safeguard lives and property. Armed security personnel who were deployed in the main entrance to the Government House, monitored the movement of people going on the State Road leading to other parts of the city. Visitors to the Government House were subjected to thorough check as part of measures to check unwanted visitors. Prior to the removal of the monarch, security personnel were seen in convoy patrolling some major streets in a show of force and in readiness for any eventuality. But, the city remained calm as residents went about their normal businesses and commercial activities continued in major markets. The new emir was born in 1961. He read Mass Communication at the Bayero University in Kano. Earlier in the day, there was a free-for-all in the House of Assembly when the Deputy Speaker and Chairman of the Public Complaints and Petition Committee, Hamisu Ibrahim Chidari, raised an observation on the ongoing investigation of petitions of alleged violation of the culture, tradition and religious values of the people of Kano by Emir Muhammad Sanusi II. Chidari’s introductory remarks sparked a row as opposition lawmakers of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) raised objections. The objection generated a heated debate which resulted in fisticuff in the hallowed chamber. The opposition members struggled to take control of the mace, which was rescued by security men and the Sergeant-at-Arm attached to the Assembly. The melee lasted for about 25 minutes before normalcy was restored forcing the House to adjourn for a 30 minutes to further calm frayed nerves. Reacting to Sanusi’s deposition, the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) called for calm and understanding. ACF National Publicity Secretary Muhammad Ibrahim Biu, said the association tried to find amicable solution when it festered. He said: “We had earlier intervened in the feud between the Kano State Government and Kano Emirate Council and called for amicable resolution. However, with the turn of events now, ACF calls for calm and understanding, especially among the good people of Kano State.”