Dr Olaseinde Martins, a consultant surgeon with the Ifako-Ijaiye General Hospital, Lagos, in this interview with PAUL AKPABIO and BIODUN ADEYEWA, x-rays the Coronavirus  pandemic that is currently ravaging the world. He also shares with us some of his high and low moments in the course of his medical career over the years.  Excerpts: Doctors always seem to be on a collision course with the government, why is this so? The principles of life are applicable to all, notwithstanding the professions. You need to be alive to keep other people alive. We do not encourage friction but you have to be alive to save people’s lives as a doctor. So, anytime the means of survival is challenged, particularly when people are working, it shouldn’t be condoned. But good enough, we don’t have such a situation in Lagos State. As a matter of fact, I must commend the Lagos State government, which I believe has the best welfare system for doctors in Nigeria. Even God says that the labourers are worth their wages. One of the major challenges is that when people are working and are not paid, moreso when you are working with obsolete equipment; when we as doctors complain, it is to prepare ourselves ahead of any challenge, just as we have a global challenge now in the name of Covid 19. What prompted you into opting for the medical profession? As a child, I dreamt of how to help and serve people.  I liked taking care of people as a child. Also as a child, I watched care givers repeatedly come to our town in Kwara State for medical retreat. And I used to watch in admiration as they treated people of different ailments. People who had not been able to eat or walk properly, recovered after three days or so. That indeed impressed me. I was touched and that prompted me to later study medicine. So, I had always been hopeful and I had a potential. Afterwards, I deliberately worked towards achieving that purpose. How did your background contribute to who you are today? Truly and sincerely, I must thank God for His grace and appreciate the role of my teachers, who made great impact in my life. One of them, Mr Fasusi, encouraged me to study to become the best. I must also commend my parents. My mother actually did more than my father. At a point, it was difficult to go to school; she had to leave the town to go into the forest to engage in commercial farming, the planting of kolanut and all that, because she was desperate to send me to school. And she was almost 60 years in age at that time. I thank God for her; she did a great job but she is late now. Do you have any fear about Coronavirus that has been ravaging the world? I have no fear to be candid and what we shouldn’t allow is fear; instead, we should be courageous and have faith that we shall overcome. However, my concern is that it is the blessing that God gave that the Coronavirus has come to destroy, which is good health and wealth. This virus has come to destroy our health and to waste our wealth. We need to be healthy to create wealth and you need to be wealthy to sustain health. The challenge we have now is that it is affecting both. So, we have to prioritise. We know that as we close down, wealth is dwindling gradually but we must face the health issue right now. Are you satisfied with the steps the Lagos State government has taken so far to tackle the pandemic? Looking back at what other countries of the world have done and with the knowledge of this disease, I think I must commend the efforts of the Lagos State governor Babatunde Sanwo-Olu, his deputy, Obafemi Hamzat and their team; they are doing their best. The Nigeria Medical Association, the Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi and the entire team; they are doing a good job. We need to do this now. Let the efforts be on our health now. We must look away from the wealth that we are losing now. If we gain the health, we will regain the wealth. But if we lose the health, no matter the wealth, we won’t be able to enjoy the wealth. What advice will you give to other states? Lagos State has always been known for setting the pace. We did it during the time of Ebola virus and the whole world commended us. I think Lagos is a state to watch out for and to emulate in doing great things. Even on the arrival of the virus in Lagos, the state has been very proactive with a centre and also at a point calling for a stay at home. There is an outbreak of another disease in China apart from COVID-19. ‘What is it with China and diseases? Well, we are not going to stigmatise China because of any disease because it could actually come from anywhere. It is a global one; the air we breathe here is the same that they breathe in China. It is not about China but again, we must also look at our practices; our lifestyles in terms of how we live; our hygiene, what we feed on; then our cultural and social practices that may as well promote or bring some of these diseases. So what I will advise is that we should emulate good hygiene and practise preventive health care system whereby if anything bad is noticed in our bodies, we report immediately to our primary health care officials for timely management. Everyone expected that America would be able to contain the virus as soon as it reaches the US, but that didn’t happen. What’s your opinion about that? Everyone believes that America is the world champion, in terms of knowledge and capacity. I must say that as a doctor and pastor, this is a humbling moment for the entire world. To the scientists, we have been humbled. To those who claim all the knowledge of the world, we have been humbled. Even the religious bodies have been humbled. A single, invisible virus has rumbled our entire world and closed down our system; it is indeed a humbling moment for us. It is a time to have a sober reflection and run back to God. At this point, America and the entire world should know that with all our knowledge and skills, the greatest factor remains God.  Can you comment on the controversy about Chloroquine as regards the treatment of Coronavirus? We have to tread with caution. For now, Chloroquine is not a drug approved to be used in the management of this disease. As a matter of fact, clinical trial is ongoing about Chloroquine. As of now, there is no drug identified for the cure of this virus. The danger of using chloroquine is enormous, especially when not authorised by a doctor.  Chloroquine was used in the past for the treatment of malaria but right now, many other better drugs have been used to treat malaria. So, we are not encouraging anyone to make use of Chloroquine. Even when Chloroquine was used for malaria treatment, it was done on prescription and was never an over-the-counter drug. The danger of Chloroquine to the body (in using it to prevent Coronavirus) will include damage to the eyes and ears. It can even cause death. What we know now is supportive care and following the guidelines as given by the National Centre for Disease Control. When do you consider to have been the turning point in your life? I think that great turning point in my life was when I met Christ Jesus. I am the last born of my parents. That singular act changed my entire life. In my days in my place, nobody wanted to go to school. But coming in contact with Christ changed my thinking, my attitude and enabled me to further my education. I told God that I wanted to be a surgeon and He helped me to do so. I’m grateful to God. Who influenced you most? My maternal grandfather did. He was one who I looked forward to. He was a man of integrity, bold and courageous. My mother took after him too. He suffered the consequences for being bold and always speaking the truth, but at the end of the day, people came from far and near to learn from him. He was hard working and never encouraged laziness. At the age of 135, this man was still going to the farm. Do you recall any prank that you did as a child? One day, I did something very wrong that I learnt from. We didn’t have a pit latrine, no toilet facility; we only had a container where we used to urinate and then go to discharge it. That particular night, I woke and I didn’t know that the man was awake. I urinated there and left. In the morning, the man called me and said: ‘You woke up, you urinated, did you pour it away?’ I think for fear, I denied that I urinated there. The man said: ‘You will not do it again!’ And truly, I did not do it again because he beat me silly. He described how I woke up and what I did in sequence, which confirmed that he was awake and saw me commit the offence. Being a doctor is living life with a challenging career, how do you cope with work and the home? It is challenging anywhere in the world; it is most challenging. The work of medical practice is tasking, even when you close from work; you still come to work at home. As a surgeon even at home, you are thinking about your patients, how they are recovering, the expenses and how they can continue to get good health.  All that affects us emotionally and even when you have done your best and you are thinking that the patient will survive, peradventure things go awry and the person dies, hen you start worrying over the death of somebody that you did your best for and sometimes, it leads to depression. How do you manage that and not bring it back home? There are days I come home sad. There also days when a patient who ought to have come five years ago, suddenly appears and it is too late. What is the most challenging case that you have handled as a doctor? So many challenging cases I have encountered as a trainee and as a consultant. I remember a patient now who was brought to the hospital, a child diagnosed to have cancer of the kidney. The stage we received this patient was advanced. Every part of the body was already involved; the only child of the parents, a girl and they have spent so much money before the child was brought to us. We received the prognosis and did our best. Even getting drugs for her was a challenge. At some point, we had to contribute money to manage the patient. It was palliative care.  At that point, we were not looking at curative because the disease had spread to all parts of the body. Chemotherapy was given and so many things, support and prayers but the patient still died. Breaking the news to the parents was challenging. Can you share with us your most embarrassing moment in the course of duty that you would never forget? If I call it an embarrassing moment, I may be right or I may be wrong. It started like an embarrassing moment but ended as a rewarding moment. That day, I was leaving the hospital, I saw a woman at the gate crying. I had closed, I wasn’t on call. I had called my wife that I was on the way home. I heard a voice within me saying: ‘Go back and help that woman’. I turned back immediately. I discovered that the woman brought a sick child of six months. God told me that I should do everything possible to make the child okay. The child needed to be operated on. I went everywhere. The mother was the only one around; the husband wasn’t around, didn’t come with money. We needed blood, I went to the blood bank and some people even thought that I had collected money from the woman because my own was too much. I told them that they should put the charge for the blood on my name to be removed from my salary. They all stared at me in disbelief. My colleagues wondered because I was not on duty, so why was I so concerned? I took it up as a challenge. That very night at 1am, I took that patient into surgery. The child needed emergency surgery and I operated that child with my team and the child did well. What touched me was, as I came out of the theatre, lo and behold, I was looking at my uncle straight in the face at 2.30 am. I was still putting on gloves and wearing my theatre gown. He was looking at me and I was looking at him. He mentioned my name, that one that only people at home know and call me. He asked me what I was doing there, and I asked him the same question. Some of the nurses were looking at us and watching the drama. So I told him I am a doctor and worked at that hospital. He told me that his wife brought a sick child to the hospital. He confirmed that the child just operated was his child. I was almost crying. As at that point, they had been married for almost 20 years. And that was their first child who was going to die. I thank God because the child survived and now grown up. I wondered how God works because that man is my blood brother. I never knew I was attending to my brother’s son that very night. What role do you think we as individuals have to play in ensuring the safety of our lives with regards to Covid-19? It is a pandemic and everyone is involved. We need to keep our hands clean. I must again commend the efforts of the government. It may not be too palatable or comfortable, but the populace must bear with government and cooperate. The government has said stay at home; please stay at home if you are not on essential duty. Then keep good hygiene. Avoid crowds. It will soon be over. If you travelled, self-isolate. And then people should review their cultural and social practices that do not enhance good health and embrace God. What should we learn as a nation that loves medical tourism? It’s, indeed, a humbling moment and a time that we have had to learn our lesson the hard way. For years, as medical practitioners, we have been shouting that the country should reduce medical tourism knowing the huge funds that we have been expending on such to access healthcare facilities in other parts of the world. Those people sat down, reviewed and improved their health system. I think it is time that we too did that. Now, there is a lock down around the world. Even if you want to go there for treatment now, I it is not possible. That is why we have to look inward and put in place our own healthcare system and facilities, so that what we have here will be adequate and good for our citizens. And we won’t need to be going outside the country to access healthcare.  The World Health Organisation has recommended that 15% should be set aside for the development of health care, but I doubt if we are spending close to five percent for the health sector. We must train and re-train our doctors, develop medical facilities, we must research. Some of us keep travelling out of the country and even those of us here are tempted to do so too. So, the condition of service for the healthcare providers should be reviewed to encourage our care givers.