The United States has approved anti-malarial drug chloroquine for treatment against coronavirus. President Donald Trump told reporters on Thursday: “We’re going to be able to make that drug available almost immediately, and that’s where the FDA (Food and Drug Administration) has been so great,” Trump told reporters. “They’ve gone through the approval process – it’s been approved. They took it down from many, many months to immediate. So we’re going to be able to make that drug available by prescription.”  One of the daughters of President Muhammadu Buhari, who returned from the United Kingdom on Thursday, has entered into self-isolation. Wife of the President, Aisha Buhari, stated this in a series of tweets on Thursday afternoon. Aisha Buhari said the self-isolation was in compliance with directives from the Ministry of Health and Presidential Task Force on coronavirus to travellers from high-risk countries to undergo self-isolation for 14 days. She however said the daughter did not show any symptoms of the dreaded virus but merely took the preventive measure. Tweeting on her verified official handle@aishabuhari, the wife of the President said: “Good afternoon Nigerians, earlier today my daughter returned from the UK being among the high Burden listed countries of COVID-19. “Based on the advice of the Hon. Minister Of Health , Presidential Task force on COVID – 19 and that of NCDC, She is on Self Isolation, not because she displayed any symptoms of the Covid-19 .” Mrs. Buhari also stated she closed down her office for the next weeks to take precautions against possible infection. “Please I urge all parents to do the same if possible as prevention is better than cure. “Similarly, I have shut down my office for two weeks with immediate effect while essential staff can work from home as a result of some Staff who recently returned from the UK,” she stressed.   Ondo lawmakers on Thursday passed a resolution asking Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu to close public and private schools as well as ban all public gatherings as a means of curbing the spread of CONVID-19 known as corona virus. The lawmakers, however, rejected a motion by the only PDP lawmaker, Rasheed Elegbeleye, that the April 18 local government elections be postponed till further notice. Elegbeleye had argued that the local elections would make people gather in a place and postponing the polls would help to curb the spread of CONVID-19. The APC lawmakers shouted him down and described the motion as ‘dead on arrival.’ Also, the lawmakers suspended plenary for two weeks to enable members visit their constituencies and sensitise them on the need to maintain proper hygiene and curb the spread of CONVID-19. Speaker Bamidele Oleyelogun, who read the resolution after the Deputy Speaker, Ireland Ogundeji, moved the motion called on hoteliers to fumigate their business premises and placed hand washing basin at the entrance. The Speaker barred all visitors from parking inside the premises but to park outside with a view to using the wash hand basin and sanitisers provided.  He also urged the federal government to declare a state of emergency in the health sector over CONVID-19 pandemic as well as release funds to state government. Before the resolution was passed, the lawmakers invited Commissioner for Information, Dr. Wahab Adegbenro, to brief them following a suspected case of CONVID-19 in the state. Adegbenro informed the lawmakers that lab results of the suspected coronavirus case in the State was being expected but health officials have begun contact traces of people that met the patient. Adegbenro urged residents in the state to be more careful since the virus had been tested positive in nearby states of Ekiti and Lagos states. He said the vaccine to be released next Monday by the US was not qualified for the market because it has not been proven to tackle the virus. The Health Commissioner said isolation centers in the state were capable of taking care of patients adding that special funding has been made available. He urged the lawmakers to approve more money for the health sector as consumables and preventive kits need to be purchased. Ekiti House of Assembly on Thursday suspended its legislative activities indefinitely as parts of measure to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus diseases otherwise called COVID-19. The decision to suspend legislative activities was reached at the Thursday’s plenary presided over by Speaker Funminiyi Afuye. The Ekiti State Government announced a 38-year-old indigene tested positive to COVID-19 According to the government, the confirmed case was suspected to have been infected while driving a 27-year-old American visiting Nigeria from Richmond, Virginia, USA in the company of his 31-year-old female caregiver. The Chairman House Committee on Health, Mrs. Teju Okunyiga, had Under Matter of Urgent Public Importance, informed the House of a reported case of COVID-19 in the state. Okunyiga then called for precautionary measures to contain the further spread of the diseases. Other members, who spoke on the matter, included the leader of the Government Business Gboyega Aribisogan, Mrs Yemisi Ayokunle, and Abiodun Fawekun. They suggested that aside the Assembly’s complex,  public places like schools should be shut down atleast for now. Speaker Afuye said “Activities at the Ekiti House of Assembly is hereby suspended as suggested by members, until further notice when the tension about the dread Corona virus is doused.” He, however, allayed the fear of residents, saying though the COVID-19  is real, government was on top of the situation. He urged members to sensitise their constituents against social interaction, regular washing of hands and unnecessary hand shake among others that could cause the spread of the disease in Ekiti. The Assembly thereafter adjourned plenary sitting indefinitely. Egypt on Thursday said it would partially shut restaurants, coffee shops, commercial centres and nightclubs in an effort to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus According to the government, those places will be closed down from 7 p.m (or 1700 GMT) to 6 a.m every day until March 31. It said that the decision would not be applicable to bakeries, grocery stores and delivery services. However, there were no specific times for the opening and closing of businesses in Egypt. Egypt, the Arab world’s most populous country of about 100 million people, has announced six deaths from the Covid-19 disease that has prompted authorities to put in place a series of precautions. However, places to be affected by the decision of the government include: schools, universities, cinemas and theatres. On Thursday, Egypt started halting flights to the country due to the virus, a measure that would continue until March 31. (dpa/NAN)  Four new cases of coronavirus have been confirmed in Lagos. Commissioner for Health, Prof Akin Abayomi, disclosed this in a chat with reporters. The four persons have increased confirmed cases to 12 in Nigeria. Abayomi explained that 19 persons were tested on Wednesday with four testing positive. The positive persons, he said, had been isolated for treatment at the Infectious Disease Hospital, Yaba, Lagos. He said the first of the four new cases was a woman in contact with another woman, who came from UK some days ago. According to him, the second new case was a female who returned from France on March 14 on a Turkish airline TK 1830. The third case, the commissioner said, was a Nigerian male in his 50s, who had not travelled anywhere but tested positive. Abayomi stated that the fourth case was a Nigerian male, who arrived on March 13 from Frankfurt to Lagos on Lufthansa airline, flight number LH568. The commissioner, however, said more tests were still being carried out, appealing to people on the two flights to self-isolate themselves and reach the government. “Currently, we are following over 1,300 people right now to find information about the state of their health and the number is increasing,” Abayomi stated. The Ogun State Government on Thursday said it has extended the ban on high-density social gatherings to both private and public schools across the state. This was contained in a statement issued by the Chief Press Secretary to the State Governor, Kunle Somorin. He said all measures would be reviewed at regular intervals in response to the development surrounding the Coronavirus disease. He said that schools are to proceed on a break after school hours on Friday, March 20, while regular and special religious programmes are banned forthwith with immediate effect. The state government enjoined all parents and guardians who have their children and wards in any boarding facility within the state to immediately evacuate them and return them to their respective homes at the close of schools on Friday, March 20, 2020. The statement said: “Governor Dapo Abiodun thankfully acknowledges and appreciates religious leaders for their advice, understanding solidarity and support, as we jointly search for a solution to the pandemic and for their cooperation to observe all safety measures in the overall interest of our State and common humanity. “In addition, non-essential travels should be limited whilst also avoiding high-density gatherings.” The 24th convocation ceremony of the Lagos State University (LASU) Ojo has been postponed indefinitely. The decision was in response to the rampaging coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19). It was taken at an emergency management meeting on Thursday. A top member of the university management told online medium PREMIUM TIMES, the school took the decision at about 1 pm on Thursday. The source was quoted as saying: “Yes, that is the final decision. The management meeting is still on but a conclusion has been reached on the convocation which is indefinite postponement. “The truth is that if we had decided to continue with our programmes, who would have loved to take the risk to attend among both the graduands and the dignitaries? “Thank God we have not recorded any case with a link to the university as at now, so the best thing to avoid it is to observe all the cautionary measures.”  Details shortly… Benue State Government has ordered closure of all schools from Friday as part of measures to protect the state from coronavirus pandemic. Briefing journalists after the State Executive Council Meeting today, Commissioner for Education, Professor Dennis Ityavyar, said all schools in the state had been directed to conclude examinations on or before March 27 and proceed on holiday. The Commissioner urged schools to ensure that physical contact is restricted before the end of the examinations. He stated that the decision to close schools before the scheduled end of the current academic term had become necessary as part of measures to prevent an outbreak of the disease in the state. Professor Ityavyar expressed the commitment of the Ortom administration to safeguarding the future of the Benue child. Commissioner for Health and Human Services, Dr. Sunday Ongbabor, said Benue has established an isolation centre at the State University Teaching Hospital in Makurdi. He said surveillance against coronavirus had been stepped up and advised the people to avoid shaking of hands and observe person hygiene such as frequently washing their hands with soap. The Italian, who is the index COVID-19 case in Nigeria, is now free of the virus, Lagos State has declared. The Commissioner of Health, Prof Akin Abayomi, however said he has to undergo a test before he can be finally declared negative.  Details shortly… Four new cases of coronavirus have been confirmed in Lagos. Commissioner for Health, Prof Akin Abayomi, disclosed this in a chat with reporters. Details shortly…  A drug developed over half a century ago to treat malaria is showing signs that it may also help cure COVID-19 — especially when combined with an antibiotic, a promising new study reveals. Hydroxychloroquine, sold under the brand name Plaquenil — and also used to treat arthritis, malaria and other ailments — was determined to be effective in killing the deadly bug in laboratory experiments, Forbes reported, citing findings published March 9 in the Clinical Infectious Diseases journal. “We predict that the drug has a good potential to combat the disease,” the study’s authors, most from the Chinese Academy of Sciences in Wuhan, wrote in a letter published in Cell Discovery Wednesday, according to the report. Now, French physician-researchers have completed a largely successful clinical trial using the drug – approved for use in the US in 1955 – to treat confirmed COVID-19 patients, according to a study published Wednesday. A total of 36 patients — including 20 treated individuals and 16 infected controls – were enrolled in the study, led by Didier Raoult, an infectious disease expert from l’Institut Hospitalo-Universitaire in Marseille. The treated group was given 600 mg of Plaquenil each day. The researchers found that 50 percent of the treated group turned from positive to negative for the virus by the third day — and by day six, that figure was up to 70 percent. Of the 20 test patients, six of them who were treated with both Plaquenil and the antibiotic Azithromycin showed impressive results — with five testing negative at day three. All six of them tested negative at day six. “Despite its small sample size our survey shows that hydroxychloroquine treatment is significantly associated with viral load reduction/disappearance in COVID-19 patients and its effect is reinforced by azithromycin,” the study concluded. Meanwhile, researchers found that a pill containing two HIV drugs touted as a potential treatment for COVID-19 was not effective. A test of Chinese patients with a severe case of the novel coronavirus found that the 99 who received AbbVie Inc’s Kaletra, a cocktail of lopinavir and ritonavir, did not do any better than the 100 who received standard care. (www.newsnow.co.uk) Anambra State Government has declared all higher institutions will be closed from March 22 while other schools will all be shut on 27th March until further notice to contain the coronavirus epidemic. Also, all public gatherings in the state had equally been banned by the Governor Willie Obiano. These were contained in a document obtained on Thursday in Awka from the state government by The Nation The Nation also learnt from government sources that the popular market in Onitsha would be closed next week to avoid international traders coming into the state. The statement explained: “Students of Anambra tertiary institutions must proceed on vacation effective 20th of March 2020 until further notice. “All inter-house sports competitions are hereby suspended until further notice. “The management of all schools in the state must provide hand wash stations at entrance of all schools before then. “Management of all schools must on arrival to school, take the temperature of their day students. Temperatures above 37.9 degrees Celsius must be reported to the nearest hospital. “All primary and secondary schools in Anambra State must go on indefinite vacation effective 27th March, 2020. “All residents in Anambra state are advised to avoid handshaking, hugging and all other forms of contact salutation. “All residents returning from countries and states with active COVID-19 cases must self-isolate for 14-days and contact the Anambra state Public Health Emergency Operation Center immediately (PHEOC).” President, Anambra Market Women Association, Mrs. Nkiru Duru, advised mothers to stuff their homes with food stuff for children not to suffer as a result of the present trial moment Duru spoke in Awka following the planned closure of the markets by the state government next week. She described the planned market closure as a welcome development, as markets were the easiest ways of contacting the dreaded coronavirus. Lawmakers in the Lagos State House of Assembly have called on the state Governor, Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu to create more awareness on the dreaded Coronavirus with a view to prevent its spread in the state. Raising the matter on Thursday during plenary, the Speaker, Hon. Mudashiru Obasa stated that it would be hard to determine the number of people that have been infected by Coronavirus in the state, adding that the state government should do more on enlightenment to prevent its spread. “We should not run from those who have the virus or wish them dead. The state government has taken positive steps on the matter by banning religious gatherings and ordering the closure of public and private schools in the state. ‘But the state government should do more through announcement and publicity on how to prevent its spread. “Also, the state Commissioner for Health, Professor Akin Abayomi should speak Yoruba Language when talking about the matter so that the residents of the state would have a better understanding of what he is saying. “Many people enter commercial buses that several other people board and this virus could be transmitted this way. “Also, money exchange hands every time. People that enter buses take files to their bosses in the office. Our market men and women should meet regularly and discuss the matter and how to prevent its spread,” the Speaker said. The House then resolved that the House of Assembly should call on the Governor to increase awareness and educate the people about the virus. Residents of the state were also urged to listen to announcements on issues relating to the virus and ensure compliance so that the spread of the disease could end in the state. This was supported by all the lawmakers that were present at plenary through a voice vote and the Speaker then ordered the Clerk of the House, Mr. Azeez Sanni to send a message to the Governor on the issue as agreed upon by the lawmakers.  Iran’s top leader will pardon 10,000 more prisoners in an apparent effort to combat the coronavirus, state TV reported Thursday. As part of steps to curb the spread of the new virus that has killed more than 1,100 people in Iran, the country has already released 85,000 prisoners on temporary leave. On Wednesday, Iran said another 147 people had died from the virus, the biggest 24-hour rise in fatalities since Iranian officials first acknowledged infections of the virus in mid-February. Separately, the United Arab Emirates added to its list of people barred from entering all residents who are currently abroad. The decision impacts people whose homes, children, bank accounts and livelihoods are in the country but who were traveling or outside the country. The ban goes into effect at mid-day Thursday for at least two weeks. Only Emirati citizens are allowed to return. The UAE, which is home to Dubai and Abu Dhabi, has 113 confirmed cases of the virus. It announced it was suspending all new labor permits, including those for drivers and domestic workers, until “further notice.” To encourage people to stay at home in Iran, Health Ministry spokesman Kianoush Jahanpour wrote on social media that the virus infects 50 Iranians on average every single hour and that “one dies every 10 minutes.” “Make smart decisions about travel, visits and meetings,” he wrote on Twitter, as highways remained crowded with people traveling to see family ahead of the Iranian New Year on Friday. Occasionally Khamenei, who has final say on all state matters, pardons prisoners. Last year, he pardoned more than 50,000 on the 40th anniversary of 1979 Islamic Revolution. Western nations have urged Iran to release dual nationals and others, alleging they are used as bargaining chips in negotiations. Among those temporarily freed was Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe, an Iranian-British dual national long held on internationally criticized charges. Zaghari-Ratcliffe, who works for the charitable Thomson Reuters Foundation, was arrested in 2016 on charges of trying to topple the government while traveling with her toddler daughter. (News.co.uk) The Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) has modified its mode of services in parishes in Lagos and Ogun States. Lagos and Ogun States on Wednesday announced total ban on religious gathering of over 50 worshippers as part of measures to prevent spread of coronavirus pandemic. RCCG’s Assistant General Overseer, Pastor Johnson Odesola, in a statement on Wednesday evening, entitled ‘Slight alteration in the mode of Service for parishes in Lagos and Ogun States’ said the mission authority of the church instructed as follows: “Parishes that have an average attendance of 50 members or less can hold their services without any alteration or changes “Parishes that have an average attendance above 50 members are directed to make use of their House Fellowship Centres to run simultaneous services with the main Church. “Parishes that have the facility to run more than one service can also do so, under the strict directive that worshippers won’t exceed 50 people per service. “One supervising minister and an usher could be seconded to each centre for collation of necessary reports (attendance, new converts, newcomers, etc) “All centres are requested to connect to Dove Television to join the live broadcast from the General Overseer during the period “Kindly be informed that this arrangement shall be in operation for the next few weeks based on the position of the government.” The University of Ilorin says it has screened four returning international students to prevent spread of Coronavirus in the institution. Dr Idayat Adurotoye, the Chairperson of Unilorin Coronavirus Prevention Committee, confirmed this to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Thursday in Ilorin. Adurotoye said that three of the students were Ghanaians while one was a Chadian. She said this was part of the university proactive measures to ensure the international students are free from the virus. She, however, explained that the results were yet to be released. “Since the outbreak of the Coronavirus, the committee has put in place preventive mechanism to ensure no incident is recorded.” Adurotoye explained that the committee had also made provision to distribute hand sanitisers and other preventive kits in the institution. She urged members of the university community to ensure they observed high level of environmental hygiene. (NAN)  The Senate has announced the partial closure of its activities to members of the public to safeguard the National Assembly Complex from coronavirus. Senate President Ahmad Lawan announced the development at plenary after a one-hour closed session. Lawan said all forms of public hearing and excursion of students to the Senate have been suspended till further notice. The Senate President, in addition, announced the closure of its gallery where journalists and members of the public, usually converge to observe plenary proceedings  Details shortly… Vice President Yemi Osinbajo (SAN) is presiding over the monthly National Economic Council (NEC) meeting at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Leading a prayer at the opening of the meeting, Nasarawa Governor, Abdullahi Sule, prayed God to help with wisdom to handle the spiraling Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. Aside from asking God for divine wisdom for all those charged with the responsibility of keeping Nigeria safe , he also asked for divine protection for all. Details shortly…  The Niger State Government has directed the closure of Public and Private Schools as well as Tertiary Institutions across the State. The closure will take effect from Monday, 23rd March 2020. The closure of the Public, Private Schools and Tertiary Institutions which is for the period of thirty days. In a statement issued by Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Ahmed Ibrahim Matane, this has become necessary as prevention and precautionary measures against coronavirus. He added that it is part of government deliberate efforts to contain the global spread of Coronavirus Pandemic. The SSG further stated that all public gatherings have been suspended by the State Government. Matane called on the people of the State to always uphold the highest degree of personal hygiene, remain calm and adhere strictly to all safety measures earlier announced by the State Ministry of Health.  A high-ranking Burkina Faso politician has become the first COVID-19 death in Sub-saharan Africa. He died just as the World Health Organisation (WHO) urged the continent to “prepare for the worst”. “Africa should wake up,” Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told a news conference in Geneva on Wednesday, pointing out that “in other countries, we have seen how the virus actually accelerates after a certain tipping point”. Africa has lagged behind the global curve for coronavirus infections and deaths but has seen a significant rise in cases in the last few days. Facebook has announced that it will support emergency services and government organisations globally during the COVID-19 outbreak by providing free access to its advanced Workplace platform for one year. Julien Codorniou, the Vice President of Workplace from Facebook made this known in a statement in Lagos on Thursday. He said the platform would help organisations who were at the frontline of combating COVID-19 to connect and safeguard their employees by allowing them to share critical information in real-time. “Workplace helps connect everyone in an organisation including frontline or deskless workers and is deeply committed to supporting everyone during this crisis. “The platform would help provide updates on the health and welfare of their employees; enable leadership to reach employees via live videos; posts and more. “Workplace advanced is built for connecting an entire organisation. It will provide them with familiar Workplace features such as chat, live videos and groups, plus advanced admin controls. “This offer is available to all government organisations and emergency services (including ambulance, dispatchers and law enforcement), pending legal and compliance checks,” Codorniou said. He said that the platform could also allow companies to instantly share information, live stream meetings or announcements. Codorniou said the Workplace supported two-way communication or even employ bots to quickly gather feedback from employees. He said the World Health Organisation (WHO) was currently using Workplace to share critical information about COVID-19 among its workforce, host staff seminars and create an open forum for employee questions. “Emergency services and government staff have a vital role to play during the COVID-19 outbreak, whether it is acting as first respondent or coordinating public information. “Not only might these staff be among the most exposed to the risks of COVID-19, they are also among the least well connected but just like employees in other industries, many will soon find themselves forced to work remotely or reliant on mobile tools. “That is why from today, Facebook will be offering Workplace advanced to emergency services and government organisations free of charge for 12 months globally,” he said. (NAN) The Katsina state indigene who returned from Malaysia and was suspected to have been infected by the dreaded Coronavirus has tested negative. The Katsina State Commissioner for Health, Engineer Nuhu Yakubu Danja, told newsmen  on Thursday morning in his office, that tests carried out on the suspected case proved negative. More details shortly… Centre for Citizens with Disabilities (CCD), a non-governmental organisation, has emphasised the need for Information on the COVID-19 — Coronavirus — to be disseminated also using sign language interpreters for the benefits of the deaf. The Executive Director of the group, Mr David Anyaele, said this in a statement on Thursday in Abuja. Anyaele decried that there were absence of sign language interpreters to interpret for the deaf community in the country on the spread of the virus and its preventive measures. According to him, the various sensitisation and information dissemination methods are not disability sensitive at all. “The federal and state governments’ methods of disseminating information on the spread, prevention and control of the virus are not disability-sensitive. “In all the television announcement by the Ministry of Health and its agencies on the coronavirus, none is disability-friendly. “We urge the government to implement section 2 of the Discrimination Against Persons with Disabilities Prohibition Act 2018. “The Act provides that Federal Ministry of Information shall make provisions for the creation of awareness regarding rights, respect and dignity of Persons With Disabilities (PWDs); capabilities, achievements and contributions,” he said. Anyaele said that PWDs were most vulnerable to the virus and as such an all-inclusive prevention, response and control mechanism should be adopted so that no one would be left behind in the management of the pandemic. He urged the government at all levels to ensure that all information relating to the protection and control of the spread of the COVID-19 were disseminated in a disability-friendly format. He advised Nigerians, especially the PWDs to take preventive measures to avoid contracting the virus. (NAN) Ondo State Government has urged residents in the state not to panic over reported case of coronavirus in the state. It said the case was yet to be confirmed as COVID-19. A statement by the State Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Donald Ojogo, said Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, would address the people in a statewide broadcast in respect of the COVID-19 pandemic. Ojogo urged the people to be vigilance and take adequate precaution even as he called on the people not to rely solely on speculations as far as CONVID-19 is concerned. He said the State Government would be as open as possible as the CONVID-19 global challenge required transparency and honesty to tackle. A source at the hospital said the patient was brought in unconscious and was hypersensitive. The source said the patient also has chronic cough. He stated that fears were heightened because the patient just returned from the United States of America. The source said it was yet to be confirmed if it was CONVID-19 as samples have been collected and sent to Lagos State. State Commissioner for Health, Dr Wahab Adegbenro, could not be reached for comments. The National Association of Ogun State Students (NAOSS) has called on the state government to urgently deploy health officers with screening kits at the various ports of entry into Nigeria from Benin Republic. They said that this was to control the coronavirus pandemic from spreading into Ogun and the country through its border towns with Benin Republic. The National President of the association, Mr Oluwagbemileke Ogunrombi, stated this in a statement he issued in Abeokuta on Thursday. He said that the call was necessitated by the report of the first case of Coronavirus outbreak in Benin Republic, a neighbouring country that shares borders with Nigeria through Ogun. “To avert a major health crisis in the state, we call on the Commissioner for Health, Dr. Tomi Coker, to immediately place hospitals and health centres in border communities in state on the alert. “The health workers in the border communities must also be on the lookout for people with symptoms of the disease. “We call on the state government, through the Ministry of Health, the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) to urgently deploy health officers in ports of entry to test people entering into the country for Coronavirus. “We are aware of the fact that Ogun state is the gateway into the country from the neighbouring Benin Republic. “Therefore, we are imploring the state to be more proactive in preventing the virus from finding its way into Nigeria from foreigners that will be entering Nigeria through the land borders.’’ He also implored the traditional rulers, leaders and the entire residents of border communities in Ogun to be on the alert and report any suspected cases to the appropriate authority. The students’ leader commended the state government for its quick response to the first case of Coronavirus in the state. He said that the case would have escalated but for the prompt attention of the state government. Ogunrombi also advised the state government to close all schools across the state for a period of time to avoid the spread of the disease. 