 I was naturally alarmed when I read comments from the Minister for Health accusing returnee Nigerians of lying about their travel history,  thus returning to the country with the virus and much undermining the efforts of the Presidential Task Force and the Nigeria Center for Disease Control, NCDC to stem the rates of infections as well as manage the number of Covid-19 cases. Here’s the logic, if a returnee from a high risk country say the United States arrived Nigeria  and stated that he was from the United States, the authorities would be able to determine what measures they could apply to the returnee and even those who boarded the plane with him or her. Matter of fact, of the 22 cases as at Sunday , the 22nd of March, 2020, the minister was reported to have announced that 19 of them were returning Nigerians , understanding the dynamics of the virus, one can only imagine the number of potential cases the nation will have on it’s hands via these 19. Ruminating on such comments, I still felt something was not right with the Minister’s assertion. Was it possible for a returnee to lie about his or her  travel history? Will he or she not be travelling with a passport, freshly stamped by authorities from which he or she departed? With the laid down procedures for persons arriving via the nation’s airspace, such an assertion from the Minister was indeed one that was made with his tongue in cheek or absurd, but then Nigeria is indeed one big theater where the absurd can pass for the normative. The devil in this scenario then must be in the immigration section at the airport. Stories are rife about how immigration officials at points of departure and entry continually embarrass the name and citizenry of this great country by haranguing travellers for a giveaway. These immigration officials will beg and cajole returnees for one favour or another, a friend of mine described the begging as worse than Almajarin Kano. Almajarin, I understand is a part of the Northern culture, though I frown on it and would very much love to see it repudiated, but when officers of the Nigerian Immigration Service, resort to begging for bribes like that then something is wrong somewhere! It then seems to make much sense now, these returnees would have presented their passports which would have stated the obvious- that they were coming from high risk countries. But there is this saying that I think applies here, “ When one does not hear the appeals of his fellow humans, is it that of the spirits that he will heed to?” These immigration officers who look for every opportunity to collect ‘egunje’ will only be ready to assist these returnees falsify their travel history! What travel history by the way? A few bucks here can make a stern looking immigration official pass a coronavirus carrier, after all everyone for himself, God for us all! Now imagine if these immigration officials had done the right thing? Drawn the attention of the Presidential Task Force or NCDC to such situations. Possible carriers of the virus would have been properly dealt with, reducing the risk of further infections and it’s spread. We may have had fewer cases than what we have now and the resulting panic faced by the populace may never have arisen. How many more shall be infected now? How many more deaths? Pray, what’s worse than such deliberate sabotage? Such is the situation, a nation like Nigeria finds herself in. Such dereliction of duty is not only at the doorstep of Immigration but almost every aspect of government service in Nigeria. Be it at the Federal, State or Local Government levels. From the police to PHCN and to the civil service, one finds it hard to mention any agency or ministry where bribes are not sought or taken,Even the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission,EFCC cannot boast of a clean sheet from such charges. Thankfully, the nation has restricted international flights into her airspace save for a couple of exceptions which range from emergency flights to humanitarian and technical stop overs. One is forced to shudder at what might have been, particularly with a beggarly immigration corps screening these returnees. This is not to say that Presidential Task Force or the collaborative authorities should still not keep an eye on the Airports, for this is a country where anything goes. Lastly, would it not be possible using the date and times these returnees arrived to at least deal with these errant officers. Punishing them would make a lasting example to others that we cannot continue to do things the same old way!