 MANY All Progressive Congress (APC) members are canvassing political solution to the Lagos State House of Assembly crisis. Two principal officers have been removed by Speaker Mudadhiru Obasa, who also suspended two other members indefinitely. At plenary, a lawmaker, Bisi Yusuf from Alimoso Constituency, also urged caution, saying that the crisis can be resolved by political method. Other party chieftains want the leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, to wade into the crisis. To party stalwarts, the removal of the principal officers and indefinite suspension without prior consultation with the party leadership were a blunder. The Speaker had on March 9 suddenly announced the removal of two principal officers, Chief Whip, Rotimi Abiru (Somolu II) and Deputy Majority Leader, Olumuyiwa Jimoh (Apapa II) while Moshood Oshun (Mainland II) and Raheem Adewale (Ibeju-lekki II) were suspended Indefinitely. The two principal officers and suspended lawmakers were accused of misconduct, insubordination and acts capable of causing disunity in the house. However, when reporters asked the Speaker to shed light on the extent of  ‘misconduct’ and ‘insubordination’, the House’s spokesman, Tunde Buraimoh from Kosofe Constituency,  avoided the question, saying that the reconciliation committee would resolve the matter. However, the reconciliation committee headed by Ibrahim Layode from Badagry was hurriedly dissolved by the Speaker  last week at the plenary. He said the dissolution became necessary, following the media interview by Abiru. The Speaker also declared at the same plenary where lawmakers present passed a vote of confidence in him that there was no going back on the action taken against the four lawmakers by the House. To observers, caution should have been taken before slamming the punitive measures on the lawmakers who complained about lack of fair hearing. The ‘demoted’ Deputy Majority Leader, Jimoh,  has been assigned to chair the Committee on Central Business District (CBD) while his counterpart, who was removed as Chief Whip, Abiru, is now the Chairman of Inter-Parliamentary Committee. Oshun was removed from the Chairmanship of the Public Accounts Committee (State). He was subsequently named Chairman of Committee on Legislative Compliance, while Nurudeen Saka-Solaja is now the Chairman of PAC (State). According to a memo, Kazeem Adewale Raheem is now the Chairman of Establishment and Pensions. The principal officers are pushing for the reversal of the order. The suspended lawmakers want the indefinite suspension lifted. Yusuf, who is one of the oldest lawmaker, suggested political solution. Waxing philosophical, he said a mosquito escaped from being killed with a clap, thinking it was being praised. A lawmaker said: “Peace will return when top party leaders wade into the crisis.”