Nutrition experts say docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) is critical for brain growth in children because its consumption helps neurological and visual development, reports Associate Editor ADEKUNLE YUSUF  A casual conversation about best dietary practices later snowballed into a heated session. While waiting for their turn to get their babies immunised at the Federal Medical Center in Ebutte Meta, Lagos, six nursing mothers started comparing notes on their nutritional choices during and after their pregnancy months. This grew into an argument. But by the time the dust had settled, it was apparent that only one of them could earn a pass mark in the subject. Unlike her counterparts who admitted during the lengthy discussions that their dietary choices are often largely determined by impulse or whatever is available, Margaret Udem, a fairly educated mother of three, knows the importance of getting enough omega-3 fats, including docosahexaenoic acid or DHA, in her diet. According to her, no day passes without including a healthy dose of this fatty acid in her diet – a habit of sorts. “I have known this fact since my childhood days that fatty acid is good for pregnant or lactating mothers,” she said. However, that is where Udem’s knowledge about appropriate nutritional requirements ends. In a twist of irony, she too did not know that DHA is especially critical for brain growth in infants. A woman of refreshing candour, she admitted that “it has never occurred to me that children too need DHA and nobody has told me it is also useful for children.” Yet, nutrition experts say omega-3 fatty acid is a significant contributor to the brain development that takes place during the first two years of life – and beyond. As parents marvel at how rapidly children grow and develop during the first months of life, it is usually a feeling of fulfillment seeing infants increasingly respond to sights and sounds, and become ever more curious about the world around them and ever more determined to explore it. According to medical experts, behind those milestones and captivating moments of a child’s developmental progress, a vast neurological project is underway. Reason is that children’s brain grows more quickly during their first year than at any other time in their lives. That is why it is important to know that Omega-3 fatty acids, particularly DHA, help to fuel that growth in children, experts explained. Dr. Oluwatosin Adu, chairman of the Lagos State chapter of the Nutrition Society of Nigeria (NSN), explained that DHA is a component of the brain cells. “The more the DHA that is there, the better it is for the communication between the brain cells and transmission of information. The more of the DHA that is present in the brain, the better for brain development. It helps in memory. It helps in coordination and all of those. The area of the brain where you have it is the area of the brain that is responsible for memory, attention. That is DHA is good for children and pregnant women because a lot of it is accumulated when the brain is developing,” Adu, also a Senior Lecturer in Biochemistry Department, Lagos State University (LASU), said.  Giving children the DHA they need to grow optimally Docosahexaenoic acid is one of three main omega-3 fatty acids, with ALA and EPA being the other two big ones. DHA and other omega-3s play essential roles in the body throughout a person’s lifespan. They’re a rich source of energy, and they also help maintain the healthy functioning of our heart, lungs, and immune system. Omega-3 fatty acids help to control inflammation, stabilise mood, and may reduce anxiety and depression. According to health experts, the beneficial work of omega-3s takes place at the cellular level. DHA and other omega-3s are absorbed by our cells, where they help cells maintain their optimal structure and also to communicate effectively with one another. Among omega-3 fatty acids, DHA is said to be particularly critical for healthy brain development and function; besides giving structure to brain cells and facilitating their communication. That is not all. DHA has other vital roles to play such as helping the human brain create and maintain what’s known as plasticity or the ability of the brain to modify its structure and the ways it functions. Human brains’ plasticity supports a person’s ability to learn, to change behaviours, to process emotions and emotional experiences, and to recover from brain injury or damage. Also, DHA continues to fuel the growth of new brain cells as a person ages and develops beyond the first two years of life. It is equally critical to cellular development in the eyes and helps to maintain healthy vision. Although DHA has a unique significance for infants, this fatty acid is an essential nutrient throughout a person’s life. That’s because, during the earliest months and years of life, DHA helps to fuel an incredible pace of growth and development of the brain of children.  How children’s brain grows DHA’s role in infant health and development actually begins before birth. Significant amounts of DHA collect in the brain during the second half of pregnancy (especially during the third trimester), when the fetal brain undergoes a breathtaking pace of growth. The infant’s brain continues a rapid pace of growth and development during the first 12 months of life. During that first year, the infant’s brain grows to nearly three-quarters the size of the adult brain. Whereas, at birth, the infant’s brain is roughly one-quarter to one-third the size of an adult brain. What’s happening during this time of intense growth and development? The infant’s brain is building itself out structurally and foundationally, laying the groundwork for a lifetime of neural activity that includes all our thinking and reasoning, our social, emotional, and behavioural regulation, our learning and decision making. Research shows the amount of brain growth that takes place during their first year is one significant factor influencing a child’s intelligence later in life.  How DHA benefits children’s brain development Because DHA is a structural constituent of membranes specifically in the central nervous system, its accumulation in the fetal brain takes place mainly during the last trimester of pregnancy and continues at very high rates up to the end of the second year of life. Since the endogenous formation of DHA seems to be relatively low, medics say DHA intake may contribute to optimal conditions for brain development. Studies have also shown that the DHA that accumulates in the brain during infancy is an essential building block for children’s cognitive, social, emotional and behavioral development. Higher levels of DHA in infants are linked to stronger development of language, cognition, social and motor skills as they move out of infancy and into young childhood. Over the longer term, research shows higher DHA levels during infancy are linked to better vocabulary, stronger learning, and information processing skills, and stronger behavioural skills in infants. Infants with higher DHA show better visual development and acuity during infancy and later childhood, according to research; while poor vision in children is associated with lower levels of DHA during infancy. In older children, lower levels of DHA are linked to academic challenges, behaviour issues, and mental health conditions including hyperactivity, aggressiveness, anxiety, and depression.  Getting children the DHA they need Breast milk carries high levels of DHA, a way to transfer this essential fatty acid to newborns. Because of the scientifically recognised importance of DHA to brain development during the first months of life, many infant formulas are now fortified with DHA. Experts add that levels of DHA in breast milk vary, depending significantly on the mother’s diet. Genetics also may play a role. Dr. Adu said women who are pregnant and breastfeeding should be encouraged to include generous amounts of omega-3 fatty acids in their diets and to pay particular attention to dietary sources of DHA. Those include fatty, cold-water fish such as tuna, trout, and salmon, as well as eggs. Other important sources of omega-3s include walnuts, flaxseed, and other nuts and seeds, and their oils. For infants not receiving breast milk, experts say it’s essential to use a DHA-fortified formula. Unfortunately, the typical Nigerian diet usually falls short in delivering enough supply of omega-3 fatty acids. Many breastfeeding mothers also have a dietary imbalance of omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids in their diets. In Nigeria, there are specially formulated milk products for children between four and six years and pregnant women; while some also provide essential vitamins, minerals, protein and carbohydrate to meet the nutritional requirements of those vital years after a child’s third birthday. Experts said the years from four to six are often termed early childhood, being a period of rapid skeletal and muscular development, as well as continuing brain growth. Studies have revealed that 90 per cent of brain growth occurs during the first five years of life and this is a critical period when adequate nutrition is particularly important. Many of the products are fortified with DHA, an omega-3 fatty acid which is a major structural fat found in the brain and retina of the eyes. DHA influences a child’s developmental milestones such as motor skills, speech, learning, thinking, and visual development. Research also shows that under-nutrition early in life can impair physical and brain development in a child resulting in a reduced capacity to learn, poorer performance in school and a lifetime of lost earning potential. Adu said DHA can be sourced from consuming fish that any has oil, stressing that fish is the major natural source of it. “It is also present in milk, though it is not as high as in fish. If the milk is sourced from a cow that grazes on natural grass, it will DHA in it. In most of the products, they are fortified with DHA to make it richer and improve the content,” he said.