 IF we have to eventually shut down our country, then as a government we must be prepared to have some relief for the most ordinary people. “As a government, we must find our own money to fund something for our people. I have  not seen anything at the moment targeted at providing some relief. If we lock up Nigeria today, then we will wake-up trouble, because majority of our citizens go to market every day before they can get something to eat” “So, you lock them up in their houses with a threat of disease and without food. We need to have something, a plan of some sorts, in addition to making sure we don’t lock up the farmers market for example, where people can easily go and buy something, and of course pharmacies. “We need to have some kind of supplies to people, I don’t know how we can achieve this, but we have to be ingenious.This is a time to think deep and wide, to provide for our people, in order for us at least to deal with this challenge.” – Senate President  Ahmed Ibrahim Lawan. I am sure Barrister VC Mba must have been  spirit led  to  send  me the following mail around 4 a.m last Friday as I write this piece. He wrote as follows from his tel no. +234 803 694 9810: “Kenya President, Uhuru Kenyatta, has just announced 80%  reduction in his salary and urged other leaders to do same. His reason? To free up funds to combat the Coronavirus pandemic! That, to me is pure nobility of soul, which is, unfortunately, extremely rare in this clime. Pray, where is our much vaunted religiosity? Where are, and what are our billionaires doing while Armageddon looms? Our billionaire pastors, can’t they help their members, at the least, if they won’t other citizens? Our foolishness and primitive greed as a people, religious and non-religious, is being laid bare. The chicks have come to roost!“ I haven’t the slightest doubt Nigerians will join me in thanking Senate President Ahmed  Lawan for his kind  thoughts towards the Nigerian people, something that is totally  alien to most Nigerian politicians to whom we matter only during  elections. Such generosity of heart! Unfortunately, that exactly is where our gratitude should end because, no matter how thoughtful  he was, he left completely untouched, the two critical issues  that should now concentrate the minds of members of the National Assembly. Nigeria is  at an unusual  historical juncture that,  if appropriately  seized by our legislators, and others in high places, would see their names emblazoned  in gold, in the annals of Nigerian history. On these pages this  past week, I berated members of the National Assembly for their failure to  offer even a  miniscule reduction in their mountain -high  salaries and allowances which, meanwhile, were self- awarded, when the Nigerian economy was in recession. This time around, however, they and other public office holders, beginning from Mr President who, together with the VP has once reduced his salary , should need no telling to reduce their pay by a minimum 50 per cent now that:(a) crude oil prices have plummeted to its nadir, and (b) coronavirus, the  killing global pandemic, has made  it inescapable that the economy gets  totally shut down;  with nobody sure as to  when it will end or how prostrate it will leave Nigeria seeing how it has humbled  the super powers with 3.3 million Americans losing their jobs in a space of one week. Failure on the part of these legislators to voluntarily make this offer, traumatised Nigerians, the  teeming unemployed, and those now  being, willy nilly,  recused from their jobs,  must then find a lasting solution  to the  challenge  unfeeling  National Assembly  members constitute to their well being as citizens of the same  country . The Yoruba have  this saying that: ‘enu ki je, kenu ma wo’,  literally meaning that it is wrong for  one person to be eating  while the other merely looks on. There’s no way, post coronavirus,  Nigeria must continue to pamper these people. This should have been  the senate President’s good tidings to Nigerians if he truly empathised with us. The next  matter of national interest should be that both chambers of the National Assembly  should now put an end to the ongoing constitutional amendment. It is too little, too late, as panel beating an unworking, indeed, unworkable constitution, will not be in the best interest of the country given our present circumstances. It is also an unnecessary waste of funds which the country can ill afford. They  should  now realise that our unitary system of government, characterised as it is, by a suffocating centre having a stranglehold on the country, will be the greatest problem to confronting this pandemic. It is this centre-owns- it – all mentality that has ensured that successive governments of the federation did nothing to diversify the country’s economy though it must be said that the Buhari administration has tried in this regard even though it is also too little, too late. Otherwise it would not have had to begin scaling down its current budget which is far beyond its capacity to execute Rather than just amending the  extant constitution, the National Assembly must now see this as an opportune time to strategically re- configure  the country’s structure. I have deliberately left out the word ‘restructure’ as it is known to instigate  constipation in some people. The National Assembly should now work towards returning Nigeria to something near  its pre- independence structure though not strictly in the North,  West, East of old. God bless the late former Vice- President , Dr Alex Ekwueme, who gave us  the idea of a  6 geo – political structure  which has since served the country considerably well. That should now be the new structure with the possibility of alienated communities being permitted  to join their kith and kin in an adjoining geo -political zone. States in Nigeria, unlike those in the U S, are presently  incapacitated by lack  of funds in their effort to fight the virus since they have not been  adequately challenged  with regards to  generating funds internally. This is most obvious in the near zero testing of persons who have not yet show symptoms which means that we can only be making a guesswork of the actual number of persons already infected. It must be stated though that Nigeria is not alone in this quagmire. As a result , they have become used to the monthly handouts from  Abuja where, unfortunately, the centre takes the lion share, to be able to  do  which, the present constitution  was deliberately cooked up; packing on  the centre , responsibilities that should  have been  better performed by states and local governments.  Through such  re- engineering , the National Assembly  would have freed  the states thus putting them on the road towards buoyancy  or how many states in Nigeria  today can, like Lagos, budget  N20 billion  to fight coronavirus? Permit me to briefly state what the old Western Region was able to achieve, in an unencumbered atmosphere, without any federal authority breathing heavily on the government under the leadership of the Avatar, Chief Obafemi Awolowo, as a pointer to how such re-engineering will help galvanise Nigeria’s overall development with each region developing at its own pace. The following  is how Professor Banji Akintoye captured it: “The gift of free education was the greatest single gift given by Chief  Obafemi Awolowo to us his people, but it was not the only gift. Under his leadership, the Western Region stood out as the number one Region, the pace setter in development in Nigeria. The wide-ranging development achievements included many miles of solidly surfaced roads all over our Region, pipe-borne clean water in many of our towns, the first television station on the African continent, the first public-owned sports stadium, the first industrial estate, imaginative support systems for our cocoa farmers (as a result of which our cocoa farmers became the most productive African farmers on the African continent), farm centres training our youth in modern farming, technical training centres teaching modern job skills to our youth, a broad-based investment corporation with investments in industries, commerce, banking, and real estate (the largest agglomeration of African-owned investment capital in Africa). Very importantly too, our Region was the leader in Nigeria in the development of a democratic society, and a government responsive to its people. On the whole, we in the Western Region were led to dream dreams of greatness in the world and we began to see ourselves as soon able to catch up with industrial world leaders like Japan. And we gave our Region the name “First in Africa”. All these, and more, can be replicated in all parts of Nigeria if only we would be bold enough to dispense with a structure that for decades have been unhelpful to our country.  Reorganisation is no balkanisation. It is time we move on. To Hon Olawale Oshun at 70 This is to Honourable Oshun’s incandescent integrity, decency and un-flapping loyalty to causes. Happy birthday and many happy returns. 