 It would appear that the mortal danger posed by the raging Coronavirus disease is yet to register on residents of Lokoja, the Kogi State capital, as social and religious activities continue as before. Night crawlers duly trooped out like every other day, as they thronged their usual drinking bars and pepper soup hangouts, the epicenter of which is the Nigerian Union of Journalists, NUJ, press center and other adjoining streets. Club activities at the Golden Lounge, owned by the speaker of the state house of assembly, Prince Mathew Kolawole, remained in full swing. Same in other popular clubs in the capital, including Q Lounge, located around the Phase 1 area. Sunday mass held in virtually all the churches around Lokoja, including the first and second services at the headquarters of the Winners Chapel, also in Phase 1.  The Mountain of Fire and Miracle, MFM, located within the same residential premises as a parish of the Redeem Christian Church of God, RCCG, along the New Layout, just behind the Area A police formation, both held their normal single Sunday mass, likewise several other churches in Lokoja. Governor Yahaya Bello had on Friday ordered the indefinite closure of public and private schools; tertiary, secondary and primary, as part of measures in preventing the spread of the Corona virus disease in the state. The governor had in a statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Onogwu Muhammed, said the closure of schools and other public gatherings is to take effect from Monday. The governor also banned all forms of gathering of over 30 people as part of preventive measures against the pandemic. The governor had noted that the measures became imperative given the strategic location of the state, which serves as transit point for travellers connecting various parts of the country. He further urged residents to be cautious and to observe high level of personal hygiene, such as constant hand wash with soap and hand sanitizers as well as observance of social distancing.