 President, Nigeria Consumer Protection Network, Mr Kunde Olubiyo, has set agenda for the Federal Government on the ongoing forensic audit of the 11 electricity Distribution Companies (DisCos). He sought a holistic measure for the entire value chain of the Nigeria Electricity Supply Industry (NESI).  Olubiyo told The Nation that the government should carry out a financial and technical audit of the entire power sector. He recalled that between 2013 and 2015, the government issued some credit facilities to the privatised power sector. Olubiyo, who was also a former member, National Technical Investigative Panel on Power System Collapses, said: “Government should do a forensic  financial auditing & technical of the entire architecture of the Nigerian power sector.” The government, according to him, should wound down its equity and pull out its 40 per cent stake in the sector. He was of the view that no individual person, persons or group amongst the present equity holders that has as individual up to 40 per cent stake. He advised that as the largest shareholder may not need to Escrow the Account of the 11 Electricity Distribution Companies but it should pull out after the auditing the firms. Olubiyo said the present investors in the DisCos should be “conscripted by the Federal Government to using the economic dynamics to force the parent investors to dilute their equity from 60 per cent to 30 per cent. The 30 per cent to be held by the 11 DisCos should be properly registered, properly structured and properly quoted on the floor of the Nigerian Capital Market/ Stock Exchange. He suggested that all the DisCos should also be translated into a Public Liability Companies (PLC). The remaining 70 per cent, he said, should be thrown open and be subscribed to viz Initial Public Offerings ( IPOs) and other available financial instruments within the capital market. According to him, government’s roles in the post privatized electricity sector should be that of formulation of investor-friendly policies, provision of economic stimulus and the much needed fiscal and non- fiscal incentives. He also asked the government to consider other reforms, which speak to the heart of governance structure, review of the regulatory, institutional and legal framework. He specifically said  the “Transmission Company of Nigeria should be unbundled and broken down into smaller specialized agencies for improvement in service delivery, administrative and operational efficiencies.” 