 RIVERS State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has closed all schools in the state and directed all religious organisations to restrict their activities following the global coronavirus pandemic. Wike in a statewide broadcast yesterday, said he took the action in the general interest of the state. He said that all public and private primary, secondary and tertiary institutions were affected by the directive, adding that the decisions were taken with a deep sense of responsibility. He said: “The state can be described as to-be-at-an alert state. To further strengthen our resolve to protect our citizens, the state government has directed that all schools in the state are to be closed down with effect from Monday, March 23, 2020. “All religious organisations are to restrict their activities. “As you are aware, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has described coronavirus as a global pandemic. This development calls for collective action by all well-meaning citizens. “As a responsive government, even though we have not had a confirmed case of coronavirus, we did not rest on our oars as we set up a five-man inter-ministerial committee to carry out an aggressive public enlightenment that will protect all those living and doing business in the state from the disease. “This decision was taken because we understand that we are the headquarters of the hydrocarbon industry and also a major commercial hub in the country that attracts people from all walks of life. “The committee had since its inauguration carried out stakeholder engagement with community development committees, religious groups, principals and head teachers of schools, traders association, National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), military, paramilitary, police, international oil companies and the Association of Local Government Chairmen of Nigeria (ALGON). “In addition to this, radio and television jingles, flyers and billboards have been fully utilised by the committee to pass the prevention message to all the nooks and crannies of the state.” The governor said the state Ministry of Health had also been empowered to set up intervention resources He said 158 surveillance and ad-hoc personnel had been trained and that one treatment centre, holding centers in the two teaching hospitals and all general hospitals in the state were fully functional. Wike said all health workers, both private and public had been trained and briefed on infection control measures and appropriate use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), adding that hand sanitizers and infrared thermometers had been procured. He added that there had been stockpiling of other commodities and equipment with the government redoubling its surveillance at airports, seaports, waterways and land routes. He said: “My dear good people of Rivers State, as painful as these decisions may seem, it is a sacrifice we must make to protect ourselves in the face of recent developments. “Let me assure all those resident in the state that the state government under my leadership is ready and willing to protect their lives at all times. “May I therefore call for the understanding and collective support of all and sundry to keep our State safe from coronavirus. “Together, we shall win with God on our side.” Also, the Rivers State Port of the Nigeria Port Authority (NPA) has adopted extra measures to prevent the Coronavirus including subjecting foreign vessels to thorough screening. It was gathered that though dockworkers  were scared of contracting the virus from foreign vessels and crew members, efforts were being made by the port management especially the Port Health Authority (PHA) to protect the health of the workers and stop the importation of the virus into the country through the port. A visit to the port in Port Harcourt revealed that hand washing points had been created at strategic points. At the resumption of their duties every morning, workers were subjected to various medical examinations including temperature checks as part of measures against the Coronavirus. Workers, who refused to mention their names following their positions as civil servants, said the screening was compulsory for all the employees. A senior civil servant at the PHA, who spoke in confidence, said the coronavirus pandemic had compelled the port health authority to adopt extra measures in line with the prescriptions of the ministry of health to safeguard the country’s health. He said foreign vessels, which had been in countries ravaged by the pandemic such as Italy and Spain, in the last 14 days were being subjected to extra medical checks. Also, the Management of the University of Port Harcourt Teaching Hospital (UPTH) said it had created 23 hand washing points for workers and patients in the hospital. The Chief Medical Director (CMD) Prof. Henry Ugboma, said the hospital was in collaboration with the Rivers state government to prevent the pandemic. He said: “In Rivers State, we have taken a very strong leadership role by carrying out trainings. UPTH has benefitted a lot. There has been heightened state of readiness on the pandemic. “We have heightened our readiness to tackle the pandemic in the state, we have the  competency and capacity to tackle the scourge.” Ugboma denied claims that a suspected patient with the virus reported to the hospital for treatment and urged the people to practice hygiene.