By Tobore Ovuorie  Water is life, goes the popular saying. However, in Nigeria, this might not be completely true because it has sent many out of this world into graves of various sizes after they consumed or had contact with it. Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) experts say these deaths are untimely and needless. However, in this report which is a part of an ongoing in-depth research about water in Nigeria by TOBORE OVUORIE, many more deaths may be recorded through Nigerians contracting the coronavirus while hustling to access water for their daily sustenance as the country is lagging behind in meeting the Sustainable Development Goal six which is to ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all by year 2030 through universal and equitable access to safe and affordable drinking water for all, amongst others. WASTED TIME “I always get to the office very late. I am supposed to resume by 8am but the earliest I get to work is from 9.30am because of the water trouble in the community where I live. I am seriously praying that my boss would not get fed up and send me away.” This is Mary Ajuwa, a sales officer who lives in Agboyi Ketu, a riverine suburb and slum in the heart of Lagos state. Mary, as she is fondly called by her family, friends, neighbors and associates begins her day with hunting for water and ends the day doing same. This is because the water in the community where she lives is neither safe for drinking nor bathing. The house she lives has no borehole. Every resident in the community depends on public taps donated to the community by a major nonprofit organization. “The water is yellowish and the few times I used it to bath, I had terrible skin infections,” the light-skinned 25- year-old explains why she reserves the water for just flushing toilets and washing certain kinds of clothes. “I don’t use this water to wash white clothes and other bright colored clothes.” Though unmarried, she lives with two siblings and Mary spends a minimum of N3, 000 monthly on sachet water popularly called ‘pure water’ in Nigeria. At Osaro, Akute, in Ogun state, another suburb, all houses do not have public water supply and depend on private boreholes, wells, open wells or water vendors known as Mai-ruwa. “In my compound, we use electric pump for our borehole but due to poor electricity supply, we don’t have water every day. We join others to fetch water from compounds with borehole whose owners can afford to use generator to pump. But they sell the water,” Iya Emma, a trader and mother of three explains. “I use the water from our borehole and other places where I fetch from to cook, bath, wash clothes and other house chores. My family drinks ‘pure water’ because we are not sure the water is clean for drinking,” she adds but cuts her talks with this reporter as she hurries to go look for water to fetch that late evening. Except deliberate efforts are made, by the year 2030- when the Sustainable Development Goals five and six should have been achieved globally, more girls and women in Nigeria like Mary and Iya Emma will instead continue to waste so much time walking long distances to hunt for water. Goal 5 is to achieve gender equality and empower girls and women by the year 2030 and this is to be achieved through various targets, which include recognition and value of unpaid care and domestic work through the provision of public services, infrastructure and social protection policies and the promotion of shared responsibility within the household and the family as nationally appropriate. Goal 6 is to ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all by the year 2030. This is to be achieved through various targets, which include universal and equitable access to safe and affordable drinking water for all; substantially increase water-use efficiency across all sectors and ensure sustainable withdrawals and supply of freshwater to address water scarcity and substantially reduce the number of people suffering from water scarcity and implement integrated water resources management at all levels, including through trans-boundary cooperation as appropriate, amongst others. WATER VENDORS Unlike Mary and Iya Emma, Victor Umoh in Iyana Ipaja, another suburb of Lagos, says he relies entirely on water vendors. The journalist spends about N7, 000 monthly on water from the vendors for other usages as well as sachet water for drinking. According to him, there is no borehole or well in the house he lives in. “I rely on Mai-ruwa. I have three drums so they supply me water every two to three days. I have never drink the water because I don’t trust how these guys get the water. So, I drink only sachet water.” Umoh says when the vendors are nowhere to be found, he simply packs a bag and heads for a family member’s house or to be with friends. “I will have to walk a very long distance to fetch water, which I cannot do due to my extremely tight schedule. Also, as a television presenter, a fan may see me and a picture of me fetching water in public could end up on social media, which I don’t want.” A part of a research carried out by this reporter exploring the sources of water for domestic use of 229 Lagos residents drawn from an on-ground survey indicates 75 percent of them consume sachet and bottled water as their drinking water. Only seven percent of the respondents say they use sachet and bottled water for other water usages, while 18 percent consume water from boreholes as their drinking water. Lagos state, as at 2018 was supplying about 210 million gallons of water per day. This was disclosed at a media parley by Mr. Deji Johnson, Chief Operating Officer (COO) of the Lagos Water Corporation ahead of the 2018 World Water Day celebrated on March 22nd, that year. He did not disclose the percentage of the population served by public water but admitted there is a huge gap. According to Johnson, the water production in the state is poor because the population exceeds the corporation’s ability to meet demand. WATER CART PUSHERS (MAI-RUWA) CAN SPREAD CORONAVIRUS COVID-19! Portable water supply is a familiar challenge for many Nigerian households. Hence, their relying on external sources such as water vendors popularly known as Mai-ruwa. They often charge between N25 and N50 per keg. The environment they operate shapes the price. Mr. Adebayo Adedeji, immediate past Director of Laboratory Sciences at the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), however warns that the services of Mai-ruwa at a time as this when the country is battling with the spread of Coronavirus (COVID-19) could have dire consequences if not properly managed. Speaking in an exclusive interview with this reporter, he says “If the Mai-ruwa is infected, there is a possibility of transmitting the virus to whosoever is buying that water. I have not heard about the possibility of the virus being transmitted through water, because it is by aerosol transmission. “But if there is no good hygiene in proper place, I think the virus can be transmitted even through the container. If somebody infected is with the container and we don’t handle the container well, the virus would spread. “We know the Mai-ruwas are not so much hygienic, however, I will advise that they need to be educated on the mode of the transmission of the disease and on the way to comport themselves and fetch water in a hygienic place. “We are not only talking about coronavirus, only that the coronavirus is very topical now. But there are still some water transmittable diseases that could accompany the unhygienic collection of water from open source and among other issues. “All of them are just working together. But coronavirus is topical and we now know that there could be possibility of community transmission; man-to-man transmission, through handling of contaminated handles. “So, the community awareness is very essential now, the Mai-ruwas need to be told about what is happening because you don’t know what happens at where they go to fetch the water. If they are harbouring the virus, it would be easily transmitted to any other person”. Dr. Aminu Magaji Garuba, a public health practitioner, says “clean and running tap water is Africa’s biggest challenge. If the water is dirty or not clean, the microbes will not be destroyed completely.” NIGERIAN CONCERN Investigations indicate many Nigerians still depend on open wells for their daily water sustenance and drink sachet water irregularly- only when they can afford such. Ongoing research findings by this reporter reveal such communities are not a dime in mega cities like Lagos state. This class of Nigerians, it was discovered during the field survey for the research, cannot even afford to pay Mai-ruwa to get them a keg of water, so, they depend on available open wells, but travel long distances to access these unsafe sources of water. International standard practice states that nobody should travel more than 100 meters before accessing water. This is not the case in Nigeria at the moment as statistics from global agencies such as the United Nations and the World Health Organisation (WHO) indicate most people travel very long distances before they can access water. The 2017 Multiple Indicator Cluster indicates Nigerian households depend mainly on external sources for their drinking water because most homes do not have potable water within their premises. Thus, putting to scrutiny the quality of water Nigerians drink as the country continually records outbreak of cholera. Also, a 2017 report by the World Bank states Nigeria provided clean water to fewer than 10 percent of persons residing in cities in 2015. The 2017 Multiple Indicator Cluster survey indicates 68 percent of Nigerians buy or source water from locations outside their homes, Most Nigerians, according to the survey, drink sachet, bottle, taps, wells and borehole water. The location decides the drinking patterns. The survey states no fewer than 40 percent of women hunt for water for families in various societies in the country. It is an extreme case in the Northeastern part of the country as 83 per cent of homes have no drinking water on their premises. This is followed by the South-south with 71 per cent and the North-central with 70 percent with drinking water burden. The burden, the MIC survey states, is also heavier on the rural areas with 74 percent, compared to 59 percent in the urban areas. In most cases, those who go looking for water spend no fewer than 30 minutes away from their homes. In many neighborhoods in Nigeria, house owners- landlords and landladies, provide their own water through dug boreholes within their premises. They also sell the water but not in large commercial quantities. People often within and around their neighborhood simply come, buy and go. This class of water providers, the ongoing research findings reveal, simply sell raw borehole water with little or no level of quality to people. GLOBAL CONCERN World Bank statistics indicate about 2.1 billion people globally do not have access to safe drinking water, while 4.5 billion persons lack access to safe sanitation. WaterAid, 2018, on its twitter handle warned: “Unless we shift to more pragmatic WASH investment addressing people’s complex needs, many will still be drinking dirty water in 2030.” Women Deliver, a global nonprofit organization in 2018, urged all countries to accelerate access to water as girls and women spend 73 billion hours fetching water. When access is accelerated, the global nonprofit says the health, education and livelihoods of girls and women globally will improve, hence their reclaiming the time lost in hunting for water. IMPLICATIONS OF UNSAFE WATER The World Health Organisation (WHO) says water safety and quality are crucial to human development and wellbeing as consumption of contaminated water have dire consequences on both short and long term. The global health agency says improving access to safe drinking water can result in tangible improvements to health. According to WHO, provision of access to safe water is one of the most effective ways to promote health and reduce poverty as the quality of drinking water is a powerful environmental determinant of health.  “` “` “Drinking-water quality management has been a key foundation for the prevention and control of waterborne diseases. Water is essential for life, but it can and does transmit disease in countries in all continents – from the poorest to the wealthiest. “The most predominant waterborne disease, diarrhea has an estimated annual incidence of 4.6 billion episodes and causes 2.2 million deaths every year,” this is according to a report on drinking water quality on the WHO website. The agency explains that there are several variants of the faecal-oral pathway of water-borne disease transmission. These include contamination of drinking-water catchments (for instance, by human or animal faeces), water within the distribution system ( through leaky pipes or obsolete infrastructure) or of stored household water as a result of unhygienic handling. SOLUTIONS Dr. Ipoade Omilaju, Chief Executive Officer/Principal Consultant, Sharry Moore Strategic Konsult with over two decades experience in Water Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) interventions, says a huge sum of money is actually required for Nigeria’s government to be able to provide potable water in order to meet the Sustainable Development Goals five and six. In an exclusive interview, Dr. Omilaju advises Nigeria should embrace Public Private Partnership (PPP) although Nigerians are used to free water, for it is a fundamental human right that ought to be provided by the government as enshrined in the country’s constitution. “But the fact remains that we are over 200 million now, or thereabout. And, at the same time, we do not have a responsive and accountable government. The fact needs to be told that there must be private sector involvement in potable water provision. “Even the ones we are talking about that they get from Mai-ruwa, how clean are they? Are they suitable for consumption? Because most of the diseases that are recorded, for instance, about 80 percent of diarrhea that are recorded are water related. “There are a lot of water related diseases. And, of course, women and under-five deaths are water related. In order for us to be able to tackle this, we need the involvement of private sector. And, the private sector is about business, so, how does the government work in partnership with the private sector so that the citizens are not left at the mercy of the private sector who will then determine their price just as we are having in the case of power supply presently? The government is to go about this by providing leadership and ensure that there is appropriate pricing,“ Dr. Omilaju explains. The WHO recommends regular hand washing as one of the preventive measures for COVID-19. Medical and WASH experts say the need for improved access to water cannot be overemphasized. Nigeria needs to invest about $8 billion in providing potable water for the country to achieve Goal 6 of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030. SDG Goal 6 aims at ensuring availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all. An official of the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), Zaid Jurgi, in March, 2018 said over 60 million Nigerians still lack access to potable water and more funds must be invested to ensure the access. He said if the country continues at the present rate of development in the water sector, only about 72 per cent of Nigerians will have access to potable water supply by 2030. Should this happen, Nigerian will not meet the SDG Goal five and six. Jurgi said access to safe water can save most of the under five children who die from preventable diseases, as most of the diseases are caused by poor access to water. He noted that about 88 per cent of diarrhea cases in Nigeria come from states that do not meet the WASH standard.  Addressing the findings about Nigerians who presently cannot even afford to pay Mai-ruwa to get them water, Dr. Omilaju advises the government should create cushioning effects for them through what he calls segregated pricing. “The government must look at commercialization with them at the back of their minds. Segregated pricing will be needed for this class of persons who cannot even afford to pay per jerrycans of water at the moment. There is a need for partnership with the private sector but with the government negotiating between the people and the private sector in terms of appropriate pricing.” For those who have water within their compounds and sell to the public, the WASH expert says the government should provide them with technical and financial support. He suggests the government could train them on water storage, and how to also put adequate amount of chlorine in the water, so that when they are selling the water, the people are not just buying raw borehole water, which in some cases have sewage very close by, but they are actually buying, to some extent, treated water. “To leave it to government to do, honestly, it might not work. If we had a responsive and accountable government, yes, it would have been possible. The issue of health says it all. “Abba Kyari tested positive to COVI-19 and there is already a proposal of him being transferred to Lagos, meanwhile this present government has spent billions of naira on Aso clinic all these years, yet, there is no single ventilator in the clinic to treat whoever and their principal that would need treatment there”, he concludes. Editor’s Note: The surname of Mr. Victor Umoh was changed for his privacy. This story is produced with grant and visualization support from Code For Africa’s WanaData Community Initiative.