As COVID-19 continues to ravage air transportation, a coalition of international aviation regulators are calling on policy makers across the globe to evolve intervention measures that will guarantee continuity and sustainability of airports and airlines, KELVIN OSA-OKUNBOR reports.  These are not the best of times for operators in the air transport industry as airport authorities and airlines continue to count  their losses as a consequence of the continuous spread of Corona Virus, also known as COVID-19. The bodies – Airports Council International (ACI),International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) and International Air Transport Association (IATA) – are worried that unless the government roll out intervention measures, it could take a longer time for the global air transport industry to recover from the negative impact of COVID-19. Towards this end, the regulators say one way to get the sector on track if for governments to roll out exceptional policies that could mitigate the losses suffered by airport authorities and airlines in the face of dwindling passenger traffic at airports across the regions in the last few months. As the world suffers the impacts of COVID-19, socially and economically, ACI, in particular,  has called on policy makers globally to come out with a policy response to ensure the continuity and sustainability of airport operations. ACI made the call in Montreal,  Canada after its monthly global traffic statistics for January showed the impact of the COVID-19 outbreak had an effect on passenger traffic, particularly in Asia-Pacific. According to Gittens, global  passenger traffic grew by just 1.9 per cent in January, down from 4.9 per cent the previous month. She said the industry’s 12-month rolling average reached 2.9 per cent, which was  propped up by the middling growth observed last year. She said: “The Asia-Pacific region was already showing the impacts of the COVID-19 crisis in January, declining by 1.8 per cent  due to a significant shift in domestic traffic. “Results for the freight industry showed a decline by minus 4.4 per cent  for the month as compared to January 2019. Preliminary figures for 2019 show a decline of minus 4.5 per cent for the year. We can expect that the disruptions in supply chains and the shock to the global economy precipitated by the reactions to the COVID-19 pandemic, will cause an even greater decline in. The market’s 12-month rolling average stood at minus three per cent  in January, with an unprecedented and difficult period ahead. “These figures show that the impact of the COVID-19 outbreak on aviation was rapid, especially in the Asia-Pacific region,” ACI World Director-General, Angela Gittens said. “The aviation industry is facing unprecedented upheaval due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the situation calls for an exceptional policy response to ensure the continuity and sustainability of airport operations. “Airport operators are prioritising the health of passengers and staff first and foremost and, while it is hoped that the global health crisis will recede well before the year ends, it is possible that the economic impact could persist into 2021. “The financial cost to the global industry in 2020 is rapidly growing. This is a fast-moving and ever-changing crisis and governments must act decisively and quickly. “ACI World urges the aviation industry and governments to come together to ensure the impact is borne equitably and solutions are fair and reasonable so as to provide the greatest impetus for a swift and balanced recovery,” he added. IATA, on its part, has written to the heads of government of 18 states in Asia-Pacific to appeal for emergency support to airlines as they fight for survival due to the dramatic loss of air travel demand due to the COVID-19 crisis. These states include Bangladesh, India, Japan, Malaysia, Pakistan, Philippines, Republic of Korea, Thailand and Vietnam. Its Director-General and Chief Executive Officer, Alexandre de Juniac made this known in an interview. He said: “Airlines are fighting for survival in every corner of the world. Travel restrictions and evaporating demand mean that, aside from cargo, there is almost no passenger business. For airlines, it’s apocalypse now. And there is a small and shrinking window for governments to provide a lifeline of financial support to prevent a liquidity crisis from shuttering the industry. “In a matter of days, the crisis facing airlines worsened dramatically. We are 100 per cent  behind governments in supporting measures to slow the spread of COVID-19. But we need them to understand that without urgent relief, many airlines will not be around to lead the recovery stage. Failure to act now will make this crisis longer and more painful. Some 2.7 million airline jobs are at risk. And each of those jobs supports a further 24 in the travel and tourism value chain. Some governments are already responding to our urgent calls, but not enough to make up the $200 billion needed.” He said IATA was proposing many options for governments to consider, which include: direct financial support to passenger and cargo carriers to compensate for reduced revenues and liquidity attributable to travel restrictions imposed as a result of COVID-19. Juniac said: “Loans, loan guarantees and support for the corporate bond market by governments or central banks. The corporate bond market is a vital source of finance, but the eligibility of corporate bonds for central bank support needs to be extended and guaranteed by governments to provide access for a wider range of companies. ‘’Tax relief and rebates on payroll taxes paid to date in 2020 and/or an extension of payment terms for the rest of 2020, along with a temporary waiver of ticket taxes and other government-imposed levies. “A growing number of governments in Asia-Pacific, including Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore, have announced financial relief packages for the airline industry and we are grateful to them for the assistance rendered during this dark period for the airline industry. But we need more governments to come on board to support the airline industry serving their markets. “There are over 30 million jobs supported by the aviation industry that are at stake. Also at risk is the aviation connectivity that is needed to support supply chains, the flow of essential goods and medical supplies, as well as repatriation flights to bring home citizen stranded overseas. “And the country will need a viable aviation sector to support the economic recovery.” In addition to financial support, IATA called for regulators to provide relief measures, with key priorities in Europe to include an  urgent temporary amendment to the EU261 passenger rights regulation.  Other measures, IATA said should include  immediate  short-term flexibility  permitting the use of vouchers instead of refunds, as has been allowed for some tour operators, as this would give airlines breathing space to repair cash flows. Juniac said: ”Providing a package of measures to ensure air cargo operations, including fast-track procedures to obtain overflight and landing permits, exempting flight crew members from 14-day quarantine, and removing economic impediments (overflight charges, parking fees, and slot restrictions). “Some regulators are taking positive action. We are grateful to the European Council for insisting on a full-season waiver to the slot use rule. This will enable airlines and airports greater flexibility for this season and greater certainty for next summer. But there is more to do on the regulatory front. Amendments are urgently needed to give more flexibility for EU 261. And they must take measures to keep air cargo moving.” On its part, ICAO’s  Secretary General, Dr. Fang Liu  praised the commitment of G20 leaders, which promised financial support to get global air transport and the global economy back on its feet. She said: “Aviation connectivity is critical to successful global recovery from COVID-19.” African Airlines Association (AFRAA) acknowledged that COVID-19 has taken a huge toll on the industry and global economy at large. ItsSecretary-General, Abderahmane Berthe, in an interview, urged  African   governments to consider the compensation of inevitable losses, the  alleviation of exogenous operating  costs,  and the subsidisation of the African  airlines  to assure the industry’surviability. Berthe said: “We strongly recommends that African airlines engage  stakeholders to  develop  an  all- inclusive  proactive  response  strategy that addresses  the  adverse  impact of the COVID-19 on  their  business to  ensure airlines recover effectively to support key economic sectors.” He said AFRAA remained   at  the  forefront with its  members and  the  airline industry at large, in  collaborative  efforts to deal with  and  contain the pandemic calling upon all stakeholders to take the necessary measures and precautions to keep safe. He went on: “African  airlines  association is issuing weekly bulletins to its  45-member airlines across  the entire continent and other  stakeholders of COVID-19 as well as to share guidelines and best practices.” Also, the Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON) has called on the government extend the intervention package put in place by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN)  to indigenous carriers. Its Executive Chairman,Captain Nogie Meggison urged the Ministry of Aviation to take a cue from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) by directing the various agencies under its supervision to put in place palliative measures to airline operators to reduce the loses they would suffer from the impact of the virus. He said: “We are using this medium to call on aviation agencies, through the Federal Ministry of Aviation, to follow the same path by supporting domestic airlines. ”Our government can do the same by granting some reliefs to Nigerian airlines as a way of assisting them during this very difficult time to recover from their losses.” 