Stakeholders in the Nigeria Electricity Supply Industry (NESI) have expressed support for the procurement of a spinning reserve for a stable national grid and and a reduction of frequent system collapses. Speaking in Abuja in the panel on the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN)  the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), Vice Chairman/ head of the panel, Sanusi Garba, said customers called for the procedure to the ancillary service. According to him, the submissions from the stakeholders indicate that “the need for spinning reserve is not in doubt.” He gave the Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading Plc (NBET) two weeks to submit Power Purchase Agreements (PPA) and Ancillary Services Agreements (ASA) for Generation Companies (GenCos) and TCN for harmonisation. He insisted that NERC would ensure diligence so that Nigerians could get stable power supply. Meanwhile, the  Commissioner, Legal, Licencing and Compliance at NERC, Dafe Akpeneye also directed the about 24 active GenCos including those operated by the Niger Delta Power Holding Company (NDPHC) to also bring written submissions on the essence of the spinning reserve. the free-governor. “We are not requesting that TCN but for the entire industry to prevent system collapse,” he said. TCN has contracted 220 megawatts (Mw) spinning reserve from six GenCos comprising Kainji and Jebba hydros, Odukpani, Azura, Geregu Gas and Transcorp Ughelli. “All over the world, it is a standard like in US and Ghana. We also want you to support TCN Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) project to further monitor and stabilise the grid,” he said. The Head, Generation at NDPHC, Dr Steve Ogaji said many NDPHC GenCos have been providing the services to avoid grid system collapse but that they will be incentivized if the cost is paid for in the new tariff. However, Kano DisCo’s Chief Operating Officer (COO), Mr Rahul Singh maintained that GenCos could have used their excess capacity for the spinning reserve instead of additional cost.