With the alarming rate of unemployment in Nigeria, experts have said there is need for people, especially youths to embrace entrepreneurship and develop skills needed to become employers, TOBA AGBOOLA writes. Uemployment rate in Nigeria has grown sporadically over the years. According to the Nigerian Bureau of Statistics (NBS), unemployment rate in the country may hit 33.5 per cent this year. NBS also stated that the high unemployment rate of 23.1 per cent, and underemployment of 16.6 per cent as at the end of last year was alarming The NBS report also showed that about 45 million Nigerians are unemployed. This, according to experts, is a time bomb that will soon explode, if urgent steps are not taken to address it. They called for increased entrepreneurial skills, especially among youths to address this scourge. The President, Nigeria Labour Congress  (NLC) Comrade Ayuba Wabba  told The Nation that Nigeria must create four million new jobs yearly to make any dent in the ballooning unemployment figures. This, he said, is exclusive of any loss of already existing jobs. And if new jobs must be created, he said, then the country needs more employers to absorb people in the employment market. Also, a member of the National Executive Council (NEC) of NLC, Comrade Issa Aremu, said: “If we have such army of underemployed, the crisis of unemployment has assumed tragic proportions in forms of various mass crimes as restless youths swell the ranks of kidnappers and insurgent.” All tiers of government, he added, must rise to promote development through re-industrialisation, uninterrupted electricity supply and war against which make the products of local industries uncompetitive. ”There is an urgent need for a bipartisan employment drive in the country. Sustainable jobs can only come from industry and massive public infrastructural development such as railways, roads construction, reinvention of public schools and hospitals. All the issues in unemployment crisis are governance issues which task the responsibilities and sensitivities of the Federal as well as state governments of the federation,” he said. Aremu said Nigeria has the largest domestic market in Africa, a wide range of natural resources, and a diversely skilled labour pool. To this end, he said, the country must create new jobs, and diversify the industrial and commercial sector to take advantage of human and natural resources. “The entrepreneurial activities have been found to be capable of making impact on the economy of a nation and quality of life of the people through economic growth; employment generation and empowerment of the disadvantaged segment of the population, which include women and the poor, “he said. He said entrepreneurial development would encourage entrepreneurs to create new enterprises, new commercial activities, and new economic sectors, as they would generate jobs for others; produce goods and services for society; introduce new technologies and improve or lower cost out puts; and earn foreign exchange through export expansion or the substitution of imports. The Director-General, Nigeria Employers Consultative Council, (NECA), Mr Timothy Olawale, said skill acquisition and entrepreneurship is the way to go in a country where getting a job is like rocket science. To him, there are over 23.4million unemployed youths in the country. He said  of the 500,000 youths that graduate from the university yearly, less than 10 per cent   get a job. He said one of the major ways to deal with the unemployment rate  is entrepreneurship through human capital development. ”The degree certificate is not enough these days, thus graduates need new skills set to survive, “ he said. The President, Business Club, Ikeja (BCI), Mr. Leke Odude, urged the Federal Institute of Industrial Research, Oshodi (FIIRO) to partner the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) on entrepreneurship. Odude added that this would sensitise and mobilise young graduates right from the NYSC camp on skill acquisition yearly, and curb crime rate as it would make graduates to become self-reliant upon passing out from youth service. Olawale called for the adoption of vocational and technical skills in tertiary institutions to prepare young graduates for employment, while bridging the gap between the knowledge acquired from the academic institutions and the demands of the workplace. “It is very important universities adopt these training for their graduating students, the students are not ready for the job, they need some set of skills that will make them employable and it is important we prepare these young executives for life after school,” he said. Olawale lamented lack of employable skills in graduating students, saying the skills are the determining factors of whether they succeed or fail in and outside the workplace. He said embracing vocational and technical skills is one way of dealing with the unemployment issue in the country, stressing that the education system curriculum does not encourage skill acquisition, training and development, which would make graduates employable after their tertiary education. He said: “I believe that it is through entrepreneurship that we can accelerate job creation and national development. There is no better time than now to seriously consider and undertake your own entrepreneurial journeys. The immense support systems available today cannot be over-emphasised.” Recently, the Chief Executive Officer, Tony Elumelu Foundation, Mr Tony Elumelu, said only entrepreneurship could transform African continent from its economic challenges. Elumelu said: “From our thriving markets to the new generation of African multinationals, Africa is showing that economic and social transformation is within our grasp and is being driven by Africans.” African political leaders, he said, are beginning to understand that by unleashing entrepreneurship, creating enabling environments and ensuring that business does well and actively contributes to well-being, the continent’s future will be transformed. According to him, the foundation is a product of his conviction that the private sector holds the key to unlocking the transformation and economic development of the continent, as captured in the thinking of Africapitalism. According to Aremu, an entrepreneurship is the foundation of any developed nation and that for Nigeria to reap the benefits of a dynamic and evolving economy, however, require the overcoming of entrenched social, financial and political hurdles. The government, he said,  must   improve the ease of doing business by developing and implementing more pro-market policies and making the entire business environment more attractive to investors. “Also, improvements and reforms in education and international participation are crucial for Nigeria to shake off its third world heritage and achieve the full breadth of its economic potential,” he said.