 The Lagos State Polytechnic, LASPOTECH, Ikorodu, has got patent rights for three inventions, namely fuel less generator, automatic car jack and a bio-digester, the Rector, Mr Samuel Sogunro, has said. He disclosed this on Thursday during a press briefing to kick start the school’s combined 27th convocation ceremony. He also said work was at an advanced stage on testing traffic lights control designs invented by the institution.
The rector noted further that the management of the institution was already liaising with corporate organisations and others interested in the inventions to produce them for the Nigerian market and beyond. “We are surely living up to our billing as a centre of technical and vocational excellence and we are producing graduates that are ready to contribute their quota to solving societal problems and make our nation rank high among the comity of nations. “The global ranking of the polytechnic by Webometrics places LASPOTECH as the fifth best polytechnic in Nigeria. In order to improve our current ranking, the Polytechnic management has constituted ranking committees at the various schools and departments to ensure that the entire members of staff align with the polytechnic vision on the global ranking,” Sogunro added. The outgoing Rector expressed delight that all the 40 programmes due for re-accreditation when he assumed office in 2015 had been approved and that the number of accredited courses increased to 66 by 2018. He said that the polytechnic would soon introduce 15 new programmes that were need-based and that they were awaiting consideration from the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE).  ” The programmes are National Diploma in Transportation Planning and Management, Welding and Fabrication Technology, Interior Design,. Fashion and Clothing Technology among others. Though some of these programmes require innate talents, we won’t lower the standard of required qualifications to admit students,” he said. While speaking on the convocation, Sogunro said that a total of 16,315 students would graduate at National Diploma and Higher National Diploma levels at the combined convocation for 2017/2018 and 2018/2019 sessions. “The polytecnic of excellence will present a total number of 16,315 adequately-trained and highly enterprising graduands who have completed their National Diploma (ND) and Higher National Diploma programmes in various disciplines for the country’s socio-economic development. Out of the figure, 598 have Distinction, 5,332 Upper Credit, 8,268 Lower Credit, and 2,117 Pass classifications.”
While stating that the convocation lecture entitled, “Infrastructural deficit and technological development in Nigeria: The Role of Technical Education,” is to be delivered by the Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola,he disclosed that the institution would honour Aare Afe Babalola, SAN and Alhaji Babatunde Rotinwa, Chairman, Lagos State Local Government Service Commission. He thanked the Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu for his support for the polytechnic and called on corporate bodies to also support them to provide accommodation for students on campus.