  International Breweries (IB) Plc has donated a primary healthcare centre in Oginigba, Port Harcourt, Rivers State. The brewery giant said it built the ultra-modern health facility to further demonstrate its commitment to supporting the government and communities in healthcare and infrastructure delivery. IB Plc., a  member of the world’s largest brewer, Anheuser-BuschInbev (AB InBev), said it cost N44million to build and furnish  the centre, which will be  managed by the Rivers State Primary Health Care Management Board. The Oginigba Health Centre is equipped with state-of-the-art medical facilities, such as infant incubators and warmer, nebuliser, anaesthesia machine, suction machine, delivery beds, X-ray new box, oxygen concentrator, facilities for the resident doctor, and auto clave machine, among others. During the inauguration, which held at the Oginigba Primary School, IB ’s Legal and Corporate Affairs Director, Otunba Michael Daramola, said the event was another testament to the company’s commitment to an effective and efficient Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) system, which the company does in partnership with its host communities. He noted that the dream of bringing people together for a better world drives the vision to support communities and the people of Nigeria in five CSR interventions areas: empowerment, education, health, infrastructural support and responsible drinking. “The dream of bringing people together for a better world actually led to our vision of supporting the Rivers State government to provide this primary health care facility in Oginigba to cater for the people of the community and environs. With today’s project, we are also demonstrating our contributions to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals: SDG 3 on Good Health and Well-Being; SDG 6 on Clean Water and Sanitation and SDG 9 which addresses the impact of Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure.  “Before this project, we renovated the Oginigba Primary School borehole, which  provides potable water to pupils, teachers and the community residents. We are also supporting youth empowerment and employment as eight youth beneficiaries from Rivers State would be receiving N7, 970,000 as grants from the International Breweries Foundation under the Kickstart Youth Empowerment programme to start their businesses,” he said. Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, commended IB for responding to the medical needs of the community after the  government provided the location of the health centre. Wike, who was represented by the Commissioner for Education, Prof Kaniye Ebeku, assured that the government would continue to provide the enabling environment to support the business operations of corporations like International Breweries Plc that are complementing the state government’s efforts at improving the lives of its citizens. The Paramount Ruler of Oginigba, Eze  G. B. Odum, said the intervention recorded by the beer giant with the Oginigba Health Centre would serve as an example for other multinational companies in Oginigba kingdom to emulate. “We are, indeed, overwhelmed with joy to witness the completion of this ultra-modern health centre, a project embarked upon and successfully completed by International Breweries Plc. Words are not enough to convey how grateful we are to the management as we know that the company has left a great legacy on the sands of time. This landmark is one that will surely serve as an example to other multinational companies in Oginigba kingdom,” he said.