Plateau state commissioner for health, Dr. Nimkong Larndam has said there is no confirmed case of coronavirus in Plateau state. The commissioner however said there 43 persons had to be isolated for 14 days so as not to take chances. Larndam gave the confirmation in a press conference held in his office to disabused the minds of Nigerians and citizens of the state over allegations that the virus has been ditected in Plateau state. According to Larndam, “We have four Chinese miners who just returned from holidays in China, since they came from another country that is heavily infected with the virus, they could be suspected to have the virus. But the Chinese were screened in Addis Ababa, Euthiopea, they were also screened in Abuja airport, and in those screenings they were proved negative. “Even though the suspects were not positive, such people are supposed to be isolated for 14 days. So we have isolated them between now and 11th of March “It is not only the four Chinese be that we had to isolate, all the people that had contacts with the Chinese on their return to Wase has to be fished and isolated too. Larndam who was accompanied on the press conference by the state commissioner for Information and Communication Mr Dan Manjang said, “So, the fact that we have to isolate these suspects is not a confirmation by that the virus has been ditected in the state, we are only been very cuatious” he said. “As we monitor those 43 we have isolated, at the end of the 14 days, if the suspect did not show any symptom of coronavirus, we will allow them to enjoy their normal life” The commissioner assured people of the state and other Nigerians who has anything to do with the state to feel free and go about their normal businesses. There is no any single case of coronavirus in Plateau state. He also said the state government has put measures in place to handle any case of coronavirus, we have isolation wards in Jos University Teaching Hospital (JUTH) and also in Plateau Specialist hospital. We have a surveillance medical team stationed at the Yakubu Gowon Airport to screen and monitor movement of air passengers, and government has set aside funds to handle any emergency. “But so far, there no reason to panic, the situation in Plateau is under control” he said.