Consolidated Hallmark Insurance (CHI Plc) has received the nod of regulators to raise N1,056,900,000 to  boost its capital base. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)    gave the approval to the general insurance and special risks underwriter to offer a total of 2,032,500,900 units of 50 kobo each at 52 Kobo per share through a rights issue to its shareholders. The offer, which opened on February 24, will close on April 1. Shareholders, who were listed on the register of members as at close of business on February 3, are qualify to take advantage of the offer on the basis of one new share for every four units being held. The rights issue is one of the series of steps approved by shareholders of the company at an Extra-Ordinary General Meeting last November, where the directors were unanimously given the mandate to embark on various measures to meet the new N10 billion required minimum capital base of operators in the general business and special risks category. The Chairman of the company, Mr. Obinna Ekezie, said the company has had successful outings in its recent capital raising efforts due to a firm belief by shareholders in the intrinsic value of the company. He said: “The company in the last two years, in consideration of the need for higher working capital and risk retention capacity, had proactively embarked on fund raising through a rights issue and private placement, both of which were fully subscribed. “The lead issuing house to this offer is Planet Capital Limited, supported by SFS Financial Services Limited and IWorld Financial Services Limited as joint Issuing Houses, while Meristem Registrars acts as the Registrar to the offer. ‘’The recapitalisation programme is a welcome development that will lead to a more virile insurance sector with improved performance and also ensure that the company captures a larger market share and give better returns to all stakeholders.” The Managing Director/CEO of Consolidated Hallmark, who is the President, Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria (CIIN), Mr. Eddie Efekoha, is optimistic of a very successful outing based on the enthusiasm from shareholders. “We are very confident of having a successful outing because our shareholders believe in us. We have shown commitment to shareholder value creation and paid dividend time and again,” he said.