 Nigeria’s mobile phone brand, Partner Mobile, has blamed foreign exchange (forex) volatility and the permissive nature of the nation’s mobile phone market for its slow performance since launch about three years ago. Chief Operation Officer (COO), Ifeoluwa Molokwu, who spoke on the sidelines of the launch of Evolution 1, EV1 smart phones, said when the firm came into the market, the naira was on a free fall to the dollar while the market was opened for all manners of mobile phones. She said this notwithstanding, the firm had done well to stay on as a going concern, giving the credit to the customers and other stakeholders in the local mobile phone ecosystem. Also, its Chief Technology Officer, Olusola Akintola, said a lot of mobile devices find their way into the country that are harmful to health, safety and environment. He urged the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) to rise to the occasion and stop the influx. Speaking on the new devices, Akintola expressed confidence that the new smartphone will delight  users, considering its stylish design, Al Triple camera, quality and pricing. He added that the device runs on Android 9 pie operating system and comes with face and fingerprint sensors, water resistant features, ground-breaking innovations in display, camera and performance. “Among other wonderful features, the phone comes with a triple camera and a flash form a square design, the overall appearance exhibits wonderful relationship between geometry and aesthetics incisively and vividly — from the proportion of segmentation, geometric curves and other aspects. It shows the geometric aesthetics. The whole architecture is romantic, classy and absolutely fashionable,” he added. Furthermore, he stated that the “5MP front camera, the background blur effect will no longer make you afraid of all kinds of scene-stealing. With beauty algorithms supports, specific to beautify details of face, skin, eyes, to diminishes appearance of blemishes.”  Molokwu said the launch of EV1 into the market signifies the brand’s unrelenting efforts to introduce to the market value-for-money products in order to satisfy the customers. EV1 is a reliable phone that will surely satisfy the customers who have been looking for a phone that will suit all purposes,” she sdaid. She added that the new smartphone is distinctively manufactured to meet today’s smartphone market and at an affordable price, so consumers can do more of what they love with smartphone. In the same vein, in furtherance of its commitment to making quality smartphones and boosting smartphone penetration in the country, it also unveiled its partnership with Ntel in providing data bundle of more than four Gigabytes for free to buyers of the smartphone. Commenting on the partnership, the Managing Director/CEO of Ntel, Hon.  Babatunde Omotoba said Ntel has been working with Partner Mobile for sometimes to introduce a budget- friendly smartphone targeted at the consumer market. He said: “Following months of compatibility tests, we are delighted to announce that the Ntel network is now compatible with the EV 1 smartphone. This means that anyone who owns this smartphone can now call and browse at a superfast speed, in fact, that is the fastest speed you will see in the Nigerian market. “Our network supports crystal clear high definition voice calling as well as has PLT advanced features which combine to enable downlink speed of up to 150megabits per second on our network. “To demonstrate our commitment to this partnership in driving internet penetration in the country which is in line with the National Broadband Plan, Ntel will be offering end users 4.5 gig data upon purchase of the EV 1 in our stores.”  