I thank the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for the opportunity of this very important and strategic retreat with the National Assembly. Let me specifically thank the Chairman, Professor Mahmood Yakubu and the entire leadership and management of the Commission, for your patriotic service to this great nation. We want to build greater confidence in the credible management of elections in our country. Under your calm, thoughtful and innovative leadership, the Commission has continued to demonstrate steady fidelity to free, fair and credible elections. The National Assembly has a unique constitutional gatekeeping role for our democracy. That sacrosanct constitutional duty of protecting our democratic order starts with ensuring that we provide the right electoral legal framework for the conduct of free, fair and credible elections by the Commission. Ultimately, our collective success as a constitutional democracy depends on truly credible electoral outcomes. Without question, the 9th National Assembly is firmly committed to electoral reform. We recognise across party lines that it is in our nation’s best interest to work together to strengthen our electoral laws and, consequently, better protect this very important and consequential democracy on the African continent. It is to these ends that the 9th Senate is now working actively on a comprehensive amendment of the Electoral Act No. 6 of 2010. I know that my dear brother and great friend, the respected and experienced Chairman of the Senate Committee on INEC, the Most Distinguished Senator Kabiru Gaya and his team are working round the clock to give this nation a great electoral law. They are constantly studying the Principal Act and the 2019 Electoral Amendment Bill (S.B. 122), which I have the honour of sponsoring with my brother Distinguished Senator Abubakar Kyari, in order to bring desired significant and innovative reforms to our electoral processes. I am also aware that the hardworking Chair of the House of Representatives Committee on Electoral Matters, Aishatu Dukku and her team are working in synergy with the Senate in this regard. Indeed, our commitment to electoral reform is not small at all. The National Assembly has commenced the review of the 1999 Constitution (as amended). This will certainly impact on the ongoing electoral reform exercise. To this end, we shall endevour to bring the amendment of the Electoral Act in alignment with the Constitution through the ongoing review, as may be necessary. For the 9th National Assembly, reforming our electoral legal framework at this time is an extremely important and necessary national assignment. It is consistent with a plethora of our Supreme Court’s decisions directly or indirectly tasking the National Assembly to make vital electoral reforms in this country by amending or even overhauling the extant Electoral Act. It is responsible for the National Assembly to take the apex court’s constructive guidance. By amending the Electoral Act responsibly, we would be strengthening our electoral system to deliver more credible elections. It is right to do this for the betterment of our democracy. I am convinced that guided only by the greater good of our nation and with the current excellent cooperation and synergy between this National Assembly and the Executive Branch ably led by His Excellency President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR, and indeed all stakeholders, we shall achieve amazing outcomes in the task of reforming our electoral legal framework.