The United Nations (UN) laments that despite some progress, real change has been agonisingly slowed for the majority of women and girls in the world. To mark the 2020 International Women’s Day, OYEBOLA OWOLABI examines efforts towards giving women greater opportunities  The International Women’s Day, celebrated every March 8, is set aside to celebrate women, who impact the world and to call for greater opportunities for women. The theme for this year’s celebration is ‘I am Generation Equality: Realising Women’s Rights’. However, the United Nations (UN) laments that no country can claim to have achieved gender equality. “Multiple obstacles remain unchanged in law and culture. Women and girls continue to be undervalued; they work more, earn less and have fewer choices; and experience multiple forms of violence at home and in public spaces. Furthermore, there is a significant threat of rollback of hard-won feminist gains,” a report on the UN Women’s website said.  POLITICS The report notes that women’s political representation has doubled globally in the last 25 years, but this sadly still amounts to about one in four parliamentary seats being held by women. It added that as at October 2019, there were only 10 women Heads of State and 13 women Heads of Government across 22 countries, compared with four Heads of State and eight Prime Ministers across 12 countries in 1995. In Nigeria, for instance, only about six (6.54 per cent) of the 109 senators are women. Lagos State, the country’s commercial capital, pioneered having a woman deputy governor. The state has produced nine deputy governors since 1979, with six being women. Alhaja Lateefa Okunnu occupied the seat between 1988 and 1991; Mrs. Sinatu Ojikutu (1992 – 1993); Kofoworola Akerele-Bucknor (1999-2002); Princess Sarah Sosan (2007-2010); Princess Adejoke Orelope-Adufulire (2011-2015) and Dr. Idiat Oluranti Adebule (2015-2019). Today, Lagos has seven women among the 27 commissioners; adding the Secretary to the State Government, it will increase the number to eight. This, however, is a far cry from the situation in Finland, a country which boasts of 42.5 per cent women in parliament and 67.7 per cent in the labour force. Finland has had two female Prime Ministers and a female president, who served for 12 years. Its current Prime Minister, Sanna Marin, is just 34 years old, and perhaps the world’s youngest sitting Prime Minister. She heads Finland’s governing coalition of five parties-all of which have female leaders, and almost all are under the age of 35. The country was also voted second in the Global Gender Gap in women’s right. Rivers, Kaduna, Enugu and Ogun states have female deputy governors, but this number is still negligible when compared to the number of positions men occupy at the national and state levels. The reason for this may not be far-fetched. Senior Communications Officer of the Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD), Armsfree Ajanaku, said the centre followed the 2019 elections closely and realised that female candidates continued to face structural and cultural hurdles, which inhibits their participation in the political process.  MATERNAL HEALTH Women in Nigeria are entitled to 12 weeks (three months) of maternity leave. The Federal Government, however, took a bold step in 2018 and increased it to 16 weeks (four months).  Minister of Labour and Employment Chris Ngige announced the extension when he addressed the plenary at the 107th International Labour Conference in Geneva, Switzerland. He said: “Nigeria recently increased the period for maternity leave from 12 to 16 weeks to allow enough recuperation time for both baby and mother in terms of breastfeeding.” The Nigerian Labour Act, however, does not recognise paternity leave and makes no provisions for it. A bill for an Act to make provisions for optional paternity leave to married male employees in private and public service also failed to scale through second reading in the House of Representatives. The bill, sponsored by Edward Pwajok, was defeated with a unanimous voice vote. Ekiti, in January, joined Kaduna, Enugu and Lagos states in approving six months of fully-paid maternity leave for nursing mothers. Deputy Governor Bisi Egbeyemi said the increase was to ensure their physical wellbeing so that they can practice exclusive breastfeeding. It will also allow mother-child bonding, he added. Kaduna State Governor, during his swearing in May 2019, announced the increase from four to six months. “I am pleased to announce that the State Executive Council approved six months maternity leave for our female public servants. This encourages the healthy development of infants through prolonged breastfeeding, among other benefits. Mothers are also reminded that children up to the age of five get free, regular medical checks in public hospitals. Please take advantage of this,” he said. Then Governor of Lagos State, Babatunde Fashola, authorised the increase in 2014. He also approved a 10-day paternity leave for fathers, citing exclusive breast feeding and maternal-child bonding as reasons for the decision. Enugu gives six months maternity and three weeks paternity leave. The governor announced this in 2015, saying it was to allow husbands support their nursing wives. The six months might seem a big deal, but when compared to what women in countries like Finland, Sweden, Norway, Portugal enjoy, the number pales into insignificance. Sweden gives 480 days to a couple, or 240 days each. Portugal gives 120 days paid at 100 per cent of salary and another optional 30 days at 80 per cent of salary. Fathers in Denmark get two weeks after a birth and both parents can share another 32 weeks between them.  SCIENCES In the sciences, only about 30 per cent of the world’s researchers are women. Less than a third of female students choose to study higher education courses in subjects such as maths and engineering. Women working in STEM fields are also published less and often receive less pay, and even those who obtain STEM degrees are less likely to pursue a career in those fields. The implication of this is that women and girls remain underrepresented in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) fields despite global action call for gender balance. According to UNESCO data (2014-2016), only around 30 per cent of all female students select STEM-related fields in higher education. The report adds that globally, female students’ enrolment is particularly low in ICT (three per cent), natural science, mathematics and statistics (five per cent) and in engineering, manufacturing and construction (eight per cent). In Nigeria, only 22 per cent of women are graduates of Engineering and Technology per year, according to the National Bureau of Statistics. The same report said women comprise only about a fifth of the total number of people working in information and communication technology. To bridge the gap therefore, Secretary-General of the UN, António Guterres, in marking the 2020 International Day of Women and Girls in Sciences, said: “To rise to the challenges of the 21st Century, we need to harness our full potential. This requires dismantling gender stereotypes. On this International Day of Women and Girls in Science, let’s pledge to end the gender imbalance in science.” Audrey Azoulay, Director-General of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO), reiterates that “If we are to be able to address the enormous challenges of the 21st Century – from climate change to technological disruption – we will need to rely on science and the mobilisation of all our resources. It is for this reason that the world must not be deprived of the potential, the intelligence, or the creativity of the thousands of women who are victims of deep-seated inequality and prejudice.” A UN Women Executive Director, Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka, notes that one of the first steps to ensuring more women embrace STEM is breaking gender stereotypes linking science to masculinity, which can start with exposing younger generations to female role models leading the way in STEM.