It was a tearful occasion as young widows of slain soldiers receive terminal benefits of their spouses. OKODILI NDIDI captures the solemn event They filed with long faces, with their children in tow, to collect the terminal benefits of their late husbands who died in active service to their country. With rehearsed smiles, they tried to conceal the pain in their hearts. But it’s obvious that nothing could completely assuage their pains, the agonising pain of losing a better half, the family’s breadwinner. Hard as they tried,  some of them could not hold back the tears as they wept uncontrollably. A few others who succeeded in holding back the tears presented swollen faces and puffy eyes. Not a few among the audience could hold back their emotions as the tears welled up in their eyes as they struggled to console the distraught widows with kind words. They were 184 in number all widows of soldiers killed in the ongoing counter insurgency war in the war ravaged Northeastern Nigerian. It was indeed a touching sight to see some of them as young as 20, struggling to compose themselves. Fate had thrown a heavy burden on their fragile shoulders, a burden they have to bear for a long time to come. A discomforting aspect of the entire exercise was the fact that the widows who turned up for the event at the Ministry of Defence in Abuja, as early as 8.30 am the event was slated to commence, had to wait till evening for the Minister of Defence, Salihi Magashi, accompanied by representatives of the underwriting insurance companies to show up. One of them, Amina Musa, who clutched a malnourished baby of about a year old, could hardly conceal her agony as she blamed the government for sending her husband of three years to his untimely death. She complained about what she described as the shabby manner the widows were treated by the government officials. The attitude of the officials, she observed, showed that there was little appreciation shown for the sacrifices paid by the fallen heroes. She deplored the way and manner the news of death of some of the soldiers was communicated to their immediate families. According to her, “Nobody told me that my husband had been killed until after two weeks when his younger brother sent for me and told me that he got a message from somebody in Maiduguri that my husband was among the soldiers ambushed by Boko Haram terrorists but that they were still searching for them. “Instinctively, I knew that my husband had been killed. I was two months pregnant then. I had a miscarriage the following day and I became very sick. My child also fell sick. It is one loss that I will not recover from and it is my prayer that the war will end so that more young woman will not become a widow like me”. Another of the widows, Rebecca Sunday, had a more pathetic experience. She lamented how she did not see her husband for over one year before his tragic death in Maiduguri. In a tearful voice, she narrated her ordeal to The Nation, “My last child has not stopped asking of his father as she cries herself to sleep every day. I keep imaging that it was a nightmare and that I will wake up any moment. I didn’t see my husband for one year after he was transferred to Maiduguri. We only talked on phone each time he happened to be in network coverage area and he would promise to come back any time he was relieved. But that was never to be. I was shattered the day the news of his death came to me and I have not recovered from the shock up till now.” Another of the widow, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said that she found it difficult to come to terms with the fact that she was being paid her husband’s terminal benefit just four years after they were married. She said, “I can’t muscle the strength to collect the cheque that was why I came with my husband’s younger sister to collect the cheque on my behalf. I will continue to miss my husband and I hope his death will not be in vain. I pray that those terrorists will have a change of heart and stop these killings so that more women who are married to soldiers will not lose their husbands prematurely.” Meanwhile presenting the cheque, the Minister of Defence, reiterated the Federal Government’s commitment to the wellbeing of the families of officers and men who laid down their lives in defence of the nation. Addressing the widows, the minister said, “No amount of money can equate the lives of your loved ones. The Federal Government appreciates the contributions of your breadwinners and believes that no amount of succour would be enough or too little to augment your daily requirements.” The 184 fallen officers and men were captured on the 2018/2019 Group Life Assurance Programme for the Armed Forces. The Chief of Defence Staff Maj. Gen. Gabriel Abayomi Olonisakin commended the Defence Ministry for ensuring the smooth implementation of the scheme. Olonisakin, who was represented at the event by Maj. Gen, Abraham Dusu, said the payment was meant to provide succour for the families of the slain officers and men. In her welcome address, the Director, Human Resource Management in the ministry, Mrs. Olumoko Juwaretu, explained that the Group Life Assurance Programme for the Armed Forces of Nigeria is a welfare package put in place by the Federal Government to provide succour for the next-of-kin of Nigerian fallen heroes. She expressed the hope that the scheme would serve as morale booster to serving officers and men. She stated that it’s a way of assuring serving officers and men that their families would not be abandoned or forgotten in the event of any eventuality. Continuing, Juwaretu said, “The programme emanated from the Pension Reform Act, 2004 which was initially administered by the Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation (OHCSF). However, with the amended of the Act in 2011, the scheme excluded members of the Armed Forces from the Contributory Pension Scheme, necessitating the Ministry of Defence to initiate an alternative for the Armed Forces.” She added that the 2018/2019 phase of the scheme was managed by Axa Mansard Insurance Plc as the Lead Underwriters and Magnum Trust Insurance Brokers Ltd as Lead Brokers. According to her, all processed claims under the scheme had been fully settled. Responding on behalf of the beneficiaries, Mr. Casmir Nsofor expressed gratitude to the Federal Government, President Mohammadu Buhari, the Minister of Defence, the Permanent Secretary, management and staff of the Ministry of Defence, Axa Mansard Insurance Plc and Magnum Trust Brokers Ltd for ensuring a seamless implementation of the scheme.