 Law students of the Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto (UDUS) are asking the management to walk its talk by making the N3000 refund to them. The Dean, Students’ Affairs, Prof  Aminu Mode, had erlier promised a refund, provided the students are right in their agitation. “The laboratory fee has been programmed by the school MIS and removing them would be difficult,” he said. Fatimat Abdulkadir Yarima, a 200-Level student, said the additional fund put more pressure on students who were struggling to get their school fees despite the deadline by the school management. “The inclusion of the laboratory fees as part of our school fees is actually not fair. They (management) know that law students are not using any laboratory. It’s a great inconvenience especially to those that have to hustle for our school fees.” “Three thousand naira is a huge amount money for the students. If this laboratory fees is given back to us, it would be a huge relief because we will be glad that our complaints did not fall on deaf ears.” Sanni Abdullah, a 500-Level student of Law, urged the authority to stick to their promise. “Laboratory fee was mistakenly added to our tuition fees and the school management    through the Dean Students’ Affairs said the amount would be refunded upon submission of evidence of payment in the Directorate of Students’ Affairs.”. “I will be highly delighted because such gesture will give us an impression about how responsive and responsible our management is. “I believe that the money would be refunded considering the clarification and assurance given by the authority.” he added. Abdulkareem Suleiman also showed his dissatisfaction on the inclusion because it doesn’t have any thing to do with the laboratory fees and felt optimistic that the management would refund the money has promised. “It is mocking to have imposed the payment of laboratory fees on not even law students alone but also all Art/Humanity students on campus. “It is my expectation as a law student that the money so paid would be refunded as we do not benefit from the said laboratory. I must confess that I don’t even know where the laboratory is situated. Suleiman Maleek, who is in his first year was surprised when he saw laboratory fees as part of the school fee component. “When I firstly saw the laboratory fees included in our fees, I was so surprised because laboratory is not relevant to law courses not to talk of paying 3,000 for this laboratory without having any in the faculty. “I will be so glad if they can refund it because I am really in need of money. Although it’s under probability of they are going to refund it,” he said. President of the Law Student Society (LSS) Comrade Abubakar Muhammad Tsamiya, insisted the law must be exempted from paying the laboratory fees. 