Bassey Anthony, Uyo The National Youth Service Corps, Akwa Ibom State Chapter, has consoled with the families of five corps members who lost their lives while serving their motherland. The Chapter made this known during 2019 batch “A” passing out ceremony of corps members deployed to the state on Thursday in Uyo. The State Coordinator of NYSC, Mr Oluwole Amusan, who expressed sympathy over the lost, said that seven corps members absconded and were made to repeat service year. He also disclosed that 16 others who committed various degrees of misconduct were also compelled to repeat some months of service year. “While we rejoice, with thee corps members for the feat attained, I regret to report that we lost five corps members during the year under different circumstances. “May I, therefore, humbly request that we observe a minute silence in memory of the late patriots. May their souls continue to rest in perfect peace. “During the same period, seven corps members abscond from service. They have been recommended for a repeat of the service year whenever they re-surface. “There are also sixteen others who committed various degrees of misconduct; varying from unauthorized journeys, absenteeism and other acts contrary to the provision of the NYSC bylaws. “They have been booked to serve extension of service year, ranging from two weeks to four months”, he said. The State Governor, Mr Udom Emmanuel commended the corps members for their contributions in both the educational and socio-economic lives of the state. Governor who was represented by Mrs. Mary Bassey Permanent Secretary Ministry of Youths and Sports said that the state would soon improve on the corps members’ allowance. “I commend your zeal and welcome you to the larger society where you are expected to continue to make individual and collective contributions towards national growth and development. “Your contributions in the implementation of government policies and programmes impacted greatly on all sectors, particularly, education, Agriculture, Infrastructural development and Health care service delivery. “Let me state here clearly that the National Youth Service Corps has been a critical partner in the development of Akwa Ibom state.” The governor while appreciating the Federal government for enhancing the monthly allowance of corps members from N19, 800 to N33,000.00 , stressed, “Akwa Ibom state government will also consider an improvement on corps member’s state allowance.