 The immediate past General Evangelist, Christ Apostolic Church, Worldwide, Prophet Samuel Abiara, has called on world leaders to as a matter of urgency declare a day of prayers and sober reflections to seek God’s intervention by convening national prayer sessions in addition to proactive medical measures being taken to end the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. Abiara, who said that the killer virus would soon mysteriously fizzle out the same way it came, however, stressed that all legitimate means should be deployed in combating the scourge. He called on all people to shun fear and panic but be positive and pray as a way of combating the virus, saying the pandemic will pass away soon just like those before it. The renowned cleric spoke on Friday during a press conference held on the Coronavirus pandemic at the Christ Apostolic Church, Agbala Itura, Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. The man of God lamented the poor state of health facilities in the country, saying, government must take advantage of the situation to improve facilities and health situation in the country. This he said can be achieved by prompt equipping of hospitals across the country, especially primary and secondary health centres. The cleric said, “This is the time for government to provide sophisticated equipment in our hospitals. If this is done, the rich and the political officeholders would not engage in medical tourism as being done today. The trend is partly responsible for capital flight. But, if our hospitals are well equipped, the people would no longer be attracted to travelling overseas for medical care. As such, in situations such as this, the country would not be badly hit. “I can say that what is happening currently in the world is a warning sign that Jesus Christ is coming. Let the whole world be prepared. God doesn’t want anybody to perish so, COVID 19 will fizzle away the same way it came. It is only prayer that can solve this problem because science cannot explain so many things about it. Let the presidents of nations of the world proclaim one day and one night prayer and Coronavirus would disappear.” On government’s directives that social distance should be maintained to curb the spread of the virus, he said, “We shall obey the rule and maintain social distance. The coming service may not be different from the way we use to observe it in the past but we shall definitely review things by avoiding handshakes during service.” He said government should be futuristic by addressing over-reliance on importation so as to avoid lock down to economy as a result of a problem in other land as being witnessed. “For instance, we should have our own refineries instead of importing refined products. We should also de-emphasise importation of products against the present practice. Our government must always be prepared.”