Emmanuel Oladesu The Lagos State All Progressives Congress (APC) has thrown its weight behind the national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomole. The chapter said that the chairman will survive the crisis and triumph over his detractors. A statement by the Publicity Secretary, Seye Oladejo, decried “the needless and avoidable crisis,” urging party leaders and men of goodwill in the party to stand firm for honour and justice. The statement reads:”We acknowledge and appreciate the dogged and passionate leadership of the national chairman which was mainly responsible for our victories in the national elections. “We did not only retain the presidency but also won the majority of the seats at the National Assembly. This gave birth to the progressive leadership at the two arms of the National Assembly. “We can definitely not dismiss his monumental achievements which included breaking new grounds to the discomfort of opposition party. “As much as we will not like to say too much as the matter is already in court, recent reports that the crisis was borne out of 2023 ambitions underscore the desperation on the part of some members of the political class. “At a time like this, Lagos State APC wants to identify with the majority of the noble, decent and honorable men who have pleaded for peace , decorum and discipline to reign supreme in our party. “The gladiators should take a cue from history that’s replete with men who tried to play God but failed at the crucial moment. “We dare say that no one is bigger than the party that has provided a platform and a voice for the gladiators to be relevant. “However, we regard this as testing the waters for the ultimate strategy of the enemies within to decimate the party before their final onslaught. “We’re strengthened by the resolve of men of goodwill who’re standing firm in support of one united and indivisible party. “We wish to call on the gladiators to shield their swords and deploy their strength to deliver on the various assignments entrusted to them. “As much as we regard this development as a storm in the tea cup, we’re of the opinion that our party will emerge stronger at the end of the day. “