* ASUU calls for calm over nonpayment of February salary  The Colleges of Education Academic Staff Union (COEASU) has expressed dissatisfaction with implementation of the Integrated Personnel Payroll Information System (IPPIS). Also, the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) at the University of Lagos (UNILAG) urged members to remain calm in light of the nonpayment of their February salaries over their failure to enrol on the IPPIS platform. A statement by the National COEASU President, Nuhu Ogirima, described the poor implementation a breach of trust. He noted some of the issues members had reported including nonpayment of Peculiar Earned Academic Allowance; indiscriminate deductions; and nonpayment of workers on sabbatical. The statement reads: “From the information available, it is quite evident that the peculiarities of the Colleges of Education subsector, which the stakeholders’ meetings with IPPIS office, prior to its implementation, harped on as the basis of rejection of the obnoxious pay platform, have not been reflected. “For the avoidance of doubt, the February salary paid by FGN did not include the Peculiar  Allowances of the staff of the subsector, especially the Peculiar Earned Academic Allowance (PEAA). Also not paid are staff on Sabbatical Leave. In addition, deductions were effected on all staff salary, indiscriminately, for the National Housing Fund (NHF), a voluntary scheme to which most staff did not subscribe. Whereas FGN deducted its own statutory deductions, the non- statutory deduction of staff necessary for their well-being, especially Staff Cooperative Society contributions were not made. Sadly, pension and the imposed obnoxious tax deductions were  effected on gross earning of staff, which included non-taxable Allowances) as against the basic salary on which such deductions ought to be effected. The UNION VIEWS THIS AS A SERIOUS BREACH OF TRUST and, therefore, CONSIDERS FGN BETRAYAL NOT ACCEPTABLE.” Ogirima noted that the union’s Expanded National Executive Council (ENEC) would meet to decide its next course of action, urging the Accountant General of the Federation to correct the anomalies. At UNILAG over the weekend, ASUU Chairman, Dr. Dele Ashiru, issued a circular to members of the union to assure them that their February salaries would be paid. He also informed them that those who enrolled on IPPIS were underpaid – justifying the Union’s stance that the central payroll system would not respect the perculiarities in the University system. He said: “Reports reaching our great Union indicates that those who enrolled on the IPPIS platform has started receiving alerts for February salary. This has been brought to the attention of the National leadership. The message from the National headquarters is that our members should remain calm and resolute as our salaries would be definitely be paid. “The good news is that some of those paid have started to lodge complaints with our Union that they were underpaid. A Professor from one of the Universities complained that he received N55,000 only. “All members are enjoined to remain calm and be confident that this is one battle our Union is prepared to fight to a logical conclusion.” ASUU embarked on two-week strike from Tuesday last week to protest implementation of IPPIS and the non-implementation of the 2009 ASUU-FGN Agreement.” The union has proposed its own alternative called the University Transparency Accountability Solution (UTAS).  