Senator Oluremi Tinubu has praised the Yaba Local Council Development Authority (LCDA) for providing a good learning environment in its jurisdiction. Tinubu, who represents Lagos Central Senatorial District, said the LCDA policy was in line with the mandate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to make education accessible to all. She spoke at the inauguration of the Senator Oluremi Tinubu Model Nursery and Primary School built and named by the LCDA in her honour. The senator thanked the LCDA for honouring her and promised to assist in the provision and maintenance of infrastructure in the school. “This project makes me fulfilled for a number of reasons. First as a teacher, I am an ardent advocate for accessible and affordable quality education for all. In addition, the new school premises containing 16 classrooms, good sanitary facilities, ample play area and learning infrastructure is a good one. “I am therefore delighted that the LCDA has, in accordance with the progressive mandate of the APC, provided a good learning environment essential to wholesome learning and well –rounded development. I urge all you good people of Yaba Local Council Development Area to value this project,” she said. Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who was the chief guest, said that his administration in conjunction with local governments would renovate 200 primary schools very soon across the state. “We are carrying a burden; we want education to change in the state during our time”, said Sanwo-Olu, who was represented by the Education Commissioner, Mrs. Folasade Adefisayo. He praised the LCDA Chairman, Dr Kayode Omiyale, for promoting scholarship in the council area through provision of books and teaching aids. In his address, Omiyale said the LCDA named the school after Senator Tinubu because of her sterling qualities and service to humanity. “Senator Oluremi Tinubu’s name evokes the sterling virtues of sound parenting, responsible representation, and promotion of sound education for all children irrespective of tribe, parental background, creed or colour,” he said. Dignitaries at the occasion included the Sanwo-Olu’s wife, Ibijoke; Chairman, APC Lagos  State chapter, Alhaji Tunde Balogun; APC Leader, Lagos Central Senatorial District, Prince Tajudeen Olusi, and Chairman Lagos State Universal Basic Education Board (LSUBEB), Wahab Alawiye-King.