The Central Securities Clearing System (CSCS) Plc has reiterated its commitment to delivery of efficient service in spite of the challenges posed by the pandemic Coronavirus. CSCS stated that it has activated a fully digital framework to ensure its operations continue to run efficiently while protecting the health and safety of its employees, clients and other stakeholders. CSCS stated that it is leveraging its digital channels to meet all requests at this period as it joins global institutions in the campaign for social distancing. CSCS is using the X-alert, an SMS sent by CSCS on all transactions carried out on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) to educate investors on the need for social distancing and safety precautions against the Coronavirus. Chief Executive Officer, Central Securities Clearing System (CSCS) Plc, Mr. Haruna Jalo-Waziri, said CSCS as the financial market infrastructure for the Nigerian capital market is fully committed to efficient delivery on all its services as it works with all stakeholders to reinforce the resilience and liquidity of the Nigerian capital market. “Having activated our business continuity plan, which has long been envisaged as a part of our crisis management framework, we are fully operational, even as a notable percentage of our staff have been empowered to work remotely from home. More importantly is our campaign on social distancing, better hygiene practice and other precautions against the contagious spread of Covid-19, as the safety of everyone is paramount to us, just as we have activated all relevant measures to ensure the safety of all depository assets,” Jalo-Waziri said. According to him, as a part of its strategy of dealing with the pandemic, CSCS has since suspended all business travels and temporarily physical meetings, including its internal sessions, thus leveraging digital technologies such as Zoom, Webex, audio conference calls amongst others. He said CSCS had implemented earlier protocols including the daily internal sensitization on preventive tips to all staff along with situational updates on Covid-19 incident reports and management; increased hygiene measures through deep and more frequent cleaning of its offices, provision of sanitizing gels to staff and promotion of recommended personal hygiene practices. “We thank you for your understanding as we all rise up to stem the spread of this virus and adapt to new challenges arising from the pandemic. Our focus is on helping you and ensuring continuity of our services as a financial market infrastructure,” Jalo-Waziri said. 