 NIGERIA-UK born actor, John Boyega has recently inked a deal with Netflix Africa for upcoming productions. The deal, The Nation learned, is a multiyear pact that was signed with Boyega’s production outfit based in the UK, UpperRoom Production. According to information made available, the Netflix Africa and UpperRoom Production deal is specifically focused on non-English language films from the West and East of Africa. Speaking on the move, Boyega said, “I am thrilled to partner with Netflix to develop a slate of non-English language feature films focused on African stories and my team and I are excited to develop original material. We are proud to grow this arm of our business with a company that shares our vision.” Here are some of the details of the deal that you need to know The pact signed by Boyega’s UpperRoom production and Netflix Africa will produce at least three full feature films. The three feature films will spread across the area of scope in the continent – West and East Africa. The deal, The Nation gathered, will see two of the productions coming from Nigeria and one from Egypt. Netflix and Boyega’s UpperRoom productions have jointly agreed to allow UpperRoom production to handle the responsibility of developing the thematic analysis for the three full feature films from Nigeria and Egypt. According to information available, UpperRoom will be developing the three projects based on African ideals, tenets, and cultures. These themes will be guided based on African literary properties, Nigerian Nollywood classics, screenplays, and mythology. One of the reasons Netflix has decided to partner with Boyega’s production company is solely to invest in Africa’s rich history. This was made known by Netflix’s Vice President, International film, David Kosse. During the signing of the deal with UpperRoom productions, Kosse said, “Africa has a rich history in storytelling and for Netflix, this partnership with John and UpperRoom presents an opportunity to further our investment in the continent while bringing unique African stories to our members both in Africa and around the world.” As Netflix continues to exhibit that it has its eyes on Africa as the next major source of content, the deal with ‘Star Wars’ star, John Boyega, is a step in the right path.  Boyega’s deal with Netflix also kicks off a move away from the streaming platform’s traditional first-look deals. The streaming platform has transferred more bespoke development partnerships with talent and production banners. In 2018, Boyega had told CNBC Africa in an interview that he was interested in shooting a ‘low budget’ movie from a Nigerian story with $20-$25million (approximately N9 billion). Boyega made this known during the promotion of his film and first production of UpperRoom production, ‘Pacific Rim’. In the interview, he said, “We’re developing a few Nigerian stories and choosing one which makes sense budget-wise. We’re probably looking at an indie budget of $20-$25 million.” Meanwhile, Netflix’s first original series, ‘Queen Sono,’ has debuted while Nigeria’s Akin Omotosho has begun work on the production of what is poised to be Nigeria’s first original scripted series.