News of the first confirmed case of coronavirus in Nigeria is a cause for concern.  The global coronavirus crisis means every country in the global village is vulnerable. The Federal Ministry of Health said in a statement: “The case is an Italian citizen who works in Nigeria and returned from Milan, Italy to Lagos, Nigeria on the 25th of February 2020. He was confirmed by the Virology Laboratory of the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, part of the Laboratory Network of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control. The patient is clinically stable, with no serious symptoms, and is being managed at the Infectious Disease Hospital in Yaba, Lagos.” The Italian had flown into Nigeria through Turkish Airlines, and had passed through Istanbul, Turkey. There were 121 passengers on the flight. He had spent the night in a hotel around the airport area in Lagos before he travelled to Ewekoro, Ogun State, for a business appointment at Lafarge Africa Plc. He had lodged in an accommodation provided by Lafarge. “Who has he met? What has happened? Those are the people that we are tracking, isolate them and then check,” said the Lagos State Deputy Governor, Dr Obafemi Hamzat. With the issue of controlling the possible spread of the coronavirus on the front burner, it is apt to draw attention to the fact that the Federal Ministry of Health is operating under anomalous conditions that hamper its effectiveness. For instance, the Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, was quoted as saying his ministry used to have a very small  quantity of reagents to diagnose the virus, but the supply of the substances had improved. The inadequacy admitted by the minister isn’t surprising, considering how the ministry operates. What kind of health system makes the Federal Ministry of Health unable to procure necessary items, except through the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development? This is the situation in Nigeria, and that has been the case since October 2018. According to a February 23 report, “the development was caused by a power play” between the then Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole, and the Chief of Staff to the President, Abba Kyari. The report said “a directive was given to the then Permanent Secretary, Clement Uwaifo, in October 2018 that all contracts and procurement related issues must go through the ministry of agric.” Under the arrangement, “whenever the ministry of health wants to make procurement, the permanent secretary would raise a memo which would be sent to the permanent secretary of the agric ministry.” Also, “in some instances, the permanent secretary would give direct approval while sometimes, he would write a memo to the Director-General of the Bureau of Public Procurement, Mamman Ahmadu, who would approve based on the Procurement Act.” The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, said the health ministry was facing the problem because it had spent beyond what was permitted. He was quoted as saying: “The health ministry was authorised to spend N2bn but they spent N7bn.” The question is: Why hasn’t the odd arrangement been reviewed and reversed more than eight months after the exit of those accused of unauthorised spending? Now, with the fear of the spread of the coronavirus, it is obvious that the Federal Ministry of Health should have the power to procure necessary items for preventive efforts without the rigmarole of going through the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. A top official at the health ministry, who is also a doctor, was quoted as saying: “We can’t easily get consumables like personal protective equipment, including nose masks. “We need to improve our capacity for quarantine and surveillance and monitor those coming (to Nigeria), especially where we have a basis for suspicion. Logistics cost more money. We need to set up more labs, we need reagents. There is no way the suspension of our procurement powers will not affect our capacity.” He added: “We need to deploy more staff. We need personnel capacity, training, logistics. All these things are important. All these things are not there when we need them. “Even our thermal scanners at the airport, we need more at all our points of entry. So, it is affecting us seriously.” This is no way to prepare to tackle the coronavirus, a new disease which has killed about 2, 800 people.  About  83,000 cases have been confirmed, out of which 8,000 were classified as serious. The point is that the anomalous arrangement under which the Federal Ministry of Health operates may result in an avoidable disaster. Nigeria is the first country in Sub-Saharan Africa to record the coronavirus since its outbreak in Wuhan, China in December 2019.  China has the highest number of cases, but the coronavirus has spread to more than 20 countries of the world, including the United States, Japan, Italy, South Korea, Iran, Hong Kong, Australia, Taiwan, Egypt and Algeria. The World Health Organization (WHO) has declared the coronavirus outbreak a global health emergency. WHO’s head of emergency operations in Africa, Michael Yao, was quoted as saying:  “We know how fragile the health system is on the African continent and these systems are already overwhelmed by many ongoing disease outbreaks, so for us it is critical to detect earlier so that we can prevent the spread.” It is reassuring that the health minister said the Federal Government was well prepared and working closely with WHO to contain the disease. He stated that the government had approved and disbursed all funds needed by the Port Health Services and the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), which he described as the country’s first and second lines of defence for the coronavirus. According to Ehanire, “The Federal Government has released every amount of money that the NCDC and the Port Health Services requested.” He added that the Port Health Services had been paid more than N70 million while the NCDC had received N620 million. Beyond the circumstantial response, which the Federal Government‘s move suggests, there is a need to normalise the operation of the Federal Ministry of Health to make it function without the hampering effect of an anomalous arrangement.