The 2014 Nigeria Movement recently paid a courtesy call to Vintage Press Limited, publisher of The Nation, to canvass for the revisiting of the report of the 2014 National Conference. The group believes the recommendations of the conference can help the country to come out of its current challenges. MUSA ODOSHIMOKHE reports.  The 2014 Nigeria Movement has urged the Nigerian authorities to do something to improve the polity. The group said improving the polity by enthroning a new order will help to make the dream of Nigeria’s founding fathers a reality. Speaking during a courtesy visit to Vintage Press Limited, publishers of The Nation, the Chairman of the movement, Maj. Gen. Henry Ayoola (retd) said the country may not make the desired progress if things continue the way they are at the moment. He said the group intends to put in place the platform that will identify, engage and resolve the challenges facing the country. In doing this, he said the movement is reaching out to stakeholders across the country, to canvass support for the adoption of the recommendations of the 2014 National Conference. The recommendations, the group said, contains the pathway for Nigeria’s progress. Ayoola said available data suggests that the recommendations of the conference if implemented, will benefit all sections of the country, irrespective of their religious persuasions. The group said the solution is not in the number of constitutional conferences held, but in the will power to implement the recommendations from the discussions. Billions of the taxpayers’ money had been sunk into constitution-making in the country with nothing on ground to show for it. In most cases, the reports end up on the shelves. The group believes organising another conference would amount to waste of fund and a display of insensitivity to the plight of the Nigerians who are facing numerous challenges such as kidnapping, poverty, ritual killings, religious intolerance and banditry. Ayoola said Nigeria is in a serious crisis of survival. He added that the country is on brink of a catastrophic explosion. He said mutual suspicions, fears, bitterness and anger is the major source of Nigeria’s lack of progress, adding that major stakeholders believe that the country is no longer capable of guaranteeing the lives and properties of her citizens. He said the moderates strongly believe that the country must restructure to overcome the challenges weighing it down. This, he said, entails making the centre unattractive and re-energizing the federating units to perform effectively. Ayoola explained that the unfolding scenario indicates that the recommendations of the 2014 National Conference must be revisited and incorporated into the 1999 Constitution. He said in view of the level of involvement and the calibre of Nigerians who gathered during the conference, the recommendations have the unanimous endorsement of Nigerians. The group does not hold the present administration responsible for the woes of the country. But it believes the blame is a collective one and that if every administration had done what is required, Nigeria would not have degenerated this far. Indeed, it said President Muhammadu Buhari’s government is doing its best to get many things done but appears not to be getting favourable results. As a result, the possible way out is to implement some of the salient recommendations of the 2014 National Conference. Ayoola said: “Fair enough, the current administration may not be solely responsible or considered exclusively guilty of the devastation that the country is going through today. However, the fault lines of ethnoreligious disharmony have been so amplified and primordial sentiments have come to a portending situation where the seeming villains and apparent victims will all be losers ultimately. “It is noteworthy that in the six decades of Nigeria’s independence, almost every area of a Nigerian life has been performing below expectation. Consequently, Nigerians have been wondering if anything good can ever come out of their country, as things continue to degenerate to an all-round and all-time low, largely because of ineffective leadership.” He said the diversity of the country was a veritable asset and that the country must leverage on it, to promote socio-economic and political growth. He said several national conferences had taken place in the country, but the implementations of the reports were awkward.  He added that the fresh calls for another national conference were diversionary, stressing that it would not only become a burden on taxpayers’ money but also a waste of time. He said the suspicions, fears, bitterness and anger across the length and breadth of the country may not abet because, and the government had not done anything positive to allay the distrust. “The moderate is determined that that the country must restructure inevitably and very urgently for it to stand the slimmest chance of survival. All of these constitute an existential threat to our union and country as we know it. The movement, he said, would work harder to ensure that the country attains a better nation, by engaging may players that will endorse the application of the 2014 national conference reports to heal Nigeria. The chairman said: “Where there is the will, there is a way. We must prevent this evidently threatening national collapse and state failure in our interests. It is on this note that we are proposing an array of action across full-spectrum with focal thrust and programme to intervene and forestall an avoidable disaster. We are therefore determined to build a virile and vibrant nation within the next 300 years. “If you don’t review what you do regularly, you cannot break new grounds. Restructuring is not supposed to be a debatable issue; it is the fundamental strength for the nation to move forward.” Observers believe the fundamental issues capable of strengthening the country are being treated with kid gloves. For instance, the present generations of Nigerian youths do not have the update in Nigeria’s history. Such observers say the youth needs to be taught and made to understand the efforts being put in place to fashion a better constitution for the country. The reasoning is that, if the people don’t know where they are coming from, they may not know where they are going to. The secretary of the 2014 National Conference Movement, Mrs Anthonia Vincent, said it was time to educate Nigerian youths on the country’s journey to nationhood. She said those advocating for the breaking up of the country are missing the point. She said such a development would further lead to fresh breaking up because some people will still cry of marginalization. Since the 2014 National Conference provided ample solution to addressing germane issues, it is proper to go back to the drawing board by revisiting the constitution in the bid to make the country better. Going by resources expended in organizing the series of constitutional conferences, particularly during the military regimes, it is likely that the country will continue to waste taxpayers’ money if a proactive step is not taken to give the country the type of constitution the people have been yearning for. The group added that it would amount to a disservice to allow the recommendations of the 2014 National Conference to continue to gather dust on the shelves because it had a popular endorsement. It wondered why the authorities would continue holding on to the conference report without taking steps to study and extract some of the recommendations for implementation. It believes it believes it has become imperative for the authorities to the courage and look at the many positive recommendations contained in the report. Such recommendations, the group insists, holds the key to addressing some of the current ills in the society, such as economic challenges and insecurity. 