As part of efforts to ensure that Tuberculosis (TB) is reduced in Nigeria, the federal government in collaboration with KNCV, USAID, and other development partners, have taken sensitization and screening to people in Wuse market, Abuja. Apart from creating awareness about TB, people are also being tested for free and linked to the nearest treatment facility if they are found to be positive to TB. The Executive Director for KNCV Tuberculosis Foundation Nigeria, and the chairman of the National organizing committee for the world TB day 2020, Dr. Bethran Odume, made this known in Abuja during the event. While speaking with journalists, Dr. Odume said: “What we are doing here in Wuse market is what we can call the ‘market storm’. Most TB day we try to create awareness throughout the community; Most times, we engage in a community outreaches. “However, this year, we have decided to come to Wuse market to create awareness. The theme of world TB day for this year is – ‘it is time to end TB in Nigeria’. Nigeria will need to join other countries to ensure that we end the TB epidemic. “The Wellness on Wheels (WOW) truck is actually a one-stop shop for TB screening and diagnosis. We also have linkage coordinators to link anybody that is diagnosed with TB to any treatment site in the FCT. “Within the WOW truck, we first do a screening to ask the individual if they have basic symptoms of TB – coughing, night sweats, weight loss, etc. Once any of the symptoms is there, the individual is actually termed a presumptive TB, then he or she passes through the WOW truck to have an automated chest X-ray that will be able to profile those that are likely to have TB.  “Once a person is likely to have TB based on the score in the machine, such person goes to submit his or her sputum for gene xpert analysis within the truck. In a space of one to two hours, anybody coming in here should be able to have his or her result and linked for TB treatment”. The Coordinator for TB for the World Health Organization (WHO) Nigeria, Dr. Ayodele Awe, also said: “March 24th every year is commemorated as the World TB day. The WHO days are supposed to provide awareness about the disease. It is the day that the germs that causes Tuberculosis was detected in 1882. “On this day, we encourage government’s programs to organize sensitization activities about the disease within communities. This is to raise awareness within the community about the plight of TB. Nigeria still has the highest burden of tuberculosis in Africa. “Each year, we are supposed to detect about 490,000 TB case. However, in spite of all our activities, we are only able to detect about 120,000 TB cases. It means that there are still about 300,000 cases that are missing. Therefore, every person need to know what the early symptoms of TB are. “In 1991, Tuberculosis was declared a global emergency, and since that time Nigeria has been the number one country out of the countries in Africa that has the highest burden. Right now we still have the highest burden, but we are not detecting all our cases. “Tuberculosis is still a major problem in Nigeria; where we are looking for COVID-19, we should not forget that Tuberculosis and COVID-19, also have similar symptoms like coughing and sneezing. “We have about 100 persons going into different shops and asking the people in the market that if they have been coughing for 2 weeks or more, they should come to get tested because we have a machine that can test if a person has TB or not. “Instead of waiting for people to come into the hospital to test for TB, we have brought the machines to the market so that anybody that is coughing can be tested and the testing is free of charge”. The Director and Head of Advocacy, Communication and Social Mobilization at the National Tuberculosis and Leprosy Control Programme (NTBLCP) of the Federal Ministry of Health, Mrs. Itohowo Uko, also added: “We are here as part of the activities lined up for the world TB day 2020 celebration. we have decided to use the market target market storm, because the market is a place where you have different people – both buyers and sellers come together. “Wuse market is a big market so we thought that it will be a good place for us to actually get as many people as possible to pass the information on Tuberculosis because the level of awareness in Nigeria is quite low. “Our message is that tuberculosis is an airborne disease but treatable and incurable. The federal government, with support from our partners have actually made available both the diagnostic tools and the medication (treatment) free.”