SIR: The challenge and scale of this strange and sudden infestation, Coronavirus has left the world in a combination of fear, confusion and indignation. The responses have also been a combination of tentative, measured and unmeasured initiatives as the world throws all it knows at a problem that we know so little about. Indeed, it is becoming quite clear that the notion that certain regions will be spared the scourge of this deadly pestilence is an abject fallacy. The world is a mobile village, and in a vibrant and dynamic village, the velocity of interactions suggest that experiences are easily and rapidly projected and transferred across the community albeit a global one. We are beginning to find out that the matter is closer than we think or would wish. So, having recently arrived from two “high risk” and “hot spot” locations in Europe, I decided to self-isolate last week and observe the mandatory 14 days distancing period. However, Tuesday March 24, with the growing number of identified cases in Nigeria, I decided to take the test. The team of the NCDC health workers who conducted the test were extremely professional and I would like to use this opportunity to salute our health workers and officials who are daring the odds and taking significant risks to keep us safe and well. The result finally came out and it was NEGATIVE for me, my colleague and our spouses. Glory be to God. I learnt a lot from the experience of the past few days, and this has affected my perspective of what we are dealing with in the sense of this pandemic, and how we need to rise as one humanity to ensure that we do our best to defeat this global enemy. The first lesson I learnt is that this situation does not call for gloom nor glee. The virus is not contracted by indulging in an irresponsible lifestyle (if you take deliberate unhygienic behaviors out of that definition), such as is sometimes the case with other communicable diseases such as AIDS. So, there is no need to glee over or stigmatize anyone. Most rational people do not go courting illness. No one deliberately goes looking for Malaria, Cancer or Coronavirus.  Sicknesses generally do not discriminate according to social or economic status or position as we are beginning to better appreciate. The second lesson, I have learnt from with regards to the Covid 19 pandemic is that the situation we face can easily become incurably overwhelming, if we allow ourselves to be frozen into confusion or worse still, inaction. The question usually asked is “what can I do” or “what is the government doing”? My sense is that we have no time for the luxury of such inquiries. We need to get up and do something and as someone starts, others will follow. We cannot pretend that we know all the issues or have all the information we need to be guided into precise decisions with predictable outcomes, but we need to act in line with what we know and we refine and adapt as we execute. But we certainly cannot afford to do nothing. That will be catastrophic and will put the well-being of the people at serious jeopardy. I am glad to note that already, the famed Nigerian spirit of ingenuity and indomitability is beginning to show up. A wonderful lady who I know quite closely has started to crowdfund, albeit on a small scale, a process through which monies are made available to some of the most vulnerable in our society whose normal sources of income are through daily enterprise, which are being affected by the necessary “stay-at-home order”. That is action. That is an example of what can be done. Another friend of mine, of course much wealthier than this lady, has shared with me a plan to convert the “This Day Dome” in Abuja into a 500-bed facility. That is action. That is an example of what can be done. #I will do something. We have all got to be thinking of what we can do in the event that this pandemic egregiously fractures the supply chain of the physical essentials of life and living. Food. Water. Medicine. Electricity. It is my hope that the providers of some of our utilities will show good faith and sensitivity in this situation, by not cutting supply of electricity and telecommunications services. I hope our hospitals also extend humane gestures at this time to critical cases who may be financially constrained. #I will do something. 