The Founder of African Fashion Development and Empowerment Centre, Adeola Ogunkolade has called for more support for women so that they can become economically empowered and promote peace and stability in the mist of a diverse country like Nigeria. Ogunkolade made this called at foundation trains hundred women in indigenous craft of tie and die popularly called ‘Adire’, recently at Nike Gallery, Lagos. The event held in commemoration of the International Women’s Day, had women from all walks of life in order explore the beauty of Nigeria’s culture, fashion and her indigenous craft. She said women make up slightly 50% of the population in Nigeria and their contribution towards the growth and stability of the country can never be undermined. She noted that empowering women economically will bring stability to homes, communities and bring the desired peace to the society at large. According to her, “the goal of the programme is to empower as many women as possible and alleviate poverty from the society. Women’s independence is pivotal in achieving this because of their abilities to easily grasp fashion or crafts.” On why she chose arts and culture, she asserted that: “since the olden days, artworks have always meant something significant to Nigeria and Africa, by extension. ‘These are the things we celebrate – history in our culture – and the foreign people are fascinated about us because of the richness in this way of life.’ She noted that after the training program, trainees will now join a network of over three thousand Alumni for idea exchange, project partnerships as well as grants opportunities to bolster their businesses. Readily available to exhibit the result of her new skill to the foreign investors at the gallery,  a DR. Congo fashionpreneur, simply identified as Mirabel, thanked AFDEC for the magnanimity in daring to make women self-reliant, which is tandem with #EachforEqual, the United Nations’ 2020 campaign theme for IWD. “This is a lifetime opportunity for me and now is just an opportunity for me to thank all the facilitators. Particularly, I like the idea of helping ladies maximize their capacities, secure their positions in the world today”. “As a fashion designer, this new skill will really help me promote the Nigerian culture”, Mirabel noted excitedly”, she said.