 Housemate, Mr. Offiong Edet Anthony, popularly known as ‘Thin Tall Tony’, is set to return on stage as Eroz Theatre births in Ikorodu with the play Bending and Bonding. Written by Paul Ugbedeh and directed by Babs Ademoye, the show parades array of highly talented artistes including “Thin Tall Tony” as Pastor Chikeoluwa, Kelvin Alozie Dede as Dele, Mary Abishai Akam as Itoro, and Irene Chiadika as Aunty. Bending and Bonding is a sidesplitting play, a satire of the battles couples go through in marriage and how they try to solve them. Itoro and Dele are going through a marriage crisis. For Itoro, their grace to grass life style, engineered by Dele’s reckless economic lifestyle must stop if this marriage must work. Dele is determined to put behind him, his mistakes of the past and he want to do it by doing the same mistake. Each of the couple tries to find a solution to their marriage and the solutions came – through two unlikely means. Issues raised in the play include suicide, sex, finance, religion and infidelity. Speaking with art writers the artistes share their thoughts on the initiative Eroz Theatre and the play Bending and Bonding. Thin Tall Tony, who plays the role of Pastor, says he is excited to be part of the show. “The play, ‘Bending and Bonding’, is one of a kind. It’s very interesting and it’s a simple play that talks that we don’t have a lot of communication as families sometimes, we assume a lot, and if it is a situation we’re we have to come together, talk about it and clear our differences, we should be able to do that earlier. If we detect that there is a problem, communication is key. But the play is also very hilarious. Eroz Theatre is an opportunity for us also to bring elites here in Ikorodu to come out and experience theatre. Most of us have worked with very known production houses on the Island in Lagos and outside as well but a lot of people leave here and go to the Island, pay money to watch plays, when many of the talented artistes residing here in Ikorodu. So coming up with this initiative to give people in Ikorodu better run for their money and class too, I am really excited about it.” For Dede Kevin Alozie who plays the role of Dele, Itoro’s husband, one of the characters in the play, Eroz Theatre is a brilliant idea. “It is actually to launch the Eroz Theatre. We’ve been thinking about this fantastic idea, bringing theatre here to Ikorodu, doing something here. We want to establish Ikorodu theatre here and be able to actually get our own audience as well so that half the time you stay back in Ikorodu to do your stuff. You don’t have to go to the Island; you don’t have to go to Surulere. That is what we are trying to do. We’ve been on it for a long time, and it is a good thing that it is starting now.”