Kaduna State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) has donated relief materials to victims of bandits attacks in some villages of Igabi Local Government Area. Presenting the items to the victims on Thursday in Kaduna, Maimunatu Abubakar. Its Executive Secretary, Hajia Maimunatu Abubakar, who presented the items yesterday in Kaduna, said 400 persons were displaced. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that bandits attacked five communities on Sunday, leading to the death of 51 persons. Abubakar said the items were provided by the state government to support the victims. She listed the items to include bags of rice, noodles, blankets, mattresses, palm and vegetable oil. According to her, the gesture is to reduce the suffering of the victims who were displaced from their homes during the attack. The SEMA boss added that the agency had carried out full assessment of the damages from the attack. Chairman of Igabi Local Government Area, Mr Jabir Khamis, who received the items on behalf of the victims, hailed the state government for the gesture. He assured the agency that the local government would immediately distribute the items to families of the victims. Khamis urged the state government to improve the security measures in the area to protect the residents from further attacks. Also, the senator representing Kaduna Central, Uba Sani, has pledged to settle the medical bills of the victims in Giwa and Igabi local government areas. Sani also donated foodstuffs and other items valued at N3 million to the victims. The senator, who condemned the attack, urged the communities to be more vigilant. He urged security agencies to stop banditry across the state. In a statement by his Strategic Communications Officer, Ibrahim Salisu Abubakar, the senator listed the communities that will get his support. They include Kerawa, Maina, Rago in Igabi Local Government Area, as well as Bokali in Giwa Local Government Area. Sani said his constituency officers would handle the matter. The statement explained that “a victim of the attack, whose legs were burnt by the bandits, was also taken to hospital for medical care, courtesy of the senator”. Sani’s delegation for the distribution of the food items and other materials included Giwa Local Government chairman and notable community leaders in the affected areas, all his zonal constituency officials and Igabi Local Government Coordinator, Tanimu Jaja.