Kwara Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq has congratulated Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu on his 68th birthday anniversary. The governor described Tinubu as a political giant “with enviable records of commitment to democracy, rule of law, and national development.” “Asiwaju Tinubu has proven himself as not just a patriot of continental acclaim but a critical part of Nigeria’s democratic history. But beyond this is the fact that Asiwaju has successfully built bridges across tongues and climates and that makes him a true nationalist,” AbdulRazaq said in a statement. “On this auspicious occasion of Asiwaju’s birthday, I congratulate him and his entire family. I wish him good health and many more years to continue to contribute to national growth for which he is known.”
Also All Progressives Congress (APC) Chairman in the state Bashir Bolarinwa described Tinubu as a legendary leader. Bolarinwa added Tinubu’s contributions to national development will remain a reference point for students of Nigerian political history for many years to come. In a congratulatory message to celebrate the former Lagos State governor’s 68th birthday,the Kwara APC chair said Tinubu is a quintessential mobilizer, strategic thinker, visionary nationalist, defender of democracy and the Rule of Law and a friend of the downtrodden. Hon Bolarinwa described Asiwaju’s capacity for identifying and grooming leaders sets him apart from other class of leaders who are unwilling to hand over the rein to their protégés. Said he: “Our leader has over the years ensured the sustenance of his legacy by identifying and thrusting leadership upon those that have continued on his set path of re-engineering Lagos and in a larger sense, the political firmament of our nation. “Asiwaju’s contribution and perspective to national discuss are trail blazing, pathfinding and illuminating. “My leader, as you celebrate another birthday, l wish you many more healthy years of service to our dear fatherland and urge you to continue to be our standard bearer as we seek a broader leadership perspective.”