A suspected assassin, Moses Okoi, 28, was Monday arraigned before a Lagos Magistrates’ Court sitting in Igbosere for allegedly attempting to kill a female pastor, Janet Ogunsola. Okoi, who had been on the run since October, 2019 was arrested by Operatives of the Federal Special Anti-robbery squad FSARS on Adeniji Adele Road, Lagos Island, and accused of conspiring with two others, already on trial, for attempting to kill the female pastor. Prosecuting counsel, CSP Charles Onwumere told the court that Pastor Benjamin Akinsanya, 56, in-charge of the Life House Ministry at Ojo, Lagos allegedly sponsored Okoi and others still at large to eliminate Ogunsola to stop her spiritual popularity over him in church ministry in Ojo area of Lagos. Other suspects already facing trial alongside the pastor over the alleged crime were Darlington Oriji, 25 and liberty Elvis,20. Following the arrest of Okoi, the police consolidated the charge sheet and re-arraigned him with the pastor and two others yesterday before the Igbosere Chief Magistrate Court, Lagos on a four-count charge bordering on attempted murder before Magistrate A A Famobiwo. CSP Onwumere further alleged that Pastor Akinsanya paid the suspects N500,000 to kill the female pastor in charge of Glorious Chapel Ministry located at 1, Adeleye Street, Ojo, Lagos to stop her soaring spiritual popularity over him in the area. The Federal Special Anti-robbery Squad (FSARS) said trouble started in October, 2019 when the suspects invaded the residence of the complainant with others still at large, armed with guns with intent to kill her. It was alleged that when the defendants, suspected to be members of Aiye Cult confraternity in Ojo, Lagos could not find the complainant, they allegedly shot sporadically into her residence and left. They pleaded not guilty. One of the counts in charge number F/05A/2020 stated: “ that you Pastor Benjamin Akinsanya,56, Darlington Oriji, 23; Liberty Elvis , 20 and Moses Okoi, 28, and others still at large in October, 2019 did attempt to unlawfully kill one Janet Ogunsoola by shooting sporadically at her residence at 1, Adeleye street, Ojo, Lagos contrary to and punishable
under sections 411, 230 (a) (b) and 287 (5) (a) of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. Magistrate Famobiwo has adjourned the case until April 8, 2020 for further hearing.