 Dear Reader, Truly, it has been a glorious month and time for us all. Having learnt that man is a true being and the ways one can develop the spirit and mind. Today our focus shall be on physical development as I conclude this series. Clearly, there are three important things you must know, if you must develop physically. They are: diligence, understanding the covenant of prosperity and patience. Let us examine each one of them carefully: Diligence is defined as determination and careful effort in undertaking a task. Diligence is a must if you will develop physically. An important thing to note is that if you will end up standing before kings, then you must work hard. The Bible says, Seest thou a man diligent in his business? he shall stand before kings; he shall not stand before mean [men] (Proverbs 22:29). Evidently, even though God is the doer of all great things, the spirit of diligence brings them to manifestation. Lack of diligence has kept many at the same point. Your stagnation is finally over. Diligence is what makes one prominent. It makes one significant and takes people up. You have a choice today to either be diligent or negligent. Secondly, you need to understand the covenant of prosperity.  Why do you require an understanding of the covenant of prosperity? Because prosperity is your birthright. If you do not want to die in abject poverty, you must practice the covenant as the covenant only answers to practitioners. The covenant of prosperity can be found in Genesis 8:22, While the earth remaineth, seedtime and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease. You must understand that there is a time for sowing and reaping. When it is time to give your offering, do so, without compromise so you can enjoy your season of harvest. The day a farmer plants a seed, is not the same day he will harvest it. You need to learn patience. Remember that life is in phases and men are in sizes. The Bible tells us that … the path of the just is as the shining light, that shineth more and more unto the perfect day (Proverbs 4:18).  There was a time when it was my privilege to eat beans and garri (cassava flakes) for dinner, so that there would be no need for breakfast the next day; but today, the story has changed positively! As you work at developing yourself consistently, may your story also change for the better! Clearly, life is a process and patience is needed for God to take your blessings through a process of perfection. One of the purpose of patience is to teach us adherence to process which leads to perfection. We see from Scripture, how God broke the stages of creation into several segments. He is a God of principles and He will never compromise his principles irrespective of human pressure. People who are not patient are simply despising processes and the Originator of the same. God’s wants to bless you, but you must be willing to exercise patience so that you can be fully matured and ready for the fullness of his blessing. Many just wants to To experience the blessings of God that makes rich and adds no sorrow, you must accept Jesus Christ into your life. If you are not yet born again and you desire to do so right now, please pray this prayer with faith in your heart: Dear Lord Jesus Christ, I come to You today. I am a sinner. Forgive me my sins and cleanse me with Your Blood. I accept You as my Lord and personal Saviour. Make me a child of God today. Thank You for delivering me from sin and satan to serve the living God and thank You for accepting me into Your Kingdom. Congratulations! If you prayed this simple prayer of faith with me, you are now born again and a child of God. He loves you and will never leave you. Read your Bible daily, obey God’s Word and seek Christian fellowship (John 14:21). With this, you are guaranteed all-round rest and peace in Jesus’ Name! Call or write to share your testimonies with me through oyedepofaitha@gmail.com, 07026385437 OR 08141320204.  For more insight, these books authored by me are available at the Dominion Bookstores in all Living Faith Churches and other leading Christian bookstores: Make your Life Count, Marriage Covenant, Making Marriage Work, Building a Successful Home and Success in Marriage (Co-Authored). 