 Chairman, Academic Staff Union of Universities-Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida University (ASUU-IBBU) Dr Kudu Dangana, has stated why lecturers might continue the strike even after the two weeks’ warning strike declared by its national body that will expire tomorrow. The national body of the union on Monday, last week began a two- week warning strike in protest against the non-payment of salaries to federal universities, an attempt by the Federal Government to enrol ASUU on Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS), as well as its failure to respect the agreement reached in 2009. Dangana told CAMPUSLIFE that ASUU-IBUUL still has some ‘in-house’ challenges, which he said might extend the strike, if urgent steps are not taken. He said Earned Academic Allowance (EAA), and promotion arrears, among others.  “Our EAA is paid in an amputated form which is very unjust on the side of the state government. Enough is enough, we cannot continue receiving our allowances immaturely,”Dangana told CAMPUSLIFE. “Also, our promotion arrears are not being paid effectively, especially of those integrating from senior lecturers to associate professors and up to professors. All these together with other issues provided by the national body triggered our chapter to join the struggle. Reacting to this, Dangana said: “Government has directed that all parastatals and ministries should be paid through  and ASUU felt it is against the autonomous feature of universities. So ASUU cannot join” Suggesting an alternative, Dangana said government could set up a visitation panel that will be monitoring universities in order to keep them accountable. He said: “We can’t join IPPIS but the government can set up a visitation panel that will solely monitor the influx of funds coming into the universities and how they are being used. “Another reason is that our members in federal universities are not paid and ASUU strongly believe that an injury against one is an injury against all.” Going down memory lane, Dangana said after ASUU strike of 2009, the government promised N200 billion to be allocated for universities yearly. But, the money was only paid once and subsequently evaded. Assuring the public of the union’s integrity, Dangana, affirmed that some of the demands by ASUU are not only for their benefits but also for the welfare of the students as well as ensuring an improved system of education.  