Imo Governor, Senator Hope Uzodimma has ordered the immediate closure of all primary, secondary and tertiary institutions in the state to contain the spread of coronavirus. He also announced plan to establish a specialist hospital for suspected and confirmed cases. Uzodimma, in a broadcast to the people of Imo State on measures to prevent and control the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) on Saturday, stated that he was taking elaborate steps to ensure that the health and wellbeing of Imolites remain priority of his administration. He stated: “As a responsible Government, we have done our home work and I can assure you that there is truly no cause for alarm. All the necessary measures have been put in place to ensure that the virus does not find a breeding space in Imo State. Be rest assured that we shall not leave any stone unturned in ensuring that our people are safe, well protected by providing the necessary tool and expertise needed for maximum protection from coronavirus pandemic.” He further reiterated that he has inaugurated a star-studded Coronavirus Protection and Control Committee headed by Prof. Maurice Iwu to commence surveillance of all strata of the state for effective prevention and control of the disease. Uzodimma said that arrangements have been put in place to test all passengers arriving at the Sam Mbakwe International Cargo Airport, Owerri for symptoms of the virus. The Governor assured that “any passenger that manifests signs of the disease will first be taken to a bay that has been set up at the Airport for further examination. If confirmed that the symptoms are manifest, the passenger will immediately be taken to the test centres and if positive, quarantined at the isolation centre.” On some of the actions already taken by the government for prevention and control of COVID-19 pandemic, Uzodimma stated: “A state-of-the-art modern Ambulance has been provided for the Committee to facilitate its operations. “This ambulance is equipped with necessary medical gadgets for quick analysis and test for the virus and will be on 24 hours standby to respond to any emergency anywhere in the state. In addition, we are liaising with the National Centre for Disease Control to ensure that we buy into the Federal Government’s Corona Virus prevention roadmap. Similarly, we are tracking global updates on the disease so as to remain ever vigilant on global efforts, control and eradication.” The Governor further noted that arrangements have been concluded to establish a Specialist Hospital specifically charged with control and prevention of the contagious disease. This, he said will ensure that neither Corona virus nor any other contagious virus will be a threat to Imo people in the future.