Youth and Sports Development Minister Sunday Dare has commended the International Olympic Committee for postponing the Tokyo 2020 Olympics due to the COVID-19 pandemic. “The IOC must be commended for postponing the Olympics in the best interest of the whole world,” explained Dare.“ This is in response to the general calls across the globe to have it moved to a time when the virus would have abated. “As much as we were all looking up to the event, the safety and well-being of the athletes , officials and fans alike is of paramount importance. We cannot afford to toy with the lives of millions of people around the world. At a time like this, this is the best way to go.” Following calls for the postponement of the Games by the super powers including countries like USA, Canada, Australia amongst others due to  the spread of the COVID-19, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and IOC President Thomas Bach said at a joint press conference yesterday  that the decision to move the games to a later date  was in the best interest of the whole world  until the situation returns to normal. They resolved that the event would remain in Japan and retain the name Tokyo 2020. Dare  further affirmed that the IOC cannot stand alone, adding  it had taken the decision in the overall best interest of all Olympic families: “This decision is an attestation of the fact that the IOC is sensitive and puts  premium on the safety of people. This would douse any fear or tension about going against the general consensus which clamoured for a shift in date. We believe that once the pandemic is over, the world can come together in unity to celebrate sports biggest fiesta.” In a related development, the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF) President, Engr Musa Kida, he commended the IOC for taking such a bold but difficult decision to postpone an iconic event for the good and safety of the world. According to him, this is one of the major decisions taken across the globe necessary for tackling the pandemic that has continued to threaten human existence. “Postponement of the 2020 Tokyo Olympics is the right step taken at such a critical time because as the saying goes, nothing is worth human life. We know this decision will come at an additional cost to sponsors, vendors, the government of Japan, participating countries and their athletes, but it is a necessary step.” Kida said if we have to protect the human existence as it is currently known, there is need for governments around the world to come around, unite and fight the pandemic which till now has no known cure. The senior basketball men and women’s teams have qualified for the 2020 Olympics earlier scheduled for the iconic city of Tokyo between Friday, July 24 and Saturday, August 9, 2020.