 SOMETIME in September 2004, Odia collapsed at a lecture hall at the Obafemi Awolowo University just as he was about to deliver a public lecture. To the consternation of everyone present, Odia passed out completely and only came back to consciousness at the University Teaching Hospital to which he had been rushed. The next time that I saw him in person after that event, I asked him what exactly was the thing that caused his collapse. His response to my question was, so to speak, speculative and conjectural, not scientific and objective. This caused me to provide what I thought was a proper scientific and materialist explanation for that collapse. But in order to soften the rigour of this “scientific” explanation, I spoke in Pidgin English: “Odia”, I said, “na poverty make you collapse that day; no be lack of sleep, tiredness or small, small fever wey you been get the week before; na poverty, pure and simple!” I was greatly pleased that Odia understood and took well the intended joke behind my suggestion of poverty as the cause of his collapse that day in Ife in September 2004. But the truth is that I was also in earnest in my suggestion of poverty as the culprit, the nemesis. Permit me to start my lecture this morning from this observation. But before doing so, let me very briefly “appreciate” the man for and about whom we are gathered here in celebration today and tomorrow. Let me also note parenthetically here that in the idiom or parlance of Nigerian English as a derivative of the discourse of religiosity, to “appreciate” in Nigeria now means to glorify. I hope that it will be obvious in the course of my lecture that my “appreciation”, my glorification of Odia will be critical. Mr. Chairman, your excellencies Executive Governors, fellow scholars, writers and artists, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, all protocols duly observed, let me start by saying that it is a great honour and privilege to have been invited to give this Keynote Lecture. But where does one start with the task of “appreciating” Odia? It is one thing to be one of the most prolific writers of Nigeria and Africa of all time as Odia is, indisputably. He has produced more than forty books of poetry, polemics, nonfiction prose, choreopoems better known as “poems for dance drama” and cultural journalism. But it is something else entirely to also be one of the most revolutionary of the poets across several generations of poets in our continent. Moreover, consider the fact that for more than forty years from the 1970s when Odia started writing to the present time, his productivity has been  unceasingly sustained. And there is this also enormously crucial aspect of Odia’s intellect as a formidable polymath whose poetic and intellectual works are informed by and breadth of learning, both for its own sake and in dazzling application to many of the subjects, themes and concerns of his works. For instance, in works like A House of Many Mansions and In Search of Ogun: Soyinka In Spite of Nietzsche, we encounter a great parade of the thoughts of the world’s greatest scholars and writers of the past and the present, African, European, American and Asian, the likes of whom one hardly ever encounters in a single work by any author. And yet, they say Odia went to Oxford and did  not complete his studies towards the Ph D. Who needs a Ph D when he or she is already enormously self-educated to the highest possible standards of higher learning? These are all rare achievements but quoting Toyin Falola quoting Fela Kuti, let me say here that “I never finish”! Never finish what? “Appreciating” Odia! I invoke Fela here for one particular reason. Like Odia, he was immensely prolific; his productivity was sustained unstoppably through the three and half decades of the tumult of his life and music. But Fela’s productivity, his prolificness was deeply marked by his inventiveness in the genres, forms and idioms of music. He was trained in classical, “scored” traditions of music, but he went far and wide into musical and perfomative idioms of the heritage of African folk music to the sounds and smarts of the street. And this generic or formal inventiveness of Fela was expressed both across and within genres. So it is with Odia, as it is also, I might add, with Soyinka and Osofisan. In Odia’s specific case, it could be argued that beyond writing within and across several or diverse genres, he invented some new generic hybrids in Nigerian and African Anglophone poetry and prose. For instance, take the medium or idiom of prose or, more specifically, nonfiction prose. It has been accurately observed that Odia is, among other things, a veritable polemicist. What is often left out of this declaration is the fact that in many of Odia’s polemical, nonfiction essays, he freely mixes idioms of discourse that are ordinarily or normatively kept separate and apart: long, circuitous ruminations with impeccable scholarly references right next to tangential or side remarks that read like Fela’s famous “yapis” at the Shrine; searching analyses derived from close readings of complex and challenging texts combined with passages of loquacious asides that one might find in the “Amebo” idioms of the market and the oral social media. I never finish but for now, make I stop there, country people. The main point, I hope, has been vigorously argued: the work of Odia in the last four decades is a bountiful harvest that is worth celebrating, especially against the background of the fact that at age 70, he is still as active and productive as ever. This leads me to the point about poverty with which I began this talk. Now, it would seem that from the profile I have given here of Odia’s workaholic lifestyle and productivity, his collapse at Ife in September 2004 was probably or arguably due more to overwork and exhaustion than anything else. Or else it was due to nothing more than the vagaries of life itself as embodied and lived in the frailties and vulnerabilities of our bodies and their organs and tissues. So how does poverty come into the discussion? Well, the fact is that poverty is so much a constitutive aspect or expression of Odia’s life and identity that it is universally taken for granted and never really made an object of critical discussion about him and his works. Today, in my lecture, I wish to correct this evasion or silence regarding the place of poverty in Odia’s work and lifestyle. Put at the simplest level of a formal proposition, this is what I am claiming and asserting here: poverty did not choose Oda; Odia it was who chose poverty. Since the details of Odia’s early life are well known, some people might jump straight to the conclusion that I have in mind in making this observation or declaration the fact that Odia’s early life up to his young adulthood was indeed marked by poverty and hardship. For those who are unfamiliar with this aspect of our celebrant’s early life, please read the short bio of Odia written by the organizers of this conference in the circulated/distributed Program of proceedings. But this is not the poverty I have in mind here. Yes, abject, literal poverty may have chosen Odia in his younger years without waiting for an invitation, but once the celebrant, against all the odds, became a university graduate and a top-flight journalist and member of the national intelligentsia, he could have parted company with poverty forever. But he chose not to do so. Let me put this across in a slightly different formulation: Odia’s talent, his work as journalist, media administrator and doyen could quite easily have fetched him, if not enormous wealth, at least a comfortable existence in our country. After all, this is what nearly everybody does who ever gets the rare chance to join the cultural and literary elite in our country: make it rich and become fortified against poverty as quickly as possible; if you can’t become a billionaire, at least become a multi-millionaire in double or triple digits. Odia did effectively and brilliantly join the national literati more than forty years ago, and this at the very top rung of the ladder. But he did not part company with poverty; rather, he embraced it and lived it, as Jesus Christ of Nazareth and his disciples did and as Mahatma Gandhi of India did. Unlike these figures out of history and religion, Odia never formally took the vows of poverty, but he might as well have done so since poverty is such a remarkable aspect of his work, his life, his identity. Permit me to put some flesh on the bare bones, the skeleton of this profile. As far as one can tell from the profile of his biography sketched by the organizers of this conference, the last time that Odia had a regular, paid employment was 1999. That is some twenty-one years ago. One could say that since then, he has been self-employed, living on earnings made by the Hornbill House of Culture, the organization he set up to publish and distribute nearly all his works and produce dance dramas based on his poems. But everyone knows that Hornbill House has not made it rich; as a matter of fact, there is reasonable doubt that it was ever intended to make Odia rich. Meanwhile, rumuor has it that Odia neither has a car nor owns the house in which he lives. I know that once upon a time long ago, he did have a jalopy, but he now traverses Lagos and the country, either in public transportation or in rides with friends or acquaintances travelling to the same locations as himself. Most significant of all, it is well known that like some writers and artists of other places and eras of human cultural history, Odia has had what you might call “patrons”, these being lovers of writing, art and culture, who have provided some material support for his needs and his projects. But precisely because such support by “patrons” is normatively irregular and whimsical if not sometimes compromising, Odia has stolidly maintained his independence of all “patrons” and consequently, his art and his intellect have remained his own. This is the heart of the matter in this lecture: poverty as a form of wealth, a source of extraordinary emotional and ideological fortification in life, art and culture. Of course, I am talking here of poverty in a very special sense. I have already given a hint of this kind of poverty by invoking the examples of Christ and Gandhi. I now add as a supplement, the philosophical tradition which holds that the only way to be wealthy is to want and own as little as possible since the craving for wealth is often not only insatiable but also destructive of genuine human capacities for compassion, fellow-feeling, altruism and the pursuit of public good. Let me put this across as simply as possible. Odia could quite easily have gone into academia and become a celebrated scholar; he could have become a media executive of the highest caliber; and he could easily have used the breadth and reach of his contacts among the powerful and the wealthy of our country and other parts of the world to become rich. But he chose to live and work, literally and ideologically, among the poor and the disadvantaged. Among all members of the upper echelons of the contemporary Nigerian literati, he is almost alone in making that choice. This is significant in itself, but far more significant is the fact that it comes, in my opinion, from Odia’s lifelong, almost maniacal devotion to the word. This is the second, longer and more substantive part of this lecture. Time now for me to go to it directly.   