  The Director General of the Progressive Governors Forum, Dr. Salihu Lukman, on Friday called for the immediate intervention of President Muhammadu Buhari in the crisis in the All Progressives Congress (APC). Lukman, in a statement issued in Abuja, said the President holds the ace to bring the conflict to an amicable end. Buhari being the APC leader, he said, should carry the burden of the party. Lukman also appealed to all party leaders to work for the institutionalization of the party so that it can continue to provide the needed leadership for the political development of the country beyond Buhari’s tenure in 2023. Besides, he asked the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the APC to name an acting  National Chairman following a court order restraining the national chairman of the party, Comarade Adams Oshiomhole, from functioning in that capacity for now. He said: “First, pending the settlement of all the cases around Comrade Oshiomhole’s membership, we need to invoke provisions of Article 17 (vi) which provide that in the event of a vacancy, ‘the relevant party organ shall appoint another person to act in his place pending ratification by the National Convention or Congress.’ “The relevant party organ, in this case, may have to be the National Executive Committee (NEC). Given all the vacancies, about six so far, National Chairman, Deputy National Chairman (South), Deputy National Chairman (North), National Vice Chairman (North West), National Secretary and National Auditor, who convenes the NEC? “This is where the organizing, consultation and negotiating capacity of our leaders will be tested. “Combinations of the majority of the remaining members of the NWC in consultation with President Buhari, governors, other party leaders who are leading members of the National Caucus can resolve all these issues and convene the NEC to appoint an Acting National Chairman. “With the appointment of an Acting National Chairman, the next would be to seek to invoke provisions of Article 25 A(i) of the APC constitution, which stipulate that the ‘National Convention of the Party shall be held once in Two (2) years at a date, venue and time to be recommended by the National Working Committee and approved by the National Executive Committee subject to the giving of statutory notice to Independent National Electoral Commission and at least fourteen (14) day notice given to members eligible to attend.’ “Already, this is the second year since the last Convention in 2018 where Comrade Oshiomhole-led NWC was elected. What this means is that with or without our current challenges, we are actually due for a National Convention”, he added. Lukman did not spare the APC NWC, accusing it of constituting itself into an unaccountable assembly of people with thuggish temperament. His words: “The business of leaders will not be to intimidate party members to accept their positions. Somehow, this is the locus of all our challenges. “Whether we want to accept it or not, we today found ourselves with the embarrassing situation whereby almost all the structures of the party have been frozen at all levels. This is certainly not the making of President Buhari. “The only possible structure that appears to be meeting is the National Working Committee (NWC), which is an administrative organ. “Even the NWC we are told that it is not united, so much that it could make a decision on January 14, 2020, and the announcement of its decision will only ‘coincidentally’ come on March 4, 2020, shortly after Justice Senchi issued the order for interlocutory injunction. “This is all because members of the Comrade Oshiomhole-led NWC have constituted themselves into an unaccountable assembly with a thuggish temperament, which seeks to browbeat every member of the party, especially aspiring candidates, into submission. “Interestingly, now all the issues around the current challenges are being reduced to contestation for 2023 almost in a way that suggests maybe the ‘stocks’ for 2023 have already been sold and therefore anyone that is complaining is doing so based on that prism. “It is simply a case of judging the dynamics and other standpoints based on the 2023 mindset that appeared to be informed by expectations of projected ‘stockbroking’ transactions.”  