The federal government has ordered the two remaining international airports in Lagos and Abuja closed to all international flights, effective from 11pm on Monday, March 23, 2020. Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, had on Friday, during a briefing of the State House Correspondents, hinted of an eventual closure of the two other international airports. However, on Saturday afternoon, the Director-General of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Captain Musa Nuhu, in a statement, announced the planned closure of the Murtala Muhammed Airport, Lagos, and Nnamdi Azikwe International Airport Abuja. The Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 had earlier on Friday announced the shutting the Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano; Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu and the Port-Harcourt International Airport, Omagwa, starting from 12am on Saturday, March 21, 2020. The statement, however, noted that emergency and essential flights are exempted from the restriction, adding also the all local flights would continue their normal schedules. “Further to our earlier letter on restriction of international flights into Nigeria, we wish to inform you that effective Monday 23 rd March at 2300Z to 23rd April at 2300Z, Murtala Muhammed Airport, Lagos (DNMM) and Nnamdi Azikwe International Airport Abuja (DNAA) will be closed to all International flights. “Emergency and essential fliqhts are exempted from this restriction. “This is in addition to the closure of Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano (DNKN), Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu (DNEN) and Port-Harcourt International Airport, Omagwa (DNPO) effective Saturday 21 March at 2300Z. “Henceforth, all airports in Nigeria are closed to all incoming international flights with the exception of emergency and essential flights. “Domestic flights will continue normal operations at all airports. “All airlines are required to submit passenger manifest to Port Health Authorities prior to arrival of flights into Nigeria.Please be guided accordingly,” the statement said.