Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) on Monday said that the ongoing Federal Government’s partial border closure is being interpreted differently by different people. NCS added that porous land borders and uncooperative attitude of most border community dwellers are inhibiting the smooth implementation of the policy. Border communities, in the view of the NCS, among other things, turn a blind eye to the activities of smugglers. Other factors that arose from the border closure, according to the spokesperson of the NCS Joseph Attah include restriction on importation of raw materials through land borders; restriction on exportation of finished goods through land borders and hostility towards Nigerian businesses in neighbouring countries. Mr. Attah who addressed reporters in Ilorin, the Kwara State capital, said, “Nigeria remains committed to the ongoing diplomatic engagements to finding lasting solutions to the concerns that necessitated the partial border closure. The government through diplomatic channels will continue to engage our neighbours on the need to comply with the ECOWAS Protocol on Transit. Goods that are on the prohibition list to Nigeria, such as rice, used clothing, poultry products, illicit drugs, vegetable oil should not be exported to Nigeria by our neighbours.” The Customs spokesperson said that the service used to generate between N4 billion and N5 billion daily, adding that since the border closure it now generates between N5 billion and N6 billion daily to the country’s coffers. He said the estimated worth of seized contraband items since the policy is N7.4 billion. Said he: “In the area of security, the ongoing exercise has recorded a number of seizures and arrests that would have had grave security consequences; 697 illegal immigrants have been arrested. “Also, some items seized include 86,602 of 50 kg bags of parboiled foreign rice; 1,172 vehicles; 2,997 drums filled with petrol; 16,771 jerry cans of vegetable oil;  66,000 litres of tankers of vegetable oil; 15,089 jerry cans of petrol and 695 bags of NPK fertilizer for making explosives. “It is important to note that 90 percent illicit drugs and weapons that are being used for acts of terrorism and kidnapping in Nigeria today came in through our porous land borders. This means that the arms and ammunition these terrorists and criminal elements were using no longer gain entry into the country.” He added that “our series of interactions and engagements with Rice Millers Association of Nigeria since the commencement of this exercise has shown that the border closure has impacted positively.”