 Chairman of the Lagos State Sports Commission (LSSC), Sola Aiyepeku has said the welfare of the athletes is important, as the state hopes to better its performance at the National Sports Festival (NSF) in Benin, Edo from March 22 to April 5. Lagos finished fourth at the last edition held at the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) in Abuja in 2018, with 36 gold, 37 silver and 73 bronze medals. However, Aiyepeku said all hands were on deck to ensure the state finishes in the top two positions in Edo by targeting 100 gold medals. He said that the athletes have been in closed camping for two weeks training under the guidance top class coaches. “For the first time in a long while athletes have been in camp since two weeks. By the time they move to Edo, it would have been the longest they have been in close camping. “The camping is better than what we had in 2018 and we are hoping they (athletes) will peak when the festival begins. We definitely have some hiccups but most of them have been solved and we are ready to meet the target the Governor gave to us. While admitting that the athletes had the right to peaceful protest, Aiyepeku noted failed promises by past administrators was to blame, noting that the present leadership of the LSSC has delivered all promises made to the athletes with the backing of the state government. “We were not doing anything different before last week when the athletes went on that protest. We have told them the same thing from February when we had the zonal elimination and we have been doing the same thing since then.” Aiyepeku stated that Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has promised juicy reward for the athletes and would also remunerate them for winning medals at the 2018 edition under the last administration. “Gold medal will attract an instant reward of N35,000; silver will attract N25, 000, while a bronze medalist will get N15, 000. After the event, they will get further monetary reward while the exact amount for the 2018 games will be made public this week. He also said that a second drug test was carried out on all the athletes yesterday to guide against doping.