  A FORMER Aide-de-Camp (ADC) to one-time Rivers State Governor Peter Odili has been arrested and grilled by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) over alleged N4, 000,000,000 fraudulent lodgments in his account. The EFCC had placed all accounts linked to Onyesom, a retired Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) under Post No Debit (PND). Odili is being investigated for alleged N100 billion fraud during his tenure between 1999 and 2007. In a fact-sheet released on Sunday by the anti-graft agency, the former ADC was arrested and quizzed on Friday EFCC’s investigation revealed the details of the Government House account domiciled in the Maitama branch, Abuja of a bank, which showed  that about N4 billion was withdrawn by Onyesom between 2004 and 2006 for undisclosed reasons. A former Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP),  was also one of the people that benefited from the Rivers State ‘bonanza’. Ali allegedly received a manager’s cheque of N100 million on November 28, 2005. The fact-sheet reads in part: “Investigations into the financial transactions were on when the ADC to the former governor suddenly retired from the Police and disappeared into thin air. “In his statement to the EFCC last Friday, the former ADC said the N4 billion he received in cash between 2004 and 2006 was handed over to his principal, Dr. Odili. He claimed that although the money came from Rivers State Government House account, he never knew what it was meant for. “He also claimed that he executed contracts in 2005 and 2011, but failed to provide details of the contract and evidence of job done, except that there were movements of funds to his company’s account and transferred to Dr. Peter Odili’s companies’ accounts. “The two companies belonging to the ADC that allegedly laundered funds for Odili from the Rivers State government’s account were Numac Project and Numac Global. “Some of Odili’s friends and close relations were beneficiaries of the funds for which details will be made available soon. “The Odili’s companies include: Pamo Group of Companies; Pamo Clinic and Hospitals; Orange and Orange and Pamo Educational Foundation. “The former ADC’s statement further showed that he confirmed receiving N4billion from Rivers State account. “Of the amount, he said he transferred N1.6 billion between 2015 and 2017 to his principal, ex-governor Odili’s company on the instruction of his boss. “He also explained that N1.4 billion was payment to his companies for contracts he executed in 2005.” The document gave insights into the interaction between EFCC investigators and Onyesom. EFCC added: “Asked if he was aware of the source of the funds paid to him, the former ADC said he was made to believe that it was his principal, ex-governor Odili’s pension. “But, he could also not explain why an ex-governor would want his pension paid through proxy. “Onyesom, who was interrogated from 9am to 8pm on Friday, before being released on bail, could also not explain why payments for contracts executed in 2005 were made 10 years after. “He could also not explain what qualified him to be awarded and be executing contracts, being a Police Officer, (an ASP) and an ADC to the then River State governor.” When contacted, the Acting Head of Media and Publicity, Mr. Tony Orilade, said: “It is true that the ADC was interrogated by our investigators.”