Dr Joel Akande  Hepatitis B is one of the most dangerous and virulent silent pestilence known to mankind. With over 400 millions affected worldwide (with Hepatitis C), it dwarfs HIV by a multiple of 10. 1.4 million deaths due to these infections every year and many more become newly infected. Unfortunately, Nigeria harbours a large population of Hepatitis B sufferers. Hepatitis B (and C) shares some similarities with HIV. While Hepatitis B may cause an acute illness becoming chronic, it may like HIV become a crawling illness in the body of the sufferer who may not even realise that he or she has been affected until the very late stage is reached: at which time, little or no help could be offered to the victim. Just as in HIV, the mode of transmission is similar: Hepatitis B is transmitted through unprotected heterosexual intercourse. Also by mother to child transmission during pregnancy. Unscreened blood transfusion can transmit the virus. The use of needle resulting in stick injuries and sharing of sharp objects as well as during formal and informal surgeries may lead to hepatitis B (and C) transmission. In fact, some groups are particularly vulnerable: drug addicts who inject drugs into their veins are open to the attack of the virus. Prevention: Just as for HIV, the preventive measures are similar. Also, preventing hepatitis B is far cheaper than treatment.  Know you sex partners. Screen your sex partners before sex. Stick to each other and avoid the risk of contracting infections from unfaithful partners. If unsure, use barrier methods to prevent infections. Also, if you have taken undue risks, go for pre-exposure preventive medicines within 72 hours of such exposure. Doctors will generally screen pregnant women and patients who are to undergo medical procedures. Never share needles, blades, clips within anyone. Blood meant for transfusion will be and should be thoroughly screened for relevant infections including hepatitis B (and C). Luckily, hepatitis B do have vaccines. Note: hepatitis C have no vaccine. This vaccine is effective and should be taken by all.  Vaccination against hepatitis B is amongst the national vaccination programme for children in Nigeria. Adults who are currently negative without natural immunity should receive vaccinations.  Also, if the benefit outweigh the risk, pregnant women may be vaccinated. The starting point is to be tested so you know your status.