 A Federal High Court in Abuja has ordered a retired Navy chief to permanently forfeit about N500 million believed to be proceeds of corruption to the Federal Government. But the case should not end at that.  The former naval officer should have his day in court to prove his innocence or be punished for his guilt. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) had dragged former Director of Navy Accounts, Rear Admiral Tahir Yusuf, with whom it found the huge cash before the court. The commission said, in court papers, that the money was held in seven accounts with two banks – five of the accounts in the name of Bitmas Enterprises, a company promoted by Yusuf; and the two others, in Yusuf’s own name. Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu, while ruling February 20 on an application by the anti-graft commission, ordered Yusuf to permanently forfeit to government N392,695,857.87, as well as $91,955.38 and £15,050 held in domiciliary accounts. In giving that order, she dismissed a claim by the ex-Navy chief that he made the money legitimately. In October 2018, the court had granted EFCC’s application for interim forfeiture and directed the commission to publish the order in a national daily for any interested party to claim the money. Acting on that prompt,Yusuf had filed a counter-affidavit, claiming ownership and arguing that the funds were from legitimate sources. The anti-graft body investigated Yusuf, alongside two other Navy chiefs, for alleged conspiracy, abuse of office and money laundering.  It was in the course of that investigation that it was discovered the seven accounts were linked to Yusuf. Court documents further revealed that Yusuf made a plea bargain proposal to the EFCC, by which he allegedly volunteered to forego N200million. But the anti-graft commission turned him down. In Nigeria’s existential battle against the ruinous menace of corruption, nothing should be conceded as could offer any modicum of comfort to perpetrators, especially when the courts adjudge them guilty. Take Yusuf,for instance: it was sheer temerity for a former public officer, with no verifiable means of lawfully amassing humongous cash, to argue with a straight face in court against forfeiture of the loot. This is more so when he had presided, in some form, over the public treasury while in service.  Yet, beyond forfeiting his suspected loot, no other penalty is known to have been applied against the ex-Navy chief to underscore the evil of corruption and disincentivise others who may want to follow his example. Of course, both the judiciary and the EFCC deserve some commendation – the judiciary for its sturdy support for the fight against corruption, and the EFCC for its relentless pursuit of suspected perpetrators. But we hold that it isn’t enough to just make an accused person return the money the court believes he had illicitly amassed. He should as well be made to serve appropriate jail term for the injury inflicted on national health. A glittering example of this principle of justice was the conviction, on February 25, of former National Publicity Secretary of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Olisa Metuh, who was sentenced to a cumulative jail term of 36 years, and fined N375million, for having laundered N400million received from the Office of the National Security Adviser (ONSA), under the Goodluck Jonathan presidency in 2014. Among other things, Justice Okon Abang of the Federal High Court also fined Metuh’s company, Dextra Investment Limited, N25million; and ordered that the firm be wound up and all its assets transferred to the Federal Government. In effect, Metuh is not only returning the money he illicitly received from former NSA Sambo Dasuki, as the court has declared, he will also spend seven years behind bars in concurrent jail terms for different counts brought against him by the EFCC. Corruption has done such incalculable damage to this country, but it must be fought only within the strict ambit of law and due process. While at it, however, penalties for convicts should not be mere slaps on the wrist.