 Where on earth is Ismail Sanusi? How did the Lagos lawyer disappear after visiting a client who asked him to secure the release of a man from police custody?  This is what the family members of the Lagos lawyer are asking the police to unravel. The 51-year-old legal practitioner, who until his mysterious disappearance lived   at 38, Shipeolu Street, Palmgroove, Lagos was said to have been invited by one Alfa Musa Umar for the purpose of helping him to secure the release of  an unnamed man  from police custody. Sanusi, who operates his chamber in the same office complex where the said Muslim cleric uses an office to attend to his customers, however did not return after several hours later. His whereabouts became a source of worry to his family members, who reported the matter to the police. The matter was transferred to the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID) and Umar was arrested for questioning. Sources said the cleric could not explain how Sanusi disappeared except that he visited him and left few hours later. A source said: ’The lawyer operates his chamber at the top floor of the building where the cleric also has an office where people come to him for spiritual help. However, on the fateful day, Alfa Umar was said to have called him on the phone asking Barrister Sanusi to see him for an urgent legal brief. ‘’ On getting to his office, Alfa Umar explained to the lawyer that he needed him to help secure bail for an unnamed man who was detained at a police station. He was asked to secure the man’s freedom and that was the last time we saw him because he never returned to his office.’’ According to the source, who spoke in confidence, concerned family members of the missing lawyer decided to visit the Muslim cleric when the legal practitioner did not return home several hours later.  ‘’ It dawned on Barrister Sanusi’s family members that something was fishy when he did not return home and his whereabouts could not be ascertained. His relations contacted his professional colleagues, friends and associates but there was no clue to his whereabouts. It was at this point that his family members confronted Alfa Umar to explain his complicity in the disappearance of their son but he denied abducting him. ‘’He said the lawyer left his place after they had a discussion  and he had no idea that he did not return to his office or home shortly after he left his place. It was at that point that the distraught relatives decided to contact the police.’’ The Nation gathered that the police have since arrested Alfa Umar while the matter has been handed over to the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID).. The spokesman of the Lagos State Police Command, Mr Elkanah Bala said two suspects were arrested in connection with the case have been arraigned in court and are currently remanded in prison. ‘’ Two suspects including Alfa Umar were arrested for their complicity in the matter. They were taken to court on March 5 and have since been remanded in a correctional centre (prison).’’