AbdulGafar Alabelewe, Kaduna In view of the spreading Corona-Virus Disease, otherwise known as COVID 19,the Federal Government has been called upon to fumigate all institutions of learning across the country. Kaduna Polytechnic Alumni Association, made the call in a statement made available to newsmen in Kaduna on Saturday by its National President, Hon. Abba Anas Adamu. The alumni association said, Nigeria has a lot to learn from the outbreak of the COVID 19 pandemic. According to him, Nigerian government at all levels must learn to pay attention to healthcare of the citizens and diversification of the nation’s economy. The alumni association President said, the outbreak of the pandemic around the world and its spread in Nigeria calls for ocassional fumigation of the nation’s institutions, especially institutions of learning, which host large concentration of the citizens. According to him, “the Federal Government needs to always fumigate the institutions across the Nation, especially institutions of learning, for not only Coronavirus but against any form of pandemic. “This is where the giant stride taken by the Kaduna Polytechnic authority particularly total shut down of the institution from Fri 27th so as to ensure strict compliance to the FG directives in curtailing the spread of the COVID 19, is commendable.” He however expressed worry that, the COVID 19 pandemic has interrupted the entire academic activities of institutions.
“For instance, evening Students, of Kaduna Polytechnic going by the academic calendar were to start their 1st and 3rd semester examinations on Monday 23rd March 2020 and the regular students examination was slated for three weeks after, but that has been affected by the outbreak of Corona Virus Disease. This will prolong Academic session for students, thereby staying longer than necessary and add more financial burden to the parents.” Speaking on the economic effects of COVID 19, the alumni President said, it is high time the Federal Government look inward and reduce the country’s dependence on oil by paying serious attention to diversifying the economy to avoid falling victim of any global pande