 Ogun State Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr. Akingbolahan Adeniran has said that the state government is determined to give priority to decongestion of correctional centres. To attain this, Adeniran said the government had set up a committee towards achieving the mission. He stated this during a familiarisation tour to the office of the state Controller of Correctional Centres,  Federal Government Secretariat, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta, Ibara and Oba Correctional Centres. He said that a Prerogative of Mercy Council Committee and Community Service Centres would be established in conjunction with the Nigeria Correctional Service to decongest the facilities across the state. He assured the awaiting trials (ATs) inmates of fair hearing of their cases through the establishment of private lawyers to wade into their case, if the accused persons are denied of government  lawyers. “Though, most of accused persons may not be able to have deal with the government lawyers, that is more reasons we will establish private lawyers to come into their cases for quick dispensation of justice,” Adeniran said. He stated that Administration of Criminal Justice Committee was also initiated by the present administration, to further decongest the prisons, pointing out that public prosecutors would be notified of cases in the state for advice.  “This Committee will work with Court Registrar, Director of Public Prosecutions and other relevant agencies to fasten the dispensation of justice, where the public prosecutors will easily offer advice for court cases, relating to awaiting trials which will reduce overloading of works for prison officers, and others”, he said The Attorney-General of the state vowed to provide them the internet facilities to boost their daily activities, so as reduce most of paper works and promote quick dispensation of justice. Responding, the State Controller, Ogun State Correctional Centre, Mr. Abolade Victor Benson, expressed appreciation to the Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, for coming to their rescue at an appropriate time. According to him, the state Correctional Centres need the assistance of state government concerning the Awaiting Trials (ATs), noting that 80percent of ATs were from the state. Benson emphasised that government needed to assist the Correctional Centres by freeing of some inmates which have no case to answer, stressing that some of theATIs had repented of their sins. “As you can see them now, most of them are in National Open University (NOUN), some have completed their programmes, some of them have learnt vocational jobs which can make them to be useful in the society”, he said, adding that this group deserves the government attention. In terms of logistics, the Controller requested for 15 vehicles from the state government, in order to convey the inmates to the various courts in the state for hearings and courts sessions.