Senator representing Kaduna Central, Malam Uba Sani has described the Sunday killings in communities of Igabi local government are of Kaduna State, as merciless, saying perpetrators must be punished. Reacting to reports of the attacks, Uba Sani said, “cold blooded murder of about 51 persons in Kaduna villages has further deepened the pain of Nigerians and reinforced the imperative and urgency of reinvigorating the security architecture in the country.” Uba Sani however stressed the need to rejig the security architecture in the country to be able to cope with the challenges of insecurity confronting our dear country, saying that, “It is clear to every discerning Nigerian that our strategies and tactics are ineffective. The time to infuse new ideas and personnel is now. “Nigerian communities must also take more than a passing interest in their own security. Vigilance Groups must be established in our communities. “They can assist security agencies with intelligence to nip in the bud planned attacks against communities,” he said. The killings by armed bandits which the Senator described as senseless, took place in Kerawa, Rago, Marina, Zariyawa, Hashimawa, Gidan Musa Saidu, Unguwar Barau and Kadage of Igabi and Giwa Local Government Areas of Kaduna State. A statement issued by the Senator read that, “I condemn these gruesome killings in the strongest terms. They are crimes against humanity and must not go unpunished. “The security agencies must go to any length to ensure that the perpetrators of these heinous crimes are brought to book.” He said. Condoling the families of the victims, Uba Sani said they are not alone in these trying times. “We share in your pains and will be by your side as we collectively try to overcome these bitter and harrowing experiences.” The Senator saluted the men and women of the Nigerian Airforce and other security forces who engaged the murderous bandits and curtailed the level of destruction to the affected villages. “Your exemplary acts and patriotism are deeply appreciated.” He however promised to work with the Kaduna State Government, the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) and humanitarian organizations to ensure that life-saving assistance is provided to displaced persons in the affected villages.