Don’t be fooled by the fact that, all over the world, men and women fall in love, marry, have children and go on to live happily together for decades at a time and even work together their entire lives… Deep down, they are each other’s worst enemies.  Everyone deserves an enemy. If you don’t have one now, please go out and get one. Your enemy not only gives you a new perspective on things, he/she keeps you on your toes. In short, dear friend, your enemy may turn out to be your best friend. For instance, since I started to write this column, I have made many friends and I am proud to say I have also made many enemies. Sometimes, it’s got to the point I can’t tell the difference, but who cares? I know that my friends encourage me by telling me they agree with me and I should carry on with the hard work. On the other hand, my enemies tell me I should get off my comfortable couch and work harder. Just get your own enemy, now; tomorrow may be too late. It is like a story I read once about humans and problems. Most people tend to see problems as inconvenient, disruptive and generally … problematic. However, one person’s perspective says that problems show proof of life, among other things. So, the story concludes, next time you find yourself without any problem, you better go on your knees and ask, ‘What’s the matter, Lord? Don’t you trust me with problems anymore?’ Similarly, if you find yourself without an enemy, please go on your knees and ask, ‘What’s the matter, Lord? Don’t you trust me with an enemy anymore?’ I know one set of enemies whose fight can never seem to end. I have waded many times into the fray to no avail but they just persist in loving their enmity. I’m talking about the enmity between man and woman. Don’t be fooled by the fact that, all over the world, men and women fall in love, marry, have children and go on to live happily together for decades at a time, or even work together their entire lives. Deep down, they are each other’s worst enemies. Why is this, you say? Why are men and women always at each other’s throats? I don’t think we have the time or space to go into this deep problem. Life is too short and I suspect the problem may outlive man. We can just hazard a few guesses and move on. Anyway, there is a rumour that the man/woman war might be owing to this law of attraction that makes each one secrete different hormones at the sight of the other. No, not just anyone, but for THE ONE. And from that moment, there can be no peace, even when the words of peace have been said over them. This is why when you get to many homes right now, the troubles there are worse than the Syrian war. Oh no, the men and women therein are not fighting; they are just being each other’s best enemies. Someone else said it might be because women are trying to claim equality with men; and yet one view said men and women can never be equal. Usually, when I hear that, I ask, equal in what? To start with, men come from Mars, everyone knows that; and everyone knows also that women come from Venus. Everyone also knows that Mars is a kind of place that is just this vast empty space without any kind of relief. It is, oh, so… masculine. Venus, on the other hand, is this lovely place that is all soft and feminine and just makes you feel you could be there all the time. Never mind that Venus de Milo does not seem to have arms. Now, the story is that her arms were broken off by some male sailors fighting over her. Now, you understand the war better? The problem is that the focus stays on the things that divide rather than unite. I mean, there are so many areas of human endeavour where the skills of each of the sexes are tested daily. Take food hunting for instance. Everyone knows there is no greater food hunter than women. Just think about this for a minute. Is it not women who manage to feed the many yawning mouths that gather each morning at the foot of Mama’s stool on nothing or next to nothing but onions and chicken fat, even when the man has not been able to bring in the turkey or even one miserable sardine fish? Is it not these lovely women who hunt under every shrub to bring out bread to feed the crying child who eventually grows into the adult that rules the world? On the other hand, is it not the men who swing those heavy spears, arrows, clubs and guns to bring home the venison? Is it not the men who round up the brood and stertorously declare that the age of greed is yet afar off? Anyway, everyone has his or her functions, clearly, and each sex is not just a foil for the other but a complement to the other. In other words, each sex is only but a side of the same coin or palm. So, where, I ask you, would you be today without your best enemy, the male or the female? Now, why are we telling all these lovely stories about men and women at war when we could be talking about Buhari and how he’s not thinking too hard on these security or economic problems? Frankly, I’m tired of talking and thinking about the problems of the country and I think talking about the missing arms of Venus de Milo would make a rather nice change. Besides, reader, today is the International Women’s Day, a day in the year when we celebrate women and their problems or achievements. The theme for this year, I understand, is based on equality and how to realise women’s rights, especially in the work place and society in general. In other words, it considers how gender parity can advance women’s rights and act as a key to a ‘healthier, wealthier and more harmonious world’. Now, who would have guessed that when we started to talk about the war between men and women, we would be falling right into the hands of mother luck? It is said that the age-old war has resulted in the lopsidedness in the men and women’s rights we see in the world today. In short, people have noticed that women are not getting equal treatment as men, and it is turning into a huge war in homes, the work place and the society. Listen to this for the sake of peace. The major factor contributing to this inequality is the lack of economic empowerment of women. This column many times called for the setting up of a bank for women in Nigeria and I was really glad when the government eventually listened and did set it up. We don’t know what has become of it now though but whatever the case, that dream should not be allowed to die. Soft loans from such a bank would enable women become participants in the small and medium scale business ventures. In turn, women become empowered enough to forage in more dignified ways for food for their children. To ignore the economic disempowerment of women is to prolong the war. Such a move ignores a large aspect of the development of women, including the creative energies that can catapult a woman into a total being. The government, which is controlled by men, needs to more seriously focus on empowering women economically and help them gain some equality so that this man/woman enmity can end in our lifetime. Hopefully.