The confirmation of Nigeria’s index case of the dreaded COVID-19 (Coronavirus) is another test of Nigeria’s preparedness to combat global health threats writes ADEYINKA ADERIBIGBE, KELVIN OSA-OKUNBOR, KOLADE ADEYEMI, OJO OLUWAFEMI, UJA EMMANUEL, ABDULGAFAR ALABELEWE, BISI OLANIYI, JOHN OFIKHENUA When COVID-19 (Coronavirus) broke out in the WUHAN Province of China on December 30, 2019, the question on the lips of stakeholders was not if, but when it will, like others before it, berth in Nigeria. Though the Federal Government through its National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) had set up emergency control centres across the states with special attention on strategic entry points, including Lagos, which equally boosted its preparedness with the setting up of an Incidence Monitoring Committee headed by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the nation did not have to wait much longer as it recorded its index case of the virus last Friday, February 28. An Italian, who entered Lagos, via the Turkish Airlines and proceeded to AGIP Saipem Head-office on Banana Island, on Thursday, before heading to Larfarge Production plant at Ewekoro, in Ogun State, had suddenly taken ill with symptoms similar to Coronavirus. He had since been diagnosed of Coronavirus and quarantined at the Bio-security facility at Yaba. The Chief Incident Commander and the State Governor, Mr. Sanwo-Olu, who paid a visit to the centre on Sunday again allayed fears of residents on spread of the virus. The Governor also offered more information on how the patient was identified, said the patient, is an Ogun State-based expatriate who flew into Lagos from Milan in Italy via Istanbul, Turkey last Monday evening. The Governor said the patient, whose name was not disclosed, remained in stable condition at the bio-security facility in Yaba, Lagos Mainland, where he is being isolated. It was gathered that the patient, although, tested positive to COVID-19 virus, is yet to show any respiratory symptoms at press time. He complained of fever and body pain, which prompted his transfer from Ogun State to Lagos for advanced medical investigation. Sanwo-Olu said all those who had physical contact with the patient before the virus was diagnosed, are being traced, while others are currently being examined for possible symptoms. He said: “At 10pm on Thursday, I got a call from the Commissioner of Health, who reported possible identification of patient with coronavirus in Ogun State. Immediately, we triggered all levels of bio-security responses and containment facilities. After series of laboratory examination, the patient was confirmed to have tested positive to the virus in early hours of today (Friday) and we immediately alerted the federal authorities, including the President and everybody who needs to be aware. We are in constant touch with the company where the patient was engaged. The management and personnel of the company have been cooperative. On how the patient scaled through health screening at the Lagos airport without being detected, Sanwo-Olu said investigation showed the virus did not manifest in the patient at the time he passed through the airport. The incident, he said, prompted the Government to immediately trigger advanced end-to-end screening for passengers flying into Nigeria, especially from high-risk countries. Sanwo-Olu said there should be no cause for panic among Nigerians over the reported COVID-19 incident, stressing that measures had been set in motion by the State and Federal governments to contain the spread of the virus across the country. He particularly allayed the fear of Lagos residents, saying the two bio-security facilities in the State had the capability to contain the virus. The governor who was at the Bio-security centre on Sunday said Lagosians must take both personal and environmental hygiene very seriously, saying “it must become part of our lives not when we have incidences like this that we begin to learn how to wash our hands or how to secure our environment and how to live healthy. He also counseled members of the public to be healthy eaters. “People that developed immunity against this type of diseases are people who eat well, sleep well, and live in safe and secured environment. He assured that the government will continue to provide resources needed by the professionals, to make the centre as comfortable as possible. “In the event that there are other victims, there are other containment centres. We are collaborating with the Federal Government, National Disease Control Centre, WHO, UNICEF and African Union,” Sanwo-Olu said. The Governor said there would not be prohibition of public gatherings and regular activities in Lagos, despite the diagnosed case of COVID-19, pointing out that such measure may give rise to needless panic among the general public. He said the condition of the patient was not “highly contagious” at the moment, adding that the State would only ban outdoor gatherings in the case of escalation in person-to-person transmission of the virus. He said: “It is only when there is a high level of escalation that the public can be panicky and this is when we realise that it is getting to person-to-person transmission. As we have said, this isolated case has been contained right from the hospital where he was first admitted and the guesthouse he slept after his arrival in Nigeria. It is when there is a person-to-person infection that we can trigger another level of isolation and curtail public events where large number of people can gather. I don’t think we have gotten to that level yet.” The governor lamented that some Nigerians are taking advantage of the crisis at hand to make money by hiking prices of preventive items. “This is not the means to enrich yourselves, people are abusing a rare opportunity, this is not laughable and not what anybody wishes for, people hoarding things and selling 500 percent above the normal price, we should ask ourselves what kind of people are we? We should be our brother’s keepers.” The Lagos incident has led to a flurry of activities across critical agencies and states of the federation on measures to contain the spread of the virus.  NCAA tightens measures at airports Nuhu said the NCAA was also working with the Federal Ministry of health and other stakeholders in the aviation sector to endure all travelers coming into Nigeria are adequately screened with minimum did update ion to facilitating of travel. Nuhu said  all contingency plans for public health events in Aviation have been activated including airport-specific Public Health Emergency Contingency Plans (PHECPs). NCAA has ensured that all measures adopted at Nigerian airports are in accordance to ICAO Standards and Recommended Practices (SARPs) and WHO International Health Regulations (IHR 2005). “We advise the travelling public to remain calm but alert and take necessary precaution in protecting themselves while traveling, includi”ng alerting crew members and airport facilitation staff to travellers that may look ill or showing signs and symptoms of the disease. Travellers returning from countries experiencing community transmission of the COVID-19 should present themselves to Port Health Services on arrival at the Point of Entry – International Airport. Travellers who develop signs and symptoms of the disease after returning from a trip abroad are to seek immediate medical attention at the nearest Health facility or call the NCDC on 0800-970000-10.  Ganduje approves emergency hotlines against disease Meanwhile in Kano State, Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje has approved some emergency hotlines provided by the Ministry of Health in case of any eventuality. The surveillance and emergency response measures were in place to tackle possible outbreak of any communicable diseases. The emergency contacts are:  We are on top of the situation – Ondo Govt In Ondo, The Ondo State Government has urged residents not to panic over the discovery of corona virus in Ogun state, saying all machinery have been put in place to prevent the virus from entering the state. The State Commissioner for Health, Wahab Adegbenro, said this in a statement made available to newsmen on Sunday in Akure. Adegbenro said it has become imperative to sensitise the public because the outbreak was in Lagos and Ogun, which is just some few hours’ drive to Ondo State.