 GEORGINA is a very pretty and intelligent girl. In spite of all this, she has not been able to secure a good relationship. She has tried and tried but no matter how hard she tries love appears to be elusive.  It has therefore been tales of disappointments, tears and frustration. So what really is the matter you ask? ‘When it comes to having  intimate relationship I have a problem with communication, trusting the  other person or telling him how I feel about him. I am an introvert and a lot of the guys I come across do not usually understand me. Interestingly, she just survived another crisis, something that would have brought more heartaches was nipped in the bud and she trying very hard to save the relationship.’If I lose this one, then I am finished. It is actually my last hope and I pray I would not have to start all over again. ‘ Sadly, our friend is not the cause of the problem, she has played her part very well but the problem here is that the Romeo has taken her for granted. The crux of the matter here is that, when you want a relationship that you want to last  for ever, there are certain things that you must do. Of course , you must be committed personally, be ready to give more than you plan to receive as well as have a possible time frame in mind. Even when you have all this at your fingertips, there can still be a snag to the success of this adventure. This is because it takes two to tango and you cannot make a success of the situation alone.Also if you are committed and the other person does not know wants from the relationship then you may just end up being stranded at the end of the day. ‘I fell in love with Adewunmi as soon as I set my eyes on her about five months ago. And from that day I wanted her to be my wife. I put everything into that relationship, dropped all my old habits and tried to spoil her with everything I had during the courtship. Inspire of all the sacrifices that I made, I realised that she wasn’t shifting at all. I bought her all kinds of gifts, visited her regularly and spent a  fortune on phone calls.However, I discovered that the more interest I showed in my woman the more difficult when became. Scroll down memory lane and the 32 year old lover boy laments that: ” In all the relationships that I have had in the past, I have never done this for any girl and it is so painful to know that she doesn’t appreciate it all. Now, I have come to the conclusion that I had been dissipating energy and affection . Interestingly, you can also compare the scenario to Russell Bertrand”s analysis of the mind. “You may sometimes find on a mountain side a large  rock poised so delicately that a touch will set it crashing down into the valley, while rocks all round are so firm that only a considerable force can dislodge them.What is analogous in this two cases is the existence of a great stone of energy in unstable equilibrium ready to burst into violent motion by the addition of a very slight disturbance”. It is important to share some things in common, have the same goals and be compatible to move your love train ahead.”When I came to this realization Ibegan to ask questions from friends and those who were close to my sweetheart. In the process, I discovered that she had been battered by some guys and the effect took a toll on the softer part of her heart. Now, she has hardened her heart against all men, including yours truly. Too bad, there was really nothing I could do about it. Poor guy, he just had to move on with his life. The lesson learnt here is that the people we fall in love with may turn out to be different bfrom our expectations. When you come to this realisation the best thing to do is to move on ,there is no point crying over split milk.