 The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) has passed a vote of no confidence on the Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Council, Dr. Wale Babalakin, calling for his removal. The union passed the resolution at a congress held at the University on Wednesday during which it declared him a persona non grata and warned him to steer clear of the campus. ASUU-UNILAG Chairman, Dr. Dele Ashiru told The Nation that the Union would enforce its resolution, urging the Federal Ministry of Education (FME), Abuja to remove him, claiming he had caused more harm than good. They accused him of causing the suspension of the university’s 51st convocation scheduled for March 9-12, 2020 by misrepresenting the situation to the FME. Babalakin wrote to the Education Minister, Dr. Adamu Adamu on March 2, 2020, claiming the University Authorities got no approval from the Council for the Convocation programme. Ashiru said: “We are asking the Federal Government to remove Babalakin as Pro-Chancellor because our union is going to enforce that resolution. Babalakin cannot be seen anywhere on this campus from today. “We want him removed for deliberately misinforming the Ministry of Education which led to the cancellation of our convocation. His prayer to the ministry was that Council did not approve the convocation. Available evidence in the minutes states that the Council during its January 21 and 22 meeting was informed about the convocation and approved the budget for the convocation.” Ashiru said during last year’s convocation, Babalakin also caused disaffection. “Last year, the Pro-Chancellor unilaterally stepped down the name of Prof. Dele Oluwokudejo from the list of distinguished professors selected by the university Senate. He returned the name after people went to beg him. “Consequent upon all of these infractions, our Congress declared that he has done incalculable damage to the image of the university and should be removed,” he said. Following the congress, the lecturers moved round the campus, making a stop outside the institution’s main gate of the university singing solidarity songs and carrying placards calling for Babalakin’s removal. Some of the placards read: “Dictator Pro-Chancellor must GO”; “Remove Babalakin. When? Remove him NOW!” They expressed disappointment that at a time the suspension of the convocation was causing ruckus on campus, Babalakin could travel to London to attend the 80th birthday party of Justice Adesola George Oguntade. “You can imagine that at a time like this he is right now in London attending the birthday party of Justice Oguntade!”, a senior lecturer told The Nation.