The Rector of Lagos State Polytechnic (LASPOTECH), Ikorodu, Mr. Samuel Sogunro, has said that 598 students, who got distinctions, were among the 16,315 that would receive National Diplomas and Higher National Diplomas during the institution’s combined convocation on March 12. He told a news conference in Lagos on Thursday that LASPOTECH would also award honorary fellowships to Aare Afe Babalola (SAN), founder, Afe Babalola University and Alhaji Babatunde Rotinwa, chairman, Lagos State Local Government Service Commission during its 27th convocation for 2017/2018 and 2018/2019 academic sessions. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Mr. Rauf Aregbesola, minister of Interior, is expected to deliver the convocation lecture with the theme : “Infrastructural Deficit and Technological Development in Nigeria : The Role of Technical Education”. Sogunro said that the graduating students were groomed and trained in disciplines needed for the nation’s socio-economic development. “The global ranking of the polytechnic by Webometrics rates LASPOTECH as the fifth best polytechnic in Nigeria. “In order to improve our current ranking, the polytechnic has constituted ranking committees at the schools and departments to align with the vision on the global ranking,” he said. Sogunro said that the institution would appreciate the support of the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFund) in providing a new lease of life for the polytechnic of excellence on capital projects, fabrications and academic staff training. “We will embrace collaboration with governmental, non-govenmental organisations and individuals, who are committed to excellence in education, research and service delivery. “By September 2018, the 66 academic programmes due for re-accreditation were re-accredited through the support of the state government,” he said. Sogunro appealed to the government not to relent in its support to the institution “toward the actualisation of these need-based programmes.” “As an entrepreneurial polytechnic, the curricula have been enriched to strengthen our students by introducing a general agriculture course to them at all levels. “This will make the students self-reliant and also enhance food production and security,” he said.