 Lagos Education Commissioner Mrs. Folasade Adefisayo has directed schools to make water and sanitizers available to pupils to guard against the Covid-19 infection. In a statement from the Public Affairs unit, Adefisayo urged school managers to provide hand- washing areas with water and soap as well as alcohol-based hand sanitizers in their schools to prevent possible spread of the disease. She advised that pupils and teachers be told to avoiding using dirty hands to touch their noses, eyes and mouths and to avoid contact with people who may be infected. Adefisayo also said same habits should be practiced at home, assuring that the government was doing its part to ensure the disease does not spread. A visit to schools around the state showed that they were already taking precautions. Many had organised sensitization programmes for pupils and their parents about the Coronavirus; while all schools visited reported they had provided sanitizers and hand washing facilities. At Julianah Fehintola Memorial International School, Olorunsogo, School coordinator, Mrs. Emilia Uzor, said the school was unable to purchase sanitizers which has become scarce since the Coronavirus hit Nigeria. However, she said hand washing is taken seriously. “We have started using sanitizer, but the one we had before has finish, so I went to the market to get another one but was unable to get any. I do make sure that when children are coming they wash their hands before they enter the school, likewise the parents. The teacher also take partake in the hand washing process. We have thermometer to check them before they enter, so we don’t allow anybody to enter the school anyhow,” she said. At Ol Bharms Height School, Agege, parents were provided with hand sanitisers before entering the school. Head Teacher, Mrs. Vivian Eguridu, sent notice to all parents to provide sanitizers for their wards’ use while in school. She also said the school had decided to limit parents’ access to the classrooms. “We are planning to provide a visitors’ area outside so parents do not need to come inside anymore,” she said. Head Teacher of Papa Ajao Primary School, Mushin, Mrs Folayemi Oladele said there is adequate supervision of the pupils when they eat to prevent any form of contamination as government had provided them with enough water bottles. “We are trying best to put measures in place to tackle the virus. Apart from the fact that we supervise their eating and drinking, we sensitize them every morning on the assembly ground on why they should maintain personal hygiene and not fall victim. We have provided liquid soap, hand towel and water for them to regularly wash their hands; we are planning to construct a wash hand basin and get them hand sanitizer.” At Oduduwa Senior Secondary School, Ladipo, Mushin, Vice Principal, Mrs. Eunice Morakinyo, said sanitizers and wash basins were not available yet but pupils are made to wash their hands. “Though we are yet to get sanitizers and wash hand basins, we have made available bowls and soap temporarily,” she said. On her part, Principal of Oduduwa Junior School, Mrs Olayinka Afonja said: “We have sensitized the student and we have provided wash hand basin for them. The only problem is that we don’t have enough sanitizers but we are trying to get more.” At NAFRCOWA Nursery and Primary School NAFRC, Oshodi, a banner with the aim of sensitizing people was seen at the entrance. The Head Teacher, Mrs. Grace Ilori noted that the school had sensitized the pupils about the virus and preventive measures have been put in place. At Command Secondary School, NAFRC,Oshodi, measures are being put in place to install wash hand basins for the pupils while also providing soap and sanitizers. The head teacher, Mrs. Patience Okoh told The Nation that preventive measures have been taken with the purchase of cartons of sanitizers. She also stated that the pupils are advised to wash their hands regularly before going home.