A midst growing fear over the Coronavirus pandemic, Super Eagles coach Gernot Rohr on Sunday made a passionate appeal to Nigerian football fans, saying the virulent virus must not be allowed to stop friendship! On the last count, over 90 Nigerians have tested positive to Coronavirus otherwise known as COVID-19 even as the government continue to battle against its spread across the country.  But the German coach has now enjoined Nigerians including the fans of the Super Eagles to remain positive and adhere strictly to all outlined precautions in order to stem the tide of COVID-19. “This virus cannot (and must not be allowed) to stop friendship,” the 66-year-old Rohr former Bayern Munich defender told NationSport from his home in France. Rohr is regarded as a ‘friend of Africa’  after coaching clutches of teams on the continent including Etoile  du Sahel of Tunisia; Les Panthères (The Panthers) of Gabon; Ménas of Niger  as well as Les Étalons (The Stallions) of Burkina Faso before berthing in Nigeria in 2016. In his message of solidarity yesterday, the German said COVID-19 can be defeated if all Nigerians do the needful. “You know we all live all the time in our Super Eagles as family,” noted Rohr who has supervised 49 matches as coach of Nigeria. “It’s the same solidarity we have with our fans and this must be conserved during this challenging time with COVID-19. “I beg all our fans to follow all the precautions and procedure so that we can stop the spread of this deadly virus. We all have to respect the restrictions and I believe that we are going to see very soon.“ Rohr was on the verge of penning a two-year contract before the outbreak of COVID-19 that led to the suspension of all football activities but he remains hopeful. He said: “I hope by June or July we should be back on the stream again with football activities and I hope we shall all find ourselves in good health. “But for us to be in good health, we must follow all the advice that can help us stop the spread of COVID-19; and I’m happy none of our players have tested positive to the virus. “I’m in close contact with the players and they are training at home regularly in their homes just as I do with my children. This is truly the time for family and solidarity, “added Rohr.