 AS the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) flags off moves to ensure use of electronic voting during the 2023 General Elections, political analysts and information technology (IT) experts have raised questions on the preparedness of the electoral body in Nigeria to use e-voting in the next general election. At a retreat in Lagos on the review of the Electoral Act, INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmud Yakubu, last week, unfolded plans to kick start electronic voting with the 2023 General Elections. He however said the commission’s vision of kick starting the e-voting policy in 2023 depends on if Electoral Act is finally amended, based on its proposals. Deputy Senate President and Chairman of National Assembly Committee of Constitutional Amendment, Ovie Omo-Agege, who declared the review retreat open, said “the recent Supreme Court judgments on electoral litigations have made the review of the Electoral Act more compelling.” He confirmed that the lawmakers assigned with this task are working round the clock to ensure use of e-voting. Call for electoral reforms Explaining the efforts made so far to ensure tangible reforms in the electoral process, INEC chairman, Yakubu, said “last year, the electoral agency received from the Senate Committee on INEC “A Bill for an Act to Amend the Electoral Act (No. 6) 2010 and for Related Matters, 2019.” According to him, “the 26 clauses in the Bill sought to amend many sections of the Electoral Act, ranging from the neutrality of electoral officials to the compilation, display and storage of the voters’ register; legal recognition for electronic accreditation of voters; party primaries and the nomination of candidates for elective offices by political parties.” Identifying the trouble areas that must be reformed for easier and more reliable elections, Yakubu said: “We should find a way to deal with a situation in which Returning Officers are compelled to declare winners under duress. With 809 pre-election petitions filed before the 2019 general elections, the electoral legal framework should provide clear procedures for party primaries and consequences for violation. “Similarly, the right under the law to file pre-election cases in different categories of High Courts often leads to what lawyers call “forum shopping” by litigants and conflicting judgements by courts of coordinate jurisdiction on the same case, sometimes even on matters already settled by superior courts. “We also need a new definition of over-voting with emphasis on accredited voters rather than the number of registered voters in a polling unit. “Doing so will make the management of the margin of lead principle easier and considerably reduce, if not totally eliminate, the incidence of inconclusive elections and the cost associated with conducting supplementary elections which in most cases merely validate the outcome of the first ballot.” On the possibility of the amendment making the vision of e-voting in the country possible, Yakubu said “the new amendments also sought to empower the Commission to deepen the deployment of technology in the management of the voters’ register, voting and result collation processes.” On the current state of the electoral commission in the area of use of technology, Yakubu said: “Already, the Commission has an electronic register of voters. Similarly, voter accreditation has also gone electronic. “It is time for a new legislation to remove all encumbrances to further deployment of technology in the electoral process, especially in the accreditation of voters and transmission of election results. Sections 49 and 67 of the draft Bill deal with these twin issues,” he said. On how critical the review of the electoral legal framework is critical to preparations for future polls, the INEC boss said: “Where the passage of the Bill is delayed, it will affect the formulation of regulations and guidelines as well as the review and publication of the manual necessary for the training of ad-hoc staff for elections because both documents draw from the legal framework,” he said, adding that “there is need to expedite the process.” “This is more so because some of the far-reaching amendments proposed by the National Assembly would require the procurement of new equipment, training of election officials and piloting of new procedures ahead of the general election. “Early and adequate preparation is critical. Late deployment disrupts preparations and in an electoral process governed by fixed timelines provided by law, postponement must be avoided because of its far-reaching consequences as we have witnessed a number of times in our recent history.” On the prosecution of electoral offenders, Yakubu said: “We look forward to the expeditious passage of the “Bill for an Act for the Establishment of the National Electoral Offences Commission” sponsored in the Senate by Senator Abubakar Kyari and co-sponsored by Senator Ovie Omo-Agege. A similar bill, the Electoral Offences Commission (Establishment) Bill 2020, sponsored by Hon. John Dyegh, is also before members of the House of Representatives. Both INEC and informed stakeholders agree that if the relevant amendments sought in these two bills are carried out and the bills passed into law, Nigeria may then be set for e-voting and all the advantages it is expected to the electoral process and the polity. Fears, doubts But even as the federal lawmakers work to amend the relevant portions of the Electoral Act in order to make e-voting possible, observers, especially IT experts who spoke to The Nation during the week maintain that electronic voting may sound grandeurs and modern, but it has its challenges.  Most of the respondents allege that INEC may currently be far from being capable to overcome the challenges. Dr. Kingsley Omame, an IT Consultant in Lagos, for example told The Nation on Friday that some of the challenges that may face e-voting in the country include but not limited to hacking of voting machines, hacking of election campaign data, and hacking of online voting itself.” According to him, “overcoming the legal challenge before e-voting will not be the end of the matter. May I inform you that once e-voting takes its full swing, hacktivists and cybercriminals looking to access personal information of candidates and of the country will step up their games. So, as we plan to embrace e-voting, we must ensure that our technology is up to date. It is not enough to claim that we have the technology as I hear many politicians and INEC officials say.” Engr. Morgan Ukauku, another IT expert also made the same assertion. He said: “e-voting has its high risk areas. It is therefore not true to say that once we start the use of e-voting our electoral problems would be resolved.  We must be told the truth today that every election process is subject to a high degree of risk. In the case of electronic voting, it may be in the area of tampering with voting machines, unscrupulous vote counters, or simply hiding the vote tabulation process from oversight and public scrutiny. Also there is the risk of our corrupt officials buying outdated electronic voting systems. I know personally that there are today many outdated electronic voting systems in most of the advanced technologies. INEC leadership must ensure their officials and contractors do not conspire with corrupt elements in those democracies to dump the obsolete systems on Nigeria. If they do, it will make rigging easier for unscrupulous elements. This is because such electronic voting systems lack modern security devices. Hackers would be glad if Nigeria ends up with such systems.” The way forward Since INEC formally commenced plan for the 2023 General Elections way back in July 2019 at the 2019 Post Election Review meeting with Resident Electoral Commissioners (RECs) in Ikeja, Lagos, stakeholders and political analysts have identified use of e-voting as a major reform that will make 2023 elections better. Ms. Monica Frassoni, President, European Centre for Electoral Support (ECES), who was part of the review, said: “2023 seems far away but it is not. During the discussions we have had over these days, we see that the task you have is difficult but achievable and is absolutely exciting and we are so glad to support you in these endeavours.” She urged INEC to consider inclusion as the commission prepares for future elections, saying such would improve electoral process. “This starts from taking time to listen and to interact,” she said. Following various interactions since then INEC said it will propose 34 amendments to the Electoral Act 2010 Amendment Bill that will include punishments for electoral violators. Yakubu said: “As long as violators of electoral laws are not penalised, we will continue to have issues with our elections. As part of the reforms of the key components of the Electoral Act, we will like to see the effective sanctions of those who violate electoral laws of this country. “Listening to Nigerians, it is clear that a review of the Electoral Act and our electoral legal framework in general, must be anchored on curbing incidents of violence and sundry malpractices in the electoral process. “It is also to ensure that violators of electoral laws are effectively sanctioned. It must deepen the deployment of technology in elections,” the INEC boss said. While most stakeholders and observers agree that punishment of electoral rules violators will make Nigerian elections freer and fairer, IT experts said extra care needs to be taken as the country embraces e-voting.