By Kofoworola Belo-Osagie  The University of Lagos (UNILAG) is set to give a posthumous doctoral award to the late Dr. Stella Ameyo Adadevoh during the institution’s 51st convocation next week. The late Dr. Adadevoh helped to contain the Ebola virus outbreak in 2014, when she treated the index case, Patrick Oliver Sawyer, a Liberian-American lawyer. UNILAG Vice Chancellor, Prof. Toyin Ogundipe, announced this yesterday at a pre-convocation media briefing. He said the late Adadevoh would be honoured alongside business mogul, Alhaji Muhammadu Indimi and advertising maestro, Chief Biodun Shobanjo. Ogundipe said Indimi would be honoured because of his contribution to education through the provision of facilities and scholarship to the less privileged members of the society, while Shobanjo would be honoured for his “giant strides in the media space and contribution to education”. He said next week’s convocation will begin with a lecture, titled: The Role of Disruptive Technologies in Sustainable Economic Transformation, to be delivered by the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Ali, on Monday, March 9, 2020 at the J. F. Ade-Ajayi Auditorium. The event is to be chaired by Prof. Nimi Briggs, an alumnus of the university and Pro-Chancellor of Federal University, Lokoja (FUL). The award of degrees to 7,198 undergraduates of the institution’s 12 faculties, Distance Learning Institute and Diploma programme will hold Tuesday and Wednesday. The award of postgraduate degrees to 6,291 Postgraduate Diploma, Masters’ and Doctor of Philosophy recipients will hold on Thursday, March 12, 2020. Ogundipe said the institution produced 281 graduates with First Class this year, led by Ibrahim Adedeji Alimi of Mechanical Engineering, who made a Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) of 4.98 and Victoria Opeyemi Popoola of the Economic Department, who made a CGPA of 4.90. The Faculty of Engineering had the highest number of First Class graduates: 70.  “Let me congratulate Alimi, Ibrahim Adedeji of the Department of Mechanical Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, who emerged the Overall Best Graduating Student and the best in the field of science with a CGPA of 4.98. “He is closely followed by Popoola, Victoria Opeyemi of the Department of Economics Faculty of Social Sciences, who is also the best graduating student in the Humanities with a CGPA of 4.90,” he said. Giving further breakdown of the grades of the graduating students, Ogundipe said 2,139 had Second Class Upper; 2,870 had Second Class Lower; 1,148 had Third Class; while 117 had Pass degree. Another 453 will graduate with unclassified degrees, while 159 will graduate with Diploma in Human Kinetics and Health Education as well as Social Development and Administration (SDA). In the post-graduate category, 112 will be awarded Ph.D; 5,550 will get Masters degrees, while 629 will get Postgraduate Diplomas. The award for the overall best Ph.D thesis, titled: Bio-Ecology, Immuno-Histochemistry and Genetic Heterogeneity of Portunid Species from the Coastal Waters of Lagos State, Nigeria, will go to Rasheed Olatunji Moruf of Marine Science. Ogundipe announced that the university’s anthem will be launched. The composition of the two-stanza anthem was coordinated by a committee headed by Prof. Adejoke Oyewunmi of the Law Faculty. It was sung for the first time at the briefing by the university choir led by Prof. Albert Oikhileme.