Our Reporter  Caverton Helicopters has signed a factory acceptance test for its AW139 Reality H full flight simulator. The ceremony, which took place in Cergy, France last Thursday was the first by any operator in Africa. The milestone, according to a statement by the helicopter company, came less than a year after the contract was signed for the departure of the facility to Caverton Aviation Training Centre in Nigeria. Thales Reality H Full Flight Simulator level ‘D’ is one of the world’s most advanced commercial helicopter simulator used to provide superior scenario-based flight and mission training to AW139 helicopter operators across the African continent  for Caverton’s pilots and crew. With the simulator, Caverton  said it will deliver state-of-the-art training, including Initial Type Rating, Recurrent Training and Proficiency Checks for Visual Flight Rules (VFR) and Instrument Flight Rules (IFR), offshore and onshore missions as well as  Very Important Persons (VIP) operations to unprepared landing sites. This simulator, the company said, will enable pilots become certified to fly the AW139 under various Civil aviation Authority approvals. The company said the simulator will be most popular helicopter platforms in Nigeria and West African region to be fully immersed in a realistic virtual environment representing Nigerian operational locations and learn to handle a multitude of system failures and overcome very complex malfunctions should they arise in the real world.  Pilots, it said, could train safely  in the simulator in high-risk mission scenarios in a range of adverse weather conditions. Commenting on the facility, Managing Director, Caverton Helicopters Limited, Rotimi Makanjuola, said: ”The company aims to provide an accessible platform for advanced training  and create opportunities for the sector in Africa. This move is a major step forward in Caverton’s strategy to diversify its portfolio of services to include flight simulation training services and thereby support safer helicopter logistics operations. “This is an important milestone, not just for Caverton as an indigenous company, but also for Nigeria and the African continent. We pride ourselves in being pioneers in safety innovation and are committed to providing enhanced training opportunities for our pilots in-country as well as to third party operators across Africa. “With this significant investment and with the support from Thales, a globally renowned company, we believe that the simulator will ultimately benefit our customers and increase accessibility to world class flight simulation training services.” Also, Vice President, Training and Simulation Business Thales,  Peter Hitchcock, said: ”We are very proud to share a trusted relationship with Caverton and we are committed to help the company improving flight safety across the region thanks to the first helicopter full flight simulator to be installed in Africa.”