 MORE than seven million people are expected to be in food crisis in the country between June and August, this year. It is projected that over four million people are expected to be in food crisis through May. This was contained in the March report of Cadre Harmonis (CH) Analysis Outcome for 16 northern states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The CH analysis was facilitated by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations (FAO), World Food Programme (WFP), FEWSNET, and the Permanent Interstate Committee for Drought Control in the Sahel (CILSS). FAO Representative in Nigeria, Mr Alhassan Cisse,  told reporters on Thursday in Abuja during the presentation of the March CH analysis outcome for 16 states and the FCT, explained that CH has been a regional framework for consensual analysis of acute food insecurity across the West Africa countries. Cisse said results from successive CH analysis have become the major yardstick for estimating the areas and population of vulnerable people in need of humanitarian assistance. “The improvement has largely been due to the efforts of the government and massive intervention of the humanitarian communities, without which the situation would have worsen,” he said. The exercise, which according to him, started in 2015 has been adopted by the  food security stakeholders as an early warning tool for preventing food crisis. He said FAO would continue to work with her partners in the provision of livelihood assistance to the vulnerable group identified through this process. Also, the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Dr. Mu’azu Abdulkadir,  expressed hope that the outcome from the  analysis would provide information on the prevailing acute food and nutrition security going from the last CH analysis released in 2019. The PS, who was represented by Mr Anthony Amu, said CH analysis had been adopted as the most acceptable and informative tool for classifying states into the five phases of food nutrition and insecurity, including estimated population affected by acute food nutrition and insecurity challenges across the 16  northern states and the FCT.