Villagers of communities bordering the dreaded forest of Birnin Gwari in Kaduna, woke up to the most horrific moment of their life last Sunday. Scores of their kinsmen, including children, women and the aged were hacked to death in cold blood. The survivors recounted their ordeal. ABDULGAFAR ALABELEWE, reports.  For several months, bandits have been terrorizing the people of Kerawa, Rago, Marina, Zariyawa, Hashimawa, and Unguwar Barau villages of Igabi and Giwa Local Government Areas of Kaduna State. But the worst happened penultimate Sunday, when the hoodlums stormed the communities and killed 51 people. The hoodlums attacked the villages shortly after the early morning Muslim prayers, shooting at every living soul on sight, while animals, food stuff, vehicles and motorcycles were also set ablaze by the assailants. One of the survivors, Yahaya Adam, described his escape as miraculous. He recalled that the bandits came into the communities on about 100 motorcycles, each carrying two AK 47 rifles. He said that he initially thought they were just passing by or fleeing from security forces. “It was around 6:00am that morning, we started hearing sounds of many motorcycles approaching our village and when we checked, it was the bandits. We were terrified by their number, but some of us just felt they were just passing by. Because, to be honest, we were used to their presence around us; they do come into our villages, kidnap people and collect ransom. “So, when we saw them, we never imagined they were coming with that kind of motive. We thought, they were either fleeing their camps due to security forces’ operation, or at worst coming to our village or another village to kidnap. “So, me and the people I was together with were ready to run into hiding to escape being kidnapped. We never knew we were running away from death. All of a sudden, we started hearing gunshots, people started running and the bandits were chasing them with gunshots. “They shot many people and went to Marina too and killed many people. At the end of the day, I could not explain how I escaped their bullets, because they came very close to where I was hiding and I heard gunshots very close. “We are presently in a terrible situation, we cannot even go to our homes again, because, what we heard some of them saying is that, they will come back for us. They alleged that, we have been reporting them to the security operatives and they will punish us.” He narrated. Another survivor, Abubakar Shuaibu said the villagers are now living in fear, following the bandits’ unhindered access to their communities. “The government should come to our aid. These people have become our nightmare. It is not something difficult for government to do. It is not that these people are faceless, we know them; they storm our villages everytime. In fact, most of the time, they do inform us before they come. “For us, we don’t know why it is taking government a long time to end this banditry. We believe that the government has power to flush them out and that is our plea to the government,” he added. Another villager who survived the attack, Abubakar Muazu said:  ”Just like that, the bandits invaded our village in the early morning of Sunday, each of them with AK47 rifle, some with AK49 and others with the one they call Dunner and other guns we don’t know. “They were shooting sporadically like they manufacture bullets. They killed many people. They burnt vehicles worth tens of millions of Naira. We only escaped by God’s grace too, and we are scared too that, we might be the next to be killed,” he said.  A member of the vigilance group in the community’ said there was heavy presence of the police in the area after the gruesome killings. The villager, who spoke in confidence said, described their attackers as Boko Haram insurgents, who fled the North-East region of the country. He said: “What happened was unprecedented. We have never seen such kind of horror in our lives. These killers are Boko Haram. They stormed our village killing indiscriminately, they spared nobody, the young, the old, even Almajiris were not spared. “They continued to shoot people, setting fire on the dead and on property. It was extremely horrific!’ They went from one room to the other, a man and his children were killed, even new born babies were not left out. “There is a village close to us here called Marina, there is no living soul there again. They burnt down that completely. Between that village and own village, Kerawa alone, the bandits killed not less than 45 people. They spent about two hours destroying lives and property unchallenged. “They burnt all the vehicles they saw on ground. They went away with all our motorcycles, except the ones they felt were not too good, but instead of living the bad motorcycles, they set them ablaze. “Therefore, we are calling on government to do something drastic about it. We know where these people are, they are not hidden. The government should not ignore them because they have only attacked villages, because when they are done with villages, they will enter the cities.” He said. Meanwhile, the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, confirmed the suspicion of the villagers when he visited Kaduna on Wednesday to meet with top Police commanders over the attack. The IGP said, the bandits terrorising the North West region of the country are Boko Haram and ISWAP members. The IGP however assured that, a repeat of the Kaduna attack will not happen under his watch,adding that the loopholes that led to the Sunday morning attack had been blocked. Earlier, Kaduna State Governor Nasir El-Rufa’i who visited the affected villages, disagreed with the villagers who claimed nothing was being done to protect them. The governor said, but for security operatives’ intervention, the villages would have been completely wiped out. The governor however apologised to the villagers for government’s inability to completely protect them against the assailants and promised that, their attackers would be shown no mercy, as the state will not grant amnesty, but kill the killer bandits.