 Most newspapers somewhat reported casually on the maiden Civic Engagement Programme of the Adegboyega Oyetola administration tagged “Apero” held in Ikirun, Ifelodun Local Government Area of the state on Tuesday last week. For yours truly however, the development would bring back memories of a similar initiative Labe odan initiated by the Bisi Akande administration during which state’s helmsman engaged with the ordinary folks. My initial excitement came from the realisation that successive administrations (even of different parties) in the state have since gone beyond merely embracing the concept to treating it as an important element of governance! In this, the State of the Living Spring may have scored a first among its peers in the federation! How could I forget Gbagede-oro through which Governor Olagunsoye Oyinlola engaged with the common folk? Or the sometimes supercharged Gbangbadekun – the no holds- barred citizen-engagement programme of the activist Rauf Aregbesola years? And now, Apero, from a supposedly taciturn governor who, some say, appears to be more interested in being judged more by solid achievement than forms? Of course, if I understood the common thread to be the need to inform the people on the priorities of government and to receive vital inputs into the formulation of policy, that thread certainly speaks more to the profound acceptance of the primacy of citizen-engagement in the development process by successive Osun leaders. ‘Apero’ – which in Yoruba means engagement, would seems not just a perfect fit for the season but a tradition worth showcasing! How many town hall meetings has Governor Oyetola hosted since coming on board? Most likely, several. I refer here to the countless thank-you visits to the people in the aftermath of electoral victory and an opportunity to re-affirm promises made. Apero is of course different: it is the entire government being taken to the people; an occasion for those entrusted with the public trust to be taken to task on their stewardship; an avenue for the people to make demands on their government. This point was succinctly made by the Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation, Olufunke Egbemode in her welcome address. While congratulating the people of Ifelodun, Boripe and Odò-Ìtín federal constituency for the opportunity to interact directly with the governor and tell him their needs, she re-affirmed the determination of the governor to improve the living standards of the people. Let’s take some highlights from the governor’s engagement. Expectedly, one burning issue is salary payment – an area which the state has received bad press in the last few years – no thanks to the economic downturn. When asked, the governor simply stated: “I will continue to pay the full salary of workers and God will continue to help us”. How does he plan to do this – considering the state’s paltry allocation in the face of declining oil prices? To this, he says, “We manage what comes in by not engaging in wasteful spending.” The governor would also be taken to task on the planned review of the educational system flowing, as it were, from the recommendations of Education Panel Review Committee set up by the Oyetola administration.  The committee, at the conclusion of its work had recommended that the state revert to 6-3-3-4, as against 4-5-3-4 system currently in place – a development that has generated some buzz not only in the media but in the political circles. His short and simple answer was: the state Executive Council would look at the recommendations with a view to making a decision on it. The same with Opon Imo – an initiative of his predecessor, when asked on whether the state government will supply new ones, he stated, matter-of-factly that the one in circulation is still good to use! The governor also spoke on his government’s intervention in agriculture – specifically of the state government had been assisting farmers with fertilisers, seedlings as well as the grading of farm roads for easy accessibility through the Rural Access Mobility Programme (RAMP). Of course, his commissioners were not left out. Education commissioner, Folorunsho Bamisayemi, informed the gathering that the governor had approved the recruitment of 2,500 teachers to boost teaching and learning. He also disclosed that the governor had approved the payment of examination fees for those students qualified to write external exams. Old students association of various schools, he disclosed, were being brought on board to join hands with government to the standard of education in the state. Next to take turn was Rafiu Isamotu, the health commissioner. He told the gathering that the governor had approved the renovation of the state hospital at Asubiaro as indeed all General Hospitals, adding that the governor has taken steps to start cancer screening so as to detect early cases of cancer. He spoke of the governor’s approval for the purchase of drugs for all the 332 primary health care centres in the state. Special Adviser on Health, Siji Olamiju would also inform the gathering of the governor’s approval of renovation of all comprehensive health centres in the state. Not left out was Commissioner for Works, Engr. Remi Omowaye who, through a video documentary displayed to the gathering the intervention of the Oyetola administration in various sectors of the state. At the end of his presentation, he disclosed that the state government had earmarked N5.2 billion for the reconstruction of 54.3 km roads in the three senatorial districts in the state. For a maiden outing, it is certainly an impressive start. That is however not to suggest that the answers provided by the governor and his appointees would satisfy everyone. In any case, that was not the idea. The whole idea is to use the forum to reach the people; for the government to explain what it was doing on their behalf, and to help the people to appreciate the practical constraints facing their government and for the government to receive critical feedback on its programmes and policies. In short, to foster inclusive governance. The Ikirun outing would appear to have achieved these – and perhaps much more. As it is, the rest of the nine federal constituencies in the state can look forward to when next the Apero train will berth in their neighbourhood as the Oyetola administration has promised it will surely do. For yours truly, that’s true democracy as work!