The National President of the Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN), Elder Chinedu Okoronkwo, has commiserated with the victims of the Abule-Ado explosion and those of Trade Fair areas of Lagos. Okoronkwo said the government should curb the explosions in the area. He appealed to investigate the matter and  urged residents to stay away from buildings on pipelines’ Right of Way (RoW). Okoronkwo commiserated with families and relations of those who lost their lives in the  incident, adding that those who caused it should be punished. Okoronkwo said: “This tragedy should not have happened. Those who lost their lives in the unfortunate incident did not deserve to die so gruesomely. I strongly condemn this incident and commiserate with families and relations of those who died.” He also sympathised with those who lost their properties in the explosion. “In their memories and  to avert similar occurrence in future, the authorities must get to the root of this incident and curb incessant explosions in the area. “All those who had a hand in this explosion, including those who acted in ways to put lives at risk and hard-earned possessions in jeopardy, must be punished, no matter how highly-placed they may be,” he said. Okoronkwo praised the Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mallam Mele Kyari, for his assuring that he would remove all structures on the NNPC’s pipelines right of way across the country to prevent such incidents in future. He said: “Kyari was at the scene  to commiserate with the people of Lagos State on what happened. It is very unfortunate but avoidable. It is very obvious that people are building houses on our right of ways which constitute a serious danger to lives and property. “The incident happened as a result of overcharged air resulting from gas leakages from activities around this pipeline. Unfortunately, there was an ignition, which led to a chain of events, including igniting our pipeline.” According to Kyari, it is very important for people to understand that oil operation has its rules and the moment it is breached, it will lead to unfortunate incidents.