Oluwamayomikun OREKOYA  VALMIERA FC’S Toluwalase Arokodare has always wanted to be a footballer. In fact, the first word the 19-year-old recalled he made as a baby was ‘goal’. The pacy striker who was born November 23, 2000 in Festac, Lagos scored seven goals in 16 starts for his Latvian team that finished 4th in the Virslīga last season and will play in the next Europa League playoffs. The former Golden Eaglets forward, who believes Cristiano Ronaldo, is better than Lionel Messi, has been likened to Super Eagles striker Victor Osimhen and here talks to NationSport about his family, European adventure   and ambitions. Excerpts…  Sports run in the family “I come from a sporting family; my dad used to be an athlete and my brothers played football but not professionally; so as a kid all that I wanted to do was something like that. This might sound like a funny story but my first word as a child I was told was ‘goal’. “My dad inspired me to be a footballer. He kept pushing me, taking me to youth clubs to help me become better. To make me a better player and person, he enrolled me into a sports school, the International Sports Academy, Wasimi, and Ogun State where we combined sporting activities with education. “My coaches in the school also pushed me to do well and that inspired me to take football as a career.”  Victor Osimhen comparison The 19-year-old, who was part of the NPFL U-18 All-Stars team at the 2017 edition of the Future Champions Gauteng International Tournament in South Africa, has been likened to Super Eagles scoring sensation Victor Osimhen because of his height and pace and he believes that the comparison would only spur him to become a better footballer in the future. “People say I am the new Victor Osimhen, that is pretty big for me because Victor Osimhen is one of the top strikers in the world, one of the top five strikers in Africa now and he is one of the best strike in the country if not the best striker. “The qualities I think we have in common are that we are both fast which is hard to believe because we are both tall. We are also good aerially. But he is a better goal scorer than I am but hopefully I would get to his level and higher. I think we share the quality placing ourselves in the right position at the right time in the box.”  Golden Eaglets class of 2017 Arokodare was part of the Golden Eaglets class of 2017 that failed to qualify for the African U-17 Nations Cup after they crashed out 3-2 on aggregate to the Baby Menas of Niger Republic and therefore missed their chance to defend their U17 World Cup title in India. but the forward believes that featuring for the side was a good experience for him as it prepared him mentally for future challenges. “Playing for the Golden Eaglets in 2017 was a good experience for me. It toughened me mentally and it is helping me to progress in my career. It is good for my profile. “Although we didn’t qualify for the African Championships it was still a good experience because there were over a thousand players who came for the trials and to be among the last 20 was a big achievement. It has helped  my mentality and made me tougher.”  European Trials Before joining his present club, Arokodare went on trails with clubs in Germany and France. He reckoned these experiences as part of the reason he is successful in Latvia as they served as an eye opener on how the game is played in Europe. “I went for trials in Germany at Freiburg and in France at Toulouse. It was a totally different experience. European football is different from African because the European game is faster and more technical. “African football is tougher, everybody knows that but it is a different ball game in Europe and it helped me settle in my club Valmiera FK in Latvia. I don’t think I would have been able to adapt to European style of play if I hadn’t gone on those trials. “I believe I am a pacy striker with a high technical ability because I use both feet. I am equally good in the air as I am on the ground. I can play in any system or formation, I can play as a point man and I can play with another striker.  Ronaldo vs Messi “I prefer Cristiano Ronaldo to Lionel Messi because of the number of goals the Portuguese has scored in his illustrious career. However, they are both great players, the greatest of all time. They have both won numerous awards individually and many trophies for their respective clubs but for me I would pick Ronaldo ahead of Messi because of his style of play. He is more of a goal scorer and that is something I want to learn and work on.  Favourite Super  Eagles Growing up, Arokodare idolised Super Eagles legends like Yakubu Aiyegbeni, Nwankwo Kanu and Austin Okocha all of whom he described as favourite players. He also admitted having likeness for Udinese’s William Troost-Ekong because he reminds him of Vincent Kompany. “Growing up my favourite players were Yakubu Aiyegbeni, Kanu Nwankwo, Austin Okocha and Osaze Odemwingie. They are all retired now and currently my favourite players are Victor Osimhen, Paul Ebere (Onuachu), Wilfred Ndidi, Stephen Odey and William Troost-Ekong.”  Ambitions The striker wants to be among the best players in the world and play for the Super Eagles in the future. He would also like to move to the top leagues in Europe to ply his trade. “My ambitions as a player include being the best player to ever play the game, to play for my country, to play for the top teams in Europe and anywhere in the world. My targets as a player are to win the World Cup, win the Ballon d’Or and the Champion’s League.” “The season has ended now and next season we are going to play the Europa League playoffs so it is time for me to work on conditioning my body and getting ready for the next season.”  Strong family backing Arokodare comes from a family of six who all supported his decision to take up football as a career. His father was an ex-athlete for Nigeria in the 80s while his mother was a trader and he has three brothers who all played football but not professionally. “I am from a family of six. My dad used to be an athlete for Nigeria while my mum is a former trader. I have three brothers who played footballer but not professionally. “My family has always been there for me since the start of my career. They have played a big role in my development. They have helped me mentally and financially. I grew up in Festac which has produced not only footballers but notable musicians and other top talents. Festac is a center for talents. “Playing football makes me happy but winning a game and scoring goals makes me happier. Losing a game makes me sad obviously. It is never a good feeling to lose a game,” he noted.