 Kano State Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje has hailed the Federal Executive Council’s (FEC) $2.571b approval for the Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano Gas project. The project, according a statement issued to reporters by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Abba Anwar, indicated that ,is designed at spurring genuine and sustainable industrialisation as well as industrial growth.as the gas-based and power generating companies would form the significant part of the key prospective beneficiaries. He appreciated that President Muhammadu Buhari has indeed come to rescue the nation’s ailing industries, particularly the moribund industries in Kano that were critically affected for many years for one reason or the other, but with the fundamental reason of inadequate electricity. “It was because of the epileptic nature of electricity supply in the country and the state in particular, that we decided to evolve ways of having more power to power our industries. Hence our faith in Independent Hydro Power projects,” he stated.  It is evidently clear, as posed by the governor that, “President Buhari’s determination and political will to see to the bouncing back of workable industries in the state and the nation in general, are playing critical role in this project. I am sure the moribund industries of Kano and Kaduna states in particular, with this peoples oriented project, will bounce back in the most effective and efficient ways possible.” After the approval of the sum mentioned above, that was after the FEC meeting, Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed briefed media men that, “We have done an extensive review of this project and we are satisfied that the cash flows from the Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano gas pipeline project is sufficient to pay the facility itself.” According to her, “This is one of the cardinal policies of this administration and it is very strategic to national development. The project would create employment opportunities, increase government revenue, encourage export and enhance the nation’s foreign reserves by significantly reducing dependency on imports.” 