 He bloomed early, and was recognised as a prodigious Nigerian literary talent. His death on February 28 in South Africa, aged 61, was a blow to a project that reflected the depth of his scholarship. The University of Cape Town (UCT), South Africa, where Harry Garuba was Professor of English and Director of the Centre for African Studies, described him as “a masterful writer and poet” and “a luminary in the field of African literature and a champion of postcolonial theory and postcolonial literature.” Significantly, the university defined the value of his work: “His dedication to his field was critical in developing the UCT Centre for African Studies as a hub for research on the African continent. “As part of the university’s Curriculum Change Working Group (CCWG), Professor Garuba was committed to developing thinking about what a decolonised curriculum would look like in Africa and the global south and what a multicultural curriculum would look like in the West.” His involvement in this project that requires advanced thinking underlined the brilliance of his mind.  At 17, he got into the University of Ibadan, where he studied English. He earned his master’s and doctorate at the same university. His interest in poetry inspired him to start ‘The Poetry Club’ while still a student at the university, thus encouraging a generation of budding creative writers. As a teenager, he had shown remarkable literary promise, and his one-act play, Pantomime for Saint Apartheid’s Day, was published in the FESTAC Anthology of Nigerian New Writing during the Second World Black and African Festival of Arts and Culture, which took place in Lagos in 1977. At 24, he published his first poetry volume, Shadow and Dream and Other Poems (1982), which was a feat at that age. It is intriguing that Garuba’s second collection of his poetry, Animist Chants and Memorials, was published in 2017, 35 years after he had made a grand entry into the world of published poets.  Literary critic Biodun Jeyifo situated Garuba’s poetry in a tribute: “Harry continued and extended the revolution in poetic diction and form that Niyi Osundare had launched against the more elaborate and “learned” versification gymnastics of poets of the older generation. But beyond this, Harry went back to more traditional and more “inviting” patterns of Anglophone poetic imagining and utterance. He was a poet of love, but love was for him also a passage to many other areas of life.” In 1988, Garuba published his first academic book, Mask and Meaning in Black Drama: Africa and the Diaspora. In the same year, he edited the collection Voices from the Fringe: An ANA Anthology of New Nigerian Poetry. This was regarded as a “groundbreaking anthology of the poets of his generation.” It is curious that even though Garuba was the most prominent of the poets of that generation, he did not include any poem of his in the anthology. Garuba taught at the University of Ibadan for 15 years before moving to South Africa to teach in the English Department at the University of Zululand. His migration and entry into the South African academic community showed the stuff he was made of. He moved to the University of Cape Town in 2001,  where he taught in the African Studies and English departments until 2019, and published extensively in the fields of African and postcolonial literature. It is a measure of his intellectual strength that he thrived at UCT, described as “South Africa’s premier tertiary institution and the most highly ranked among Africa’s universities.” Garuba’s life of devotion to literary creativity and scholarship, fuelled by his mental magnitude, had its enduring lessons.