 Workers of the Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education (AOCOED), Ijanikin, Lagos have debunked rumours of students uprising on Monday. The workers accused the state government of attempting to witch-hunt them for being whistle-blowers. The leadership of the four unions, which held a briefing at the college premises yesterday, said the government did not give them a fair hearing before going hard on them. Chairman, College of Education Academic Staff Union (COEASU) Comrade Ige Ajayi, was reacting to a letter, purportedly written by the Office of the Special Adviser on Education, which directed the leaders of the unions to report to government secretariat in Alausa daily until further notice. However, Ige insisted workers would not rest until the Registrar and Bursar Messrs Shehu Muhideen and Adeyanju Adebis, explained the accrued payment of rent on a communication mast as well as two banks operating within the college, among other allegations. The unions last week accused the Registrar and Bursar of fraud, asking them to vacate office for an investigation. The situation degenerated into accusations and counter accusations among the parties, as police from Ijanikin Police Station were brought at the instance of the Registrar. In a briefing at COEASU secretariat on Tuesday, the unions comprising COEASU; Non-Academic Staff unions (NASU); Senior Staff Unions of College of Education in Nigeria (SSUCOEN); and National Academic Staff Technologists of Colleges of Education (NACEATYON), accused Shehu and Adebisi of taking it upon themselves the task of buying equipment for the college, thereby leaving the Procurement Department redundant. Ajayi said when confronted with the allegations by workers, the duo could not provide documents between the college, and its contractors and vendors. Ajayi debunked the insinuations making the round that workers were planning to cause trouble to destabilise the peace in the college.  Ajayi lamented that the college has no principal signatory, adding that the Registrar, Bursar, and Deputy Provost, and Deputy Bursar have been signing cheques at will, with Provost acting only as an approval signee. He noted that in the last nine days, the union did not plan to make it public  until the Registrar petitioned them before the government the following day and later expressed his position in the media, thereby externalising the crisis. Said Ajayi:”Imagine that the Registrar single-handedly wrote a petition and submitted same to the government without the knowledge of any principal officers in the college. It was at the point of submission that he (Registrar) was asked to reroute his letter through the Provost office.” Ajayi said the unions had written to the DPO of Ijanikin Police Station, warning him of the implication of meddling in union matters, militarising the campus and intimidating innocent workers. Ajayi said the unions suspended the planned congress scheduled for Tuesday to forestall a scenario where such a gathering would be hijacked by fifth columnists to disrupt the first semester exam, which started a day earlier. He said though workers did not stealing confidential documents, they would be willing to give government clues on how to substantiate the allegations levelled against the duo. In his reaction, however, Mr Shehu told The Nation that he had not been  informed about the allegation. “I’ve not received any allegation, be it verbal or in writing. Let them (workers) put forward their allegation in black and white. There are procedures in public service which they know. Let them follow the procedures,” he said. Meanwhile, the Speacial Adviser on Education Mr Tokunba Wahab, insisted that the due process would be followed to the letter. “The unions do not own the school and, therefore, cannot run the school for us. The government is the owner and I’m the surrogate in council. Where there are issues, the unions suppose to report to government first and not take laws into their hands. They did not go about their allegations in the right way. He continued: “We will follow due process this time around. We shall set up a panel to appraise the scenario before we come back to look at their allegations. “I never lied against them that they slapped the Registrar and even the school CSO. That is against the rule in public service. Now, we will no longer condone indiscipline. We will run the school according to our dictates and not theirs.  