 WIFE of the Assistant Pastor in Charge of Lagos Province 44, Corporate Social Responsibility of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) Pastor Mrs. Adebisi Opeoluwa-Caleb has appealed to church leaders to train and appoint dependable and god- fearing marriage counselors to help singles prepare holistically for their marriage. Opeoluwa- Caleb said this in an interview with The Nation at the Couples Hangout and Dinner organised by RCCG, The Charis Centre, Lagos recently in Lagos. She lamented that many marriages within their early years are failing, making many singles not to be prepared spiritually, physically, emotionally, psychologically for marital success. She noted the needs for well trained and reliable marriage counselors in places of worship so that together they can approach marriage prayerfully, patiently and with all honesty. She said premarital counseling helps intending couples improve their ability to communicate, set realistic expectations for marriage and develop conflict-resolution skills. She noted that the family is the basic unit of the society established by God and the last things that the devil is fighting knowing fully well that a stable home is a threat to his Kingdom. Opeoluwa-Caleb added that the devil is really out against Christian homes “because he knows that if the home is not settled, it is going to affect everything, the children, prayer life of the couple and oneness that God desires for the home.” She lamented that there are lots of Christian couples have hidden secrets, which have given the devil incursion into their homes. “Christian couples should come together as one and oneness should not only be in bed but in everything, including finance, planning and taking decision together and the home will be a better place”, she said. Assistant Province Pastor in Charge of Youth, Province 2, Pastor (Mrs.) Ifeoma Obaro, called for forgiveness and love among couples as love covers multitude of sin. She bemoaned the increasing cases of attempted suicide and domestic violence among couples, attributing them to bitterness and hatred in the heart which should be addressed critically. She challenged married couples to seek help from faithful men of God, professional therapists and psychologists.