 The police have smashed a four-man syndicate which specializes in defrauding unsuspecting members of the public under the guise of procuring for them Federal Government contracts. Members of the syndicate were rounded up by operatives of the Inspector General of Police Special Intelligence Response Team, IRT. The suspects- Uche Njokwu; Ifeanyi Chukwu; Nnegbu Rowland and Lucky Paul, were arrested after they defrauded a contractor, identified simply as Alhaji of the sum of N14 million. Their modus operandi is by rummaging through waste bins located at the Federal Secretariat, in the Central Business Districts of Abuja, looking for disposed documents or business proposals from businessmen and companies seeking contracts from the Federal Government. Whenever they stumble on any document, they would in some cases, write to the company or businessman, with a letter head bearing the name of the Ministry where the document was found and insert a phone belonging to a member of the syndicate which the businessman  or company would contact. In other cases they would call the company or businessman with the phone number found on the business proposal. Other sources disclosed that several businessmen and companies across the country, had fallen prey to the syndicate and lost millions of naira to their tricks. It was gathered that the said Alhaji, had submitted his business proposal for a road construction and a member of the syndicate contacted him claiming he was one of the personal assistants to a director in the ministry where the Alhaji submitted his proposal and that he had been mandated to inform the Alhaji that his proposal was being considered. The fraudsters made the Alhaji believed that if he must get his contract approved, he would have to pay certain amount of money to some top officials at the ministry who would approve and award the contracts to him. The suspects were said to have bolted after collecting the sum of N14million from their victim and switched off their phones. When the scales fell of their victim’s eyes, he subsequently wrote a petition to the Inspector General of Police, Adamu Mohammed, alerting him about the nefarious activities of members of the syndicate. The case was handed over to the IRT, headed by Deputy Commissioner of Police, Mr Abba Kyari, following which a manhunt was launched for the syndicate. The suspects including the kingpin, Uche Ujokwu, were arrested several weeks after they were tracked by detectives.  Ujokwu, confessed that he became a fraudster because he was once a victim of fraud.  He said he lost all the money he was using to run his unnamed business. The 48-year-old indigene of Imo State explained that he failed in his attempt to retrieve his money and was encouraged by those who defrauded him to join their gang. ”I reside in Suleja area of Niger State, but I am from Aboh Mbaise area of Imo State.  I am a trader, but I became a fraudster after I was defrauded. In 2006, I was going to Wuse Market, Abuja, when someone accosted me and said he wanted to wash(double) money for me at Jabi area of Abuja. They collected N175, 000 from me which was the money I was using to trade. When I realized that I had been defrauded, I tried to get back my money and I got the police involved but they couldn’t help. ‘’I went peacefully to members of the syndicate and they told me that the only way that I could get my money back is when I join them. They thought me the tricks and I started duping people using the same method. I travelled to Ghana and spent five years there during which I formed a new syndicate and our target were businessmen and companies looking for government contracts. ‘’We sourced information about our victims through waste bins around Federal Secretariat in Abuja.  We got a lot of victims and duped a lot of them. The case that got me into trouble was that of the N14 million, belonging to one Alhaji. We found his proposal for road construction and his phone number was on his company’s letter head. We sold him a dummy that we were working at the Federal Ministry of Works and that his proposal was being considered.  We deceived him into paying us that upfront for the cost of the contract and he fell for it. ‘’We all absconded after the money was paid; I didn’t know how the police trailed us and they have closed down my office in Suleja, he added.” Another suspect, Lucky Paul, 33, in his confession said his late sister got him into the gang.  The Delta State indigene added that his sister was a member of the gang. ”I went into fraud because I was looking for money to start up my hair stylist business and my sister who is late was the person that taught me how to defraud people. My sister was a member of the syndicate that they duped a lot of people and after her death I took her place in the syndicate. ‘’Our method was to call people tell them that we want to give them contracts. We used to get the contacts of people looking for contracts from trashed papers in the dustbin around federal ministry secretariat.”