Caregivers have called on government to step up the level of support to Non Governmental Organisations in the area of care for children, orphans and the vulnerable in the society. The call was made by the House keeper and wife of Founder, Living Word Mission (LIWOM) Homes, Ososami, Ibadan, Mrs Abimbola Marcus Williams while receiving a United Kingdom based Non Governmental Organisation, Positive Movement Empowerment (PWE) who were at the Ososami orphanage to donate items to the children. The donation which forms part of the quarterly outreaches of the PWE, an arm of Elizabeth Women Empowerment Initiative also doubles to commemorate the 50th birthday celebration of the PWE Founder and Chief Executive Officer, Mrs Bukayo Ajani-Animashaun. Commending the government for the various support to the managers of the various social support homes in the state in terms of training and networking, Mrs Marcus said with more financial support from the government, care givers and social service providers will do more in ensuring that social miscreants in the society are highly reduced. Noting that the about 90 children in the homes are been catered for on the goodwill of willing donors, Mrs Marcus thanked the PWE for the donations promising that the items will be used for the purpose for which they are donated. While speaking on behalf of the donor, the Nigerian Coordinator of PWE, Mrs Adeola Olusa said although the founder was out of the country, she deemed it fit to celebrate her day with less privileged both in Nigeria and the UK. She said “Today we came in for two things, we have our quarterly outreach tagged “Let’s Go and Give”, through which we give to either the orphanages, mother babies homes or widows. For instance, last December, we had a gathering for widows and we presented foodstuffs and other things for the less privileged in our own little ways. “We give to women and children and support them and we are trusting God that we will do better and more. Our scope is for children, widows and women. Today, the CEO of PWE, Mrs Oluwabukayomi Animashaun clock 50 today and even though she is not in the country, she insisted on celebrating with the less privileged both in Nigeria and the UK. “That is in line with the vision of our NGO, which is to put smiles on the faces of the less privileged in the society. Many NGOs are not really doing well in the country, but at the same time I think it’s good we take a step at a time. If you look at the economy, we will see there is need for more support.” Items donated during the outreach include, foodstuffs, beverages, toiletries and confectionary which runs into hundreds of thousands of naira.