The Senate on Wednesday gave its Adhoc Committee on the nation’s security architecture additional one week to submit its report. The Senate Adhoc Committee on the nation’s Security Architecture was constituted by the Senate to proffer a way forward on the growing insecurity in the country. The Committee is being chaired by the Senate Leader, Senator Yahaya Abdullahi (Kebbi North). The committee was earlier scheduled to submit its report on Wednesday. The extension of time for the Committee followed a motion by the Senate Leader calling for additional time to enable the panel concludes its assignment. Abdullahi said even though the Committee has been working assiduously to meet the time allotted to it, circumstances now necessitated that it seeks for additional time. He said that the Committee only recently met with the National Security Adviser (NSA) and the Inspector General of Police and that their views needed to be incorporated in the report. He said that the NSA was earlier out of the country. “We would have been able to conclude and lay the report today but for the interventions that became necessary when we had to consider some extra submission by the Nigeria Police and the National Security Adviser,” Abdullahi said. Senate President Ahmad Lawan granted the request. He urged the committee to come up with a solid report that will contain the way out of the present security lock jam in the country. Lawan said: “Leader, we are aware that your committee is putting a lot of hard work in producing its report having met with all the security agencies. “If all you are asking is one week for us to have the report enriched by further interactions with the Nigeria Police, this Senate will be glad to give you that one week. “Let’s put up a very solid report that will contain the way out of this security situation that our country is in. “And that will be the contribution of the Senate to unravel the intricacies that have made our security agencies to be overwhelmed at the moment. So you have one more week to finish your report.” The Senate had on January 29, 2020, set up a 17-member Committee to interface with all heads of security agencies in order to find a way out of the deteriorating security situation in the country. The committee is to engage the National Security Adviser on the implementation modalities of the December 2019 national security strategies. The panel also to engage the national security institution to discuss their operational structures, funding, equipment and staff disposition with a view to reviewing the national security architecture to make it more responsive in tackling the myriad security challenges facing the nation and the people. Besides, it is to produce a draft implementation modality/blueprint on the ways and means of tackling the current security challenges for the consideration of the Senate. Members of the panel include Senators Enyinnaya Abaribe, Aliyu Sabi Abudullahi, Ali Ndume, Abba Moro, Yusuf Yusuf, Bala Ibn Na’Allah, Stella Oduah, Ibikunle Amosun, Ibrahim Gobir, George Sekibo, Sulaiman Kwari, Aliyu Wamakko and Haliru Dauda Jika, among others.