 Today, many kids suffer from series of fears and when they have no guidance or someone to help them fight it away, they end up becoming victims who find some simple things to be the most difficult task in the world. Fear in human beings may occur in response to a certain stimulus occurring in the present, or in anticipation or expectation of a future threat perceived as a risk to body or life.  What do kids feel afraid of? Toddlers feel separation anxiety. At sometime between 10 months and two years, many toddlers start to fear being apart from a parent. They don’t want a parent to leave them at daycare, or at bedtime. Young kids fear ‘pretend’ things. Kids  from ages four through six can imagine and pretend. But they can’t always tell what’s real and what’s not. To them, the scary monsters they imagine seem real. They fear what might be under their bed or in the closet. Older kids fear–real life dangers. When kids are seven or older, monsters under the bed can’t scare much because they know they’re not real. At this age, some kids begin to fear things that could happen in real life. They may feel afraid about natural disasters they hear about. They may fear getting hurt or that a loved one could die. Preteens and teens might feel anxious about how they look or whether they will fit in. They may feel anxious or afraid before they give a report or answer questions in class, start a new school, take advanced exams, or play in big games.  Some causes of fear Fear can be caused by experiencing or watching a frightened traumatic accident. For example, if a child falls into a well and struggles to get out, he or she may develop a fear of wells, heights, enclosed spaces, or water.  How to help our fearing children Be patient Please don’t force your children to confront their fears before they’re ready. That said, you also don’t want to overindulge the fear, which may work to validate it into something more concrete. Instead, talk them through the emotion they’re feeling in a calm and comforting manner.  Lead by example Do you have a fear of your own? Perhaps you’re afraid of heights or don’t like being stuck in crowds. Sometimes the best way to teach your child how to overcome their fear is to ‘show’ them how it’s done. Lead by example and put yourself in situations where your child can witness how you navigate your way through your fears calmly and confidently. If Dad or Mum can do it, so can they!  Introduce role models Childhood fears are common and for this reason there are a plethora of resources out there to assist you in teaching your child how to deal with them. Seek out age-relevant children’s books, toys and movies with characters and storylines that deal with overcoming fears and being brave. I’m sure this will also work.  Give them control Fear can be a direct response to feeling physically threatened and helpless. Kids who are scared of the toilet, for example, are concerned they will be flushed down the loo; children who are afraid of dogs are worried they’re going to get bitten; kids who are so scared can scream when even an ordinary goat approaches their way; little ones who are terrified of the monster under the bed are feeling vulnerable on their own in the dark. Giving your child an element of control in the management of their fear will go a long way towards making them feel safe. For example, if they are afraid of intruders in the night, make shutting and locking their bedroom window one of their night-time responsibilities.  Encourage and praise Dismissing your child’s fears or teasing them will achieve absolutely nothing positive. Belittling or ignoring your child may force them to internalise their fear rather than deal with it and also break their trust in you. Instead, talk to your child about their fears, reassure them that you are there for them and encourage them to deal with their fears in their own way – and in their own time. It’s also important to praise their efforts – even mock up a ‘certificate’ to give them when they do something out of their comfort zone. It will go a long way towards building their confidence and overcoming their fears. Answer their questions Although childhood fears are usually based on imaginary or exaggerated perceptions, that doesn’t mean they aren’t very real to your child. Talk with them about their fears and try and understand where they’re coming from. Encourage your child to ask you any questions they like and do your best to answer them in gentle, age-appropriate ways. If you don’t know all the answers, research them together at the library or online. Little steps You can help your child conquer their fear by gentle exposure to that fear, which gradually increases with time and practice. You can do this in consultation with your child. For example, if he’s afraid of the bath, you can start by having a small amount of water in the bath, then gradually add more. Use a jug to pour a little on his hands, then progress to pouring a little on the back of his neck. Keep taking small steps until he feels comfortable and confident. Don’t be angry, stay calm It’s never a pleasant experience for a parent to witness their child in a state of distress and sometimes parents may feel helpless in the face of it. Responding angrily or with humour will often result in further distress for your child. Remaining calm and consistent will ensure a quicker resolution. When your child is in a state of fear, they’re not able to discuss the issues reasonably. Just be there to soothe and comfort.