The Society for Professional Valuation ( SPV) has put its weight behind the establishment of an agency to regulate the practice of estate agency and development in Lagos State. SPV made their support known through their Board ofTrustees Chairman,  Sola Enitan,  in a statement in Lagos. In the statement, entitled: Justification for the establishment of Lagos State Estate Agency Regulatory Authority, Enitan said real estate as the fifth largest contributor to the national Gross Domestic Product (GDP) should be regulated by the government. According to him, the spate of real estate criminality, fraud, money laundering and unethical conduct multitudes of real estate agency practitioners have more often than not earned the practice of estate agency within the state a bad name. Enitan said: “In the light of recent controversies and outcry of estate surveyors and valuers in Lagos State against the call by Lagos State Estate Agency Regulatory Authority (LAESEARA) for estate agents and developers to register with it, it has become imperative to lend a voice to the debate and direct the minds of practitioners according to the dictates of the laws of the land. “The spate of real estate criminality, fraud, money laundering and unethical conduct of multitudes of real estate agency practitioners has more often than not earned the practice in the state a bad name. “States are saddled with ensure the welfare and security of life and property as fundamental purposive actions for good governance. “State governments owe the public good governance, regulatory directions and professional licensure of practitioners, where applicable; in the critical sectors of the economy. “Real estate is the fifth largest contributor to the national GDP and ought to be carefully regulated within Lagos State.” To SPV, LASEARA saddles it with the following objectives: foster a transparent, competent and sustainable transactions regime in contractual relations among parties in the real estate market, prescribe regulation and licensure for the real estate agency practitioners in Lagos State, provide sustainable jobs for youths and curb unemployment. Others are to expedite the sustainable development of the state and entrench prosperity with discipline, arrest revenue drains and serve as a revenue growth driver for the business of government in Lagos State. He submitted that professions are guided by six pillars of character and the estate agency, as it takes custody of the properties of others, represents the interests of others and appropriates these interests through transactions with interested third parties in a defined market. “These interactions with others in the marketplace shape the culture of the market and the perception with which the market stakeholders view the interactivities. The fact that markets are often an all-comers affair in estate agency makes it vulnerable to abuse and fraud by charlatans.” He said it is the responsibility of the government to regulate the trade and practitioners even where such are self-regulating, the government takes an interest  in how such regulation is effected in the interest of the public to whom it owes responsibility and service to protect its welfare. Enitan said the states should take a lead from Lagos and sanitise the estate markes by establishing their estate agency regulatory authority, adding that standards had fallen so low and must be elevated.