Her name is Favour and she received the favour of God. Almost 12 hours after the multiple explosions that rocked Abule Ado, a Lagos Suburb, the three-year-old was pulled out of the rubble that her parents’ residence had become. It was at a time all was thought to be over for her. The death toll from the Sunday morning explosions rose to 20 on Monday with the recovery of three more bodies. Presentation of Favour on Monday by officials of Red Cross Nigeria elicited mixed feelings from the people. While some rejoiced with her, others still looking for their loved ones, wailed uncontrollably. The toddler, apparently unaware of the incident that almost took her life, intermittently smiled while drinking water from a feeding bottle as Red Cross officials narrated how she was rescued. The team said Favour was found naked and partly covered in debris. It was learnt that her mother and brother who sustained injuries were admitted at the Naval hospital. Her father was yet to be found as at 1pm yesterday, fuelling suspicion that more people could still be trapped. Chairman, Red Cross Nigeria, Adebowale Kolawole, said the child’s mother sustained head injury and was semi-conscious. Kolawole added: “She woke up this (Monday) morning and asked after her daughter. Doctors told her she was safe. “We are happy she is at rest psychologically with her daughter safe. We are sure that the pains she is going through will not increase.” Stating that his team would  take  the toddler  to her mother at the Nigerian Navy  Reference Hospital,Ojo,  he added: Her name is Favour.  God has favoured her.” Three more bodies were on Monday recovered from the debris at the Bethlehem Girls’ College, bringing the death toll to 20. The bodies were said to have been recovered around 11am while excavation was being carried out late afternoon yesterday. Out of the 60 injured persons taken to the  Navy hospital   on Sunday, only 10 were still on admission. Two of them were moved to the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) for further attention on the head injuries they sustained. Five were said to have been taken away by their parents and relatives.