Eighteen years after the release of his monster hit, ‘Egungun Be Careful,’ Fuji star, Abass Akande Obesere has been lauded for his efforts. Microblogging platform, Twitter was agog with the vibes of Obesere’s 18-year-old song on Thursday, March 5. A famous social media commentator, J. J. Omojuwa opined that the Fuji star can make a rebound but who will want to be a clown at 50. “I am happy for Obesere, people were never going to indulge a 50-year old man sing Consolijapo and Skesko aya mi nja so evolution was always going to be tough. But surely, there is a chance to test the waters again, but who wants to be a clown for kids at 50? Evolution it is then!” Another twitter user, Omotayo of Lagos, ranked the Fuji star over Terry G and Naira Marley. “Terry G who? Naira Marley who?” he questioned. “Obesere is the real King of Madness, baba perform for several years dressed in ladies costumes, back in the days my father use to call him bad influence, fast forward to 2020 he’s the one giving me joy on the TL, Obesere My GOAT” Also, Mr Punk post reads, “When I was young my mom won’t allow go to my Uncle’s house because he listens to Obesere’s song, saying I’ll become corrupt by his music. 15years later, My Uncle is now a pastor and I’m a Marlian.” For Adetoro, she demanded a fresh tune from the Fuji singer: “Someone pls tell Obesere that he needs to drop something new the Millennials just got inspired by his genre.” Recently, music sensation, Niniola Apata, popularly known as Niniola released a single titled, “Omo Rapala”, which is a moniker the popular singer. She, however, featured Obesere in the music video. He opened the year with a danceable Afrobeat single ‘Skoro’ which is produced by Glorious Beatz, with mixing and mastering credits going to EQ-Mix.” Obesere, who is popularly referred to as ‘Omo Rapala’ or ‘Papa Tosibe’ for his energetic performance, forced his way into the limelight through lewd songs and music videos. He made a lot of albums which were released under the imprints of Dudu Heritage and Bayowa Records respectively. Some of his hit songs include Gogo night, ‘Omorapala Overthrow,’ ‘Asakasa,’ ‘Okokoriko,’ ‘American Faaji,’ ‘Oodua,’ ‘Efissy,’ ‘Obadan,’ and ‘Mr Teacher’. His song, Egungun Be Careful was a street anthem, when it was released under the imprint of Bayowa Records.