 WHETHER the distraught people of Igabi and Giwa local government areas of Kaduna State attacked by bandits on Sunday would be reassured by Governor Nasir el-Rufai’s promise that security agencies would take the battle to the bandits is not certain. They were in mourning on Monday when the governor visited, and by their accounts, were deeply traumatised by the loss of over 50 of their compatriots to the bandits’ killing spree. Kaduna is of course not alone in experiencing and enduring the murderous rampage of bandits and other itinerant killers who have turned a wide swath of the North into a killing field, but last week’s killings made the front pages of national newspapers and stirred deep antipathy toward the killers as well as impotent governments. The governor’s response, unprecedented in its resoluteness, also made the gory news of the attacks, which were spread over some six communities, somewhat unusual. Kaduna State has had a depressingly sizable share of the killings ravaging the North. Bandits, kidnappers, herdsmen and ethnic clashes have sucked the state into the red gullet of skirmishes and low-scale war. In his various responses to the bloodletting, Mallam el-Rufai sometimes became very controversial. For instance, addressing killings in the southern Kaduna part of the state years ago during his first term, the governor told newsmen that he had identified some of the attackers, whom he described as Fulani, and negotiated with them. More, he said to his incredulous compatriots, he had paid them to avert future attacks. Purchasing peace with money was an unusual thing until that time, and Mallam el-Rufai’s policy of financial appeasement was understandably met with derision and incredulity, not to talk of being repulsed by his clandestine gloating of sharing ethnic affiliation with the attackers. That he knew the killers, even if they were justified to claim retaliation as their motive, was, to many, deeply wounding. It is unclear whether Mallam el-Rufai’s response to last Sunday’s fresh wave of killings was informed by the futility of his previous appeasement measures or by the ethnic identity of last Sunday’s attackers. But it is significant, and it may indeed be the high point of his condolence visits to the besieged communities, that he has sworn that there would be no negotiations with or amnesty for the attackers who have turned some parts of the state into war zones. He had been an apostle of negotiations, having himself proudly but disreputably practiced it at least once, though with dubious outcomes. It is thus a relief to many Kaduna indigenes that their governor has experienced an epiphany about the sterility of negotiating with bloodthirsty bandits. It may also be inadvertent, but when he spoke of denying amnesty to the bandits, he was probably alluding to some states in the North which short-sightedly offered amnesty to bandits and criminals. Many northern states ravaged by bandits, rustlers and herdsmen have desperately reposed hopes in a solution that seeks to mollify the rage of the attackers. The states’ responses have been largely desultory, unscientific and even provocative. Indeed, overall, those responses have been foolish and futile. They betray an appalling lack of understanding of the cultural, political and socio-economic dynamics that fuel the low-scale revolt being witnessed in many states in the North. Even Mallam el-Rufai himself has, despite his vaunted analytical prowess, spoken sometimes crassly of the nature of the revolts and embraced panaceas that betray his panic and desperation. During his condolence visits last Monday to Igabi and Giwa LGAs, he spoke of wiping out the bandits, without correspondingly speaking to the predisposing factors fuelling the revolt and what could be done to manage or stifle them. In Katsina and Zamfara, for instance, two states also reeling from bandit attacks, their governors have spoken glibly of negotiating with the bandits, offering them amnesty, and of course backing the exercise with financial inducements. These are counterintuitive measures steeped in brazen fallacies and intellectual laziness. There is of course a place for police or military action, to make criminals pay for their sins, but by negotiating with bandits and offering them amnesty, the governors seem to give the impression that banditry is nothing more than social deviancy. But it is in fact much deeper and wider than that. Until the governors appreciate the reasons that have seemed suddenly to trigger the conflagration being witnessed in the North, they will be unsuccessful in managing a crisis that is also worsening and becoming mystifying. If anyone should be incapable of understanding the crisis, it was not thought that Mallam el-Rufai would number among them. But on Monday, newspapers quoted and paraphrased him as saying the following to the stricken communities which he visited: “If not for the security agencies prompt intervention, they would have wiped out the villages. I also came to apologise for our failure to protect you fully, we are doing our best to minimise such incidents, you should continue to forgive us. But we are doing the best we can and we are hoping that this banditry issue will be addressed because security personnel are on ground to manage the situation. In Kaduna we have a vast land, if the security agents close one area,  they attack another area. But it is our duty to wipe them out and until we send them to their maker, the security agencies are taking the war to the forest and we are  eliminating them gradually. The security agencies are doing the best they can, but they find it difficult to get to remote areas in good time due to poor access roads. The natives on the other hand also find it difficult to get to the security personnel due to poor GSM network.” The Kaduna governor seems to set great store by military and police actions. He thinks the bandits can be wiped out. Yes, they should be wiped out. But they can’t be extirpated until the factors that encouraged them to take up arms against the state have been dealt with. Mallam el-Rufai should have at least acknowledged those factors; but perhaps, for a politician, the occasion was not the best to philosophise about the socio-economic, political, religious and ethnic underpinnings of the revolt that is enveloping much of the North and may yet prove catastrophic to the rest of the country. The federal government, particularly the presidency, has also lent weight to the orthodoxy of acquiring weapons and troops to deal a crushing blow to banditry which have made the highways and vast expanses of land unsafe for living and economic activities. During his condolence visit, the governor also apologised for the government’s inability to protect the villagers. He said it was the duty of the government to send the terrorists to their maker. Mallam el-Rufai is an emotional man, often carried away by the smallest triggers and provocations. And despite his rhetorical gifts as a notable and sometimes excitable polemicist, he is also often inconsistent in his approach to grave issues. His allusion to sending bandits to their maker and wiping them out should be understood from those idiosyncratic perspectives. Can the governor be trusted to do something substantial about the bandits? It is unlikely. He can lean on the government for more troops to be deployed in his state, and more firepower and airpower. But the hard task of identifying the factors that triggered the revolt all over the North, and the still harder task of cobbling together measures to curb the madness and rebellion of dispossessed and angry youths will very likely elude him and put an inordinate strain on the state’s lean resources. His vicarious apology is also both inappropriate and insufficient. Rather than the glib talk of wiping out the so-called terrorists from Kaduna or, like the presidency is wont to do, paying frequent condolence visits, perhaps it is time Mallam el-Rufai acknowledged the barrenness of his panaceas, when he unwisely negotiated with and paid terrorists who subjected Southern Kaduna to mayhem. After all, those so-called foreign terrorists he claimed to have paid off have not proved any different from the local terrorists who have continued to subject the same areas to attacks, significantly for the same reasons. It is also time he saw the wider dimensions of the revolt unnerving the North, a revolt whose causes are neither limited to Kaduna State nor triggered by the state’s peculiar and intractable dynamics. The causes of the revolt are extensive, complex and rapidly becoming exacerbated. Northern governors must, therefore, come together to find radical and comprehensive solutions to the problems ravaging the region. And the solutions must involve urgently jettisoning age-old cultural, religious and economic paradigms and stereotypes. It is hoped that they have the courage to embrace the appropriate measures, and that the problem is not already too ossified and too resistant to respond to their weak and half-hearted palliatives.