 Stanbic IBTC Holdings PLC, a member of Standard Bank Group, has pledged to the tenets of gender equality. The Chief Executive, Stanbic IBTC Holdings Plc, Yinka Sanni, spoke at the Sixth Blue Women Network (BWN) Annual Conference, held in commemoration of the International Women’s Day. The theme for this year’s International Women’s Day is Each for Equal.  Sanni said the conference, since inception, has been an avenue for promoting gender equality. He noted that the Stanbic IBTC group utilises every opportunity to celebrate and give women access to appropriate developmental and leadership opportunities; all of which are underpinned by the core values of the organisation. He said: “It is unsustainable to have a gender imbalance in any organisation, more so in leadership positions. To further amplify gender equality, the Blue Women Network was created and endorsed by our management six years ago to enable our female employees become more connected. The Blue Women Network also serves as a means of developing our female workforce and we have witnessed a remarkable shift over the period.” He said Stanbic IBTC Holdings PLC became a thematic champion for the ‘HeForShe’ initiative with a launch last December. ‘HeForShe’ is a global movement initiated by the United Nations (UN), a global solidarity movement for gender equality, he added.  He urged the participants to continue to promote gender equality by creating an enabling society for all to thrive. This, he said, is a collective responsibility. Similarly, Executive Director, Business Development, Stanbic IBTC Pensions Limited, Nike Bajomo, said gender equity is for the good of our society, adding that everyone has roles to play in changing the narrative in their various spheres of influence. She urged women to aim for more leadership positions as they participate in business, politics, and sports, among others. She added that when a woman contributes to decision making in leadership roles, she is most likely to bring unique and high-value ideas to the table, be it at home or work front. Bajomo stated: “Challenges faced in our society cannot be resolved without making a fundamental shift in our thinking, actions, and inactions towards women.  We are all responsible for creating a society where we can truly experience gender equity.” Publisher/founder Genevieve Magazine Betty Irabor, urged women to pursue their dreams and not allow the challenges of life hinder them from achieving greatness. Popular comedienne Dr. Helen Paul, popularly known as Tatafo, talked about her journey to bagging her doctorate against all odds. She also urged women to remain resolute in achieving their dreams. The sixth edition of the BWN magazine was launched at the event. The conference ended on a high note as guests were thrilled to an electrifying spoken word performance by Ella Forte. The BWN is a network of female employees of the Stanbic IBTC Group aimed at fostering their growth and development. It serves as an avenue for female staff of Stanbic IBTC to engage and share knowledge which will aid in sharpening their professional skills.