DUEHI: I am Uduehi, a pensioner with Delta Steel. PTAD has been paying our pension since we were verified and we are grateful. But some pensioners were not paid August 2019 pension and from September 2019 till last month. Kindly help us ask PTAD whether we have lost our August 2019 pension. If not, when are they going to pay? OLUKAIYEJA: Please Omobola, what is happening to retiree bond for those of us that retired from Federal Government in January,last year? Hunger, frustration and embarrassment are killing us. – Dare Olukaiyeja. KADIRI: My name is Kadiri,  a retiree from Federal Polythenic, Idah, Kogi State. Sigma told me last week that they had sent my document to Pencom for final approval of my retirement benefits. I am appealing that you to make it fast, if posible this week. And in case of a problem, please let me call me. Thanks very much. Yours, John Kadiri.   ADEGBOLA: I am Adegbola, chairman, Nigeria Union of Pensioners (NUP) Research Institute Branch (Nigerian Stored Products Research Institute Unit). Kindly help us check from PTAD our check- off dues, which were deducted from our pensions for the first three years of our signing with PTAD. We could not open a bank account then because of some internal issues. We have since resolved them, and notified PTAD. We also asked PTAD to start the deduction of the check-off dues from our members, but no response. Please help us.  EFFANGA: I am Effanga, a state pensioner with federal share with particulars. My complaint is that I have not been paid my federal share of gratuity and monthly pension since retirement in 2010. Thank you.  UDUEHI; OLUKAIYEJA; KADIRI; DR. EZEANI; ADEGBOLA; and EFFANGA: The Nation will intervene by sending your complaint to PTAD. Do watch out for the newspaper publication next Wednesday for a response from the commission and subsequently every week for pension news.  MABAWONKU: My name is Mabawonku, a pensioner with federal share. I retired with NERDC in1993 as assistant chief research officer. My gratuity and six months’ arrears pension have not been paid after several correspondence and appearances to PTAD. I was verified by PENCOM in 2011 and PTAD in Lagos in April, last year. The Lagos State share has been paid where I retired in 2010 as a director. But for PTAD, not so. Please help me. PTAD: The pensioner is to provide a copy of his pensioner’s verification acknowledgement slip to enable us investigate and follow up on his complaints. ADETUTU: We read again in The Nation of July 9, last year, that my mother should send her phone number. I did do so immediately. But there is a mistake in the article. It was written that she was paid monthly pensions from 2005 to 2010. This is not true, which is why she is asking for the arrears.  PTAD: The pensioner was contacted on her mobile phone number and informed to provide a copy of her pensioner’s verification acknowledgement slip through the complaints email (complaints@ptad.gov.ng).This will enable us investigate and follow up her complaint.