  THE Federal Government has urged Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) to “send the full list of former governors and ministers that have received and/or receiving double pay and life pensions in order to enhance and ensure compliance with the judgment of the court”. The request followed last year’s judgment which ordered the government to challenge the legality of states’ pension laws and recover public funds collected by ex-governors and ministers. SERAP had sent a letter to the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mr Abukabar Malami (SAN), asking him to “advise and persuade President Muhammadu Buhari fully enforce the judgment”. In his reply, dated February 24, 2020, but which SERAP said it received on March 2, 2020, Malami said: “Kindly refer to your letter, dated December 6, 2019. I am writing to inform your esteemed organisation to furnish me with the full list of the former governors and ministers which are affected by the judgment by Justice Oluremi Oguntoyinbo in order to enhance and ensure compliance with the ruling of the Honourable Court. Please, treat with utmost urgency.” Responding, SERAP’s Deputy Director Kolawole Oluwadare said: “We welcome your request for the full list of former governors and ministers. Any further delay in the enforcement of the judgment will continue to undermine the authority and integrity of the Nigerian judiciary. Nigerians cannot wait for you to take legal action to scrap states’ pension laws and fully recover the public funds collected. “Immediate obedience to the judgment will be a victory for the rule, and provide an impetus for the government’s anti-corruption fight. It will also be a rare piece of good news for the people of Nigeria, as it will send a powerful message to former governors and ministers that have collected and/or collecting double pay that they will be held to account for their actions, and mark the end of this state-level impunity.” Malami’s letter was signed on his behalf by Anne C. Akwiwu (Mrs), the Director Civil Litigation and Public Law Department. SERAP’s response, dated March 5, 2020, reads: “We hope this judgment will be implemented duly and promptly for the sake of integrity, accountability and proper management of public resources by state governors. “Complying with the judgment as promised will enhance the authority, integrity and independence of the judiciary. It will be entirely consistent with the government’s constitutional responsibility and international human rights and anti-corruption obligations. “By implementing the judgment, the government of President Muhammadu Buhari will be demonstrating the important role that our judiciary can play in the fight against corruption in the country. “Former Senate President Dr Bukola Saraki stated that he stopped collecting pensions while in the Senate the moment he saw the allegation by SERAP. However, it is unclear if he has returned all the public funds collected as pension from Kwara State. “According to public records, the following are reportedly collecting and/or have collected double emoluments and large severance benefits from their states: Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso (Kano); Kabiru Gaya (Kano); Godswill Akpabio (Akwa Ibom); Theodore Orji (Abia); Abdullahi Adamu (Nasarawa); Sam Egwu (Ebonyi); Shaaba Lafiagi (Kwara); Joshua Dariye (Plateau) and Jonah Jang (Plateau).”      