Chams Plc will continue to grow its business through strategic partnerships and introduction of innovative products and services that are tailored to the Nigerian and African markets. Group Managing Director, Chams Plc, Gavin Young, said the company has created bespoke customer-centric solutions that optimize business processes, particularly in the identity verification space. According to him, the company has further segmented its identity verification solutions in order to meet specific requirements of its broad customer base. For instance, under Chams’ unique products, customers including individuals, Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (SMEs) and governments among others use various services to confirm identity of an employee or bulk verification. He said the company takes pride in providing customised identity services, particularly for organisations, where updating, or validating the identity of individual’s information against the organization’s customer database is key to maintaining data quality, validity and integrity. “An example of an innovative identity verification solution we provide to state governments, which has made a major difference in improving the lives of state pensioners, is our pensioner verification app. Pensioners can verify themselves through taking a selfie, which we match against other facial records of the pensioner, including the State pension’s database. Once verified, the pensioner is good to receive pension payments for another defined period,” Young said. Prior to the app being introduced, pensioners were required to travel from their rural locations to a bank branch in order to verify themselves through fingerprint biometrics. This was often a long, costly and laborious exercise for the pensioner. Now, they can perform the verification exercise through using either their own phone or another smartphone, from any location. Young noted that the pensioner app is one way Chams is applying simple identity technology to specific customer needs and improving lives. “We are excited with this innovation as it applies across many industries where verifying the identity of individuals is required. In addition to the basic verification technology, we customize the solution for our customers by linking to their own database as part of the verification process,” Young said.