ONE of the world’s most famous sporting rivalries takes centre stage once again on Sunday (night) as Real Madrid and Barcelona lock horns at the Santiago Bernabeu in the latest installment of the Clasico derby. This high-profile meeting between fierce rivals carries extra significance given the current state of the LaLiga title race, with Quique Setien’s Barca holding a two-point advantage over Los Blancos, who were knocked off top spot last weekend courtesy of a shock defeat at Levante. Another loss this weekend is likely to prove fatal to Real’s hopes of claiming a first domestic title since 2017. Real Madrid remain without Eden Hazard, who suffered a hairline fracture in his right fibula during the loss at Levante. Marco Asensio is yet to return from an anterior cruciate ligament tear, while Rodrygo is suspended after being sent off playing for Real Madrid Castilla. Jordi Alba is back in first-team training for Barcelona and Gerard Pique could feature despite a sprained ankle sustained in the Champions League draw against Napoli.  The visitors are definitely without Sergi Roberto, Ousmane Dembele and Luis Suarez. Real Madrid coach Zinedine Zidane said on Saturday his side are in a delicate situation as they prepare to host arch rivals Barcelona in a La Liga title showdown on Sunday amid a downward spiral of results which has left their season in limbo. Zidane’s side held a three-point lead over Barca at the top of the table two weeks ago but defeat to the Catalans would see them slip five points behind them with 12 games remaining. Their hopes of remaining in the Champions League meanwhile are hanging by a thread after Wednesday’s last-16 first leg against Manchester City in which they conceded two late goals to lose 2-1. “We will need our fans on our side from the first to last minute. I can understand why our fans are upset but we need them and they need us and at the very least we will give everything on the pitch,” Zidane told a news conference ahead of today’s ‘Clasico’.