 The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), has confirmed three new cases from Lagos State that have tested positive to the coronavirus (COVID-19). They are being treated at the Infectious Disease Hospital (IDH), Yaba. Oyo State also confirmed its first case of the COVID-19 through a statement on Sunday morning by Governor Seyi Makinde. This brings the total case to 26. Two cases have been discharged and there has been no death from COVID-19 in Nigeria. According to the statement by Mr. Seyi Makinde: “The COVID-19 confirmation test for the suspected case at Bodija has come back POSITIVE. “The result was released at 17:35 PM of March 21, 2020. Oyo State Public Health Officials are collaborating with the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan’s team on the case. Read A “A follow up on the Ekiti COVID-19 case revealed that the deceased was picked up directly from Lagos Airport to a private apartment in Ona Ara Local Government Area.  “The Health authorities have contacted the family concerned and the community has been alerted for intensified contact tracing and self-isolation of identified close contacts. “The information given that he stayed in some hotels in Ibadan has been found to be false. “Another returnee from Texas, USA, has also been identified at Oluyole Local Government Area. “She has been kept in self-isolation with close monitoring by the State Epidemiological Team. “All recent returnees are again urged to identify themselves to Ministry Officials and self-isolate for 14 days”. On actions the Oyo state government is taking. Makinde said: “We have released funds for activation of Emergency Operation Centre at the Ministry of Health, establishment of Diagnostic Centre for screening of Coronavirus and other related infectious diseases to be stationed at the UCH, Ibadan, and equipping of the newly designated Oyo State Infectious Disease Centre at Olodo that has the capacity for over 100 cases” Oyo State Ministry of Health Helplines: 08038210122 / 08023229267 / 08073431342.