Nasarawa, Enugu, Sokoto, Katsina Niger, and Osun state governments have shut their land borders and banned all unauthorized entry and exit from their states as part of efforts to contain the spread of the Coronavirus pandemic. All inter states routes into Sokoto State were closed from midnight of Friday, March 27th 2020 to 10th April 2020 as  part of proactive measures taken by the state against the spread of the dreaded Coronavirus- pandemic. Similarly, all state civil servants on GL 12 and below are to work from their homes for an initial period of two weeks starting from Friday March 27 2020 to Friday April 10 2020. Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal issued the directive Thursday night in a statewide broadcast in which he noted that the pandemic has caused losses in human lives and the economy of all nations, including Nigeria. In Nasarawa, the State Governor, Abdullahi Sule on Friday issued a proclamation on the enforcement of restriction of movement in the state to check the spread of the Coronavirus. According to the proclamation he personally signed and a copy made available to our correspondent yesterday in Lafia, Governor Sule directed the restriction of all movement into the state. The Katsina State Government has also joined her counterparts in the North West states including Kaduna and Kano in locking down its borders with neighboring h states including Niger Republic and also restricted the movements of people effective from today. He said “His Excellency Governor Aminu Bello Masari has directed the closure of all borders with neighboring states and Niger Republic. “However, fuel takers and vehicles conveying food items and other essential commodities will be allowed into the state subject to their screening and test at the point of entry.” The commissioner further announced that people are allowed to freely move wherever they want to go within but not outside the state Similarly, the Enugu State Government has ordered the closure of all land borders and inter-state transportation in the state till further notice, with effect from 6pm on Tuesday, March 31, 2020, except those on medical emergency services. The story was not different in Niger State where inter and intra-state travels have equally been banned by the state government. 1The government’s directive was contained in a statement signed by Secretary to the State Government (SSG) and Chairman of the Niger State Task Force on COVID-19, Ahmed Ibrahim Matane. According to Matane, the ban covers the entire state territory and would begin immediately. Closure of the land borders into Osun State is also expected to take  effect from today. The state government  made the disclosure  on Thursday while announcing  the closure of major markets in the state.