Women account for 41 per cent ownership of micro-businesses in the country, with 23 million female entrepreneurs operating within that segment. This, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers’ (PwC Nigeria’s) latest report, places Nigeria among the highest entrepreneurship rates globally. The report, which analysed women’s participation and representation in the private and public sectors, however, said on average, the country has not improved in closing the gender equality gap. Assistant Editor CHIKODI OKEREOCHA reports.  It wasn’t by chance that the fifth Nigeria Manufacturing and Equipment Expo (NME) co-located with the Sixth Nigeria Raw Materials Expo (NiRAM) held in Lagos, last week, dedicated a session to “Women in manufacturing.” It was in recognition of the growing influence of  women entrepreneurs and their contributions to development. This year’s edition of the NME/NIRAM Expo with the theme “The Fourth Industrial Revolution and the Nigerian Manufacturing sector” was organised by the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), in collaboration with Raw Materials Research and Development Council (RMRDC). The expo was a platform for manufacturers to source raw materials and also benefit from Research and Development (R&D) breakthroughs. It also allowed stakeholders in the manufacturing sector to critically discuss how to tap into the opportunities presented by the fourth industrial revolution. However, a significant session of the expo was on “Women in Manufacturing,” which, according to MAN President Mansur Ahmed, afforded amazons the opportunity to share their experiences with intending women manufacturers who are prospecting to venture into the sector, but have reservations on their expectation. Although the special session was chaired by  Chief Executive Officer of Sokoa Chair Centre Limited, Mrs. Ibukun Awosika, other women manufacturers were on hand to share their experiences and exploits in various sectors of the economy. While the session, undoubtedly, underscored the fact that Nigerian women entrepreneurs have come of age and have shown incredible capacity to hold their own in the world of business, latest report by PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC Nigeria) may have brought to the fore the need to close the gender gap to unleash the immense potential of women entrepreneurs to further contribute to development. In its report entitled: Impact of Women on Nigeria’s economy, PriceWaterhouse said that Nigerian women account for 41 per cent ownership of micro-businesses, with 23 million female entrepreneurs within that segment. The report, which was released last week and made available to The Nation, said this placed Nigeria among the highest entrepreneurship rates globally. But, it was, however, quick to add that, on average, the country had not improved in closing the gender equality gap. For instance, Nigeria, according to the report, ranked 128th out of 153 countries and 27th out of 53 countries in Africa, on the World Bank’s Global Gender Gap Index 2020 – which implies that the country still has a long way to go in attaining gender equality and equal representation for women. Chief Economist & Partner, West Africa Financial Services Leader, PwC, Dr. Andrew S. Nevin, said the Impact of Women on Nigeria’s economy was the first of two reports highlighting the impact of women on Nigeria’s economic development in March – being the Women’s Month. March 8 yearly is celebrated globally as International Women’s Day (IWD). It celebrates the social, economic, cultural and political achievements of women – while also making a call to action for accelerating gender equality. Nevin said PwC, in the first paper, assessed the impact of women on Nigeria’s economic development through analysis of women’s participation and representation in the private and public sectors. The second paper will explore the barriers and challenges women face in the formal services sector with emphasis on ICT, financial services and higher education. Describing the entrepreneurial spirit of Nigerian women entrepreneurs as strong, Nevin, who is lead author of the publication, said Nigerian women entrepreneurs account for 41 per cent ownership of micro-businesses in the country, with 23 million female entrepreneurs operating within this segment. He, however, said the high-level participation of female entrepreneurs was driven mainly by necessity, which is the norm in emerging markets where there is insufficient formal employment. “Necessity-driven entrepreneurs are those who are pushed into starting businesses because they have no other source of income. Consequently, despite the high-level of female entrepreneurs relative to most countries, there are challenges and barriers in the country that limit women from scaling-up their businesses,” Nevin explained. He said in the formal sector, very important results are emerging. “At the lower levels in formal employment there is almost an even 50-50 split in the workplace between men and women. However, as both sexes climb up the corporate ladder, women begin to decline in representation on the senior leadership teams and at the board level. “As a result, women own only 20 per cent of enterprises in the formal sector in Nigeria. Furthermore, only about 12 per cent of directors on corporate Boards of Directors are women. And taken all together, at the rate Nigeria is changing on these critical dimensions, the Nigerian gender gap in the economy will only close in about 100 years.” Given more details, the report said over the past decade, the share of female in the total employment figure for Nigeria has marginally increased. Last year, for instance, about 51 per cent of females were employed among the total female labour force, compared to 59.8 per cent of males (as a proportion of the total male labour force). It, however, pointed out that the participation of females in the services-oriented sectors, such as transport, education and medical services, was a major factor driving the marginal growth of females in the active labour force. Assessing women’s participation and representation in the private sector, the report, co-authored by Economist/Manager for PwC Nigeria, Omomia Omosomi, stated that female board members made up 19 per cent of the total board composition across the various sectors listed on the Stock Exchange. Among the 11 sectors analysed, the report said construction, industrial goods and consumer goods sectors had the highest representation of female board members, with 24 per cent, 22 per cent and 20 per cent. “In absolute terms, the financial services sector accounted for the highest number of female board members (81 in total) compared to the other sectors,” it added. Also, female management team members made up 23 per cent of the total board member composition across the various sectors listed on the Stock Exchange. The conglomerate, financial services and construction sectors had the largest composition of female board members with 27 per cent, 25 per cent and 25per cent. Across all the sectors, the representation of women increased from 2016 to 2019. The largest increase of 19 per cent was in the construction sector, from five per cent in 2016 to 24 per cent in 2019. Overall, the growth of women on boards increased by 41 per cent, from 160 in 2016 to 226 in 2019.The report said African countries are taking small strides to achieve gender equality in the boardroom, as the average across African countries for representation of women on the board of directors is 25 per cent. At 24.6 per cent, South Africa has the highest percentage of women on its board of directors, due to policies in place for companies to achieve a certain target of women on boards. Nigeria’s was 19 per cent, while Egypt was seven per cent. Going by the report, Nigeria also has a lot of work to do with regards to women’s participation in the public sector. For instance, the report, which benchmarked Nigeria against four selected  African countries namely, Rwanda, South Africa, Ethiopia and Sudan, said Nigeria has the lowest representation of women on the executive cabinet. For instance, while Nigerian women account for only 11 per cent of cabinet ministers, Rwandan women account for 65 per cent; South Africa, 50 per cent; Ethiopia, 50 per cent; Sudanese women account for 28 per cent of ministers in the country’s executive cabinet. Nigeria also has the lowest representation of women in the lower House of Assembly, with women accounting for only six per cent of the 359 seats in the House of Representatives, for instance. In Rwanda, the lower house comprises 80 seats with women representing 61 per cent of the total elected representatives. South Africa’s House of Representatives holds 393 seats with women accounting for about 43per cent, while Ethiopia accounts for 547 seats in the lower house, with 39 per cent of elected female representatives. In Sudan, the lower house comprises 488 seats with 28 per cent of women represented.  Nigeria on gender gap index PwC said Nigeria has remained within the 100th and 130th position out of 153 countries, over the last 10 years (2010-2019), reflecting low level of gender equality compared to peers. “By 2019, the country ranked 128th in the world and 27th in Africa out of 153 countries (and 53 in Africa) surveyed. It is expected that the overall global gender gap will close in 99.5 years,” the report said. The report, however, stated that Nigeria has had varied performance across the various sub-indexes: education, economic opportunity, politics and health. It added: “While Nigeria has done well in bridging the gender gap in economic participation and opportunity, her performance in political empowerment has been very low – only three per cent of the gender gap has been closed in this area.” Although there are many gender-mandated regulations in Nigeria to help close the gender gap, especially in economic participation, enforcing such regulations remained a challenge. For instance, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) mandates a minimum of 30 per cent of females on boards of Nigerian commercial banks. Also, the guideline for the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) Development Fund mandates that 60 per cent of the loans be given to women, just as the National Financial Inclusion strategy recommends increasing female staff members of microfinance banks to 30 per cent. Similarly, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Code only recommends that publicly listed companies consider gender when selecting board members, but does not have any specific gender based rule or regulation. Also, the Nigerian Code of Corporate Governance (CCG) by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) encourages corporate boards to set diversity goals and be mindful of them when filling board vacancies.Unfortunately, there is no enforcement of such regulations. For instance, despite CBN’s mandated regulation for the banking industry, stating that there should be at least 30 per cent of women on the board, the PwC report said only 30.7 per cent of banks adhere to the instruction; 69.3 per cent of commercial banks have not met the CBN regulation. Citing the World Economic Forum (WEF) Global Gender Gap 2020 report, the Managing Partner, Prosperar Consulting, Ms. Modupe Ladipo, said globally, the average gender gap score is at 68.6 per cent, which means there is still a 31.4 per cent average gender gap that remains to be closed globally.” Political Empowerment has the largest gender disparity, with a score of 24.7 per cent; Economic Participation and Opportunity – has the second largest gender disparity, with a score of 57.8 per cent; Health and Survival  –  gender gap score of 95.7 per cent and Educational Attainment  – gender gap score of 96.1 per cent,” she said. Also, citing McKinsey Global Institute Report on the ‘Power of Parity’, Ladipo said women represent 50 per cent of the global population and closing the gender labour gap could add $28 trillion, or 26 per cent, to yearly global Gross Domestic Product (GDP) by 2025.