A Throat patient has sought the assistance of organisations and individuals to help her complete her treatment estimated by her doctors to cost N5.1million. The patient, Mrs. Christiana Aweke Adekunle, 63, from Osun State but based in Sango in Ado-Odo Local Government Area (LGA) of Ogun State, was diagnosed of the disease late last year. The petty trader and mother of five said the sickness started with a minor ear problem two years ago but soon ballooned into a serious health complication. It also affected her trade as she could not attend to it due to her incapacitation. Her husband, Olasunkanmi, a former staff member of Mushin Local Government, Lagos State, could only provide little from his wobbling business. In a radiological report dated November 5, 2019, titled: CT of the Nasopharynx, Dr Egberingbe Kuti-Lawal of the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) said Mrs. Adekunle has ”multiple enlarged lymph modes,” adding: ”There is significant harrowing and symmetry of the nasopharynx with involvement of the …tubarius.” Also, Head of Department, Haematology and Blood Transfusion, Babcock University Teaching Hospital, Dr A.T. Oyelese, confirmed that Mrs. Adekunle came to the hospital last November with ”painful throat swelling.” He said: ”A definitive diagnosis of CD positive lymphocytic lymphoma was made, following several investigations, and chemotherapy with other supportive treatment has commenced.” He said the treatment would require a three-weekly administration of chemotherapy, which would last eight months and each will cost N50,000. Dr. Oyelese also lent his voice to the patient’s appeal, when he said, ”Kindly assist her financially, so that she can meet up with her treatment.” Earlier, Dr. A. Adediran, a Consultant Haematologist at Babcock University Teaching Hospital, in his report, confirmed ”a chronic, painful throat swelling and a diagnosis of pharyngeal tumor.” Dr T. O. Solaja, a Consultant Pathologist at the Babcock Hospital also confirmed this. In a report, Solaja said Mrs. Adekunle has ”painful throat swelling of three months with mild, increasing pain.’’