The scheduled All Progressives Congress’ (APC) scheduled National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting has been suspended indefinitely. The suspension of the NEC was one of the agreements reached during the meeting between President Muhammadu Buhari and governors on the platform, known as the Progressive Governors’Forum (PGF), held at the State House today. Informing State House Correspondents of the decision to suspend the meeting, Kebbi State governor, who is also the Chairman of the PGF, Alhaji Atiku Bagudu, said the body met with President Buhari to arrive at the decision. Bagudu, who was surrounded by his colleague governors, said the forum had resolved to amicably resolved all the areas of differences that had all along been responsible for the crisis besetting the party. He also said that they (the governors) agreed with President Buhari to suspend the scheduled NEC of the party until such a time when they (the governors) would deem it fit to hold the meeting and report back to the President. “Progressive Governors Forum (PGF), who are governors of the All Progressives Congress (APC) controlled-states, came this afternoon to meet Mr President and among other issues, “Yes, we discussed about party issues and showed appropriation to Mr President on how he has given access to each of us individually and collectively. “Among the issues we discussed was the resolution the governors have taken to work together and resolve all the issues in our party and also we sought Mr President’s support to postpone the National Executive Council (NEC) meeting that was scheduled for tomorrow, until such a time that governors will be able to report back”, he said. When asked if the President had agreed to that suspension of the planned NEC, the governor said “yes and he’s so happy that we all took the burden”. Of the twenty members of the PGF, which is the platform on which APC governors converge, 16 were cited after the meeting. The governor’s in attendance, alongside the chairman of the forum were Governors Babagana Zulum, Borno; Babajide Sanwoolu, Lagos; Dapo Abiodun, Ogun;Godwin Obaseki, Edo; Bagudu, Kebbi, Abubakar Badaru, Jigawa; Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, Kwara states. Others were Governors Abdullahi Sule, Nasarawa; Mohammed Sani, Niger; Simon Lalong, Plateau; Rotimi Akeredolu, Ondo; Abdullahi Ganduje,Kano; Adegboyega Oyetola, Osun; Aminu Masari, Katsina; Hope Uzodinma, Imo, and, Inuwa Yahaya of Gombe states. The other four governors absent at the meeting were Governors NasirEl-Rufai, Kaduna; Kayode Fayemi, Ekiti; Mai Mala Buni, Yobe; and Yayaha Bello of Kogi states