Joseph Bodunrin Daudu (SAN) was the president of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) between 2010 and 2012. In this interview with Legal Editor, JOHN AUSTIN UNACHUKWU, Daudu discusses Constitution amendment, falling standards of the NBA, open grazing, the forthcoming NBA election and sundry national issues. You have been appointed a trustee of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA). How does it feel? It is gratifying to be recognised by an association of one’s peers, such as the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) and, especially, to be appointed as one of its trustees. The responsibilities attached to the appointment are discernible from its name and title. The association usually sues and issues in the name of its Registered Trustees, and properties owned by the association can only be dealt with by the trustees. In addition, when the association goes into an interregnum due to one form of constitutional crisis or the other, the trustees have a role to play in restoring sanity and stability to it. Consequently, such recognition brings one immense pride and joy in view of its strategic importance to the legal profession. Senate President Ahmed Lawan has inaugurated a 56-member committee to review the 1999 Constitution. What is your view on this? What areas of the Constitution would you like them to look at in the light of the clamour for restructuring, new revenue formula and true federalism? I am of the view that those enjoying the present structure have no desire or intention to alter the status quo. The clamour for restructuring, as simple as it may sound, is exceedingly complex and almost unattainable in the light of our political circumstances and predicament. Why do you hold this view? Firstly, what is the state of our political structure? Nigeria, as stipulated in the 1999 Constitution (as amended), is a federation consisting of 36 states, one Federal Capital Territory, 774 Local Governments and four Area Councils. It devolves power to the tripod of the Executive, Legislature and the Judiciary. The Legislative Lists are divided into the Exclusive and Concurrent lists and the items that can be legislated upon are heavily tilted in favour of the Federal Government of Nigeria. This lopsided arrangement has rendered the constituent states penurious in view of the acquisition by the Federal Government of the capital-intensive items loaded into the Exclusive Legislative List. How does this affect the states? The states are then left with insufficient funds to take care of equally capital-intensive items, such as education, agriculture, law and order, infrastructure. The local governments themselves are the third tier in the constitutionally arranged devolution of powers between the afore described structures.They are independent only in name. From all intents and purposes, the political structure of LG’s in the present political dispensation is tied to the apron strings of the governors. How so? Their revenue is administered by the governors. The cost of governance has had an intolerable impact on the economy and standard of living of the people. This is because, in a country like ours, which is only slightly larger than the State of Texas in the United States of America (USA), the machinery of governance consists of one President, Vice President, at least 36 Ministers, a battalion or battery of special advisers and assistants, 36 governors, state executive councils made up of commissioners, heads of security agencies in each state, 774 local government chairmen and their appendages. The cost of maintaining this superstructure is enormous and a drain on the economy of this country. In terms of its cost-benefit ratio, it can easily be assessed at 1-250. This has been responsible for the low quality of life among Nigerians and the absence of development in the states over the years has engineered the call for restructuring. What about the calls for restructuring? For restructuring to happen in Nigeria, it must be tripartite: firstly, the constituent units of the Federation of Nigeria, particularly, the 36 states must be downsized from the 36 units to about eight regions or states. Because of the plurality of ethnic nationalities in Nigeria, the composition of each region must be done on the basis of choice and geographical contiguity. For example, a Middle Belt Region will be expected to consist of all ethnic nationalities in Benue, Nassarawa, Kogi, Kwara, Niger, Plateau, Southern Kaduna, Southern Bauchi, and any other minority ethnic group geographically linked to these states. This will ease the burden of political and administrative costs which now consume a large chunk of budgetary allocation. Secondly, the items in the exclusive and concurrent lists, which determine which legislature has the power to legislate upon must be restructured to remove the lop-sidedness in favour of the Federal Executive and spread a substantial number of the items between states and the FGN. For example, legislative areas such as found in items 22,28, 29,39,45, 48, 51, 54, 55 and 60 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) ought to be moved from the exclusive to the concurrent list. This will greatly enhance accelerated infrastructural and commercial progress of the regions. Finally, restructuring must be in the area of revenue allocation. The revenue sharing formula must be reviewed so as to create growth, competition and balance between the constituent regions. Having identified some of the challenges in governance Nigeria which has led to the clamour for restructuring, do you  think the Senate Committee can actualise that target? Of course, it cannot, and it will not. That is why he has referred to previous or past efforts in restructuring Nigeria. By referring to them, what the Senate President is saying is that if those past efforts could not achieve anything then do not expect us to have any new ideas to actualise same. The NBA you left as President in 2012 has almost become a laughingstock. How do we restore the glory of the Bar? We may not really describe it as a laughingstock but a lot of sane people are really laughing, whether at the NBA in recent times, I don’t know. But they are laughing. This is because the NBA of today is not the same NBA of years gone by. What has happened is saddening. Between 2014 and 2016, the NBA by amendment to its constitution altered its governance structure and mode of election of her national officers. Before then, it was through delegate elections where branch membership and fealty to the association at basic, grassroots were determinant or critical to one’s right to participate in the election of national officers. By the ensuing constitutional amendment, every lawyer that paid his annual practice fee, which ordinarily only ought to provide each person the right of audience in court suddenly emerged a delegate at the election and had a right to vote. This brought the NBA back to the pre-1992 mode of electing national officers, a practice that saw the collapse of the NBA and a period of interregnum between 1992 and 1998. When the NBA was eventually revived and resuscitated, the universal suffrage system was outlawed and for very good reasons. The most basic being that it eroded the basic principles, mores and values of the legal profession which is deeply rooted in the concept of seniority and achievement. What is the most negative effect of this development? Now, the oxygen by which the legal profession thrives is the structural dissemination of its values from the senior members of the Bar to the junior members of the profession acting as mentors, employers, bar leaders, judicial officers etc who ceaselessly pass their knowledge and experience to the younger ones through pupillage programmes, employment, membership of local branches of the NBA, etc. By this method, the values of the profession were carefully transferred from generation to generation thus fostering stability in the system. So, what are the effects of the new order? With these changes, a new leadership structure has been created because of the ability of new wigs who are called to the Bar yearly in large numbers, such as 5000 and above, to determine without the requisite background knowledge and experience of those qualified and experienced enough to provide leadership for the Bar. Thus, the new majority of the voting class in reality and with due respect to them know very little of the history of the NBA as to make them sufficiently grounded to make the right choice. That is why all elections conducted through the universal suffrage method has led to schisms and court disputes. What is the likely result of this? If this system continues, there is no doubt that the Bar may split into many associations through the invocation of the fundamental right of Nigerians to freely associate themselves with persons of like minds. So, the old timers may go their own way while the younger members now in the majority run their association that is averse to tapping the benefits of seniority and experience, which is the bedrock of stability and focus for the legal profession. So, it is not surprising that the quality of leadership has steadily been in decline as Presidents, who, thankfully, are still SANs, are increasingly having to rely on less experienced hands for governance of the profession. The politics of emerging as NBA President and national officers has taken its toll on the Bar’s ability to fight for the Rule of Law and hold government accountable to due process and the sustenance of the fundamental rights of the people. That is why people are marvelling at the sharp decline of the NBA, which used to be known as the voice of voiceless Nigerians. The last three elections of the NBA ended in controversy and consequently at the High Courts. How do you intend to checkmate this in the forthcoming NBA elections? I stated above that the NBA elections were skewed, and the electronic voting system promoted rancour and disputation of the results. By way of digression, those asking for electronic voting in Nigeria with a voting population of over 70 million should ask the NBA why its electronic voting system of just about 10,000 voters has been largely unsuccessful. The problem is with the back end. The persons controlling the server control the process of voting and it is the simplest way to manipulate the will of the people. As they say with computer-based issues ‘garbage in – garbage out’. Back to the main questions, which is whether NBA Trustees have a fool proof measure against the rigging of NBA elections, I really cannot speak for the Trustees but I presume that all stakeholders and persons of goodwill will mount sentry to ensure that the next elections, which is round the corner, is not rigged. How do we resolve the legal impediments to vigilance groups, such as the Amotekun in the Southwest? It is really simple to resolve any perceived legal impediments to regional or federating unit owned security outfit. Firstly, ensure that there is an enabling legislation, secondly, set up institutional structures and departments for the outfit that will be record based. Thirdly, promote accountability and discourage ad-hoc response to issues. Fourthly, centralise training and structure according to international best practices, fifthly, remove control from political office holders and situate in neutral persons carefully chosen by non-elective agencies. Anti-Open grazing laws seem to provide a panacea for farmer-herdsmen clashes across the country. How do we improve this law so that it can boost efficiency and enhance productivity in the country? Firstly, grazing is an archaic method of carrying out large scale cattle rearing, or put in the right perspective, animal husbandry. Secondly, cattle trade is a business of very profitable ramifications and it is a win-win situation for anyone who adopts modern and cost-effective methods of supplying meat and meat products to the populace with the minimum of inconvenience and cost. In Nigeria, cattle business is assumed to be the birth right of the Fulani herdsmen. But it may not remain so for a long time as many individuals and governments are contemplating investing billions of Naira in the animal husbandry business. If these modern aspects of this business are introduced, where will the backers of these herdsmen be? The government had a good plan for the itinerant cattle breeder, but it was mismanaged. What was the plan like? The first aspect of this plan was to educate the Fulani through nomadic education. The concept was impeccable as with acquired education, migrant Fulani would have abandoned nomadism and embraced/ranching and the industrialisation of cattle breeding. Now, the Fulani possessed at least two key factors of production which is capital and personnel. But they do not possess their autochthonous or ancestral lands in Nigeria, so their option, which every entrepreneur or industrialist resorts to, is to buy land either from individuals, communities or government and none of these three have ever refused to sell land for any purpose or to any one in Nigeria. So, the government has no business in carving out grazing areas for the invisible and itinerant herdsmen. So, what should it do instead? What it should be doing is to offer business advice to those who need it to set up this billion-dollar alternative to the eroding oil business. The continuation by the government of this discredited and antiquated system of open grazing must be replaced by the low-cost and high-profit yielding process of ranching. Cattle feed, such as alfalfa can be commercially grown by the ranches or supplied to them by persons who make it their business to produce same.We are the laughingstock of cattle breeding nations. They see us with the ability to make billions of dollars for ourselves like Argentina and other nations are doing from cattle business, yet we prefer to use the few millions at our disposal to buy arms and ammunition to pollute the land with the blood of innocent people. Let’s see where this will lead us to. The Court of Appeal has opened some Divisions to bring justice closer to the people. Do you think we can improve justice administration by building more courts? This is a welcome development. The original blueprint is that there should be a Court of Appeal serving not more than two states at a time and for the major centres like Lagos, the same court sitting with two functional panels. What we have now is close to what is in the original concept. The only drawback is that if cases are routinely wrongly decided by the Court of Appeal, then it will orchestrate a floodgate or avalanche of appeals to the Supreme Court. In the early days of the Court of Appeal most cases ended in the said court because the judgments were seldom wrong that parties do not usually see the need to bother the Supreme Court with these further appeals. What follows is that there should be appointed to the Bench competent and God-fearing persons.