Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, the Regional Director, World Health Organisation (WHO) South-East Asia Region, says early containment measures can help countries to stop transmission of Coronavirus (COVID-19) in the region. Singh said this in a statement posted on the agency’s website, noting that the top areas of priority fir countries should be; to be ready to roll out speedy response to the first case, first cluster, and first evidences of community transmission. She explained that the advice was paramount as India, Indonesia and Thailand confirmed new cases of COVID-19. The director said countries in WHO South-East Asia Region should strengthen preparedness for all possible scenarios and ensure early containment measures. According to her, five of the 11 countries in the region have confirmed COVID-19 cases – Thailand 43, India 28, Indonesia 2 and Sri Lanka and Nepal one each. “The risk of the new coronavirus is very high across the world and in WHO South-East Asia Region. More cases can be expected. “Rapidly identifying these cases, isolating them and tracing their contacts are important initiatives to help limit person to person transmission. “The speed of our response is critical, which is only possible if we are prepared,” the Regional Director said. Singh said “there are three priorities for a country’s readiness – protecting health workers, engaging with communities and empowering them with timely and accurate information to enable them to take protective measures.” The director said it was important to provide people with the three priorities, especially those at highest risk, doing their best to contain epidemics in the most vulnerable countries. “The virus can cause mild, flu-like symptoms, as well as more severe disease. Patients have a range of symptoms such as fever, cough, and shortness of breath. “Based on current data, globally 81 per cent of cases seem to have mild disease, about 14 per cent appear to progress to severe disease, and some five per cent are critical. “People can protect themselves and prevent spread of the virus by practicing hand hygiene, covering their cough and sneeze, maintaining distance from others if they are sick and from those who are sick.” According to her, infection prevention and control is of critical importance in health facilities for COVID-19. Outlining preparedness and response measures and capacities in the WHO South-East Asia Region, Singh said, WHO was assisting countries in preparedness and response planning, in coordination with other partner organisation; as per updated global guidelines. “All member countries have rolled out a series of measures to prevent the disease and protect their nationals. “Nine of the 11 countries now have capacities to test for COVID-19; WHO is supporting countries with supplies for laboratories. “For countries unable to test, WHO is assisting in shipping of their samples to global referral laboratories, three of them in the Region – two in Thailand and one in India. “Nearly 300 000 pieces of personal protective equipment comprising of caps, goggles, surgical masks, gloves gowns etc, have been supplied to member countries, and nearly 200 000 more pieces are being procured.’’ WHO is conducting web trainings for countries in critical areas of preparedness and response such as surveillance, testing in laboratories, clinical management of cases, infection prevention and control, communicating the disease to the community etc. Globally, WHO is constantly analysing data, as more information comes in, and working closely with global experts to better understand transmission, risk factors, and source of the infection. Singh, however, listed 10 things to prevent COVID-19: (NAN)