As the country battles with the corona virus pandemic, award-winning producer of the much-anticipated, ’30 Pieces of Silver’, Charles Granville, has advised his colleagues who attended the Africa Magic Viewers Choice Awards, AMVCA 2020 ceremonies in Lagos to heed the call by the government by self-isolating themselves in order to reduce the threats of the virus. According to him, it is not only patriotic to do so, but essential as humans and role models in the battle between mankind and the microbes. The actor and producer said: “Now that we have this war between mankind and this microbe, it is pertinent that individuals who are privileged to assist in the battle with their personality should do so willingly for the sake of humanity. I urge my colleagues who attended the AMVCA 2020 ceremonies and all other persons who have been so exposed to the virus not to be hesitant about self-isolating themselves in the collective interest of all of us. It is the right thing to do as patriots and as role models. “In the same vein, I also wish to talk to those profiteering from the sale of life-saving essentials like face masks, hand gloves and hand sanitisers to desist from this ignoble habit. We all know how imperative it is for all to be safe and it will not be good to deny anyone the choice to live on account of money or inability to afford face masks and gloves. That is why in my little way, I will be giving out face masks, gloves and sanitisers to the Lagos State Ministry of Health for distribution to the people especially our health officers who are at the frontline battling this scourge. I hope to call on the great actors in our new film, ’30 Pieces of Silver’ like Enyinna Nwigwe, Nse Ikpe Etim, Jide Kosoko, Collette Nwadike, Keppy Ekpeyong to support the fight against this virus by creating awareness with their celebrity status”. There have been heated debate over getting celebrities who attended the AMVCA 2020 ceremony to observe self-isolation after one of the guests tested positive to the virus.