There were discordant tunes from the athletes following the postponement of the Edo 2020 National Sports Festival (NSF) by the Federal Government. From Lagos, Delta to Abuja, the athletes lamented the shift of the tournament which is expected to begin this weekend in Benin City, the Edo State capital. Biola Rahamon, Team Lagos’ para table tennis player, described the postponement as a setback to the athletes:“ This  is a big shock to all of us because we have been in camp in the last one-week putting finishing touches to our preparation only to be told to go home following the postponement of the festival. It is unfortunate,” she lamented. Like Rahmon, African Games medalist, Uzoamaka Otuadinma of Delta State said the decision to shift the festival was unfortunate. “Why did it take them so long to decide on the postponement especially that we have been in camp for four weeks. It is painful that all our efforts have turned out to be a waste. We are not even sure of when the festival will now hold,” Otuadinma said. But Chinazum Nwosu of Delta who is presently in Abuja said the decision to postpone the festival was the right one particularly when it bothers on health issues. “I believe what the government has done is very important at this time that the World Health Organisation (WHO) has confirmed that the virus is in Nigeria. So we should not be ignorant of this and take this in good faith. For us as athletes, it is discouraging but there is nothing we can do than to comply,” she said. Earlier on Tuesday, President Muhammadu Buhari approved the postponement of NSF. In a statement issued by  the Youths and Sports Development Minister, Sunday Dare, the postponement became necessary as a precautionary measure against the spread of the dreaded COVID -19. Dare said: “Though the COVID-19 pandemic is not presently affecting Nigeria on the scale it is ravaging other countries of the world, the ministry is, however, in agreement with these aforementioned critical stakeholders that the wellbeing of our athletes and sports-loving Nigerians is of paramount importance. “They should be alive and in good health to keep training and participating in future tournaments. In the interest of the safety of Nigerians, the ministry has therefore postponed the National Sports Festival, Edo 2020, until a later date to be communicated,” he said.