 Less than twenty four hours to the contentious Emergency National Executive Committee (NEC) of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), the national chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomole got a reprieve from the South-South chapter of the party as the zone endorsed and threw its weight behind his leadership. The zone declared it’s position in a communique issued on Monday in Abuja to newsmen after a well-attended meeting of the National Executive Council (NEC) members of the party from the zone on Sunday night. The South-South leaders blamed the plot to remove Oshiomhole on some “agents of destabilisation” within the party. The communique signed by the deputy Senate president, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, national vice chairman Hilliard Eta, deputy national publicity secretary, Yekini Nabena, Hon. Peter Akpatason, and thirteen other NEC members. The South-South leaders also disassociated themselves from today’s emergency NEC meeting convened by the national deputy secertary, Chief Victor Giadom. The communique reads, “We agree that the National Chairman of our great party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole has done very well in the administration of the affairs of our great party. “That under the leadership of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, we won the just concluded presidential elections, won majority of the seats in the National Assembly, and also won governorship elections in most states of the federation. “That in line with the resolutions reached by the National Working Committee (NWC) of our party, we dissociate ourselves from the purported NEC meeting being summoned by Hon. Victor Giadom as he does not have the constitutional powers to summon NEC meeting. “That the said Hon. Victor Giadom is not a member of NWC having resigned his position as deputy national secretary of the Party to contest elections in Rivers State as deputy governorship candidate in the 2019 general elections. “That we implore all members of NEC to respect the decisions of the National Working Committee (NWC) of our party that the purported NEC meeting summoned by Victor Giadom is illegal and unconstitutional”. The zone then passed vote of confidence on President  Muhammadu Buhari. “We unanimously pass a vote of confidence on our leader, His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari,for his sterling leadership of the affairs of our dear country and the National Chairman of our Party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole.” The communique was also signed by Barr. E. I Adoh-Ogbuta, deputy national legal adviser, Dr. (Mrs.) Racheal Akpabio, Zonal Woman Leader, Engr. Gabriel Idueseri, Zonal Youth Leader, Chief Kokote Ibadan, Zonal Ex-officio, Hon. Ini Okopido, APC Akwa Ibom State, Chairman, Prophet Jones Erue, APC Delta State, Chairman, Hon. Jothan Amos, APC Bayelsa State, Chairman, Sir. John Ochalla, APC Cross Rivers State, Chairman and Col. David Imuse, Edo State APC Chairman. Others were Sen. B. W Degi Eremienyo, Hon. Alex Egbonba, Hon. (Rev.) Francis Waive and Hon. Israel Goli