  Rangers International of Enugu and Enyimba International of Aba earned crucial away win the Nigerian Professional Football League (NPFL) Matchday 25 fixtures played yesterday at different centres across the country. It was a high scoring day with 23 goals scored with the fixture between Dakkada and Rangers producing five goals. In Jos, league leaders extended its unbeaten run to 10 matches after seeing off relegation-threatened Kwara United 2-1 at the new Jos Stadium. A first half brace from Ibrahim Mustapha, the first from the penalty spot in the 16th minute and another in the 25th minute ensured that Plateau United secured its 4th straight win. Plateau United are still unbeaten in the second round of the season. Following the defeat, Kwara United have sunk deeper into the relegation zone at 18th position, two points from safety. At the Yakubu Gowon Stadium in Port Harcourt, second placed Rivers United kept up the pressure on Plateau United with a routine 2-0 win over Warri Wolves. A brace from Malachi Ohawume and another goal from Kunle Odunlami ensured that the Pride of Rivers returned to winning ways after losing to Enugu Rangers last Sunday.  In Makurdi, Lobi Stars returned to winning ways after beating FC IfeanyiUbah 1-0 at the Aper Akum Stadium with Samad Kadiri scoring an early in the 5th minute. Lobi Stars are still six points from the top of the table while FC Ifeanyi Ubah are 12th, four points from the relegation zone. There was a goal fest in Uyo where Rangers International defeated Dakkada FC 3-2 to return to the top five of the NPFL for the first time this season. For Rangers, Isreal Abia netted a brace and Ibrahim Olawoyin got the third while Ajayi Oluwafemi got a brace for Dakkada FC who have picked up just one win in its last six NPFL matches. There was also another away win for defending champions Enyimba as they defeated struggling Adamawa United 2-0 at the Pantami Stadium Gombe. Stanley Dimgba and Cyril Olisema scored in either half to ensure that the champions are back into the top five, seven points from the continental spots with five games in hand. Adamawa United face an uphill task of avoiding relegation as they are now 10 points from safety following the defeat. MFM FC earned a crucial 3-1 win over Abia Warriors while Wikki Tourists edged Kano Pillars 1-0 and Sunshine Stars slumped to a surprised 2-1 home defeat to Katsina United.