 The Lagos State government has big plans for the new orientation camp it is constructing for the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), the state’s NYSC Coordinator, Mr. Eddy Megwa has said. In an interview on the sidelines of the swearing-in of Batch A Stream 1 corps members at the Iyana Ipaja orientation camp on Thursday, Megwa said the camp to be located in Agbowa, Ikorodu, will be able to accommodate up to 20,000 people. Megwa, who said he visited the site with the Lagos State team last Wednesday, said: “It might interest you to know that yesterday, a detachment of the state government and my humble self went to inspect the site – including the Commissioner for Special Duties. All of us went to Ikorodu where the site is located.  And I need to assure you; in a moment, in a jiffy work is going to start there and we are going to have it commissioned before the present Governor completes his tenure.  Lagos is a state of excellence and what they are planning to do is something no other state has ever done. They are looking at 20,000 capacity orientation camp.  I tell you, by the time they are done with it, it will be an ultra-modern orientation camp never seen in the country.” The need for a conducive orientation camp for Lagos State has become more pressing with the coronavirus pandemic ravaging countries worldwide and the need for social distancing to mitigate its spread. A total of 2,169 corps members took the NYSC oath of allegiance last Thursday at the Iyana Ipaja camp.  Hostel accommodation in the camp is not conducive for the number.  As a result, the corps members and camp officials are tightly cramped in the stretched facilities. Speaking after touring the camp, Commissioner for Special Duties and Intergovernmental Relations, Mr. Tayo Bamgbose Martins, said the crowded state of the camp was unfortunate but promised the government would deliver a new camp soon. He said: “No doubt about this is challenging, and it unfortunate that we have this situation. But then we have to do our best and our best is that we want to ensure that we keep them aware of the need to keep washing their hands regularly and try to avoid direct contact. So this is one of the things we want them to understand. “Well let me give you an assurance that the current governor, Mr Babatunde Olusola Sanwo-Olu is committed to building a permanent camp for the NYSC.” 