 AS I write these words, I am in the fifth day of a two-week quarantine for Covid-19. No, I have not tested positive for the virus that causes the pandemic and I am not ill, at least not yet. The quarantine is both self-imposed and strongly enjoined by the local authorities. I am quarantined because two weeks ago, I travelled from Boston home to Nigeria and back to Boston, making my way through London, Lagos, Ibadan, London again, then New York City and finally back to Boston. The situation for me personally is made more complicated because five weeks before my journey home and back to Boston, I had had a surgical operation from which I was and still am recuperating. As part of the recuperation, I’d had to see doctors and consultants three days a week for post-operative sessions. Now, these sessions have been cancelled and will be resumed only if, at the end, it turns out that I do not test positive for the virus. So, I have nine more days of complete self-isolation in quarantine. As I wait for it to end, I am both hopeful and fearful – hopeful that so far I have not felt any of the symptoms of the disease but fearful because I am not yet out of the woods and I know that if it turns out that I test positive for the disease, I am of the age and the medical condition of those who are the most vulnerable members of the society to fatality from the pandemic. Thus, every time that I cough or sneeze, I pause to wonder whether the cough or the sneeze seems “normal” or strange and unnerving. Indeed, if I must be completely truthful about this, I try to suppress every cough or sneeze that I feel coming. Why am I doing this? Well, because I think that only a cough or a sneeze that will spell trouble can break down my will to suppress it! Of course, I am the first to admit that there is absolutely nothing scientific or logical about this thought. In a quarantine, whether self-imposed or mandated by the civic authorities, the mind has all the time in the world to wander, to roam far and wide. For instance, I think a lot about what happened in each of the stops on my recent journey home, wondering at which of these places I might have made myself more susceptible to contacting the virus – London, Lagos, Ibadan or New York. But the journey was and is also a series of different states of the mind and the psyche. In other words, there is both a literal, physical journey and travels that take place in the mind or the imagination. In the literal journey, you take note of what you are doing, of how you are relating to those around you and of what things ring alarm bells in your mind. In the symbolic or imagined travel, your mind wanders to things or thoughts that are far from your physical surroundings and the threats or reassurances they communicate to you. But it is also the case that sometimes, the actual and the symbolic merge. At any rate, this is what seems so clear and so insistent to me as I reconstruct the following travelogue of my recent journey home, the journey that landed me in the quarantine that is the subject of this piece. In what follows, I trace the contours of the travelogue from the present back to the beginning on the day when I set out from Boston to Lagos.  Friday, March 27, 2020: I am of course writing this piece now. As I set about the task, my mind is on books and films on plagues that I have read or watched. Three books in particular occupy center space in my mind – Albert Camus’ The Plague, Gabriel Garcia Marquez’s Love in the Time of Cholera, Femi Osofisan’s Kolera Kollege. Garcia Marquez’s novel has been made into an excellent film and Osofisan’s novel, initially published as a farcical novella, has been staged with great success as a satirical play. Incidentally, though none of these works is available to me in the isolation of my quarantine, I have a solid recall of what happens in each text, almost as if I had each one in my study or indeed on my writing table. The Osofisan text is narrowly focused on the corruption and the cowardice of the authorities in the face of an epidemic that breaks out in a “kollege” that stands for the nation-state. The implication is that the outbreak of the plague itself is not the object or focus of the play; rather, it merely provides yet another means for revealing the depth of the moral plague in the society. Gabriel Garcia’s Love in the Time of Cholera is even more symbolic than Kolera Kollege because no actual plague takes place in the novel; the closest that we come to a plague is when the protagonist of the novel, Florentino Ariza, gets the captain of a cruise ship on which he and his intended lover, Fermina Daza, are sailing to falsely declare the ship as being overrun by a plague. In reality, the “plague” is in Florentino’s mind, psyche and, ultimately, his body too. This is because he is suffering from a profound lovesickness caused by his rejection by Fermina such that as he grows older and more infirm and decrepit, he becomes a living embodiment of the plague itself. In other words, although there is no actual plague in the novel, some fatal infirmities of mind and body mirror what happens in a real plague as the human estate itself succumbs to plague-like manifestations of disease and putrefaction. Camus’ The Plague is, indisputably, the text to read in the age Covid-19. Set in a town, Oran, in colonial Algeria, the plot of the novel lasts for a whole year during which, from spring through summer and fall to winter, we observe life in its combination of the best and the worst in human beings as the plague forces complete cutoff of the town from the rest of the world. Some citizens plan relentlessly to escape from the seemingly doomed town in order to join their loved ones in France and other places. Others take to profiteering by smuggling in badly needed goods which they sell at cutthroat prices. Yet others become religious fanatics swayed and manipulated by prophets of doom. A few characters struggle valiantly against the tempting of their worst nature and find grace in compassion and human fellowship. At the end of the novel, there is as much to despise in human beings as there is to admire. Thus, although Camus’ novel has only white colonial characters without a single Arab, the novel is extraordinarily insightful about the range of conflicting experiences and emotions in a plague of such a proportion as we are experiencing in Covid-19. If you want to get a feel of where humanity has been before with the plagues of the past and might be again in the plagues of the present and the future, read Camus’ The Plague and be wiser. I last read the novel as an undergraduate at Ibadan in 1969; when and if Covid-19 is over and I am still here, it is the first text that I am going to check out of the library in order to reread it!  Saturday, March 13, 2020, London: The flight from Boston was uneventful, except that right at the end when we arrived at Heathrow, it was announced that one person on the flight had shown signs of serious illness and debilitation and had to be evacuated first before the rest of us could be allowed to disembark. I confess that as we all waited anxiously, I got some relief from the fact that the person concerned was in another part of the plane from mine. At the Virgin Atlantic Airways lounge where I had to pass the time before the flight to Lagos, I had about ten hours to kill. It was while watching television for updates that the news came that the US government would be banning all flights from the UK in two days’ time. Two days! I am booked to return to Boston in five day via London! Briefly, I thought about turning right back and heading to Boston from which I had just arrived. But I resisted the thought and turned my mind to making sure that I scrupulously observed all the tips about keeping safe from the Covid-19 virus. Fortunately, the lounge had far less than its usual number of occupants. Briefly, I debated in my mind whether or not it was safe or wise for me to eat and drink in this watering hole between starting point and endpoint in my journey. I opted for eating and imbibing, but it was in vain that I tried not to think of what I might be ingesting with the food and the drink. London was already a declared hotspot of the Covid-19 invasion. Ori iya mi o!  Sunday, March 15 – Wednesday, March 18, 2020, Lagos: Is Lagos a part of the world? Nobody, absolutely nobody is observing any precautions against contacting the virus. People shook hands with gusto, laughing while doing so. At the conference that had brought me home, people embraced one another, hands, torsos and limbs entwined in defiance of all self-distancing injunctions of the age of Covid-19. At breakfast, lunch and dinner, people ate and drank within one foot of one another without a thought for the conditions under which the fare was cooked and served. I kept asking myself: is my country apart from the rest of the world? Is it true, as people apparently believed, that Covid-19 had not really taken root in Nigeria and would not do so? For a while, I resisited these “laissez faire” attitudes and beliefs and tried to observe all the tips about how to be protected from the virus. But man is a profoundly social animal and a creature driven to conformity. And thus it was that against my own better judgment, I, too, began to fall in with others in shaking hands and embracing friends and acquaintances I hadn’t seen in a long time. The worst is this and I am now deeply embarrassed by the thought: I began to join in the speculation that perhaps some things in our genes and our climate were naturally fortifying us against the virus! Of course this is nonsense! Thus, if I end up testing positive at the end of my period of quarantine, this period will loom large in my mind as the fateful moment of dire slippage!  Thursday, March 19, 2020 – Friday, March 20, 2020, Ibadan Nothing much to report here, except this significant detail: I began to observe all the injunctions again. It is like coming back to reality, stolid, banal reality after a night of drunken revelry. Beside visiting a couple of friends, I stayed away from places in which I might meet and mingle with crowds of people. These included the funeral of a younger sibling. Fortunately in this case, culture and tradition were on my side since I was not expected to participate in the final obsequies for a sibling who was nearly twelve years my junior. Plus, the somberness of the occasion helped: the untimely death of this sibling beckoned me to think of my own mortality as also possibly “untimely” if I failed to observe precautions against contacting the Covid-19 pandemic.  Sunday, March 22, 2020, New York City: By the time of my arrival here, New York had become the epicenter of the pandemic in the United States. Fortunately, I was very much aware of this fact. More fortunate was the fact that I had only about an hour to spend at the airport. And moreover, when I embarked on the plane that would take us to Boston, the flight was simply the most sparsely passengered of my more than five decades of air travel. Indeed, the flight prepared me well for the empty streets, roads and thoroughfares of Boston when I arrived there. A ghost town in a ghostly age. May I and you not be ghosts by the time this is all over, compatriots… 