The Defence Headquarters (DHQ) says the Armed Forces of Nigeria is ready to implement the Presidential directive on the fight against the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic in the country. The Coordinator, Defence Media Operations, Maj.-Gen. John Enenche, disclosed this while addressing a news conference on Monday in Abuja. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Enenche had on Friday highlighted the level of preparedness of the military to support of the Federal Government towards tackling the pandemic. He stated that the military had two way plans, including medical support and security aspect. Speaking on the military medical support on Monday, Enenche said that a committee had been put in place to interface with all relevant Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs). According to him, the committee is headed by the Chief of Defence Training and Operations, Maj.-Gen. Lucky Irabor. He explained that the 17 isolation and treatment centres earmarked by the military were spread across the six geopolitical zones of the country. According to him, in the South West, the 68 Nigerian Army Reference Hospital, Yaba, 2 Division Hospital, Ibadan, have been prepared. Designated in the South South, he said were Military Hospital, Port Harcourt, Navy Reference Hospital, Calabar and Military Hospital, Benin. Enenche said the 211 Regiment Group Medical Centre, Owerri and 82 Division Military Hospital, Enugu were designated in the South East. “North Central has 161 Nigerian Air Force Hospital, Makurdi, 22 Brigade Medical Centre in Ilorin. “In the North West, 44 Nigerian Army Reference Hospital, Kaduna, 465 Nigerian Air Force Hospital, Kano, 263 Nigerian Air Force Reference Hospital, Daura and 119 Composite Group Medical Centre, Sokoto were disignated. “The 261 Nigerian Air Force Reference Hospital, Bauchi, 163 Nigerian Air Force Hospital, Yola, 7 Division Military Hospital, Maiduguri and 27 Task Force Brigade Field Ambulance, Damaturu were designated in the North East,’’ he said. Enenche also disclosed that a good number of military medical personnel had been earmarked to be trained in the management of COVID-19 cases, in liaison with Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). He added that about 48 Disaster Response Units of the armed forces were on notice to move in conjunction with National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA). According to him, these units will handle operations other than medicals that may arise in the course of this non-kinetic military operation. Enenche stated that the military was ready to implement all restriction on movement in line with the directive of the president, explaining that the military would act in support of the civil authorities. He said that penalty for those who would flaunt the restriction order would be handled by the police, adding that military personnel had been adequately trained on how to perform their duties. “For the avoidance of doubt this includes the Presidential Directive given by the President, Commander-In-Chief during his address to the nation on the COVID-19 pandemic, on March 29, 2020. “The High Command of Nigerian Military hereby solicits for the support of the general public in this trying period of the fight against COVID-19. “This can be achieved by adhering to all the medical and administrative guidelines being provided by government at all levels,’’ he added. Enenche disclosed that one case had of the virus had been confirmed within the armed forces, adding that the officer had since been quarantined in Gwagwalada centre. According to him, all possible contacts with affected officer have also been identified and isolated in accordance with the standard procedure. He said that the affected officer was stable at the treatment centre.