 The management of Eko University of Medicine and Health Science (EKOUNIMED), Ojo, Lagos, has urged Lagosians to buy into the noble concept geared towards salvaging the nation’s ailing health sector. The Director of Development, EKOUNIMED, Mrs. Rebecca Ibraheem, spoke while delivering a speech at the maiden matriculation and signing of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Eko Hospital, Ikeja and the Lagos State General Hospital, Alimosho as teaching hospitals. She said that the new 30 matriculating medical students were admitted through the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) into EKOUNIMED. Mrs. Ibraheem said that the university had approval to run programmes in the following medical and health fields: Faculty of Basic Medical Sciences, Faculty of Clinical Sciences, Faculty of Community Medicine and Primary Health Care, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Faculty of Dentistry and Faculty of Nursing. “The university envisions a world-class institution for the medical and other health professions in terms of learning, research, character building and service to humanity.” Listing the challenges confronting the institution, Mrs. Ibraheem says the university runs a 24-hour generator, thus adding to the daily running cost. “I want to call on the government to see to the issue of electricity. Imagine an organisation of this magnitude running on diesel-powered generator daily because there is no electricity. “The government should get involved in this thing. There are many people abroad who are ready to invest in their country, because it is like a call to give back to their motherland and it is a thing of pride, but lack of power is causing setbacks. “We don’t have good roads, the entrance and access route into the university is nothing to write home about. The government should rescue us. “We don’t have good drainage. The environment is so filthy, yet we keep doing the good job. “At the moment we only have one faculty and we will be making effort for it to grow. We want to start our nursing programmes as well, but we have some shortcomings hindering that.” 