 Agriculture is one of the main drivers of Nigeria’s economic growth. It accounts for about 23 per cent of the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). The potential of the sector to address the unemployment problem of the country is not lost on the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan. He said agriculture remains a viable means for employment generation in Nigeria. According to him, substantial investment in the sector by the Federal Government would guarantee food security for the country. Lawan spoke during the debate on a bill that sought to establish the Agricultural Development Fund at plenary. “The agricultural sector remains unarguably the most viable means of ensuring that we create employment opportunities and that we create wealth for our people as well. “If there is anything that needs to be done to enhance this sector, we should do so”, the Senate president said. He noted that the establishment of the fund will make available some funds for the sector to do better and thrive, adding that same will boost the Nigerian economy and provide the much needed food security in the country. The sponsor of the bill, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, said the current contribution of the agricultural sector to the GDP stands at between 15 and 20 per cent with the potential for improvement. Adamu lamented that the utilisation of arable land in the country is only 40 per cent, while agriculture is still largely subsistence with minimal value addition. “It will be difficult to achieve agricultural productivity and value addition required for industrial development without sustainable funding. “The fact that the current budgetary system will continue to be improved but it will be insufficient to generate the necessary transformation in the agricultural sector. “One of the first steps that need to be taken to ensure adequate funding for the agricultural sector is the enactment of this bill in order to pave way for the creation of a mega-agency to manage viable and sustainable sources of agricultural financing.” The agric sector was the major driver of the economy of the First Republic. That was when the groundnut pyramid of Kano, palm oil from the east and cocoa from the west held sway for a competitive regional government of the federation. Things however changed when the black gold, oil, was discovered. The agric sector was relegated while the nation regaled in its new found gold. This fact accounts for the fact that despite its vast potential, the sector remained bedeviled by several problems including small and fractionalised land ownership, inadequate inputs, poor yield, low literacy among farmers, lack of training, poor seed variety, inadequate storage capacity, and poor transportation infrastructure. Others are rural-urban migration, poor access to finance, limited knowledge or use of emerging technology, high cost of equipment, access to market, poor sale and distribution network, and weak value chain. Nigeria reportedly loses 32 per cent of crops produced annually due to broken value chain. The prevailing practice in most areas across the country is that of one person taking on multiple roles in agriculture. For instance, a farmer produces the seeds, grows the seed, harvests the crops, processes and sometimes transports the harvested crops to the market. At times, he gets the final consumer. Combining the entire chain not only reduces efficiency, it accounts for wastages. If there is a clear understanding of division of labour or the application of value chain mechanism, the farmer would gain more from his labour. The creation of specialised producers, transporters, processors, aggregators and marketers improves productivity, increases profitability as well as boosts wealth creation for all concerned stakeholders.  In a 2017 report, PricewaterhouseCoopers noted that the country’s agriculture sector required massive investments to increase production and create value addition across the most profitable segments of the value chain. It suggested strategies including improving processing tools and improved organisation of producer groups for upgrading the production and processing segments of the agricultural value chain. Aligned to PwC’s view, Cellulant Group has been at the forefront of institutions that are improving the agric value-chain across Africa including Nigeria. In the last 15 years, the tech company has actively contributed to connecting all critical stakeholders in the value chain, who in the past never interacted with each other. Using technology, the business has built a digital marketplace and payments platform that provides access to markets, digital financial services, and opens opportunities for all stakeholders to collaborate better and capture opportunities on the continent. Last December, the firm held its inaugural partners’ summit that had: ‘Technology for Transformation: Connecting Everyone to Nigeria’s $50bn Agribusiness Opportunity & Creating Jobs for Africa’s Youth’ as theme in Lagos. The summit brought together players in paid; you are not paid cash, you are paid e-value into your Tingg wallet. If you are spending from that wallet, you’ll begin to build a financial history. Immediately you start building that history, you will become addressable by the bank and have access to loans. Essentially, we are promoting economic inclusion by creating access to opportunity.” He further assured that Cellulant has set a goal of feeding Nigerians for 10 days in 2020 among several initiatives aimed to bolster the Agric sector. According to Akinboro, “all the food that flowed from rural areas to food processors through our platforms was enough to feed Nigerians for one day. That’s more than a hundred thousand metric tonnes. Next year, we want to feed Nigerians for 10 days. That is, we want to take the platform to process one million metric tonnes. In five years, we want the platform to be able to process ten million metric tonnes, meaning the quarter of the food that gets to the table of Nigerians. That way, you have a coherent and visible value chain. The farmer that grew the crops, the aggregator that collected it, the quality control officer that certified it and the food processor that processed it. You also have the wholesaler that sold it and the mother or father that cooked it.” There’s no doubt that Cellulant is impacting Nigerian lives in many ways. The company has set itself a lofty goal. Still, with its achievements across Africa in just 15 years, there is no doubt that the company will positively impact agriculture more in the years to come.