 The Companion, an association of Muslims men in Business and Professions, has urged political appointees to be a reference point for excellence and good governance. The group said this during a reception for two of its members – National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON) Chairman Alhaji Zikrullah Hassan and Ogun State Chief of Staff Alhaji Shuaib Salis, at the Lagos State House of Assembly Mosque Auditorium, Ikeja. The Companion National Amir (President) Alhaji Thabit Sonaike challenged the duo to follow the footsteps of the pious predecessors and to surpass the records of contemporary muslims in public service. Sonaike said: “You should be inspired by the legacies and  good examples which the likes of Prof Ishaq Oloyede – the Registrar of the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) are setting in public service. “I advise that your conduct  must reflect highest level of  ethical values. As political office holders, you should expect praises and criticisms, but I urge you to take both in their strides, learn the lessons they offer, but remain focused on your mandate and the desire to accomplish the goals…You should remember that your appointment is for a short period and an opportunity to  contribute your quota to the development of your fatherland. Above all, don’t forget that you will give account of your stewardship to Allah.”  The National Missioner, Ansar-ud-Deen Society of Nigeria, Sheikh Abdur-Rahman Ahmad, who delivered a lecture, said he would only congratulate the duo after their tenure, noting that it is a position of higher trust with huge responsibility. “Many brothers who joined the system are now singing different tunes. I pray you will not become that. Be mindful that money and power have a very tempting spirit, which could affect the behaviour of man, the way he speaks and relates with others. Always remember that this is a position of responsibility, your success is a collective success,” he said. Responding, Alhaji Hassan promised to be fair to all in the discharge of his duties, saying the commission under him will be a reference point for Hajj operations. “I represent every Muslim community in Nigeria, not a tribe and I will be fair to all. It is a position of trust and I will not disappoint all of you,” he said. Alhaji Salis promised not to disappoint The Companion and the people of Ogun State. “The office of Chief of Staff is challenging; it requires wisdom and high level of understanding to discharge the duty. My appeal to you is to assist us with prayers and objective criticisms,” he said. 