The Management of the National Assembly has announced the closure of the assembly with effect from Wednesday, 25th March, ordering all staff and other workers at the assembly complex to remain at home for two weeks in the first instance. Clerk to the National Assembly, Sani Omolori who announced this in a circular on Tuesday afternoon said all banks and restaurants operating within the National Assembly complex are to close shop within the same period. The circular copied to the President of the Senate, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Principal Officers of the two chambers, all the lawmakers, clerk of the two chambers, all staff and legislative aides however directed all staff to remain within the FCT as any of them may be summoned when needed. The circular reads “the Leadership of both Houses of the National Assembly, in consultation with the Management of the National Assembly has noted with concern, the rising incidence of COVID-19 and therefore the need to put in place effective measures to curtail the possible incidence and spread of the disease in the National Assembly. “Earlier today, both Houses adjourned plenary till 7m April, 2020. The Clerk said as a result of the decision by both chambers, all Staff, including Legislative Aides are directed to remain at home worth effect from Wednesday, 25m March. 2020, for an initial period of two (2) weeks, subject to review. However, the Clerks of the two Chambers and Secretaries to the Directorates, all Directors/Heads of Departments as well as identified essential staff covering Medical, Security and Utility services are exempted from the stay at home order. The circular said further that any other staff that might be needed from time to time as will be indicated by the Clerks of the two Chambers and Secretaries to the Directorates will be summoned to the Assembly. It said “all Staff of the National Assembly are hereby directed to remain within the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) as any staff needed will be summoned to the Office. I wish to add that failure to heed to this directive will attract sanctions. “By this Circular, all Banks, Restaurants and other Business outfits within the National Assembly Complex are to close for the period. In the meantime. all Legislators and Staff are requested to strictly adhere to professional advice from the Honourable Minister of Health, the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and the Presidential Task Force for the Control of COVlD 19. “You are also enjoined to maintain personal hygiene and to report suspicious cases/symptoms of COVlD-19 around you to the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on 0800970000-10. “The Secretary. Health Services Directorate of the National Aof Assembly, directs staff, others to remain at home