A former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the governing All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Timi Frank has said that the decision of the government of the United States of America to ban election riggers from getting entry visa into its country will boast democracy in Nigeria. Reacting to The Nation newspaper publication on the visa ban for election riggers in Nigeria by the US government, Frank however wants the visa ban extended to INEC Officials, Security Agents, Judges, party leaders found to have played a part in such rigging which he said undermine democracy. Comrade Frank commended the Government of the United States on the ban especially for those who played a role in undermining the wishes of the people during the conduct of the November 2019 governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa States. He described the announcement by the US Government as a commendable step that will further strengthen the nation’s democracy and asked other developed nation, especially European Union countries to emulate the example of the US government and help save democracy in Nigeria. He also called on the US Government to include the wives and children of all affected politicians, security operatives and judges who help validate fraudulent elections results at Tribunals and the appellate courts. He described election riggers as enemies of Nigeria as their actions are responsible in part for the insecurity, poverty and social dislocation in the country. He said: “The US Government must be commended for this move which is in furtherance of its commitment to strengthening democracy in Nigeria as it would help checkmate individuals who have operated with impunity at the expense of the generality of the Nigerian populace. “This Visa Restrictions should also be extended to recalcitrant Judges, INEC officials, Security agencies and political party chieftains who aided and abetted the rigging of the Kogi and Bayelsa States governorship elections while those who perpetuate similar crimes in the Edo and Ondo polls should not be spared. “For our democracy to survive, all true lovers of democracy must ensure that the elections in Edo and Ondo states produce genuine leaders who will pilot the affairs of these two states.” He said they should also ensure that members of the National Assembly and other persons who would want to partake in the destruction of the nation’s nascent democracy are prevented from doing so.