A 200-Level Chemistry student of Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto, Usman Hamidu Bawa, has designed an educational and functional application, ‘Inside UDUS’ to be used by students  of the institution pending resumption. The application has some features, which makes it similar to the other social media platforms created to enhance easy communication. In an interview, Bawa said he had created the application early this year for Danfodites to have access to school programmes and some lecture notes  before the emergence of COVID-19. Bawa said: “The application, ‘Inside UDUS’ provides soft copies of General Studies’ materials, allows easy acess to the school   portal for easy registration and result checking. It also allows users to note down some key points from lecturers  while in lecture rooms.” He noted  that he had acquired the skill for creating the application  before gaining admission into UDUS and was passionate to positively affect  his colleagues and  the institution. “I’ve gained the knowledge of programing and how to design applications somewhere before I gained admission into UDUS, then I thought it would be a good idea if I make something like ‘Inside Udus’ for the benefit of my colleagues and progress of my higher institution,” he said. CAMPUSLIFE gathered that he  upgraded the application  with some features to suit the  interest of UDUS students  during the lockdown caused by amid the COVID-19 outbreak. “I designed the application  before the outbreak of the pandemic, so during the lockdown and shutdown of schools,  I felt like adding chat/conversation feature where Danfodites can chat with their long lost friends they’re missing, so, among the features the application now has is  bringing Danfodites together, no matter how far they are from one another,” he added. However, Bawa advised Danfodites to make use of the application  effectively to meet the sole aim of the designer. He  also urged students in other tertiary institutions to utilise their knowledge towards advancing education in the country. “My advice to my fellow colleagues is that, they should make use of the ‘Inside UDUS’ application effectively for what it is designed for. “Also students in other institutions should make use of their knowledge to help others rather than keeping it to themselves as the growth and future of education in Nigeria lies also in our hands,” he said.