The people of Ideato North and South of Imo State and kinsmen of the former governor Rochas Okorocha have dumped him to pledge allegiance to Governor Hope Uzodimma. It was on a day the high and mighty from Ideato Nation paid a solidarity visit to Governor Uzodimma at the Government House, Owerri to present to him a catalogue of needs, not just as their in-law, but one they described as “parts and parcel of them.” They said former governor Rochas Okorocha who is their kinsman, neglected them and their needs despite being in power for eight years and that they are confident Governor Uzodimma will completely wipe out their tears. Led by their apex leader, Chief Tony Ezenna, Chairman of Orange Drugs Limited and key traditional rulers from the area, the people said they were not only excited about the emergence of Uzodimma as governor of Imo state, but regretted that the administration of Okorocha did nothing to improve their lot. Addressing the visitors, Governor Uzodimma, explained that God did not make mistake in bringing him on board the leadership of Imo state, and that what the Ideato Nation were not able to get from past administrations God could use him to actualise it. Governor Uzodinma specifically commended the lawmakers representing Ideato North and Ideato South in the Imo State House of Assembly, Hon. Arthur Egwim and Hon. Johnson Duru for their positive contributions in the House, as well as the Interim Management Committee Chairmen of Ideato North, Gloria Uche Mbadiwe and Ideato South, Chukwuma Ikeaka for their doggedness in the administration of the two Local Governments Areas. The governor thanked the traditional rulers led by the Chairman of Ideato North and South Council of Ndi Eze, HRH. Eze Gerald Ezeiheakaibeya of Umuma- Isiaku Autonomous Community for their efforts towards peace and progress in their various communities. In their address by Chief Ezenna, he described Governor Uzodimma as the “Governor whom we are well pleased,” and congratulated him on his well-deserved election. Chief Ezenna appreciated the governor for finding some of the Ideato Nation’s sons and daughters worthy to be appointed into various offices in his administration, noting that they have never been so favoured.  