Fourteen bodies have been recovered from the Akaeze-Ukwu River in Ebonyi state; site of the deadly motor accident which occurred on Friday night. This followed the location and recovery of the bus by divers brought in from neighboring states to aid in the search and rescue of the victims. The Nation had reported how a bus carrying over 30 passengers plunged into the River along the Akaeze-Ishiagu expressway, Ivo local government area of the state. Five of the passengers, who were returning from a burial, were rescued and taken to hospital on Friday. However, one of them died at the hospital while the others are said to still be unconscious. Chairman of the local government, Onyebuchi Ogbadu confirmed the recovery of the extra thirteen dead bodies on Saturday.  According to him, the State government had to bring in divers from Rivers and Cross River states to help in the search of the bus.  “The divers were able to locate the bus and pushed it up to enable the crane to pull it out,” he said. The Chairman said they are still searching for the remaining passengers aboard the bus. “The driver said he was carrying 32 persons in the bus so we are still looking for about 13 or more persons.” Ogbadu said the driver was able to dive out of the bus as it was plunging into the river and was one of those rescued on Friday.  Police spokesman Loveth Odah said 14 corpses have been recovered, seven male and seven female. She said among the five victims rescued is the driver of the said 608 coaster bus with Reg no. UKP 78 XA Mr Nwaonu Chinedu a native of IKWO LGA of the State. She said the victim who died yesterday is a female who yet to be identified. She said: “the female victim was confirmed dead by  a medical Doctor on arrival at Dennis Hospital Akaeke in the Area. “The driver narrated that  he conveyed 32 members of the Christ Peculiar Church of Nigeria Enugu State branch to attend a burial ceremony at Nguzu  Edda in Afikpo South LGA of the State”. “14 corpses have been recovered (7 female and 7 male) together with the 608 Vehicle. “The corpses have deposited at  Martha Memorial hospital mortuary AFIKPO preservation. Odah said among those in the vehicle who are still being searched for is Ca retired Superintendent of Police Livinus Mbah. “The Executive Governor of Ebonyi State visited the scene of incident together with the Commissioner of Police Ebonyi State who discribed the incident as very unfortunate one. ” He urges road users to avoid speed/reckless driving especially in this ember months”.    