Disturbing claims and counter-claims have publicised a yet-to-be-released Nollywood movie titled Fatal Arrogance. Veteran actor Pete Edochie, who plays the lead role in the film, claimed he received death threats because of his participation in it. However, the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN), which protested against the movie and petitioned the Inspector-General of Police and the National Film and Video Censors Board (NFVCB), countered that the actor’s claim was “an attempt to give the movement a bad name and to attract cheap sympathy from Nigerians.” The group challenged him to name the source of the alleged death threats, saying its petition did not amount to a death threat. It is intriguing that this conflict was triggered by a movie yet to be released.  The film’s behind-the-scenes and a 12-minute clip from the set cannot be enough to judge it. But IMN claimed it had seen enough to reach a conclusion about the film’s content, and complained that the film depicts the group and its leader, Sheikh Ibrahim El- Zakzaky, as terrorists. ‘‘Peaceful protesters of the movement are mischievously depicted as armed protesters, with guns and knives thirsty for the blood of the innocent,” it said in a statement. It is noteworthy that Kannywood actor Yakubu Mohammed, who expressed regret about his participation in the film, explained that it “showed the clash between the Nigerian Army and members of the Shiite movement in Zaria and many members of the group were killed.” Mohammed said he had been abused and called names on social media for featuring in the film, but there had been no death threats. According to his description of the film, “There is a place that every Muslim, if he sees it, must be concerned. There is a photo of Mr Pete Edochie walking around in a Muslim dress, with a bottle of beer in his hand and with a girl.” He also said he had told the producer to remove his scenes from the movie, and that he was prepared to pay compensation. The film, shot in Enugu, was produced by Anosike Kingsley Orji. The information about the film’s content suggests that it is insensitive. Its focus on the violent clash between IMN members and the Nigerian Army in Zaria, Kaduna State, in December 2015, raises questions about the treatment of what has been termed the Zaria Massacre. More than 300 civilians were killed, an investigation revealed. The army claimed members of the IMN had tried to assassinate the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur  Buratai. The detention of IMN leader El-Zakzaky by the government, and the banning of the group in 2019 for terroristic activities, encouraged the suspicion that the film was made to demonise the group. Indeed, the IMN alleged that it was a work of propaganda sponsored by agents of the Federal Government. This is unsubstantiated. The group dreams of an Islamic theocracy in Nigeria, which conflicts with the country’s secularism. This context demands that a film on the subject matter be handled with sensitivity. Freedom of expression also demands decency and restraint. It is a challenge the producer of Fatal Arrogance must deal with. Edochie observed that the protest by the IMN was “premature” and “not proper” since “the film is not in existence yet, it is not in circulation.’’  He added that the film had not been edited, and protesters should wait until it was released, and they had watched it, before complaining about its content. This is logical. The actor should not be a target of death threats for his role in the movie. He should be protected. The NFVCB, which is the relevant regulatory body in this case, is expected to ensure that the film meets generally acceptable standards before it is released.