After a long and protracted political rivalry, former Governors Attahiru Bafarawa and Aliyu Wamakko has decided to settle their rift. Though the two giants of Sokoto State politics belong to the two major parties, they set aside the over a decade of political rivalry between them when they met at the residence of a late Islamic scholar, Malam Abbas Na Malam Babi in Sokoto, capital of Sokoto State to register their condolences to the family of the deceased. To the admiration of their supporters, they were seen exchanging pleasantries at the occasion. They had arrived at the residence of the late Babi in the Assada area, Sokoto North Local Government Area almost simultaneously. Senator Wamakko arrived first. Shortly after, Bafarawa followed a few minutes later. Both of them met outside the residence and surprisingly decided to go in as a group. A mild drama ensued when both conceded to each other the privilege of leading the group, with smiling faces. Bafarawa eventually allowed his successor to lead to the admiration of supporters of both leaders. This is coming almost seven months after a bitter encounter between the duo at the VIP lounge of the Sultan Abubakar International Airport, Sokoto. The duo had coincidentally met at the airport and had resumed their war of words after Wamakko jocularly described Bafarawa as a seasonal migrant. Attempts by Wamakko to pacify his predecessor failed, as Bafarawa rebuffed such greetings. He said: “Why are you greeting me when you refer to me as a seasonal migrant? But, my father and grandfather were born in Sokoto and died here. Their graves are here and I can show you. Can you show me the grave of your grandfather?” During the condolence visit, the two gladiators took turns to pour encomiums on the departed Islamic scholar. Wamakko described the demise of the cleric as a great loss not only to his family but to the state and the country in general. He also prayed to the Almighty Allah to grant the deceased eternal life and give the family the fortitude to bear the loss. Amidst lots of cheers, political praises and prayers from their supporters shortly after the visit, Wamakko saw his predecessor off to his vehicle where they held brief conversation and finally departed. Supporters of the two leaders expressed surprise over the development. One of the supporters remarked: “We were caught unawares, shocked and almost thrown into confusion but with gratitude to Allah, we are happy with the development. This is the hallmark of a new narrative. It is a rare thing to happen after a long period. “We hope this is the beginning of and will end whatever long-standing rivalry between the two of them. Such historic meetings of the two former governors were very rare and whenever they occur, their followers were often ecstatic and agitated as to how they will end. Today’s meeting was fruitful and friendly. They were seen exchanging banters and pleasantries.” Could this be the beginning of a new political romance? Only time will tell. The old rivalry between the two gladiators started in 2007 at the twilight of Bafarawa’s administration. Since then, the duo hardly stays in the same party. Born November 4, 1954, Bafarawa was governor of Sokoto State from May 1999 to May 2007 on the platform of the defunct All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP). He was a presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) in the last general elections. Senator Wamakko was born March 1, 1953, and he was elected governor in 2007 on the platform of the PDP but his election was annulled in April 2008 on the basis that he was a member of the ANPP when he won the PDP nomination. Wamakko who is the leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Sokoto currently serves as the senator representing Sokoto North in the 9th National Assembly.