The Gas Aggregation Company of Nigeria  (GACN ) has bought expansion of some documents such as the gas swap framework to the front burner. Speaking at the Review of Gas Industry Agreement Template Workshop,  its chairman ,  Engr. Mansur Sadiq Sambo, noted 2020 has proven to be a pivotal year for the gas sector notwithstanding the challenges. On the document review, he said: “It is in the foregoing context that GACN’s current effort to secure broad industry alignment on improvements to the key Gas commercialisation document- the Gas Sale and Aggregation Agreement (GSAA) is most welcomed. ”It is also pleasing that other Gas Sector value expansion documents such as the Gas Swap Framework and the Interruptible Gas Sale Agreement (IGSA) Master template would be considered in the course of this two-day workshop.” Sambo, who is also the Managing Director,  Nigeria Petroleum Development Company  (NPDC), said the Federal Governments’ prioritisation of this sector through its strong support for the AKK Project, OB3 project, NPDC business expansion and the PIGB are huge enablers for oil and gas based industrialization and sustainable economic development/growth for Nigeria. According to him, the  Minister of State, Ministry of Petroleum Resources’ declaration of 2020 as year of gas is backed-up by several game changing initiatives such as the National Gas Expansion Programme, Nationwide Gas penetration initiative through an LNG-CNG Nationwide roll-out, ongoing Domestic Gas Price Review etc. all providing further positive impetus. He said NNPC Management under the leadership of the Group Managing Director-Mallam Mele Kolo Kyari also continues to give the much-needed dynamic industry leadership and effective execution coordination to birth and deliver on these laudable initiatives. He urged the participants  to bear in mind that the purpose of this workshop is to constructively discuss and align, on the major identified issues with practical recommended solutions proffered. He urged the stakeholders to ensure the Workshop results in an industry wide Master improved GSAA, Gas Swap Framework and Master IGSAA template that significantly accelerates gas sector transactions, facilitates gas trading and gas development to the benefit of the economy. Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer of GACN, Mr. Olalekan Ogunleye, enjoined all to work together with GACN in arriving at updated drafts of the Master GSAAs. He noted the Master GSAAs have greatly contributed to the growth of the domestic market but, in line with best practice, it is imperative to periodically review the Master GSAAs to ensure that same continue to reflect current market realities. He added that the key deliverables of the Workshop include: expedited negotiation and execution of transaction documents; incentivising payment and contract performance; minimisation of risks and potential for contract disputes; facilitation of new investment in the gas sector; promotion of contract flexibilities consistent with market realities; facilitation of gas trading and gas swap transactions; and transactional cost reduction for the gas sector. Following successful deliberations at the Workshop, which was facilitated by leading law firm Banwo & Ighodalo, GACN confirmed to the industry stakeholders that it would update the Master GSAAs in line with the outcome of discussions at the Workshop and additional comments that may be received following the conclusion of the Workshop. It is expected that the updated Master GSAAs templates will help to promote gas utilization and increase domestic gas consumption, including for the purpose of enhancing power generation, deepening the growth of other gas-based business ventures and accelerating Nigeria’s industrialization. 