 The Senior Staff Association of Electricity and Allied Companies (SSAEAC) has picked holes in the recent minimum remittance orders issued to Discos by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission(NERC), saying salary of workers that collect the revenue are not taken into consideration. The union said NERC, which is a regulatory body, has been docile in facing its responsibilities, but rose to the occasion by issuing orders on minimum remittances by  DisCos. It pointed out the looming danger of collapse of the system, if not urgently arrested. In a letter to the Minister of Power,  Saleh Mamman, signed by Deputy General Secretary,  Comrade. Nnamdi Ajibo , the union said the recent minimum remittance orders issued to Discos which requires Discos to pay 100 per cent of Market Operation (MO) Invoice and minimum percentage of Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading Plc (NBET) bill, without taking salary of staff that collect the revenue into consideration, is a major oversight that can trigger a domino effect capable of pulling down the sector‘s market. The union said: “The reason is that most DisCos are not paying the paltry salaries or the full amounts as and when due. The potential negative impact of this situation is better imagined because a hungry worker will not collect money and return it or be healthy in mind to do his best. “As a historical insight, salaries and minimum operational costs were treated as first-line charges in the pre-privatisation time hence the relative higher collection efficiencies of the time. The union said under the NERC orders,  staff salary is considered as last-line charge instead of first-line charge, against global labour practice, International conventions and Nigeria Labour Laws. The union,  however,  call on the NERC to verify sector workers’ salaries with a view guaranteeing timely and full payment by first-line charge principle. He said: “NERC should consider adjusting the minimum remittance percentages to accommodate the need for timely and full payment of salaries. “NERC should consider setting standard emoluments for sector workers to elicit higher productivity in the whole sector.” The union urged the  minister to consider these recommendations for implementation as sensible and capable of arresting the sector market from collapse or instability.