The long-awaited Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) will be transmitted to the National Assembly in two weeks and would be out as soon as possible to boost output and attract foreign investment into the sector, it was gathered at the weekend. The oil reforms bill, which has taken two decades in the making, are urgent this year as low oil prices and a shift towards renewable energy have made competition tougher to attract investment from international oil majors. Fiscal uncertainty has delayed a decision on a multi-billion dollar expansion by Royal Dutch Shell and its partners, while Chevron, Total and ExxonMobil are selling various assets in the country. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, who spoke during a webinar, said the oil bill would be transmitted to the parliament in the three weeks and will be expeditiously passed because there are already agreements over a number of key issues in the bill between the executive and legislative arms of government. He said: “That the PIB will go to parliament and we hope that by, I don’t want to commit to any time, I think we have had all sorts of committing to time …in terms of when it will come back from parliament but everybody is excited about getting this done. So, we expect that we should get the PIB into parliament I think within the next couple of weeks maximum I think either two or three weeks; it should be in parliament. I don’t think it should take too long for it to be passed because there is already a lot of legislative and executive agreement about many of the key issues and the rest. I don’t think we should have too many difficulties with the provisions. So, we expect that it will go back for a few changes and all of that and then we should expect that it should come back as quickly as possible; so it’s looking quite good in terms of time.” Osinbajo also said salary reduction could not be carried out with executive fiat as there are laid down procedures for such. According to him, salary adjustments are made subject to the recommendation of the Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC). The executive arm could not recommend salary cut because it is done on the recommendation of the RMAFC. He said voluntary salary cuts might be done as the House of Representatives has done, stressing that to do so in any meaningful way and effectively, ‘’you have to go through the RMAFC to do so’’. Royal Dutch Shell, the largest international operator in Nigeria, said a botched reform effort would be “putting at risk and making unviable most of the planned projects”. “We hope that the final bill would be one that would unlock potential investments that Nigeria’s rich resource base truly deserves,” a spokesman for Shell Companies in Nigeria (SCiN) had said. A draft summary included provisions that would streamline and reduce some oil and gas royalties. One of the three sources close to the negotiations told had Reuters that even the government’s reduced take of oil revenue, through taxes, royalties and other fees, as “aggressive” compared with other nations. Some African countries are trying to cut red tape and taxes to make developing their oil and gas reserves attractive to firms. It proposes to boost the amount of cash companies pay to local communities and for environmental cleanups. It would also alter the dispute resolution process between companies and the government, though specifics of the changes were not included in the summary. The bill also included measures aimed at pushing companies to develop gas discoveries and a framework for gas tariffs and delivery.