 Before now, mention Akwa Ibom to the average Nigerian and the image that comes to mind is of a people of maids, houseboys and cooks. But that narrative is very far from the truth, especially under the current leadership of Udom Emmanuel as governor. At 33 years old, the state which was carved out from Cross River State on September 23, 1987 by President Ibrahim Babangida has come of age. But it has not been an easy task taking it from where it was to where it is. Call Akwa Ibom small but mighty and you won’t be wrong. For instance, surprise is what greets many Nigerians when they learn that Ibom Air is a state-owned airline. In fact, as the only state-owned airline in the country, it trumps the country which has no national carrier. The airline which was launched on June 7, 2019 with three aircraft, recently brought in two additional planes, taking its fleet to five airplanes. Presently, Ibom Air flies from Uyo to and fro Lagos, Abuja, Enugu and Calabar. It also hopes to start flying to Doula in Cameroon soon. Beyond the airline, the state is also building an international terminal as well as an additional taxiway at the Victor Attah International Airport. When he assumed office as governor on May 29, 2015, Udom knew a major challenge before him was how to make his state be more than a ‘civil service state.’ But to do that required investment in infrastructure to increase the productive base of the state. To drive that change, he understood that power is a sine qua non. Hence, the state government started massive investment in the electricity sector. Less than 18 months into his administration, the government built a 33/11KV, 2 X 15MVA injection sub-station in Uyo. Following this, there was a race to build sub-stations across the state. And in collaboration with the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN), the state commissioned a 132/33KV, 1 x 60MVA transformer at Afaha Ube in Uyo which increased the state’s available power for distribution from 96MW to 144MW. And last year, another substation at Ekim which receives power from the state-owned Ibom Power Plant was built by the state government and commissioned by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. Among Akwa Ibom people, the improved electricity supply has been dubbed ‘Ikang Udom’ which means ‘Udom’s light’. While the state does not have control over electricity transmission, its investment in the electricity sector has started to pay off. As it stands, businesses and residents in Uyo enjoy more than 18 hours of power daily. Also benefitting from ‘Ikang Udom’ are firms in the Onna industrial hub like the Jubilee Syringe Manufacturing Company, King Flour Mills, Metering Solutions Manufacturing Services and Lions Plywood Industry and some palm oil mills. Some feats – the syringe manufacturing company is the largest in Africa, the meter company is the largest in the country with capacity to produce three million meters annually while the flour mills have capacity of 500 metric tonnes daily. Together with the Awa Industrial hub, Akwa Ibom is designing itself as a reputable factory where over 20 industries produce for not only the state but also for the country. Recognising the importance of education, the Udom administration maintained free throughout primary and secondary school as the state spends N600 million annually to pay the West Africa Examination Council fees of its students. The state also collaborated with the Navy and Army to set up secondary schools in the state while it also constructed and renovated over 500 school blocks through the Inter-Ministerial Direct Labour Committee.  This is in addition to the 601 projects including class room blocks executed by State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) through matching grants. And it is on record that Akwa Ibom held the first summit on education with the vision to make its children more competitive in the technology- driven world of the 21st century. Regarding healthcare, Akwa Ibom which has a population of about five and a half million people is doing well. The state was also in the forefront in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. This is not surprising as the Governor Udom had aggressively had nightly meetings with medical practitioners and other stakeholders in arresting the pandemic. It has remodelled hospitals such as Etinan General Hospital, Methodist Hospital, Ituk Mbang, General Hospital, Iquita-Oron, Ikot Okoro, Ikono aside from creating isolation centres for Covid-19 treatment. Also, Akwa Ibom was praised by the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) for establishing the best two Polymerase Claim Reaction (PCR) laboratories in the country. Little wonder the state has recorded one of the lowest rates of Covid-19 infection. However, beyond the emergency situation which 2020 foisted on the globe with Covid-19, Akwa Ibom had continued to make a mark in agriculture. The state hosts two fertilizer blending plants and three medium-scale rice mills including the Ibom Golden Rice mill, owned by Ibiono Ibom Rice Millers Cooperative Society. The Ibom Golden Rice Mill which services the rice field in Ikot Esen/ Utit Obio, Ibiono Ibom Local Government Area began production around December 2019. The state government is also targeting large-scale vegetable farming and cassava cultivation and processing of staples like garri and odourless fufu. Then there is also the construction of over 1, 700 kilometres of roads which the government has built. These include dualized roads like the Uyo-Etinan road, Uyo-Ikot Ekpene road, Etinan-East-West road and Eket-Ibeno road and Airport-Okobo road.  Also, work on Ring road II and the 10-lane Ring Road III in Uyo Metropolis are in advance stages of completion, while contract has been awarded for construction of surface and underground drain structure for collection and final discharge of Uyo metropolis flood water at IBB Way, Uyo. These are roads built not just for the sake of building roads but to create an economic artery whereby goods and services can be seamlessly transported across the state. And seeking to encourage maritime activities, the state which has one of the longest coastline is working on delivering the Ibom Deep Sea Port. When actualised, this would translate into more commerce and employment for residents in the state. While to the casual observer, these bursts of projects may appear disconnected, they are actually independent pieces of a jigsaw puzzle which is getting clearer with each passing day. And these have been responsible for the peace and prosperity being enjoyed in Akwa Ibom. Now, in the second year of his second term as governor, Udom is not relenting. And his passion can be gleaned in the opening lines of his broadcast on May 29, 2020 to mark his fifth year in office. “Five years ago, I heard Nigeria’s call in general and Akwa Ibom’s summons in particular and I presented myself for the task of rebuilding our state,” he said. “With God’s guidance and your overwhelming and generous support, we have recast this blessed Land of Promise into a great and wonderful piece of God’s Real Estate.” Akwa Ibom tags itself as ‘Land of Promise’ and it is good the governor is keeping his promise. As we clock 33 as a state, may God continually bless Akwa Ibom, Governor Udom and all Akwa Ibomites.