 THE Kwara Government has said COVID-19 sample collection centres would be opened across the state’s 16 local government areas. Director of Public Health, Kwara Ministry of Health Dr. Oluwatosin Fakayode said this on Tuesday at a meeting with traditional leaders and religious bodies in Ilorin. Fakayode said the state government planned to scale up the collection centres so that more people could be tested for COVID-19. “This is to improve the testing capacity that we have. We will commence this in the next few days. “Some health workers have been undergoing training for this,” he said. Fakayode added that about 6,000 people have so far been tested, and that the government would continue to scale up for more testing. Owners of private schools under the aegis of Association of Model Islamic Schools (AMIS) in the state on Tuesday decried continued closure of schools by the state government. AIMS, therefore, proposed September 21, for the reopening of primary and secondary schools in the state for third term academic calendar. The state chair of AMIS, Prof Abdulrazaq Oniye, who spoke with reporters in Ilorin, added that the term should end December 18. Prof. Oniye also recommended January 4th, 2021 for the resumption of the first term, lasting for 10 weeks. He said owners of private schools had lost millions of Naira since the forced closure of schools across the country. He said: “It will be disastrous for the state if schools do not reopen as soon as possible. We believe that whatever makes markets open and places of worship safe to reopen also qualifies schools for reopening. “In addition, the experiment about reopening of school that has inadvertently taken place with partial reopening of school certificate examinations had shown the fears about school reopening are exaggerated. We confidently assert that schools are safe to reopen; we are ready to do the needful. “Governemnt should dispel the notion that it is reluctant to reopen schools because it is incapable of doing the needful by allocating resources that will enable public schools to reopen and fully observe COVID-19 protocols.”