With the Africa Continent Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA) scheduled to officially kick off from January 2021, members of the organised private sector (OPS) and international trade expert have lamented the lack of preparedness by countries within the African sub-region. Firing the first salvo, the Director General of Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), Dr. Muda Yusuf, who spoke with The Nation, stated that the dispositions of the West African sub region does not inspire confidence on the smooth takeoff of the AfCTA. “The disposition of countries to economic integration in the West African sub region does not inspire confidence on the prospects of a smooth take off of AFCTA.  The regional economic blocs should normally form the pillars for AFCTA,” Yusuf said. “The compliance levels with the regional protocols are quite weak and give cause for concern. The omens are not so good. The escalating insecurity in the sub region and in other parts of the continent also poses a major risk to AFCTA.  It could compel closure of borders which inhibits trade.” In his own view, the Acting Director General of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), Mr. Ambrose Oruche  stated that the country’s massive infrastructural deficit is a very big hindrance to Nigeria, adding that there are still some challenges that need to be addressed. Commenting on border closure, he said, “Border closure does not stop anybody from importing through the sea and through the air, it doesn’t hinder anyone, but issue is that cost implication and delivery time is not effective. It is faster to move goods across the border than through the sea. Closure of border is not a policy that is sustainable over a long period of time.  Though, some industry benefited from the closure because it helped them checked smuggling activities. “However, there are those that their businesses totally depend on export, and they could not export, while those that receive supply of their raw materials through the borders from ECOWAS countries had their business suffered and in most cases collapsed. So the border issue is a blessing and also a curse depending on who you are talking to.” An International Trade Expert, Dr. John Isemede, stated that the challenge is not peculiar to Nigeria alone, but on the West African sub region, saying that Nigeria is more endowed than the other countries. Isemede said, “We have ECOWAS and we can use their template, we run the ECOWAS ETLS, and we can use the template, we have the African Development Bank, and we now have the secretariat but what we need to do is to work together, but Ghana should not be carried away because they have the secretariat, because having a secretariat is just like a prefect in a school that is going to do the same exam with people. “One year of border closure, the country has recorded more draw-back than the benefits from findings as the price of maize is unknown, rice on the roof and palm oil above the roof. Losses are also recorded on transportation and returns from ECOWAS passengers, revenue to government on laissez passe, revenue on transit, loss on  buses and cars stranded, workers outside and families at home helpless, airlines. “If you look at the scenario in West Africa, we have the ADB, and we have the ECOWAS Bank, but what we need most is cooperation, coordination and collaboration for West Africa to survive, because North Africa is more advanced and they are closer to the European Union, the East Africans are much more united using the Swahili language and if you look at the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA) and the Southern African Development Community (SADEC) you will notice that the South Africans are much more integrated, they have quantity system and all of that. But the only fear we have in West Africa is that most of the North Africa African countries have their national airlines such as Egypt Air, Air Mauroc and others. East Africa has Air Rwanda, Kenyan Airline and so on, we also have the South African Airline, Air Namibia and so on, but in West Africa, we have no single airline. Although we have Air Senegal which is not as big as the ones I have mentioned, while Asky operated by the Togolese belongs to Ethiopian airline, which is just like someone coming to your village to register a business and Lomé is a hub where all of them converge by 12:00noo and diapers by 2:00pm and the last one will carry people to Brazil and all that.”