The Lagos State Physical Planning Permit Authority (LASPPPA) has indicated its commitment to enforce the State’s Physical Planning laws. General Manager, LASPPPA, Funmi Osifuye who made this known over the weekend while reviewing plans to implement reforms to ease planning permit approval process. He said the Monitoring and Compliance Unit of the Agency has been reenergized and reinvigorated to enforce approved Physical Development Master Plan across the State in line with the present administration’s THEMES Agenda of Making Lagos a 21st Century Economy. He said “As part of efforts to ensure Lagos State is orderly developed according to the Approved Physical Development Master Plan, a lot of physical planning reforms and laws were put in place by government in the building and property development sector and as an agency established to implement these reforms and laws, we are now more prepared than ever to enforce these regulations strictly without fear or favour”. Osifuye disclosed that more Town Planners have been deployed to LASPPPA by the Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development to ensure the implementation of reforms to ease planning permit approval process and enforcement of the planning laws and regulations. “We have also strengthened and reorganized our Monitoring and Compliance Unit to ensure statewide coverage of enforcement. This will nip uneven and haphazard development in the bud while at the same time availing the government of quality database to plan ahead for the populace. Also, in pursuance of these objectives, LASPPPA District Officers have been empowered to grant planning permit approval in line with approved standards”, he noted. The General Manager noted that these strategies are geared towards ensuring that structures are built in conformity to the State’s Approved Planning Standards for a livable Lagos that is safe for all. Osifuye while enjoining citizens, new and existing property owners, builders and property developers to obtain valid state physical planning permits from District Offices of LASPPPA noted that obtaining a physical planning permit is a must before the commencement of any construction in any part of the State. He disclosed that the process of obtaining physical planning permit and stage certification have been made seamless for citizens stressing that getting an approval should not take more than a month especially with the implementation of the reforms to ease planning approval process. He added that the State Government has developed an electronic planning permit platform to ease the process of obtaining a planning permit adding that the new platform was initiated to enhance service delivery in obtaining permit.