 THE Kaduna State chapter of Miyetti-Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) has condemned recent attacks in some communities in Southern Kaduna. The organisation stated that the renewed attacks were contrary to the spirit of the ongoing efforts to bring peace to the area and cautioned those it labelled as “criminal elements” to refrain from carrying out further attacks in the area. It stated that three of its members – Abdullahi Hassan, Yusuf Hassan and Abubakar Hassan, were killed in the “unprovoked” attack, blaming people who are “hell-bent on sabotaging the peace processes in the area,” for the killings. In a statement by its Director of Media and Publicity, Bayero Zango, Miyetti-Allah said the attacks resulted in the death of three cows while some Fulani pastoralists were chased away from their places of abode. The statement said: “Our attention has been drawn to the recent attacks on Fulani pastoralists, which were carried out by suspected criminals in Atyap Chiefdom at Sagwaza and Kurmin Masara, where one Fulani person, AbdulRashid Lawal Malam was killed at Kurmin Masara on Wednesday 9th September. 2020. “Earlier, another incident occurred on Tuesday 8th September, 2020, at Sagwaza, where some suspected Atyas kataf criminals attacked some innocent Fulani pastoralists and injured one Malam Hassan and his son Musa Hassan, who are currently receiving treatment in a private hospital at Zonkwa in Zangon Kataf Local Government Area. “We condemn these unprovoked attacks by these Atyap criminal elements, who are hell-bent on sabotaging the peace processes in the area. “We are appealing to the perpetrators of these attacks to, in the interest of peace, refrain from these breaches of the peace accord that was reached and respect their leaders and parents who are working day and night to restore peace, law and order in the area.” The group expressed its appreciation to the Commander of Operation Safe Haven, Major General Chukwuemeka Okwonkwo, his men and the Special Forces, for its quick responses. It also expressed appreciation to Rev. (Dr.) Yakubu Pam, Chairman, Northern Christians Association of Nigeria who is also the Executive Secretary, National Christians Pilgrims Commission, for his commitment to ensuring that peaceful coexistence return to Southern Kaduna by organising a three-day Peace Summit at Kafanchan. “We also strongly commend the efforts and commitment of the Kaduna State governor, Malam Nasir Ahmed El Rufa, for demonstrating deep commitment in bringing to an end the killings in the area, through his quick response and for supporting all the peace processes in Southern Kaduna. 