Ahead of Saturday flag off of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) Ondo State governorship campaign, the Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu National Campaign Council has announced five sub-committees for the actualisation of victory for the party flag bearer at the October 10 governorship election in the state. The sub-committees are Contact and Mobilization, Election Management, Security, Finance and Media and Publicity. The 93 member Contact and Mobilization Committee has Osun State Governor, Mr. Gbenga Isiaka Oyetola as the Chairman while Minister of State, Niger Delta, Senator Omotayo Alasoadura, Senator Robert Boroface and former governorship aspirant, Olusola One SAN are to serve as deputy chairmen. Election Management Committee which has 62 members will be coordinated jointly by Ekiti State Governor, Kayode Fayemi – chairman while Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu and Kaduna State Governor, Nasir El-Rufai and Plateau State Governor, Simon Lalong will serve as co-chairmen. For the Security Committee, the 31 member sub-committee will be chaired by Governor of Kogi State, Yahaya Bello with his Lagos State counterpart, Babajide Sanwo-Olu and Governor Babagana Zulum of Bornu State as co-chairmen. The Finance Sub-Committee, 31 members is led by the National Campaign Council Chairman and Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu while Plateau State Governor, Simon Lalong and his Jigawa State counterpart, Governor Muhammadu Badaru Abubakar as co-chairmen. In the 56 membership Media and Publicity Committee, Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State and his Kaduna State counterpart, Governor Nasir El-Rufai are to serve as co-chairmen. The committee also has the daughter of Kano State Governor, Fatima Ganduje Ajimobi as a member. The chairman Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee (CENCPC) of the party, Governor Mai Mala Buni had directed the Ondo State Governorship National Campaign Council to devise means of ensuring that the party retain the state during October 10 state election.