The factional People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) in Ekiti State on Thursday traded words over the frightening state of security in the state. The PDP faction led, by Bisi Kolawole decried the growing level of insecurity in the, expressing disgust at the alleged seemingly indifference of Governor Fayemi Kayode to the worsening situation. The opposition party said the Governor Fayemi-led government has failed in its primary responsibility of protecting the lives and property of the people. A statement by the factional Publicity Secretary, Raphael Adeyanju argued that Ekiti has recorded several cases of kidnapping and killings within the last three weeks without frontal response, adding that the APC-led government has lost grip of internal security. The party said that the security situation in the state has become frightening and worrisome, urging Governor Fayemi to rise to the challenge in order to arrest the rapid slide into anarchy. In his reaction, the APC State Publicity Secretary, Hon Ade Ajayi, said the PDP ought to be ashamed of itself because it was the least qualified to talk about insecurity. Ajayi reminded the PDP that even though the people have forgiven the four years of misrule, they have not forgotten how violence and mayhem were practically legalised under former governor Ayodele Fayose. “Let me remind the PDP that apart from misgovernance of the Ayodele Fayose led government, insecurity also chased away investors from Ekiti during their time, but that is not happening under Fayemi,” he said. The PDP said, “It is regrettable that Governor Fayemi has neither taken any positive step nor come out forcefully to condemn the ugly development and assure the people of their safety.” “Before the inception of the present administration, Ekiti State had enjoyed relative peace, where people went about their normal businesses without any molestation. It is however disheartening that for the past one and half years, things have taken a radical turn for the worse.” “It is the duty of every government, at every level to guarantee the safety of lives and properties of the citizens. In a situation where the government is incapable of performing this duty of securing its citizens’ lives, such government has completely failed and should not expect the trust and loyalty of the people,” it added. Countering PDP’s position, Ajayi said the cases of robbery and kidnappings being witnessed were a general issue not only particular to Ekiti but afflicting the entire country. He explained that the occasional cases of kidnapping by bandits in Ekiti didn’t portray Fayemi’s government as a failure or doing nothing to address the drift. “The APC government in Ekiti is doing well in ensuring that Ekiti is safe and that was why the government joined the southwest states to establish Amotekun Corps. “In case the PDP is not aware, the recruitment into the Amotekun Corps is ongoing and they will work in collaboration with the police by the time they will be deployed across the state to secure our people,” he said.