Education and media experts have identified technology as a vital tool for revamping the education sector. This was made known at a two-day event organised to commemorate the International Literacy Day 2020, by Develop Africa Now Initiative (DANI), in partnership with People’s Check and Girls Go Techy. It was supported by the World Literacy Foundation and Peace First. The event, moderated by Climate Tracker Fellow, Daniel Whyte, and Chiamaka Okafor, a journalist, featured panelists like Coordinator AFRICMIL, Chido Onumah; Editor-in-Chief TechMirror Magazine, Olanrewaju Oyedeji; Founder NEST4US USA, Shreyaa Venkat; investigative journalist, Lady Ejiro Umukoro;  Coordinator Campus Reporter, PTCIJ, Busola Ajibola, and  Team Lead Eduplana, Oriyomi Ogunwale. Mrs Ajibola, assessing how the government can address the challenges in tertiary institutions, especially during  this period, lamented the absence of  digital learning platforms. She bemoaned the inability of some students to afford smartphones. Lady Umukoro said  that the main reason for gender-based violence is illiteracy while she was explaining the role of literacy in creating a gender-balanced society. She noted that there are two types of dysfunction of literacy; illiteracy and aliteracy. She said illiteracy is a barrier, a situation where people who can read don’t like to read. She added that many parents haven’t heard of the Violence Against Persons (VAP) Act or  how to get justice for a molested child. She explained further that the lack of civil intelligence makes many citizens ignorant of their rights. Ogunwale  urged the Federal Government to prioritise education and perhaps declare a state of emergency in the education sector. He said when Nigeria gets  its education right, it can reduce unemployment, insecurity, and poverty. Onumah also urged stakeholders to redouble their investment in education. “On this day, I invite all those involved in education to redouble their investment and mobilise their resources to unleash the potential of each individual in the services of a shared world.” He said: ‘’We have to reinvent and refocus our education policies and system in such a way that they are in tandem with global best practices.’’ Venkat urged government institutions to come together and provide quality education to children. The panelists urged the government to rethink the education curriculum, develop customised content at different levels, digitalise learning, and invest in capacity building. They also added that teaching should not be relegated to attract subpar human resources, churned out by third-grade tertiary institutions, but the best and brightest minds.