A faith-based charity foundation, Nasfat Agency for Zakat and Sadaqat (NAZAS), an arm of the Nasrul-Lahi-L-Fatih Society of Nigeria (NASFAT), has given N16.6million to 145 less privileged people. After the event held at NASFAT Alausa Lagos centre, the beneficiaries went home with cheques and equipment. NAZAS Managing Director Mufutau Adelotan said the disbursement was to alleviate poverty among the less privileged. He urged the wealthy to support NAZAS “by channelling their excess funds and materials through us so as to disburse them to the needy.” The Chairman of the foundation, Alhaji Afeez Bakare, said NAZAS has remained steadfast in its mission to help and improve people’s lives despite the havoc wreaked by the COVID-19 pandemic on the economy. “The economy has been affected by COVID-19 pandemic; hence people’s sources of livelihood have been eroded.  As a charity agency, we have greater responsibility to lift people out of the financial crisis by ameliorating their sufferings,” he added. NASFAT National President Alhaji Niyi Yusuf hailed NAZAS officials for raising the funds despite the pandemic. Represented by the National Women Affairs Secretary, Alhaja Suwebat Bola Kupolati, he urged the beneficiaries to make use of the materials given to them. The Chief Missioner of NASFAT, Imam Abdulazeez Onike, underscored the need for the beneficiaries to use the equipment and funds given to them to improve their economic status and set themselves on the path of financial freedom. He urged Muslims to pay their Zakat to better the lot of underprivileged Muslims and earn the pleasure of Allah. “We must ensure that wherever we find ourselves as Muslims, people in our society must live a good life regardless of their faith,” Imam Onike said. A beneficiary, Rashidat Anomo, hailed NAZAS for bridging the gap between the rich and the poor. She said it surprised her when she received a call from NAZAS to come and pick a grinding machine, which she requested for. “I am into production of local drinks (Kunu, Zobo, Tigernut and pap). I heard about the programme on the radio that NASFAT Zakat form was out, which I collected, filled and submitted. It came as a surprise when I received a call and I was asked to come and pick a grinding machine, which I asked for,” she said.