Ten million Nigerians will be lifted out poverty every year throughout the next decade, if the Nigeria Agenda 2050 and the Medium-Term National Development Plan (MTNDP) is carefully and diligently implemented. It is also hoped that the Agenda 2050 and MTNDP will transform the nation’s economic fortune. These are the highlights of the two economic development plans whose National Steering Committee (NSC) was inaugurated in Abuja on Tuesday by President Muhammadu Buhari. The committee is co-chaired by the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, and the Chairman of StanbicIBTC, Atedo Peterside. It also has members from diverse interests, including representatives of opposition parties, the private sector, women, youths’ bodies and people with special needs. President Buhari explained that the new programmes would succeed the Vision 20:2020 and the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) 2017 – 2020. “The main objectives of the successor plans are to lift 100 million Nigerians out of poverty within the next 10 years, particularly given the World Bank’s projection that Nigeria will become the world’s third most populous country by 2050 with over 400 million people,” he said. The President said it had become necessary to develop successor plans to the Nigeria Vision 20:2020 and the ERGP, which would both lapse in December this year, to ensure continuity and efficiency in the country’s development planning. President Buhari explained that the NSC would oversee governance structure, comprising the Central Working Group and 26 Technical Working Groups, for the important national assignment. He said: “It is my expectation that the steering committee will oversee the execution of key deliverables, including recommending measures, to ensure the continuous implementation of the plans even after the expiration of the tenure of successive administrations – including legislation, if required. “Such legislation may introduce much-needed rigour and discipline to the nation’s development planning as well as institutionalise planned outcomes for the future. I trust that our partners in the National Assembly will support us in exploring these reforms.” 