Former Governor of Benue State and Senator representing Benue North East Senatorial District, Senator Gabriel Suswam has kicked against the executive Water Resources Bill saying it will be dead on arrival. Senator Suswam who described the bill as anti-people said it is capable of causing confusion in the country and as such the National Assembly will reject the bill in totality. Suswam spoke on Friday at Katsina-Ala town, Katsina-Ala Local Government Area of the state, during the official commissioning and inspection of projects by Governor Samuel Ortom. Suswam told the Benue people that the bill is still a rumour in the National Assembly assuring that it will not see the light of the day when it is presented to them. “The National Assembly will reject the water resources bill in totality and in whatever form it comes. It is anti-people, it is unacceptable and we will not accept it because it is not in the interest of the people. “You have no reason to be afraid. There is no bill like that and as far as I am concerned, it is still a rumour. So let us not worry about what does not exist.” Susan further vowed that “they cannot sit down as representatives of the people and accept that the federal government should come and take over the waters of our state.” He argued that the Land Use Act of 1978 mainly states that all land belongs to the state government alone saying to introduce such a bill will require an amendment of the Constitution. “The Constitution has not been amended so the bill is dead on arrival”. Senator Suswam urged the Benue people, particularly his Sankara brothers and sisters to remain resolute in support of the Governor Samuel Ortom led government saying they must not repeat the fundamental mistake they made in 2015 but that they support him and the People’s Democratic Party, (PDP) in the state in 2023 and beyond. He called on the people to take the projects as their own and protect it for the future of the future and development of the state. Earlier, Benue state Governor Samuel Ortom commissioned the remodeled Central Primary School, Katsina-Ala, Mbaton-Amafu Electricity Project in Katsina Ala and the Zaki Biam-Afia- Gbeji road in Ukum local government area of the state. Ortom said the projects are a fulfilment of his campaign promises to deliver dividends to the Benue masses and solicited for more support to enable him do more.