Former member of the House of Representatives Hon Mashood Mustapha has urged Nigerians in Ghana and their host to amicably resolve their lingering trade row. Hon Mustapha, ex-chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Petroleum (Downstream) told reporters in Ilorin, Kwara state capital. Mustapha who is also Oluomo of Yorubaland in Ghana said Nigeria and Ghana have long time history of trade interests and various common political and cultural heritages dated back to sixties which needed to be sustained. He recalled that the immediate past President of Ghana, John Dramani Mahama is related to Offa community in Kwara state, Nigeria, adding that most Nigerians have seen Ghana as their second home and vice versa, hence the need for the citizens of the two countries to be each other’s brothers’ keeper. Mustapha commended the maturity demonstrated by the two countries in handling the disputes, an action he noted has prevented the crisis from escalating to the level witnessed in South Africa during the period of xenophobic attack where Nigerians and some other foreign nationals were senselessly killed and their properties destroyed. He commended President Muhammadu Buhari for sending a powerful delegation to Ghana led by the Speaker, House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila to find a permanent and lasting peace among the two nation’s over the trade disputes and further deepening their diplomatic relationship. He called for greater trade ties that would guide against a repeat of the present perceived harsh trade crackdown between the two countries. The Olu-Omo who is a stalwart of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) said that the COVID-19 pandemic ravaging the world calls for caution among all neighboring countries, particularly Africa as it has to do with their trade activities so as not to further compound the economic challenges presently ravaging the entire world. Mustapha praised the maturity so far displayed by Nigerians in Ghana, most especially the traders, imploring them to continue to demonstrate the peaceful nature which Nigerians are known for, at home and in the diaspora. He urged the Oba of Yoruba Community in Ghana, Oba Hamzat Peregrimo Brimah to urgently organize a stakeholders meeting among the concerned citizens and the various traders associations with the government of Ghana with a view to finding a lasting solution to the impasse.