A multitude of youths, disgruntled and starved, may flirt with strife and call it ‘revolt,’ just as a swarm of mosquitoes can make a noise like thunder. But when they emerge, irate and drugged-out, Nigeria should flinch. It gets scarier where their ignorance, intemperance, and rage enjoy the caress of a dubious demagogue. They launch like loose canons at the slightest provocation. Left to their devices, they are feckless and sterile. My recent sojourn across Lagos’ drug dens manifested as a pilgrimage. I encountered several teenagers venting in the vice-grip of harsh psychotropic substances. At drug dens in Alimosho local government area, for instance, many of them claimed that seek escape from their daily travails in hard drugs. Binging indiscriminately on local brews like Gutter Juice aka Omi Gota, and its variants like Colorado, Pamilerin, containing rohypnol, tramadol, Indian Hemp, codeine, and cocaine, they blamed the government for keeping them unemployed and out of school. They also blamed the government for bad roads, insecurity, and persistent looting of the public coffers. My encounters revealed, among other things, that, many are the same social products as their elders and peers in the political class. They vented their bitter, desperate intent to chance on sudden and stupendous wealth, by hook or crook – as canonised by the political class. They dream and speak of a revolution that would redistribute power to their hands. How could such vitally impaired characters be trusted to conduct their affairs appropriately and judiciously? It is the tragedy of the moment that Nigeria’s youth obsess more about fulfilling debauched stereotypes than building and securing a progressive future. Burrowing through decadent enslavement to find bliss, they fulfill a theatrical pledge of acceptance to dominance by a predatory political class. The latter know that beneath their cries of misery and clamour for change, subsists a tireless yearning to be demeaned, enslaved, browbeaten, and deployed as minstrels of carnage and death, across their impoverished neighbourhoods, for a token. If thus preoccupied, there is no way they could pay good mind to more beneficial causes, like training their minds to participate in free and fair elections, where they vote for truly humane and patriotic candidates. The incumbent administration of President Muhammadu Buhari, for instance, identifies the harsh criticism and protests trailing the increment of fuel price and electricity bill as the citizenry’s Initial Gra Gra (IGG) – a theatrical maneuver to the government’s ‘tactical plunder.’ They consider it a futile, necessary performance of dissent as the citizenry wail, and the economy declines, insecurity worsens, and Nigeria becomes uninhabitable for the poor. It is about time the youth moved past their lofty expectations of the incumbent ruling class and opposition figures, knowing they are all borne of dubious intent. A continual belief that Nigeria might prosper and stabilize on their watch is tantamount to a malady, a conceptual persistence of mental and ethical disorders. Corruption and duplicity are the ritual links between the oligarchs and the youth. The latter’s unquestioning belief in the former thus manifests as a triumph of fetishism; the consequences are all around us. We are on the receiving end of them. But who could lead us out of this quagmire? Not the hordes of youth peopling our suburbs and metropolitan drug dens. As you read, more youths, teens especially, are trapped in the rapture of hallucinogenic substances but they are ignored in plain sight by regulatory authorities. Between 2018 and 2019, nearly 15% of Nigeria’s adult population reported a “considerable level” of use of psychotropic drug substances, a rate much higher than the 2016 global average of 5.6% among adults, according to a study led by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) and the Centre for Research and Information on Substance Abuse with technical support from the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) and funding from the European Union. It showed the highest levels of drug use were recorded among people aged between 25 to 39 but excluded teenagers drowning in the stark grip of psychotropic substances like Gutter Juice perhaps because they fall outside the radar of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA). Gutter Juice has attained prominence particularly among teenagers and the consequences of taking it is often devastating on the user and their families. Dr. Oluwayemisi Ogun, the Medical Director (MD) of the Federal Neuropsychiatric Hospital (FNPH), Yaba, recently sounded an alarm over the prevalence of drug abuse induced mental disorders among children, adolescents, and adult Nigerians, stressing that over 150 new cases are admitted at the hospital and its Child and Adolescent Centre, Oshodi Annexe every week. Just recently, Abiodun Toye, a 16-year-old developed acute psychosis soon after binging on the brew. He is currently chained to the floor at a traditional mental home in Ogun State even as Dr. Ogun insists that he is better off in the care of qualified FNPH personnel. But the consequences serve no deterrence to hordes of teenagers trooping in thralldom in pursuit of irregular highs by the extremely dangerous potion, and other variants including Colorado, Pamilerin, recklessly sold and consumed across Lagos’ drug dens. My findings revealed that a litre of Gutter Juice is easily available to teenagers at a fraction of the cost of hitherto elusive narcotics, like cocaine. On average, users spend N9,000 per day on cocaine. This amount is half of the national minimum wage per month. However, one litre of standard Gutter Juice costs N3,000 while a 50cl bottle costs N1, 500. It’s hard not to panic over the prevalence of a drug that leaves devastating marks on its victims like paranoia, hallucinations and strung out physical collapse, not to mention the loss of inhibitions, brain damage, and predisposition to violence, according to mental health experts. Yet the dealers and users passionately answer as willing muscles, and army for achieving the mother of all revolutions as romanticised by random segments of Nigeria’s citizenry, the elite, middle class in particular. The truth rankles with a sore note. If you are elite, middle class, you won’t watch the revolution happen on TV because you will be in the thick of it. Since you have failed to emerge as the heart of a bloodless one, you will suffer the blows of a bloody one. The teen armies of the revolt, severely agitated and drugged out, will storm your homes while you enjoy family time and movie hour with loved ones, in your serene, gated suburbs, and amid the manicured lawns of your high society. They will intrude your peace, wielding guns, machetes and clubs indiscriminately furnished them by the predatory ruling class, to assault, rape, and hack you and your loved ones to death. At the dawn of the revolt, you will be identified as the enemy of the people, and tarred with the same brush as the mythical one percent supposedly feeding fat off Nigeria and the citizenry’s bare bones. This is possible because we have lost our sense of ethics and nationhood, and embraced the erosion of cultured grooming. The consequences are distressingly visible in the teenagers and young adults trooping in a daze, to dip their heads in Gutter Juice, in order to escape the present and detach from a belief in the future.