Tomi Badejoko started life as a kid presenter on NTA 10 Children’s Variety Show. That experience inspired her to pursue a career in broadcasting working in London with Sky TV and Ben TV with lots of memorable encounters. In this interview with YETUNDE OLADEINDE, she talked about inspiration from her parents, especially her dad who was a Journalist, acting, going into beauty and skincare. Tell us about your new passion for beauty, what inspired you? I have always been inspired about beauty, I grew up in a family that has been conscious about skincare. I grew up doing facials, pedicure, manicure in my households. Always been particular about how you look, particularly my maternal grandma. She is the kind of person that always tells you, you have to take good care of yourself, your skin and basically that inspired me while growing up.I have always been in an environment where they are always conscious of self-care. What are some of the things that you do in the sector? Currently, I am a skincare and beauty blogger. I basically review skincare products for people, advising them on the kind of skincare product to use on their skin type and telling them the products that I used that really worked for me. And those I used that didn’t work, those I think they should try and telling them the latest products in town. You know women are very particular about anti-aging products, so I talk about that. I talk about skincare tools, skincare regimen, home made products. Just basically giving advise on skincare and beauty. Let’s talk about your experience in broadcasting. How did this influence your personality? My experience in broadcasting is more like it is in the family. It is genetic. My dad is a journalist, so I grew up in a house and from age five and I was forced to read newspaper, my dad was always calling me to come and read this and read that. He was always telling me I see you on TV, your personality is very free spirited and sociable. So, that was how it started and before you know it, I am already doing stuffs, cultural things, debating, Press clubs, I would be there. Then they are picking people to go on TV right from primary school. I would be there, and I have just always liked everything creative or performing arts. I did a bit of acting too and that is why I wished I actually pursued that, but we are here now, and I just found myself graduating to the passion, into broadcasting because it has always been in me. I used to present a live TV show, a breakfast show on Ben TV, Skye TV in London. Basically, I have always had this personality before I became a broadcaster, I have always been very chatty, very sociable, very spirited. So, I think I have always had it. I won’t say broadcasting really influenced my personality. Instead, I would say my personality influenced my broadcasting. I think for you to be in broadcasting, you have to have some sort of personality. It influenced my personality and worked more on the strength that I always had. You started as a kid presenter at the NTA. What are your memories? It was a very good memory and anytime I look back at that, it really makes me happy. I could remember then, there was this program called Children’s variety on NTA 10 where they invited different schools to come and talk about trending topics then. And here I was chosen alongside four other people, but I was so surprised that I was the main host, that was really shocking for me because then I was very small. So, I told myself that I am going to host this show. We had our teachers grooming us on what to say and it was a live show. So, you just couldn’t afford to make a mistake. I was just 9 years old then and we had constant coaching. When everybody had gone home, we were still in school, learning about Children’s variety. I did very well, you would never know that was my first time on TV considering I was a 9 year old. It was wonderful, I wished we actually recorded it then, maybe I would go back to NTA to see if they have it in their archives. It will be really nice to watch. Also, there was another show we participated in with Mee Mofe Damijo when she used to do the “MEE and You Show’ She hosted it and her daughter used to be in my primary school at Chrisland. They came to the school and picked a few people to do the show with her and it was a nice Christmas show then and I was chosen. So, I have always had this from age nine to ten back then. Who or what inspires the things you do? I get inspiration basically from home, my mum and dad. So, the broadcasting part of me, the talking part of me, and my personality I got from dad because my dad is a journalist. But the creative side of me in terms of beauty, taking care of myself is from my mum. Basically, I got my inspiration from my parents. Also, growing up I used to watch a lot of TV shows. I used to watch Oprah Winfrey and I used to dream of having my own show too. We are still waiting for that to happen. So, it is going to be my mum, my dad and Oprah. Those are the people that inspired me to do what I do now. What are some of the other things that occupy your time? Basically, aside from the creative side of me, the blogging and all the other things that occupy my time, I also have a day job which takes most of my time. That really occupies my time and I enjoy being a mum. Tell us about the people you admire? This questions sometimes can be generic but to be honest I try to be real. A lot of people can admire people from afar, like all this major stars without knowing their stories. For me, it is the people I know and that includes my mum because she is very hardworking. I admire my mum because she has been an entrepreneur like forever. She has been able to run a successful business for over 35 years plus. It has been recognized in Nigeria called Astoria. She has also been able to balance being an entrepreneur, working back to back and still being a mum like nothing ever suffered I don’t know how she balances it. Maybe because she is a Nigerian. I really admire that because I live in this part of the world, it’s been difficult to balance. I admire her prayer life, being a realist and I think she is a super woman. I admire my friend, she owns Juvia’s Place. A Nigerian woman living in America and she has been able to create a million dollar beauty business. We know beauty backgrounds are tall but she has been able to do so well for herself. That is my definition of Black Girl Magic. I am so proud of her and she is doing really well. What are some of the memorable moments in your life and career? I have a lot. My growing up has been fun and up till now. Every landmark from birthdays, graduation, wedding and being a mum has been memorable. Being a mum has been major, creating a human being, a living being and watching the kids grow up has been awesome. In my career,it will be starting from this little girl being on TV from age nine and finally coming to the western world. For example, I have always admired the Queen and the Royal family but it was major when I interviewed a member of the Royal family in the palace.  Also interviewing the Mayor of London and the list goes on. Those were really memorable for me in my broadcasting career. What were the initial challenges? The initial challenges for me were fitting into the western Media world. A brown skin girl from Nigeria moving to the UK for my postgraduate and finding myself to live here and breaking into the Media Industry and thinking of how to be accepted. Thinking of so many things and there is too much competition, skin colour is a factor and that was a major challenge for me. Yes, I felt like quitting a lot of times because I applied a lot of times for mainstream TV like ITV but you never get called. Instead, you get things like you are over qualified, you have a Masters but this is for people who didn’t go to University. I can’t lie about my achievements and it was hard for me. What are you looking forward to in future? I am so hopeful, very hopeful for the next few years. I am hopeful for COVID to just disappear. Also hoping to be an entrepreneur someday, sometimes really soon. Tell us about your favourite holiday spot? St. Arina has been on my list. So, maybe one day that would be fulfilled. It would have been fulfilled this year but unfortunately, the Pandemic had messed things up. My favourite holiday spot would be Lagos, Nigeria, where I am from, it is my happy place. And your holiday place should your happy place. Aside, all those wonderful destinations around the world, maybe because I do not live in Nigeria. Here, I feel no stress, being around family and I am happy. What is your definition of style? Style is an expression of who you are, without having to say a word. It just expresses your image, reflects your personality and that is style to me. What are the things that you won’t do in the name of fashion? Definitely trends. I won’t follow trends. I wear what suits me, what suits my body and what suits my style. I am not going to wear anything because it is trending. Who or what would you consider as the greatest influence in your life? That would be my mum; she has been the greatest influence in my life. Growing up, seeing her being hardworking and acting like she is not working, happy no matter what. She oozes positivity, always available to talk to. She is the stereotypical African mum, strict but at the same time, you can tell her everything. She is a mother hen, very protective and I have picked a lot from her. I have a fragrance addition and I took it from her. She loves to dress up; I took it from her, basically everything.