Transportation Minister Rotimi Amaechi was at Daura, Katsina State, last week to inspect the ongoing construction of the University of Transportation, ADEYINKA ADERIBIGBE and FAITH YAHAYA, who were with him on the tour, report. Today, the fear is not whether Nigeria can join the league of nations that could use speed train. With the imminent delivery of the Lagos-Ibadan Standard Gauge, which would soon join the Abuja-Kaduna Standard Gauge rail line project, that narrative has changed. Doubt, however, lingers, whether these projects can be sustained. While critics readily admit that the Muhammadu Buhari Administration had surpassed previous governments in its commitment to the railway transformation, especially that of the railway sub-sector, they still doubt whether the gains would not be marred by the nation’s known culture of tardy maintenance. The visit to Daura penultimate week by the Minister of Transportation, Mr. Rotimi Amaechi, was to douse such fears and to assure Nigerians that the government was already taking steps to ensure the transformation is sustained. Soon to take-off in the Daura is the first tertiary transport institution – the University of Transportation – a $50 million gift by the Chinese Government, through the China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC), to Nigerians. Though the foundation of the institution had been laid last December, Amaechi’s visit penultimate week was to signpost the commencement of construction, which CCECC restated would be completed within 18 months, for academic activities to  start in the 2021/22 academic year. The delay in the development was not unconnected with the raging coronavirus pandemic, which stalled the construction by six months. Resumption of construction followed on the heels of the relaxation of the lockdown by the Federal Government to curb the spread of the virus. Amaechi said the cheery news was that the contractor assured the university would be ready well ahead of time and would be admit pioneer students next year. The university project is coming to the nation free as Amaechi said it is part of CCECC’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). At the groundbreaking last year, President Muhammadu Buhari described the university as the first of its kind in Africa. He said the institution would bring rapid development to the transport sector and generate employment opportunities. He said: “When established, the university will, among other things, pave the way for the domestication of railway engineering and general transportation sciences in Nigeria, thereby bridging the technology and skill gap in the railway and ultimately transportation sector.” When completed, it is believed that the university will enable the country to construct and even maintain its railways due to knowledge transfer from Chinese experts to Nigerians. In addition to owning a specialised university, the CCECC is also training at least 150 young Nigerians in railway engineering in China with the hope that they would be the first set of lecturers to impact other Nigerians with railway engineering knowledge. Beyond the transfer of knowledge, the establishment of the university will also reduce the rate of unemployment, boost economic activities and reduce the number of out- of-school children. The minister said the university community would also have a primary and secondary school to cater to the educational needs of the wards of lecturers and workers in the community. Speaking after inspecting the site, Amaechi said: “We are here to find out whether they have commenced construction and don’t forget that it is a gift and not a railway contract, so they may not be as dedicated as they would be when it comes to a proper contract, but they assured us that whether it is a gift or not, they will give it the same attention they give to railway construction. We can’t tie them to a timeline. This is not a Federal Government’s contract. It is their own business. They just got approval from the state government and proper construction will start at the end of September 2020 and hopefully they should be able to complete it by the end of September 2021. “The idea is that there should be a primary school, especially for the lecturers who will come from outside the state or the country. There should be two buildings in the primary school, a day secondary school and then the university.” On manpower to run the university, he said that CCECC will provide all that for first five years by which time the Federal Government would have been able to get their own technical staff. “Nigerians will come here from every part of the country to study and those who will teach here will not only come from Daura but other parts of Katsina and Nigeria.” An engineer who didn’t want his name in print said: “There is nothing impossible with determination and dedication. At this point, we are just doing pre-construction activities which entail clearing of the site, design work, survey of the land and soil, conceptual design in a 3D model which was presented to the minister and his team when they visited, for them to have an idea of what the project will look like upon completion, and thereafter, we will have a detailed design which will have details of where every item of construction would be placed.” On the kind of facilities, the university would have, he said: “For now, it is just teaching blocks, administrative blocks, library, canteen, and dormitories just like every normal existing institution.” Pioneer Dean, School of Transportation, Lagos State University (LASU SOT) Dr. Tajudeen Bawa’Allah, said the university was a welcome development, and a befitting birthday gift for Nigeria which would be 60 on October 1. Bawa’Allah, a Russian-trained transportation engineer, with over 40 years engagement in transportation system, said it also signified that Nigeria was matured to join the league of nations with specialised institutions for the study of transportation. Accordingly, just like Medicine, Agriculture and Technology, which has since had their universities, either with a spread of public and private ownership structure, the institution would be the first major response to the training of requisite manpower to manage the various systems of transportation inter-modality and other adjuncts, suc as logistics, distribution, mechanical and planning, among others. 