Commercial activities were flagged off by the Lagos State Government at the Terminal 1 of the Oshodi Transport Interchange (OTI) Tuesday. At a ceremony described as monumental, the State’s Commissioner for Transportation Dr. Frederic Oladeinde, urged Nigerians to take ownership of the facilities at the terminal to ensure that none were vandalized. Oladeinde said the Terminal 1 would be the hub for inter-state transportation adding that 21 ticketing booths have been created for 21 destinations spanning the entire southwest, the Southeast, FCT, Abuja, and the Northern states. Oladeinde who was represented by the Special Adviser to Governor on Transportation Mr. Oluwatoyin Fayinka described the OTI as the first of its kind in Nigeria and has underscored the government’s thinking to provide comfortable public transportation services to the people at the least cost. Fayinka also commended the contractor and facility Manager, Planet Project for delivering a world-class and iconic project that would add value to the state. Ibile Holdings Managing Director Mr. Abiodun Amokomowo described the project as phenomena. He commended the contractor for delivering a world-class project in a record time of fewer than three years to the people of Lagos. Amokomowo said as a major partner in the project Ibile Holdings would continue to work at developing competitive advantages of all the five divisions of the state in order to improve the livability index of all parts and divisions of the state. The Lagos State Chairman of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) Comrade Musiliu Akinsanya commended the Lagos State government for finally completing the urban renewal of the Oshodi environment with the delivery of the third terminal to Lagosians. Akinsanya, popularly known as MC Oluomo who was represented by the Mushin Branch B Chairman Comrade John Owolabi said the NURTW is also grateful that its men have been allowed to operate in the terminal. He assured the government of the readiness of all members of the transport unions to continue to support the transportation reform initiatives of the government. The Managing Director of Planet Project Biodun Otunola said the firm is happy to have been singled out to deliver the project to the people by the government of Lagos State. He said: “We are resolutely committed to ensuring that we are committed to providing first-class passenger comfort in this terminal. We are determined to make this place a reference point and a tourist arena. We are assuring every passenger of premium safety. We are not going to scale down on the comfort and security of anyone who patronises our terminals.” Otunola said the beauty of the interchange is that passengers could come in from any of the locations around Lagos, serviced by Terminal 2 or Terminal 3, walk through the skywalk or pedestrian bridge to connect terminal 1 and board a bus to their destination. He said the terminal is projected to cater to about 50,000 passenger traffic daily. Otunola disclosed that as a sign of the warm reception by commuters, no less than 100 buses have loaded inter-state passengers by mid-day yesterday. Former Commissioner of Information and Strategy Mr. Kehinde Bamigbetan commended the government for the timely completion of the project. Bamigbetan said the OTI would have a multiplier effect on employment especially for the people of Oshodi-Isolo, even as it has added good value to the landscape of Oshodi and indeed Lagos. He described the project as a huge asset to the people of Lagos. “This is an indication that Lagos State is really moving forward,” Bamigbetan said.