The nation’s foreign direct investment (FDI) is gradually been eroded as coronavirus pandemic continues to take its toll on existing and prospective business deals, report Ibrahim Apekhade Yusuf and Charles Okonji One area that has suffered the rippled adverse effect of the ravaging coronavirus pandemic is opportunity for foreign direct investment, The Nation’s investigation has revealed. Crux of the matter With oil prices plummeting globally the nation’s revenue from crude oil receipts was eroded and the situations further exacerbated by the ravaging Covid-19 pandemic. As at March 2020, oil revenue performance was at 70 percent while non-oil performance stood at 60 percent. The erratic oil market makes prediction difficult, heightening the vulnerabilities around oil revenues. Why FDI In his contribution to an academic journal published by the Department of Business Administration, Institute of Social Sciences, Istanbul Aydin University, Istanbul, Turkey, under the title, ‘The Impact of Foreign Direct Investment on Economic Growth: Nigeria Experience,’ Kolade Omoniyi Alabi  said the role of foreign direct investment on economic growth has been hotly debated with some school of thoughts arguing that foreign direct investment contributes positively to the growth of the economy, while some are of the view that FDI only contributes small and it is not significant. However, the attributes of FDI in any economy of the world cannot be overemphasised as FDI refers to an investment made by an investor either corporate bodies or individuals in a country other than the domestic country of origin of the investor in creating business or buying an asset in the country, Alabi stressed. He however regretted that Nigeria FDI flows in 2017 dropped by 21% to reach $3.5billion which could be as a result of political instability, lack of transparency widespread corruption and poor quality of infrastructure. Reality bites Nigeria is the third host economy for FDI in Africa, behind Egypt and Ethiopia. Some of the investing countries in Nigeria are the USA, United Kingdom, China, the Netherlands and France. The country is among the most promising poles of growth in Africa and attracts numerous investors in the sector of hydrocarbon, energy, buildings. The total stock of FDI was estimated at USD 98,6 billion in 2019. However, Nigeria received $1.29 billion capital importation (inflows) in the second quarter (Q2) of 2020, representing a decrease of 78.6% compared to the corresponding quarter of 2019. This is according to the latest Nigerian Capital Importation report released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS). According to the report, $1.29 billion represents the lowest inflows recorded since Q1 2017 when capital inflow of $908.3 million was recorded. Also, the latest figure indicates a decrease of 78.6% compared to $6.05 billion received in the corresponding quarter of 2019 and 77.9% decrease compared to $5.85 billion in Q1 2020. Capital Inflow by type The largest amount of capital importation by type in Q2 2020 was received through other investments, which accounted for 58.77% ($761.03 million) of total capital imported during the quarter. Inflows from other investments, declined by 42.8% as against $1.33 billion received in the previous quarter and a further 48.6% reduction compared to $1.48 billion recorded in the corresponding quarter of 2019. Portfolio investment followed with $385.32 million, accounting for 29.8% of the total inflows in Q2 2020. Under the portfolio category only Equity ($52.3 million) and money market instruments ($332.1 million) received inflows during the quarter under review. FDI accounted for only 11.47% ($148.6 million) to the total capital inflows. A decline of 30.6% compared to $214.3 million received in Q1 2020 and 33.41% reduction compared to the corresponding quarter of 2019. Capital inflows by sectors The report shows that Shares received the highest capital inflows in Q2 2020, accounting for 35.9% ($464.6 million) of the total capital inflows followed by Financing, which contributed 23.9% ($309.5 million to the total inflows. The banking sector came third on the list as it attracted $140.2 million (10.8%) capital inflows, others on the list include; Production $110.8 million (8.6%), Telecoms $105.6 million (8.2%), Trading $68.2 million (5.3%) and Agriculture $48.8 million (3.8%). Capital inflows by destination In terms of destination, only 6 states received capital inflows in the second quarter of 2020, Lagos State received the giant share with $1.13 billion (87.3%) capital inflows, followed by Abuja with ($145.3 million). Ogun State received $11 million within the quarter, Niger ($6.86 million), Anambra ($1.16 million) and Kano State, which received $130,000 capital inflows. The decline in capital inflows recorded during the second quarter of 2020 is attributable to the effect of Covid-19 pandemic, which halted economic activities in most parts of the world. It is hoped that subsequent quarters will attract more inflows as the government begin to open most aspects of the economy in phases. Sector analysis by MAN A number of factors may have led to the steep decline in the nation’s FDI, chief among which is lack of confidence in the country’s economy by existing and prospective investors. A cursory review of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) sector analysis showed that the FDI for the sector fell to $156.77million in the third quarter of 2019 from $230.34million recorded in the third quarter of 2018. From the document made available by MAN, the record shows a decrease of $$76.6 million, which depicts 33 percent decrease over the period under review. According to the document, a decrease of $26.84 million was recorded which indicates 14.9 percent reduction when compared with $180.61 million of the preceding quarter. MAN revealed that overall FDI in the third quarter (Q3) of 2019 declined to $0.200billion from $0.530 billion recorded in Q3 of 2018, thereby indicating $o.330 billion or represent 62.3 percent decrease over the period. It also decreased by $0.022 billion or 9.9 percent when compared with $0.0222 billion recorded in the preceding quarter. Speaking to the Chairman, Policy Committee of MAN, who was also the former Chairman of Electrical Group of MAN, Engineer Reginald Odiah, he noted that the consistent drop in the country’s FDI is as a result of government lack of interest in the revitalistaion and development of the existing infrastructure. He said, “Whether Foreign or Local Direct Investment (LDI), it is important to note that people invest where they see opportunities to make profit. No one can invest in an area where he cannot get profit, no one is ready to lose money on any form of investment, therefore people invest in areas they are sure of maximising profit. “Our system has proven over time that the environment is not yet conducive enough for investment of any kind to flourish. When you are doing your business in an honest and viable manner. The truth is that the government is not bordered about fixing the infrastructure; the government is not putting modalities to make sure that investors are adequately protected and this will not attract investment. That is why most investors are massively pulling out their investment. They are not sure of policy direction and enforcement.” Akpan Ekpo, a professor of Economics and Public Policy at the University of Calabar, stated that the drop in FDI is an indication that the economy is still struggling with stagflation, characterised by rising unemployment, double digit inflation and sluggish growth before the Covid-19 bedeviled the global economy. Ekpo expressed that sharp decline in oil revenue as a result of the severe demand for crude oil occasioned by the pandemic further worsened the performance of the economy. “We should not forget that there are various policies militating against FDI, such as multiple taxation, policy inconsistency and enforcement, rising rate of insecurity and massive infrastructural deficit amongst others.” While acknowledging the fact that the government has responded positively in mitigating the economic crisis with various packages meant to either avert the recession or reduce its adverse effect on the economy, he was however quick to add that with the negative shocks, the performance of the economy has been grossly below average. Finance Bill will boost investor confidence, attract FDI-Minister As the nation desperately seeks a leeway from the current financial crisis fueled by Covid-19, the Minister of Finance, Mrs Zainab Ahmed, during a parley with members of the parliament recently informed that the Finance Bill has what it takes to help attract the desired foreign direct investment into the country Speaking at a public hearing in Abuja, she explained that the main reason the executive arm of government submitted the bill for passage into law was to create an enabling business environment and alleviate the tax burden of small and medium enterprises. Mrs Ahmed noted during her presentation at the legislative chambers that the newly revised economic-friendly bill will help boost the country’s local and foreign investors. “The Finance Bill 2019 has generated a positive narrative from key stakeholders, economic analysts, tax experts and the general public. Furthermore, its provisions, if passed into law by the National Assembly, are likely to increase investor confidence and attract foreign direct investment,” she said.  It may be recalled that in October 2019, President Muhammadu Buhari, while presenting the 2020 budget to a joint session of the National Assembly, submitted the Finance Bill (Amend) 2019, where it was stated that the Value Added Tax (VAT) would be increased from 5 percent to 7.5 percent. Quick wins In the government quest to attract FDI, it has used the instrumentality of the Executive Orders to encourage public private partnership. As part of plan to create the enabling environment for infrastructure financing, the government under the road infrastructure development and Refurbishment Investment Tax Credit Scheme (RITCS), which was signed via an Executive Order No.7 by President Muhammadu Buhari to utilise tax expenditures, refundable by way of tax credits, to finance the construction of critical roads infrastructure through a public private partnership (PPP) mechanism. Under this scheme, the pilot is being led by the following: Dangote Industries Ltd; Lafarge Africa Plc; and Unilever Nigeria Plc. The investors are meant to invest in 19 eligible road projects, totalling 794.4km which have been prioritised in 11 States across each of the six geo-political zones. Besides working with local businesses, the government has worked with the international community of donors, nations, multilateral organisations, to raise concessionary resources including COVID-19 response. In the light of this, it signed a total of $2,534,880,717.6 as follows: African Development Bank (AfDB) – $278,093,093; IFAD – $89,100,000; World Bank IDA – $1,573,248,600; AFD – $201,911,909,23; and China-Exim Bank – $392,526,218.37. Way forward The Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC), Yewande Sadiku,  has stressed that Nigeria needs bold and coherent policy changes to attract more FDI in the post-Covid-19 era. She, who spoke recently at a webinar, said the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) estimates that global FDI inflows will fall by at least 30 percent as a result of the pandemic. “The expectation is that the impact will be worse from FDIs perspective than what we saw during the global financial crisis,” Sadiku said. “I think the headwinds that we see 2020, 2021, 2022 suggests that we will need bold and coherent policy changes and deep economic reforms to reverse the trend that we expect. “At NIPC we track investment announcements and what we’ve seen based on those announcements is that there has been some pressure in recent times, Covid-19 obviously is expected to put that under more pressure, so investments supporting policies, we’ll need to undertake urgently in order to reverse the trend. “And what we expect from this, first, is a flight to quality and the winners invariably would become economies that continue to provide investors with an attractive prospect but in a conducive business environment. “We believe that there will be an increase in the domestic production capacity, in particular of items that are considered essential or basic to every country and they’ll be different from country to country. “Across government agencies, we need a concerted coordinated effort at managing investor concerns to minimize what we expect as job losses and to restore confidence.” She noted that some sectors have benefitted from the pandemic while others have made losses from it. “For those that have suffered from the pandemic, I think it’d be useful to remove administrative and regulatory bottlenecks to allow those sectors to flourish.”