The Department of State Security (DSS) has quizzed the Chairman, Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) COVID-19 Palliative Distribution Committee, High Chief Sobomabo Jackrich, for using the intervention agency’s letter head. . His invitation followed a petition he sent to the National Assembly accusing the Interim Management Committee (IMC) of the NDDC of diverting N6.25bn palliatives for Niger Delta approved by President Muhammadu Buhari. Jackrich said the IMC wrote the DSS accusing him of using the NDDC letterhead in the petition to the National Assembly. He said: “I was invited August 24 to meet with the State Director of the DSS in Rivers State. The invitation, which came through a telephone call from an operative in the state command was said to be in connection with a petition from the NDDC. “The NDDC accused me, an appointee of the commission of using its letterhead to petition the National Assembly against the IMC.. For the avoidance of doubt and as a responsible citizen, I decided to honour the invitation on August 25, 2020. “It is important to note that I had in my capacity as Chairman of NDDC COVID-19 Palliatives Distribution Committee asked the National Assembly to investigate the alleged diversion and misappropriation of N6.25bn palliatives funds approved by the President. “I alleged in the petitions to both the Senate and the House of Representatives that the IMC led by Prof. Pondei misappropriated the money undeniably.” Jackrich, however, said the DSS officials were professional while interrogating him. He said the action of the IMC was designed to compromise his petition, insisting that no amount of intimidation would stop his desire to secure justice for the people of the Niger Delta. His words: “The moves by the IMC is aimed at using state institutions and apparatuses to both circumvent and compromise the process over the petition which is   pending before the National Assembly and other relevant agencies. “The IMC seeks to intimidate me from further insistence on justice in the matter knowing that the issues I raised in the petition are incontrovertible and undeniable. Hence they resorted to seeking to strangely criminalising my use of the commission’s letterhead without minding that I am an appointee of the commission and my appointment is still subsisting.” He urged Senate President Ahmad Lawan, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila and all relevant authorities to note the developments. “I maintain that the IMC should not resort to self-help but rather allow the National Assembly and other agencies to do the needful on the substantive issues touching on the petition,” Jackrich said.