 HEAVY rains pounded some parts of the country at the weekend. The downpour claimed three lives, ravaged farmlands and led to the destruction of multi-million naira properties. The havocs were wreaked in Ilorin (Kwara State), Port Harcourt (Rivers State) and Lafia (Nasarawa State). In Ilorin, the rainstorm caused the death of a 25-year-old man. The identity of the man remained unknown as at the time of going to press. Seven people were later rescued at The Apostolic Church, near Post Office. Two other persons – a man and a woman – were said to have been swept away on Taiwo Isale and Oko-Erin bridges in the town. The woman’s name was given simply as Wasilat. The body of the unidentified man was reportedly recovered last night. An official at the State Fire Service, who spoke in confidence, recounted the effects of the rains. He said: “We worked all through the night to rise up to the occasion. Up till now, we have not found the two persons that were carried away at Taiwo Isale and Oko-Erin bridges. The rains caused the death of one person at Ita Ogunbo area of inner Ilorin.” The rains which started around 7pm on Saturday stopped at early hours of yesterday. The worst-hit areas include: Olonkonla, Bobonkiri, Egba-Akota, Aberi, Akuji, Idiope and other parts of Ita-Ogunbo area, Alanamu Ward in Ilorin West Local Government Area. In a statement by his spokesman, Rafiu Ajakaye, Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq commiserated with families of the victims. Ajakaye quoted his boss in the statement as saying: “The governor is saddened by the havoc wreaked on various households in Ilorin, the state capital, and indeed elsewhere across the state by the heavy rainstorm. He sends his heartfelt commiseration and a message of hope to such families in this trying time. “As part of his proactive measures to mitigate the effect of this natural disaster as predicted by the National Meteorological Service for Nigeria (NiMET), the governor, last week, visited various Federal Government agencies, including the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), to seek special relief for Kwara State. “The government is again urging the Federal Government to urgently consider Kwara State for special support.” The governor raised a special disaster response team to determine the extent of damage and how the government could offer support. The governor directed relevant agencies to quickly fix the electric poles that were pulled down in parts of the state. In Nasarawa, over 200 houses, including worship centers, schools, clinics and shops were submerged in Nasarawa Local Government Area. Governor Abdullahi Sule, who spoke on the scene of the flood during an inspection, ordered immediate evacuation of the victims to safe areas. He directed that food items, mattresses and other materials be immediately given to cushion the effect of the flooding. He urged residents to stop indiscriminate building on waterways and discharging wastes into drainage channels. Sule said: “My administration will take a second look at the channelisation project and seek the collaboration of the Federal Government in tackling the age-long ecological problems in this area.” Nasarawa council chair Mohammed Sani Ottos described the flood as the worst in 40 years. He said: “We have never had it so bad as it is today. People are in dire need of help. You went round and saw it yourself: houses, shops, schools, health facilities and others were submerged. “The governor promised to support the victims with N2 million to enable us provide materials, such as mattresses, pillows, bed sheets, food as well as temporary shelter for them for the meantime, and he has redeemed that pledge.” One-time Environment Minister and Emir of Nasarawa Alhaji Ibrahim Usman Jibrin urged the government to equip the Urban Development Board to perform its duties effectively. A poultry farmer, Muhktar Haruna, claimed he lost N500,000 to the flood. The council’s Supervisory Councilor for Health, whose home was affected, Mrs. Halimatu Kande Umar, regretted that sympathisers were stealing the property of affected persons. “All our eyes and our hope are on government. We are praying to God to touch the minds of our leaders to come to the aid of all those staying by the river side. We will be happy if they remove us from here and take us somewhere else that is safe,” she said. In Ogbaru Local Government Area of Anambra State, reptiles crept into some homes. The council’s Transition Chairman Arinze Awogu said about 1000 displaced persons were being moved into makeshift camps. Awogu said the level of River Niger had risen beyond the level drainage channels can discharge flood water into it. Ogbaru, a coastal local government area has 16 communities on the bank of River Niger. According to council chair, a big cobra, which found its way into an apartment in Atani, was killed with the assistance of policemen from Atani Divisional Police Station. The owner of the house escaped being bitten by the snake when he went into an apartment to pick some documents. He said: “On sighting the snake, he quickly shut the door and invited the police from Atani Police Division who sprayed teargas into the room and the reptile became uncomfortable. But as it made its way out, it was killed by those around.” Awogu advised the residents to always shut their doors and spray repellants to ward off dangerous creatures, which had been displaced from their natural habitats. In Rivers State, NEMA said residents of communities on the Orashi River coastline were having their share of flood. The agency, through Director General, Air Vice Marshal Mohammed Mohammed, listed the communities as Degema, Abua/Odua, Ahoada East, Ahaoda West and Ogba/Egbema/Ndoni. Air Vice Marshal Mohammed, who spoke on the sideline of flood advocacy visit in the state, assured the residents that arrangements had been concluded for the agency’s team in the Southsouth ensure the prompt evacuation of victims. Speaking through the Deputy Director of Research, Planning and Forecasting, Kazeem Fatima, he said 21 local government areas of the state were predicted to be flooded this year, and that most of them are on the high probable lists. “Already, five of the highly probable local government areas are being flooded. Our Southsouth Zonal team members are already set to visit these areas to for assessments on the situation. They are: Ahoada West, Ahoada East, Abua Odual, Ogba Egbema Ndoni and Degema.” NEMA’s Southsouth Zonal Coordinator Walson Brandon quoted the Commissioner for Special Duties, Emeka Onowu, as saying that schools will serve as camps for the displaced were ready.