Osun has announced full reopening of markets and places of worship in a new guideline of easing the lockdown induced by the COVID-19 pandemic. The Information and Civic Orientation commissioner, Mrs. Funke Egbemode, announced this on Wednesday night. She said all markets are allowed to commence full operations while worship centres, restricted to once weekly meetings, can commence their weekly services, subject to COVID-19 safety protocols. Egbemode said the new guidelines take immediate effect because government has appraised Osun status in the ongoing fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. “In the light of this, approval has been given for the full reopening of all markets and worship centres in the state, for the purpose of serving the needs of the people on the one hand and to preserve the means of the traders’ livelihood on the other. “All citizens, whether traders or clients, are urged to continue to wear nose masks in public places, and also ensure regular use of hand sanitizer especially at the end of every exchange. “The government has also granted approval for worship centres to commence their normal weekly activities in addition to the Friday Jumat and Sunday Services. “Worship centres are enjoined to observe the regular precautionary measures of wearing of face masks, hand washing, temperature screening and avoidance of physical contacts in public places. “Adequate provision should be made for hand-washing facilities (soap and running water) and hand sanitisers at entry points and at strategic places, for use by leaders and attendees. “There has been significant improvement in the statistics of the State with respect to the infection, but the State is not COVID-19 -free yet. “The responsibility of ridding the State of the virus is a collective effort, and citizens are advised to take responsibility for their own safety while the government will continue to invest in its commitment to ensuring the safety of people from actual and potential threats,” she said.