  Federal Government leaders—the president, ministers, and permanent secretaries, as well as leaders of parastatals—last week held a two-day retreat in Aso Rock. From speeches before and at the end of the retreat, there is evidence that political grandstanding almost pushed the matter of objective review into the background. The President spoke more in the language of manifesto than what many citizens were hoping to hear: Level of progress for each project; lessons learned in the course of the year; and what recommendations are offered for improvement where necessary. But the emphasis has been largely one of self-congratulation, rather than what the President called for at the beginning of the retreat:  “Review the performance of each minister in delivering the priority mandates, including programmes and projects assigned to them upon their appointment in 2019; identify key impediments to implementation; re-strategise on how to accelerate delivery of results, given the current economic situation; and provide the opportunity to effectively evaluate the activities of the ministries over the last 12 months with regard to the delivery of our agenda and promise to Nigerians.” President Buhari’s closing speech gives the impression that all is well: “From the report on the scorecard and engagement with participants at this retreat, it is encouraging to note that progress has been made on all fronts, in spite of the multiple challenges that have arisen since our coming to office.” This kind of scorecard in a year literally cut in half by the pandemic sounds rather too uncritical for an objective review of performance at a time that most governments across the world are counting losses. But it will be good news for the country if the scorecard for each ministry is good; such situation suggests that preparing for a post-pandemic new normal will be facilitated faster than expected. It is, however, strange that the reports of the retreat appear more qualitative than quantitative, or more subjective than objective. As most of the projects for the outgoing year are measurable, it would have been helpful to citizens if facts and figures are provided to showcase the level of success for each ministry. For example, citizens would have expected to know the number of new megawatts of energy added to national grid and off-grid sectors in the year under review; how many out-of-school children have been enrolled towards the 2.7 million the education ministry had promised for the last 12 months; the progress on broadband connectivity in the year that millions of school children in the public education system had problems to benefit from online learning; how much progress has been made on the establishment of a new national carrier; what progress has been made in respect of the promise of the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology to build a nuclear plant;  how much impact has the creation of Ministry of Police Affairs had on protection of life and property across the country; etc. Had professional project auditors been invited to assist in the review, citizens would not have been puzzled by the president’s pronouncement of success on all fronts and his admonition at the end of the retreat: “I also enjoin ministers to ensure that funds released are utilised efficiently and transparently in implementing the programmes and projects along the nine priorities of government” , or his other call: “Information to the public should be better packaged. Go on the offensive. We are proud of our achievements and we should blow our own trumpets.” A good scorecard from the review should need no packaging. It should speak for itself. All of the review ought not be limited to individual ministries. It should have involved review of the feasibility of the Nine Priorities, made before the pandemic. Citizens will benefit more from the truth of the country’s condition, than from any form of packaging.