 Minister of Labour and Employment, Sen.  Chris Ngige’s Alor community, says it has uncovered plot by some people to hire thugs to cause mayhem in the area on Saturday over the call to banish the monarch, Igwe MacAnthoy Okonkwo. The community, through its leadership, has petitioned Governor Willie Obiano, the State Commissioner of Police and the State Director, Department of Security Service DSS to come to their aid. The traditional ruler of Alor, Okonkwo, was one of the 12 monarchs suspended for one year by the Anambra State government for traveling to Abuja recently without permission. But the traditional ruler Okonkwo, in his apology to Governor Willie Obiano immediately, said they went to visit President Muhammadu Buhari to thank him on his developmental strides in the Southeast and for him to do more for them. The monarch further said he had no intention to disrespect the governor or his government, adding that he had been one of his loyal subjects, stressing  that nothing would make him work against Obiano. But last weekend, the people of Alor in their numbers, protested against their monarch ,while calling the state government for his banishment  and dissolution of a caretaker committee in the community. The Community, Friday in a petition to Obiano, the Police and DSS, which was made available to reporters in Awka, said some group of thugs had planned to hire other miscreants to cause trouble in the community today and should be stopped. The petition was signed by the Public Relation’s Officer PRO of Alor People’s Assembly (APA), Mr Maduka Oyedu . It reads in parts, ” Alor Community, has uncovered plans by few persons in the area  to recruit and hire 20 buses of thugs from Nkpor, Obosi, Onitsha and environs to storm the community on Saturday, 5th September, 2020, on pretext that they are protesting in support of the suspended Monarh, Mac-Anthony Elibe Okonkwo. “But their plans are to cause mayhem following the successful peace protest last Saturday for his removal by the Alor community over his (monarch’s) clandestine visit to Abuja without the permission of the state government. “The protest by Alor Community was based on his suspension by the Anambra State Government for desecrating the culture and traditions of the people.” 