The Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Ibrahim Muhammad Monday warned that the Judiciary, under his watch, would not condone any form indolence among judges. Justice Muhammad urges judges to always be guided by the laws of the land and remain faithful to their oath of office. The CJN spoke in Abuja on Monday while administering oath on 11 newly appointed judges for the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). “You must detach yourselves from those judges that have the penchant for sitting whenever it suits their desire. “Know it today that your subsequent elevation to the appellate courts will be roundly dependent on, not just the number of judgments you give within a certain time frame, but also the quality and impact of such judgments on our jurisprudence. “The position you now occupy is seen as the hallmark of integrity and moral rectitude. Your passion for those conducts that may easily fail integrity test must begin to diminish, as all eyes now ply through your demeanour and disposition at a supersonic rate. “You can always live above board and within your limited resources if you chose to. The choice is at your disposal. The Judiciary, as we all know, is not a bed of roses neither is it a stream that flows with milk and honey. “It is purely for those whose lifestyle recline the bounds of contentment. That is the sole reason why we are the oracles of God on earth. “Like we always say, many are, called, but few are chosen. Your success is not as a result of extraordinary brilliance or industry, but sheer providence because there are several others out there who can equally accomplish tremendous success if given the opportunity. You must prove your mettle and leave an imprint in the sands of time. “Your appointment to the High Court bench is a call to service. Never allow your personal ambition, which might not be in tandem with what is required of you, to override your sense of judgment. “The Nigerian Judiciary is more than ever prepared to weed out the bad eggs in our midst. The onus rests squarely on you to always hoist the banner of honesty and integrity. “Your ascension to this status is not a weapon or license to intimidate or witch-hunt any existing or imaginary enemies; if at all there is any.”