Edo State heads to the poll tomorrow for a governorship election that Oba of Benin, Ewuare II described as unprecedented in the state’s entire history regarding the tension it has generated. Although a total of 14 governorship candidates along with deputies will be contesting the poll, it is widely seen as a two-horse race between torchbearers of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC). In the register the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) issued political parties last August, there are 2,210,534 eligible voters for the poll that will be conducted in 2,627 polling units across 192 wards in the 18 local government areas of the state. The turnout should indicate how well these eligible voters have been persuaded to exercise their franchise. Factors that defined the build-up to this election were expectations from INEC to be impartial and optimally efficient with its processes for the poll on one hand, and the ogre of partisan violence that stalked Edo’s political space on the other. So acute were demands for transparency on the part of INEC that many voiced disappointment when it announced it would not be deploying the facial recognition technology, popularly called the z-pad, to complement the smart card reader device for biometric accreditation of voters. The commission however explained that it was holding back on the z-pad, piloted in the Nasarawa -Central State Constituency poll in August, because the technology isn’t yet robust enough to be used in such highly charged and statewide election as Edo. Even without the use of z-pad for accreditation, it is expected that INEC will ensure efficiency and maximum transparency of the balloting processes. The electoral body has pledged that the pad will yet be used to upload polling unit results to the INEC Result Viewing (IReV) portal for simultaneous viewing by the public as the results are being announced at the polling units (PUs), and that exemptions will not be made for the use of the permanent voter card (PVC) for voter accreditation. It will be strictly held to these pledges, as to the promise by its chairman, Professor Mahmood Yakubu, that it will be evidently impartial in its conduct of the poll. A bigger challenge, obviously, is the conduct of political actors and their supporters as should stave off election-related violence. The police said they had deployed a 31,000-strong force for the poll under the oversight of a Deputy Inspector-General, who is supported by an Assistant Inspector-General and eight Commissioners of Police. And this is not counting ancillary deployments by the Army, Navy, Air Force, Department of State Services (DSS) and the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps, among other agencies. It is expected that these security agents will conduct themselves in a manner dissuading violence while not intimidating potential electors from turning out to cast their votes. Neither should they betray any conduct that seems even faintly aligned to partisan interests. Thankfully, the political gladiators have signed up to a peace accord brokered by the General Abdulsalami Abubakar-led National Peace Committee, with INEC’s collaboration. They will be held fully accountable for any breach of the spirit and letter of this accord – either by themselves or their supporters at their instigation. It is helpful in this regard that the United States has announced visa ban on individuals perceived to have “operated with impunity at the expense of the Nigerian people and…undermined democratic principles” in the November 2019 Kogi and Bayelsa states’ elections, and in the run-up to tomorrow’s Edo State poll, and as well the October 10 governorship in Ondo State. Likewise, the United Kingdom has threatened measures, including visa ban, seizure of UK-based property and prosecution under international law against electoral violence perpetrators in the imminent Edo and Ondo elections. It is quite unfortunate we have to depend on these foreign countries to tame proclivity to violence among our political actors; but if that is what it takes to rein in the genie, so be it.