As the Big Brother Naija 2020 reality show tagged ‘Lockdown Edition’ comes to an end on Sunday, social media platforms have been agog with campaigns and posters of the five last standing Housemates who made it to the final week of the show. The question begging for an answer is, who among the five remaining contestants will walk away with a prize of N85million? The five Housemates, who stand a chance for the ultimate grand prize are Laycon, Dorathy, Vee, Neo and Nengi. Since July 19, 20 selected Housemates thrilled its numerous fans in the tussle for the N85m grand prize. Week in, week out, fans of the reality show have argued about their favourite housemates on social media, especially Twitter and Instagram. Going down the memory lane, the very first edition was held in 2006 with Housemates like Gideon Okeke and Ebuka Obi-Uchendu. It was won by 38-year-old Katung Aduwak who hails from Zonkwa, Kaduna, Nigeria. Also, Efe Ejeba won the BBNaija Season 2 ‘See Gobe’ edition with Housemates like Bisola, Kemen, TBoss among others in participation. Miracle emerged winner of the 2018 Season 3 edition tagged ‘Double Wahala’. In 2019, Mercy Eke aka Lambo became the first female housemate to win the BBNaija season 4 show after a battle long competition with other housemates including Tacha, Mike, Omashola and others. This season, of all the Housemates, Laycon has indeed set remarkable feats especially with winning tasks, maintaining a calm posture, setting and beating trends on social media. ‘Laycon’, whose real name is Olamilekan Agbeleshe, is a 26-year-old Lagos-based rapper, who started his musical journey at an early age Since Laycon’s first day in the lockdown house, Laycon has continued to trend on social media more than any other housemate, especially on Twitter. Laycon, who was initially written off by many at the early stage, miraculously got everyone’s attention. He is the first to be verified on Instagram ahead of other housemates. The dreadlock-styled rapper also became the first housemate in the Big Brother Nigeria lockdown house to have over one million followers on his Instagram page. Other Housemates with rapidly growing Instagram profiles are Kiddwaya, Erica and Nengi. Laycon’s huge prospect has attracted many celebrities to root for his winning. Interestingly, his die-hard fans all over social media platforms have been voting painstakingly to keep him till the final day. While Laycon seems to have won the hearts of viewers through his stay in the house, his songs have also garnered countless views on YouTube. His song ‘Fierce,’ featuring Reminisce was on the lips of everyone after it was played in the Big Brother House during the first week. His songs like ‘Senseless’, ‘Who Is Laycon?’, other freestyles have trended massively on social media and garnered celebrity level engagement. Laycon’s team of fans, suitably called ‘Icons’, have continued to shower him with their unflinching love and support. Prominent celebrities are also not left out in giving him tremendous support. One of the undeniable highlights of this Lockdown Edition for Laycon, will perhaps be the love triangle between billionaire son of Terry Waya, Terseer Kidd Waya; and Erica Nlewedim. On Sunday, the grand finale, the winner of BBNaija season 5 goes home with N85m worth of prize. The breakdown of the grand prize for BBNaija season five includes N30 million cash prize; a two-bedroom apartment courtesy Revolution Plus; a top of the range SUV from Nigerian automaker, Innoson Motors; a trip to Dublin courtesy Guinness; home appliances courtesy Scanfrost. Others are a trip to Dubai packaged by Travelbeta; a year’s supply of Indomie noodles, Munch it, and Colgate toothpaste; a year’s supply of Pepsi, a branded chiller, trip to watch the UEFA Champions League final; and a brand new Oppo mobile smartphone. With the finish line moments away for the “Lockdown” season who will be declared the winner? Will Laycon win this year’s edition or will there be a shocker during the grand finale?