The leadership of Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association (MACBAN) in Kaduna State has called on  its members to stop the use of  underage children for grazing in the state. It said the decision was to prevent further destruction of agricultural  produce  and restore “olden days relationship” among Southern Kaduna  communities. The association, which took the position at the end of a summit with its members and other stakeholders in Kaduna, also appealed to farmers to allow their cattle to graze on designated routes. It also suggested the establishment of a joint community peace and security committee to monitor and maintain peace among  the communities. The MACBAN Chairman, Alhaji Usman Tugga; State Zone III Chairman, Alhaji Abdulhamid Musa; Director, Media and Publicity, Ibrahim Bayero Zango and the State Zone III Secretary, Alhaji Shuaibu Usman, signed a communiqué on the outcomes of the summit. Stakeholders from all the eight local government areas of Southern Kaduna Senatorial zone and beyond   attended the event. The summit also “ commended the efforts of  officers and men of Operation Safe Haven for their tireless efforts toward the restoration of peace in southern Kaduna.” The communique reads: “The summit, after all the deliberations, reached the following resolutions: That we have agreed to revert  to our olden days relationship with our neighbouring communities in the area. “We are appealing to farmers to allow our cattle graze on recognized cattle routes. We have agreed to bury our differences and be our brothers keepers henceforth  in order to foster development in the area. “We call on our people to stop allowing the under age children from rearing cattle in order to prevent further destructions of farm produce within the area and beyond. “We also advised our people to be vigilant and hand over suspected criminals to security agencies that may be found within our communities. “Based on this reason, we pledged our total support to the security outfits and all its efforts to restore total peace and security in Southern Kaduna. “We also wish to commend all the security agencies working tirelessly to restore peace to southern Kaduna.”  