THE  Ikenga Ndigbo Worldwide (INW) has called on aspirants running for chairman of the International Centre Commerce (ICC), also known as Balogun Business Association (BBA), an organisation in Trade Fair Market, Lagos, not to undermine the integrity of its executive election. It said all should be done to ensure the election was free, fair and credible. National Coordinator of INW Chidubem Ofor, in a statement in Lagos, noted that the election could make or mar BBA, saying it was learnt some “unbridled characters” were planning to subvert the wishes of traders. He said this could throw the organisation into crisis, and called on the electoral body not to run the market environment into chaos. Ofor warned those detractors not to thwart the efforts of the association’s founding fathers, who created a platform to market Nigeria to the world. He noted that they should not destroy this noble ideal for “petty politics of division and coercion”, saying the group was only concerned with giving traders a platform to ply their trade under a strong umbrella. The coordinator warned that this was not a party platform where people pitch one national party against the other for the mere transfer of market leadership. Ofor said some people were in BBA to play the script of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and separatist groups from Igbo land.  The coordinator warned that should this continues, the group would report those planning to cause disaffection in the market to the National Security Adviser (NSA), Babangana Monguno. He regretted that since inception in 1992, only Anambra had led the group, saying it was time people from other states take a shot at the chairmanship. Ofor decried the refusal by perceived sympathisers of All Progressives Party (APC) to seek elective positions, whereas those seemingly sympathetic to PDP had their day. This, he said, would place the organisation in a terrible situation as those allegedly being fenced out by perceived PDP apologists could ‘’destroy the fabric of our peaceful union.’’ BBA/ICC moved into Trade Fair Market in 1992 as the umbrella body of traders, with the aim of managing the affairs of members and interface with governments to everyone’s benefit. Ofor listed past leaders from Anambra:  Leonard Ogbonnaya, pioneer chairman in 1990; Okey Ezeibe 1992 to 2003. Others are Tony Akaneghu   (2005-2008); Anslem Dunu  (2008-2011); Ogbonnaya (2011-2014); Chief Alex Obi-Odunukwe a.k.a Pele (2014-2017); and Tony Obih a.k.a Tonybell (2017 till date). Ofor said “This kind of leadership from same lineage is no longer acceptable. Other eastern states are not conquered territories of Anambra State…” He warned that the imposition of an Anambra indigene would no longer be acceptable, cautioning the outgoing leadership to allow peace by ensuring aspirants were accorded same privileges to avoid rancour.