Former Ondo State governor and leader of Zenith Labour Party (ZLP) Dr. Olusegun Mimiko and his successor, Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, at the weekend traded blame over performance indexes. Mimiko, at a campaign at Ile-Oluji in Ile-Oluji/Okeigbo Local Government, said Akeredolu was a disappointment to the people. He told the crowd that the candidate of the ZLP, Agboola Ajayi, would right the wrongs of the All Progressives Congress (APC) administration. Mimiko described Akeredolu’s policy as anti-people, especially the cancellation of free health and increase in tuition fees paid by tertiary institution students. He said he worked with three governors before emerging as governor for eight years, adding that Akeredolu failed in all critical sectors affecting the well-being of the people. Mimiko urged the people vote out Akeredolu, saying he (Akeredolu) has vowed to go back to his base if not voted for. The former governor said his successor failed to build on the successes recorded in the health and education sectors during his tenure. He said: “The Akeredolu administration’s claim to performance is nothing but falsehood, as all indices show otherwise. “There is no person that will say he has not performed. But how do we differentiate performance? Any government that has not democratised education is a bad government. “This government that hiked school fees is a bad government. Akeredolu’s government is an enemy of the people. Anybody that votes for Akeredolu is selling his children’s future. “Any government that does not make health free is your enemy. Akeredolu’s government is an enemy of the people for cancelling mother and child and free health for children. “Any time they come here to campaign for votes, ask him, where is our shuttle buses? Where is our abiye? The government that cancelled trauma centre is your enemy. “This governor has not performed, he is anti-people. Any government that fails to democratise access to education, health and other essential services to the people is not a good government.” Ajayi said he has listened to the cries of the people and offered himself as “an alternative to this misrule of Akeredolu.” But Governor Akeredolu, through the spokesman for his campaign organisation, Olatunde Richard, said it was unfortunate that Mimiko, who sacked over 10,000 workers, was calling his administration anti-people government. He said he has not sacked anybody in the state workforce, either at the local or state level. Akeredolu said lecturers that were sacked unjustly at the Rufus Giwa Polytechnic, Owo and Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba Akoko were alive to bear witness to the anti-people government of Mimiko. Said he: “These workers were only reinstated by Governor Akeredolu. “Because of politics, Mimiko killed the Olusegun Agagu University of Science and Technology, Okitipupa (OAUSTECH).  What’s more anti-people than the actions of Mimiko in abandoning the projects left behind by the late Agagu?”