 NATIONAL President of National Coalition of Niger Delta Ex-Agitators (NCNDE-A) Eshanekpe Israel has said the Urhobo should produce the governor in Delta State in 2023. He decried insinuations that some persons from Delta South were angling to succeed Governor Ifeanyi Okowa. The ex-agitator noted that such persons were chasing shadows, advising them to support an Urhobo candidate. Israel spoke in a statement yesterday in Port Harcourt, Rivers State capital, at a meeting of NCNDE-A leaders. The ex-agitator, also called Akpodoro, said the Urhobo out of equity, justice and fairplay, agreed to rotation  among the state’s three senatorial districts. He noted that this magnanimity from a people with  the voting strength to perpetuate themselves in power should not be taken for granted. The NCNDE national presdent wondered why people would want to thwart an arrangement that promotes peace, unity and friendship, for selfish reasons. Akpodoro, who doubles as national coordinator of Urhobo Youth Forum for Change (UYFC), said power should return to Delta Central, and precisely Ughelli axis. The Urhobo, he noted, didn’t breach agreement, noting that anyone aspiring to be governor from the two other districts was betraying an arrangement that worked for the state. “We know them; they are self-seeking individuals and career politicians who have added no value to their people… “Urhobo man will rule the state based on the existing understanding put in place by our leaders, added to it is the fact that we have well above 700,000 voters of Urhobo extraction…’’ He said with Isoko in the South, Ndokwa and other parts of Delta North, the Urhobo will be governor in 2023. Akpodoro has hailed a former Coordinator of Presidential Amnesty Programme,  Kingsley Kuku. He described his tenure as Amnesty chief as peaceful and devoid of ethnic discrimination. Kuku, he noted, managed an “all comers” Amnesty Office, saying during his tenure, there was no resurgent pipeline vandalism, kidnapping or regrouping of any kind. ‘’He was everywhere on the ground…such feat was difficult in the current era where the programme has become strictly for particular ethnic tribes while others are shut out of the programme’’.