 The Bayelsa State Government has urged the residents and commuters in Yenagoa, the state capital, to bear with government as the Tombia Roundabout will be closed to traffic. The government said traffic would be closed from Isaac Boro Expressway and Imiringi Road starting from Monday, September 21, 2020 due to more serious work at the expansion site. Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure, Moses Teibowei, who conveyed the government’s position on Friday, indicated that the government was aware that the road expansion project at the Tombia Roundabout area would result in gridlock. In a bid to ease the pains of commuters, he advised vehicle owners, tricycle (keke) riders and trailer drivers to take note of the traffic diversion along and towards some designated routes. The commissioner said for trailers/heavy duty vehicles, diversion routes for trailers going out of the Yenagoa metropolis are Bayelsa Palm Road and Opolo Roundabout on the expressway. He said the routes would link them to New Julius Berger Site which leads to Otuasega through Lamour Water Company. He said they would divert using Imiringi Junction which would take them to Otuasega Junction that would link them straight to Yenigwe junction on Mbiama-Yenagoa Road. He said: “For vehicles and tricycles heading toward Yenagoa along the Yenagoa/Mbiama Road, there will be no entry at the Tombia roundabout. Instead, the vehicles and tricycles head straight to divert at School Road and Tamic Road or Alamieyeseigha Dual Carriage Road in Opolo if they wish to link the Isaac Boro Expressway. “The government also informs residents and car owners on Brass Road and NIIT Road in Etegwe, Tenacious Road in Edepie, and Opolo-Elebele Road that parking of vehicles along these routes would not be permitted during the period of the construction work. “Violators of this directive would have their cars impounded by the relevant organs of the state government. The government wishes to solicit the cooperation of residents of the state capital as well as visitors in its determination to give the state capital a befitting facelift.”