 YOU were recently chosen to play the role of the lead character in ‘Osun the Queen Mother’. What do you think qualified you for that role? Many ladies went through the audition process and I came out leading. The prospective writer, the producer and the director believe I was the best person for the lead role. The role did not just come automatically; I worked for it and won. Osun the Queen Mother is planned as an epic movie. What is your appeal and enthusiasm about the movie? I look forward to it with so much enthusiasm, and I know the result will be so great that it will be known locally and internationally. Have you attended the Osun Osogbo festival in time past? What was your impression of the festival? Osun Osogbo is a festival of global acclaim, and I am very happy to be associated with such a festival. I have known and attended it since my youthful days. Do you think the death of Susan Wenger could affect the movie in any way? Yes, Mama has gone back to Olodumare (God), and I was opportune to be in the same room with her several times. In fact, she designed my father’s tomb at Mbari Mbayo in Osogbo. May her soul rest in peace. You must know that she also created so many ‘Susan Wengers’ of which I am one. She was a lover of arts and a promoter of our culture. What was growing up like with movie legend Duro Ladipo as your father? I have fantastic childhood memories of my father and more fantastic memories with my beautiful mother, Chief Mrs Abiodun Duro Ladipo, who will, by God’s grace, be 80 years on December 25, 2020. My father was a very compassionate and loving father who I so much loved. It’s so painful that I lost him at a tender age. What special memories of him do you have? I can say with all authority that my siblings and I had a great and memorable childhood with our legendary father who was literally taking us round the world, even though we were very young. How much do you miss him, and how many of his children are in acting profession? My father was simply the best and I will forever cherish him and always pray for his great soul. Every moment spent with him was a memory I hold dearly. I am proud to be the daughter of a great international actor, playwright, composer, director and lover of our culture. How did acting start for you? Did your Dad force you to join his acting group? Not at all. Acting, singing dancing, directing and other areas of art/theatre exist in my DNA. The talents I have are inborn. I can call myself a born Actress. I started my acting career from elementary school. Although I studied Theatre Arts in the University of Ibadan, the talent was already in me. Remember the daughter of a lion is also a lion. During the time of Duro Ladipo, there was a combination of acting and singing in his productions. Was that where you learnt to sing too? Yes, very much so. In fact, you are making me to grow emotional now, but I won’t cry. To the glory of God, my father Duro Ladipo lives in me. Some of my siblings and I are in the profession, so with that, I connect with my father. Would you say it is better for an actress to marry an actor than marry someone from another profession? Relationship and marriage depend on the understanding of the persons involved. What works for A might not work for B. My husband of over 20 years is not an actor, and we are happily married and successful with great children, all to the glory of God. What are the challenges faced mostly by female actors? There are so many problems female actors face that need to be addressed properly. As it is, only the really tough and disciplined can overcome in the industry. For example, being sexually bullied for role still exists in the industry. Not being properly paid and so on need to be addressed. As a celebrity, what are the challenges that you face? None that I couldn’t handle. If you were not into acting, what else would you have loved to be? I have never lived outside acting. Acting, dancing and other areas of art and theatre are my passion and by the grace of God most high, I will live long and die as a Thespian. Polygamy worked for Duro Ladipo. What do you think of it? Polygamy can work for some people and be difficult for some to handle. Both polygamy and monogamy have their peculiar merits and demerits Which do you prefer, stage performance or acting for the camera? I prefer stage performance. But I am an all- rounder. So, to God be the glory. The producer of Osun, Femi Lasode, is an international filmmaker who expects the film to go round the world. Are you ready for travel and shows abroad after the productions? Very well. Would you say that being the daughter of Duro Ladipo has opened doors for you? Being the daughter of the legend is an opportunity. It is both an asset and a burden because of the very high expectations in some quarters. But I must say it has opened doors for me. Who knows, at the completion of Osun, Hollywood might knock on your door. Do you look forward to working in Hollywood or Bollywood? Nobody knows tomorrow, and man, by nature, is a goal seeking animal. My desire is to be the best in my profession. If Hollywood or Bollywood beckons, I’ll gladly heed the call. Which international star will you like to be on set with? Wow! That would be Chadwick Boseman of Blank Panther. Unfortunately, he is late. May his soul rest in peace. Now maybe Eddie or Denzel Washington.