Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu has said innovation, technology and digitisation are going to drive the state’s 21st century economy which is the cornerstone of the administration’s T.H.E.M.E.S. agenda. Sanwo-Olu, who spoke at the grand finale of the Lagos Smart Meter Hackathon held at Eko Innovation Centre at the weekend, said the event  was a demonstration of the administration’s pursuit to improve the welfare of the people. He said: “As you are aware, a key pillar of our administrations T.H.E.M.E.S agenda is to make Lagos a 21st century economy and this Lagos Smart Meter Hackathon fits perfectly as it combines innovation, creativity and local capacity to deliver solutions that will improve access to electricity in Lagos.” He said the settings, the mood and the aura at the ceremony “inspires creativity and innovation, adding that he saw in the participants vibrant energetic youthfulness “that inspires hope of brighter and bigger roles that technology and digitisation would play in the country. Speaking further, he said Smart Meter Initiative “is another demonstration of promise kept” by his administration as “it aligns with the administrations’ T.H.E.M.E.S agenda to make Lagos a 21st century economy,” and that the result of the initiative would drive local capacity that would find home grown solutions to solve our challenges, which “is a great move in transforming the electricity sector in the state”. The two winners of the e-day event are – Team Power Bit Crunchers for the hardware category and Team Zeena Platform for the software group. The two winners earned the combined prize of N10 million. The winners and runners-up will also get working space at Eko Innovation Centre, while the 10 finalists will get mentorship opportunities, among other consolation prizes. Mr. Olonma Ibrahim and Peter Okonma represented the hardware team, while Oluwasemi Oreoluwa and Adenitire Ayonikun represented the software team at the State Office of Innovation and Technology, Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF), Africa Fintech Foundry (AFF), the Nigerian Electricity Management Services Agency (NEMSA), the Nigeria Energy Support Program (NESP) implemented by the German International Development Corporation (GIZ), Oracle, IBM, General Electric, Business Day and Accelerate TV.