Last week, I made the case, as if one was needed, for the claim that this nation is going through some hard times. I identified politics as a force, negative and positive, to be reckoned with and called to account, in the troubled condition of the nation. But as I also noted, while politics is supposedly the architectonic in the grand scheme of things, with an assumed built-in capacity to make things right, human nature has unfortunately ensured that the political class is incapable, without external assistance, to soar majestically like an eagle in the direction of redemption. Today, I would like to interrogate one of the institutions which has been identified as the antithesis of the political institution, supposedly with little to none of its negative characteristics, and, therefore, boasting of an inherent capacity to serve as an antidote to the foibles of politics. I have in mind the institution of religion. One of my pet theories, which I have pushed in professional forums, is that politics, religion, law, and morality, are a powerful quartet in the realm of social institutions with similar purpose and objectives. They are created for the purpose of promoting the peace and order of communities and nations. To the extent that they succeed, this purpose is well served. Otherwise, communities are in danger of collapse. To avoid such a calamity, each of these institutions serves in various ways, formally or informally, to make up for the excesses or deficits of the others. Religion and morality are especially effective in this regard, the former more than the latter for obvious reasons. A useful approach to the matter at hand is to go back to the origin of our tradition to investigate the role of religion in its management. Years ago, in African Philosophy, I noted how traditional religion in Yorubaland in particular, and Africa in general, served as a rallying point of the community and how it promoted the peace of the land. For, with no mandate for evangelization or proselytisation, rivalry is absent among the followers of the various deities. Most significantly, the priests and priestesses, believing in the unforgiving power of their deities to punish waywardness and oath-breaking, spoke truth to power without minding whose ox was gored. Not infrequently, as tradition required, in case of a vacancy created by the demise of an Oba, Ifa oracle was consulted to determine who the best choice was. Or in an outbreak of pestilence, a priest must determine the cause and what needed to be done for the health of the community. In all these, the truth, and nothing but the truth, was the sworn obligation of the priest or priestess. And the community and its leaders had the utmost trust in and respect for the sincerity of their intercessional efforts. Needless to add, we have since moved on from the primacy of priests and priestesses of traditional religion in communal affairs, to embrace the Abrahamic faiths in their various iterations. Recently, in an otherwise polemical attack on a cultural and intellectual icon, we have what should pass as one of the most unabashed defenses of that movement. We were urged to see our traditional cultures as pagan-infested and therefore abhorrent, and our new religious faiths as the best of modernity, and thus a movement from darkness to light. As my friend observed, the vituperation amounted to a shameless “dressing up of cultural inferiority”. But I put that aside. The pressing question we must address now is this: How have our adoption of Abrahamic faiths fared in dealing with the important task of promoting peace and order in the multi-national and multi-faith context of our troubled times? Incidentally, with the leadership of IPOB’s recent embrace of Judaism, we may now boast of having the three Abrahamic faiths represented in the land. What can we show for this feat? What has been our experience? A most visible and undeniable aspect of our experience is that these Abrahamic faiths, from their inception, with the exception of Judaism, the newest arrival, have their focus on proselytization and evangelization, the perceived means of saving souls, which is the ultimate goal. This has the prospect of keeping adherents tethered to the principles of inner conviction and external conduct which are well-suited for the peace of the community. If the Christian beatitude and its counterpart in Islam were to be embraced by all, we would have the semblance of paradise on earth. However, beside the fact of the stony nature of the human heart, the proselytization imperative of Islam and Christianity almost invariably ensures that friction and conflict are wired into the fabric of our national existence. Therefore, despite a common belief in the religio-ethical teachings of both, adherents of the two faiths have hardly seen eye to eye. Rivalry and envy have stood in the way of a common approach to national peace. Indeed, it is arguable that, in a counter intuitive respect, given the fundamental tenets of each, the two religions have proved themselves to be stumbling blocks in the way of peaceful relations in recent times. Petty rivalries having nothing to do with the principles of each religion ensure that this is the case. The task of forging peace in a multi-religious political environment is made more daunting when there is a perception of partiality on the part of the political authorities, as ingrained rivalry ensures that every move of a governor or president is seen from the prism of religious favoritism. The ongoing tragedy of Southern Kaduna is a case that breaks the heart. How, in the name of religion, human beings could act below the standard of beasts is mind-boggling. But that is where we are in the life of a nation draped in the garment of fake religiosity. The political exploitation of religious sentiments by politicians and their hangers on haven’t helped matters. Where leadership is required to correct false impressions, we have many leaders behave as followers down the path of insanity. The prophets of old were notable for their boldness in fighting social injustice, standing firm against corrupt civil authorities, often suffering the worst fate of loss of life, which they didn’t consider a loss because they would have saved their souls. In our time, we have also witnessed the boldness of faith in some of our religious leaders as they speak truth to power. Unfortunately, however, we have also seen too many impostors and false prophets with huge followings whom they indoctrinate and lead astray. With emphases on worldly prosperity, they forget the main message of the scripture which is to lay our treasures in heaven. Their message corrupts and pollutes with unimaginable consequences for the peace of the land. In other cases, in an apparent pivot to the political leaders of their liking, some prophets in the evangelical mode delve into divisive social issues with no redeeming spiritual value. In some cases, such issues tend to appropriate the language of oppression which the powerful have always deployed for the marginalization of the weak, or worse, the enslavement of their minds. How, for instance, does the representation of blackness in the discourse of faith square with the experience of black people? How should we understand the pronouncement from the pulpit that blackness is evil? Is a black person to repudiate his or her skin color to avoid been a subject of evil? An obviously non-religious singer was bold enough to affirm the positivity of his blackness. That was James Brown. Another was philosophical enough to preach the gospel of emancipation from mental slavery. That was Bob Marley. For them, what we make of any color is what it is. Of course, it is true that the ideas of the ruling class have always shown up as the ruling ideas. So if the enslavers from the ancients to the contemporaries effectively categorized black as evil in order to subjugate black people as their properties, does that make them right? Aren’t we told in the scripture that the One who made them all made them well and saw them all as good?  God help us!