The Federal Government has declared tomorrow (October 1) as public holiday to mark the nation’s 60th Independence anniversary. Interior Minister Rauf Aregbesola announced this yesterday in Abuja on behalf of the Federal Government. “A country of about 200 million people, whose natural talent, grit and passion glitter like the precious diamond that we are. Nigerians are sparkling like diamonds in the pack, whether in academia, business, innovation, music, movie, entertainment, fashion and culture. “We are indeed the leading black nation in the entire world and no doubt Africa’s pride and beacon of hope,” Aregbesola said. In a statement by the Permanent Secretary in the ministry, Georgina Ehuriah, the minister noted that though celebrating 60 years of Independence calls for pomp and pageantry, the global COVID-19 pandemic, which has forced all nations to think and act cautiously, had made it imperative to have a low-key celebration. He urged Nigerians to work with the Muhammadu Buhari administration in its quest to ensure a better Nigeria for all citizens, both at home and abroad. This, he said, shall be a befitting tribute to the struggles of the nation’s past heroes. “We must, together, make Nigeria great,” Aregbesola said. Former Senate President Abubakar Bukola Saraki will tomorrow join other critical stakeholders at a conference in Abuja to deliberate on strategies that can promote sustainable and efficient democracy in the country. Other participants expected at the parley include youth leaders, policy makers, lawmakers, media and civil society organisations. The stakeholders are expected to dissect the urgent and fundamental issues of accountability and transparency in governance. The #FixingNigeria National Youth Conference, which is being convened by Ernest and Ibrahim Foundation, will also feature the Chief Judge of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Justice Ishaq Usman Bello; SSA to the President on Social Investment, Ismaeel Ahmed; House of Representatives members Kolade Victor Akinjo and Dr. Simon Karu as well as the Coordinator of Abuja School of Political and Social Thought, Dr. Sam Amadi. Other speakers and panelists include: Managing Editor, Premium Times, Idris Akinbajo; Leadership and Governance consultant,  Shola Olapade; John Maxwell Certified Leadership Coach, Olusoji Oyawoye; Nigerian Prize for Leadership, Dr. Ike Neliaku; Publisher, Global Sentinel, Senator Iroegbu; rights activist, Ms. Ndi Katu; Founder, Connected Development, Hamzat Lawal; Programme Manager, Governance and Development, Yiaga Africa, Ibrahim Faruk; Executive Director, Project Hope Alive, Ambassador Chibuzor Okereke and other panelists. A statement by the Project Director, Rukuya Ibrahim, said attendance at the event is free, but intending participants must register online through the organisation’s website, ernestandibrahim.org. Also, President of Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ACCI), Prince Adetokunbo Kayode, has said Nigeria requires an ideal and active National Planning Ministry or commission to monitor and evaluate policy implementation for economic development. Kayode, who spoke yesterday in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja, said as the country attained 60 years, it should have a well-planned vision to articulate its policies in all sectors especially in industry and trade sector.