 Chemical and Non-Metallic Products Employers’Federation (CANMPEF) has lamented the upward review of government levies and tariffs on member companies, saying that this has affected their revenue base. Speaking during the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the union, its President, Mr Devakumar Edwin, said the  the Lagos State government’s Land Use charge, Ogun and Lagos states’ Water Abstraction charges, and multiple tax  remained on the front burner. He said this had affected the company’s objectives to extend engagements to government agencies and departments to address the incessant  taxes and levies through dialogue. Edwin urged members to prepare to take on new challenges that might arise as a result of the African Free Continental Trade Area Agreement (AFCFTA). “The coming into force of the AFCFTA come 2021, will require that our members are prepared to take on new challenges of adjusting to new market models and enhancement of our products and services to compete favourably,“ Edwin said. Also speaking, the Vice President Mr Rotimi Aluko said many companies are finding it hard to survive as a result of the fall out of Covid-19. “Without doubt outbreak of the Covid-19 has affected so many things. Most especially the manufacturing sector, “he said. He said the union is doing everything to ensure that manner companies survive the impact so that jobs are not lost. “As you know, the survival of most of the workers is tied to the survival of the companies. Of course, no company will want to lay off workers. “The first is for the company to survive, then other things will fall into places. “We also thank God for our President, he is doing everything to ensure that most of our member companies staff afloat,” Aluko said. The Executive Secretary of the union, Mr Femi Oke said the country has made some progress in social-economic terms particularly in recent years. He said that the country’s human capital development remains weak due to under-investment and scarcity of inclusive development policies.