 THE Federal Government has expressed hope that the $50 million Transportation University sited in Daura, Katsina State, will be ready in September next year. The China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation, which is handling the project, has begun work already. Minister of Transportation Rotimi Amaechi, after inspecting the project at the weekend, said the target was to complete the university in September 2021. Amaechi, who spoke to reporters on the level of the project said: “There’s been too much noise about them (CCECC) not constructing anything. When you got there you saw that they were building. They just got the approval from the state government. “Proper construction will start at the end of September and hopefully they should be able to complete it at the end of September next year.” He said the Chinese firm is building the facility in Daura, the home town of President Muhammadu Buhari as a gift to Nigeria. The minister explained that the project was not funded by the government, rather was given to Nigeria by the construction giant. “This is not a railway contract. This is a gift from them. I have said I assume that they should finish by next year September.” He stated that other facilities would be located in the university to support workers who would have their families in the area. “The idea is that there should be a primary school in it, especially for those lecturers who will come from outside. There will be two buildings for the primary school, a secondary school and then the university.” On whether CCECC had promised to deliver the project by September next year, the minister said: “We are here to find out whether they’ve commenced construction. “Don’t forget that it is a gift, so they may not be as dedicated as they will be when it comes to a proper contract. But what they’ve assured us is that whether it is a gift or not, they will give it the same attention they give to railway construction.” Amaechi said CCECC would provide all the manpower required for the university for five years, adding that the Federal Government should have been able to get its technical staff after this period. He said the cost of the project was about $50m.