 THE Nigeria Basketball Federation on Tuesday in Lagos unveiled a partnership renewal and signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Total E&P for the sponsorship of the National Division 1 and 2 Men’s Basketball Leagues. By the agreement, Total E&P will be funding the two leagues to the tune of N150 million over a period of five  years. Speaking at the signing ceremony at the Eko Hotel & Suites yesterday, Managing Director and Country Chairman of Total Nigeria, Mike Sangster said that  the company was compelled to renew the MoU because of the near perfect execution of the previous one by the board of the NBBF, led by Alhaji Musa Kida. The subsisting MoU, which was signed in 2018 expired this year. “We are proud of Ahmadu Musa Kida’s drive and direction which has taken Nigeria basketball to new heights,” he said. The MD said the NBBF President, who, incidentally is the Deputy MD, Total Deepwater has been able to transform Nigerian teams and make it attractive to the extent that Nigerians in the diaspora want to identify with and play for the national teams. “The male and female national teams have. For the first time, qualified for the same Olympics and Nigeria has become the best basketball-playing nation in Africa,” he said. Meanwhile,  Minister of  Youths and Sport Development Sport Sunday Dare averred that basketball had become the number one sport for the fact that both male and female teams qualified for the Olympics. “The Tokyo Olympic experience will be different, it will be calibrated as we have focused on those sports we are known to have comparative advantage,” Dare said, adding, “basketball is now our number one sport as our performance at the Tokyo Olympics would make more youths to be attracted to basketball.” The NBBF President Amadu Musa Kida on his part,  expressed happiness over the sponsorship, and assured that the board was ready to consolidate on gains already made. “We have succeeded in engaging more youths and taken the game to the grassroots. This the way to go in our bid for sustainable development for our youth,” he said.