One of the most famous pan-Nigerians of the twentieth century in terms of parentage, birth, marriage and service, Ike Omar Sanda Nwachukwu, a retired army officer, former foreign affairs and labour and productivity minister, former governor of Imo State during the military era and a former Senator representing Abia North Senatorial District breasted the tape into the club of octogenarians on September 1. He combines a successful military and political career admirably. His life is very intriguing even if he could be said to have probably experienced some personal conflicts based on the dire choices he had to make as a person born into a country of diverse socio-political circumstances. He was born in Port Harcourt to an Igbo father and a Fulani mother from Katsina State. He had his early education in Lagos State before going abroad for further studies and military training. His names, Ike Omar Sanda embody the seeming socio-cultural cocktail his life as a man with mixed parentage  became during the Nigerian Civil War as he elected to fight on the Nigerian side against the then Biafra, his paternal side. Many had criticised his choice as a military officer, seeing that his compatriot, the late Emeka Odumegwu Ojukwu whose mother too was from the north actually led the war on the Biafran side. However, we believe that as a human being that enjoys the freedom of choice, Ike Nwachukwu had the freedom to choose on whose side to fight during the war. In fact, some people even argue that mothers have a higher stake in the lives of their children. It is therefore curious that many decide to see him as not fully identifying with his paternal side because of the choices he made during the war, forgetting that in such things, humans let their conscience and surrounding circumstances determine their actions. But we believe that his life is beyond the war choices many tend to unfairly judge him by.  He had a successful military career spanning decades. As a minister, he contributed creditably to national development and his days at the foreign affairs ministry were memorable. His diplomatic finesse was a plus for the nation. His tenure as governor of Imo State provided him time to reintegrate himself with his people and it is to his credit that the hills that seemingly existed were levelled as he made social  inroads to reintegrate with them. This contributed significantly to his political acceptance that led to his going to the Senate to represent his senatorial district. Not only did he down-play his Hausa names and adopted the Igbo one holistically, he equally adopted the dressing style of the Igbos, complete with the signature  red cap. In spite of the socio-cultural huddles on his way, Ike Nwachukwu has made choices that make his life seamlessly easy. He married a Yoruba woman and is not known for the usual military braggadocio that often causes the military-civilian conflicts in a country that the military mentality is often to display crass impunity in dealing with civilians. His general attitude is commendable and we wish more Nigerians can promote his type of integrative relationships that can unite the country. We applaud his contributions to nation-building in all the military and political posts he had held and the fact that despite all odds, he retired to a life of calm without being accused of any official or private ineptitude, negligence or scandal is a loud message that the choices we all make can either destroy or build. We wish him more years in the service of all that he represents, which is a rainbow nation united in its diversity.