Osun State Governor Adegboyega Oyetola has said he is disturbed over the car crash that led to the death of a man, identified as Idris Ajibola and injury of three others, namely Raheem Abdullahi, Salam Adekunle and Dayo, allegedly caused by security operatives. The incident occurred after a hot chase on Tuesday evening. Youths yesterday rioted in Osogbo, the state capital. The family of Ajibola, who would have turned 21 on October 10, is demanding justice, alleging that the security operatives, who chased their son to death, must be prosecuted. The deceased’s uncle, Mr. Damilare Opadotun, who spoke on behalf of the family at the home of the father, alleged: “We urge the government and police to fish out the officers who caused the accident that killed Idris and caused the injuries of three others.” Police Commissioner Mr. Undie Adie called for calm, saying people should allow peace to reign. The governor has, however, ordered investigation into the incident. Information and Civic Orientation Commissioner Mrs. Funke Egbemode made this known yesterday in a statement. She said the governor had ordered the police to investigate the circumstances that led to the death of Ajibola. The commissioner said: “Governor Oyetola was disturbed by Tuesday evening’s sad events. We are shocked at the tragedy and the disruption that followed the unfortunate incident in Osogbo. The governor has asked the police command to get to the bottom of the matter. “The tragic events that reportedly led to the death of one person on Tuesday evening were sad and shocking and Governor Oyetola has ordered investigation into the circumstances that led to it. To the governor, all lives matter and nobody has a right under our laws to take a life. While we appreciate the great job our law enforcement agencies are doing to keep Osun safe, the confusion and disruption to our peaceful state’s capital, Osogbo, on Tuesday needs to be investigated. “The governor appeals to the bereaved family and the families of the injured not to take the law into their hands by hurting more people or destroying belongings. We implore our citizens to trust the government to get to the bottom of this sad occurrence.” There were protests in some areas in Osogbo yesterday over the killing, as youths thronged the streets at Ofatedo, Dada Estate and Dele Yes Sir areas, made bonfires and barricaded the streets. The actions forced motorists and motorcyclists not to access the areas, as they made U-turn. Security operatives were deployed to restore peace. The protesters were, however, bent on causing mayhem. The security operatives shot canisters of teargas to disperse the youth, but they still regrouped to make bonfires, barricading the streets. 