 As if Nigeria does not already have too many crises to worry about, the announcement from the presidency that each state is to fund the Federal Government’s newly established Community Policing is a source of avoidable political tension. Similarly, another announcement that the Community Police system of the six states in the Southwest, popularly known as Amotekun, should be subsumed under the Nigeria Police Force may further complicate the management of inter-government relations in the country. The condition of Nigeria’s security has been a thing of utter concern for far too long. For the past 10 years, the country has been fighting Jihadist terrorism within. This situation has been worsened by importation of agents of Al Qaeda and the Islamic Caliphate into Nigeria and other countries in the Sahel. As if terrorism by home-grown Boko Haram, reported by national and international media to have been infiltrated by members of international jihadist groups were (or are) not enough, people from many parts of Nigeria since 2016 have been victims of bandits, kidnappers, and killers, some of whom military leaders and the Inspector-General of Police have identified as foreigners from neighbouring countries. Several Nigerians, including farmers, have lost their lives at the hands of herdsmen while others have lost their businesses to marauders for fear of being kidnapped or killed. Indeed, attacks of innocent citizens by bandits and kidnappers have been so pronounced that several development partners have warned their citizens against travelling to many parts of Nigeria. Before the founding of Amotekun by Ekiti, Lagos, Ogun, Ondo, Osun, and Oyo states, last year, various groups in these states had been demanding for state police, to no avail, largely because the handlers of the Federal Government have insisted on a single police system, even after it has become incontrovertible that the Nigeria Police Force lacks the capacity to protect citizens. Relatedly, the two announcements from the presidency to fuse state community police and saddle states with funding of the new contraption re-enacts efforts of the national government to deny subnational units their right to protect lives and property of citizens within their jurisdiction. The directives from the presidency are grossly insensitive to the rights of subnational units in a federal system, a mode of governance in which national and subnational units share power as coordinates, or partners. Without mincing words, the demand of the Federal Government: states to fund the central government’s superfluous community policing and for the Southwest states to submit control of their community police system to the leadership of the Nigeria Police Force, is patently undemocratic and illogical. After a duly negotiated agreement between the Federal Government and the six states on the need to de-regionalise the initial design of the community police; enactment of law by each state to support the initiative; and determination of the level of force for Amotekun solely by the Federal Government, we find the recent directives to be a desperate attempt to frustrate efforts of the states to fulfill the social contract with their citizens: protection of life and property. These federal directives smack of efforts by an elected government on a manifesto of “entrenching the federalist spirit in our constitution” to re-enact the hegemonial governance of the military era. Doubtless, the new insistence of the Federal Government to fuse its community policing initiative and the legally backed community police in the states of the Southwest manifests an obsession with a defective federal system that was wrought in the last four decades by military dictators. By creating community policing to supplement the Nigeria Police Force, believed by the Federal Government to be the only effective way to protect Nigerians, it has accepted the need for new approaches to law enforcement in all parts of the country. It is, therefore, an act of bad faith that the same Federal Government has chosen to frustrate states that have already accepted additional sacrifice to make citizens feel protected and safe from local and foreign criminals. Given the rising insecurity in the country, and the unwillingness of the Federal Government to share power with subnational units in a federation, even over mitigation of criminal actions that threaten the well-being of citizens, we observe that enough analysis has been done about the inappropriateness of an overbearing Federal Government for a multicultural state. We thus recommend that the legislators, already perceived as largely beholden to the executive in a separation of power ethos, need to pluck the courage to do the needful in their bid to amend the current constitution. In this respect, federal lawmakers ought to listen to the Northern Elders Forum: “The Northern Elders Forum recommends the alternative of leaders of thought, elders, groups and professional organisations and representatives of government to freely discuss every element of our co-existence as a country under principles of voluntarism, genuine representation, mutual respect and integrity of the process.” Essentially, a socio-cultural group of non-Yoruba people is calling for a constituent assembly to re-design the architecture of governance. Political leaders that seek national unity in a federation have the duty to listen to the views of people in subnational units that they seek to unify for national development, peace, and progress.