 AFTER 45 years on the throne, light dimmed yesterday for Emir Zazzau Alhaji Shehu Idris, who passed on at 84. Thousands of people converged on the palace at Zaria to pay their last respects as the remains of perhaps, the longest serving emir, were interred beside the tomb of some of the past emirs. Prayers for the repose of the soul of the 18th Emir of Zazzau, were  attended by Chief of Staff to the President, Prof. Ibrahim Gambari, who led the presidential delegation. Other members are:  Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika and Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu. Governor Nasir El-Rufai led the Kaduna State delegation which included Secretary to State Government, Balarabe Lawal-Abbas, Speaker Yusuf Zailani and heads of military and paramilitary formations and institutions in the State. The demise of the Emir threw the entire people of the emirate into tears and mourning, as the remains of the late paramount ruler arrived the Palace from Kaduna at about 2.45pm. The palace that was filled to capacity by friends, relatives and well-wishers who patiently waited till evening. Also at the palace was the Emir of Kano, Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero, and heads of military and paramilitary formations in the state. The Waziri of Zazzau, Malam Ibrahim Muhammad, had earlier confirmed the demise of the 18th Emir of Zazzau, who until his death, was the Chairman, Kaduna State Council of Chiefs in Zaria. The Emir died at the 44 Army Reference Hospital, Kaduna in the early hours of yesterday. Aminu Shehu Idris, son of the Emir, said his father passed on after a protracted illness. According to Aminu, his late father had been battling with an undisclosed ailment for a decade “until this morning when death snatched him away.” The late monarch left behind four wives, many children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. The governor said: “We have lost a rare gem, a source of wisdom and guidance and a true father of all. May Allah Grant his soul abode in Aljanna Firdaus. Amin.”