  RESIDENT doctors across the country are set to commence an indefinite strike beginning on Monday, 7th of September 2020, as the government has failed to fulfil its sundry promises pertaining to the overall welfare of healthcare workers in the country. Apart from citing the non-payment of the outstanding salary shortfall of 2014, 2015, 2016, the National Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) said the government was insincere in its promise concerning the revised hazard allowance for all health workers, which was supposed to commence in September 2020. The President of NARD, Dr. Aliyu Sokomba, made this known in a statement on Friday in Abuja. He said, “The National Executive Council meeting of the Nigerian Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) held virtually on the 2nd of September 2020, to review the 21-day ultimatum issued to government which elapsed 17th of August 2020, observed the insincerity of the government in determining the revised hazard allowance for all health workers, which was supposed to commence in September 2020. “NEC noted that in spite of the inclusion, the residency funding in the revised 2020 budget, the government has not made a plan to implement the payment despite several promises by several stakeholders. “NEC noted the failure of the Federal Government to procure group life insurance and death in service benefits for all health workers. He added, “NEC resolved to proceed on an indefinite nationwide strike action from Monday 7th of September 2020 by 8am until the following conditions are met: Provision of genuine group life insurance and death in service benefits for all health workers; Immediate payment of the Medial Residency Training funding to all her members as approved in the revised 2020 budget, among others. “Payment of the outstanding April/May and June COVlD-19 inducement allowance to all health workers; Determination of the revised hazard allowance for all health workers as agreed in previous meetings with relevant stakeholders; Immediate payment of the salary shortfalls of 2014, 2015 and 2016. “Doctors working under the various tertiary health institutions to be placed on appropriate salary grade level and universal implementation of the Medical Residency Training Act of 2017 in all State tertiary health institutions. “Payment of all arrears owed our members in federal and state tertiary health institutions, arising from the consequential adjustment of the National Minimum Wage.”