It was jubilation galore at the God’s Care School for Persons with Disability, Amaenyi, Awka South Local Government Area of Anambra state following the renovation of a block of classrooms, a dormitory, and three toilets by Mr. Christopher Shiyan, a serving corps member in the area. The projects which also included a new electricity power generator, a laptop computer, a projector, and some learning materials were part of the corps member’s community development service. Speaking during the inauguration ceremony of the projects, Shiyan, a 2019 batch ‘C’ Stream 1 corps member said he was motivated to help as a result of the deplorable state of the school building. “With the help of my colleagues I raised funds from philanthropists with which I renovated the classrooms, a dormitory, three toilets and fixed other equipment including a power generating set, a laptop computer, a projector, and learning materials,” he said. Inaugurating the projects, Commissioner for Social Welfare Children and Women Affairs, Lady Ndidi Mezue said she was overwhelmed by the corps member’s efforts. Mezue who was represented by Mr. Ernest Onyeka, a Director in the Ministry urged corps members to always seek to impact positively in other people’s lives, even as she made a cash donation of N50, 000 to the school. On his part, NYSC State Coordinator, Mr. Kehinde Aremu commended the corps member for his selfless service to the pupils of the school. Represented by the Assistant Director Press and Public Relations, Anuli Molokwu, Aremu thanked the school’s management for their humanitarian services, praying God to bless them in return. He commended the corps member for lifting the state of the school, urging other corps members to emulate the accomplishments. Responding, the Proprietor of the school, Mr. Afam Ndife thanked the corps member for his good work, especially at the time it mattered most. He urged stakeholders present to support the school as they needed more help, especially in the area of feeding.