Ondo state Governor, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu SAN, has assured the people of Ondo state, especially, the inhabitants of Iju-Itagbolu, in Akure North local government area of the state, of a befitting twin road that will ease commuters plying the route, stating that the ongoing dualisation of Akure-Ado road project will be completed soon. Akeredolu made the assurance Saturday, while noting that his administration will add more projects within and around the community if reelected. The governor, who was elated by the mammoth crowd who gave him warm reception at Iju/Itaogbolu, stated that arrangement are on top gear to help lift the vulnerables Akeredolu said, “We have commenced the dualisation of Akure-Ado road, by this, travellers plying this route will be on comfort. “Our projects is apparently obvious to all and  sundry, so will help the susceptible out of penury. “Today we have an industrial park in Ondo state. Since Ajasin left, no administration has done what we have done in Ondo state, our second term, by the grace of God, will be better than this. We plan making more roads from the grassroots for our farmers. “We have won elections on two occasions in your area, and I am optimistic that we will win again the third time ” Corroborating the governor, the Minister of State for Niger Delta, Senator Tayo Alasoadura, appreciated the residents for trooping out in their numbers to welcome the preforming governor. He stated further by urging the people to stay aloof from mendacious politicians who will neglect them after siphoning the resources that should be dissipated across the state. On his part, the state Chairman of the party, Engr Ade Adetimehin, said the immediate past administration never did much as it lacked  the vision. Adetimehin lampooned the former governor of the state, Dr Olusegun Mimiko, saying that he supported the candidate of the People’s Democratic Party, Eyitayo Jegede, in 2016 elections, and he failed, adding that the former governor will soon dance to political oblivion for pitching his tent with the Deputy Governor of the state. In another development, the governor, commissioned block of three classrooms in local government staff training school, Itaogbolu. The block of classrooms was built by the administration of the current chairman of local government service commission, Mr. Femi Idris. Speaking at the official commissioning of the classrooms, Akeredolu commended Femi Idris for his unrelenting spirited efforts aimed at offering quantum leap for the staff training school, noting that the chairman and his team have done a great job. Earlier in his words, the Chairman of the commission appreciated the governor for his good deeds, adding that the commission was able to actualise its dream due to his hands of friendship extended by Akeredolu towards the training school.