The All Progressives Congress (APC), Edo State chapter, and the wife of the governor of Edo State, Mrs. Betsy Obaseki, are trading blame over the order to close free medical outreach in the state, for campaign. Edo APC, on Wednesday in an online statement by the Chairman of its Media Campaign Council,  Prince John Mayaki, condemned the disruption of its ongoing free medical outreach in Edo Central Senatorial District by the police, acting on the instruction of the governor’s wife. It said the medical outreach, initiated and kicked-off on Tuesday by the wife of APC’s governorship candidate, Prof. Idia Ize-Iyamu, to provide free health screening and other medical services to the people, especially the vulnerable denied access to health care for years, was disrupted in Uromi by policemen deployed by the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) and the Area Commander of the Uromi Division. APC alleged that the policemen were acting on the instruction of the wife of Edo governor, who was attending a political event in the area and felt displeased by the complete overshadowing and abandonment of her event by the people, who thronged the free medical outreach. It condemned the governor’s wife’s  action, declaring that it bordered on arrogation of powers with no constitutional basis, insensitivity to the plight of the people and a cruel prioritisation of political showmanship over the health of the poor and vulnerable, abandoned for four years by her husband, Godwin Obaseki. APC said: “By directing the police to shut down the free medical outreach, Mrs. Obaseki arrogated unconstitutional powers to herself and sadly displayed the poor attributes, including cruelty, intolerance and insensitivity to the plight of the people that earned the Obaseki administration the infamy of being one of the worst seen in Edo State. “The cruelty and insensitivity is further magnified by the fact that Mrs. Obaseki ordered the shut down, because she felt slighted that her political event in the area was completely overshadowed by the medical outreach, as the people, men, women and the aged, expectedly chose to cater to their health than attend a vanity political show that holds no value to them. “To order the closure of a free medical event catering to the poor over petty political concerns, especially vanity showmanship, is cruel and totally condemnable. “The medical outreach, initiated by Prof.  Ize-Iyamu, was designed to provide care for the poorest of the poor and vulnerable citizens with various health conditions. These people have been abandoned by Governor Obaseki and they live in communities where there are neither doctors nor health centres, because the governor, in his characteristic failure, fell abysmally short of his promise to build 192 primary health centres with just 22 in four years.” APC also condemned the actions of the governor’s wife in the strongest possible terms, urging Police Commissioner Babatunde Kokumo to rein in on his men to resist carrying out such cruel assignments and insist on the ethics of the profession, no matter who is asking.”