Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has described as the greatest mistake of certain members of Ohaneze Ndigbo and South East Governors the connivance with enemies of Ndigbo to proscribe the pro-Biafran group. It said the apex Igbo socio cultural group and the governors only succeeded in opening the zone to constant attack and humiliation by terrorists herdsmen and bandits through such connivance. In a statement issued by the Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, IPOB stressed that the attacks were enough lessons for what it termed the treacherous and ignoble role of the Governors and other actors in its proscription. The statement partly read, “IPOB to South East Governors, Ohaneze Ndigbo and Igbo political elites, you proscribed IPOB to impress your Northern masters, now they have unleashed terrorists against your villages” asked them how they have fared after their alleged treacherous act. “Conniving with the enemies to get rid of IPOB, which is the only defence line of Biafra nation, is the the greatest mistake made by South East Governors, Ohaneze Ndigbo and some self acclaimed Igbo political leaders. “The treacherous and ignoble role of South East Governors, some self acclaimed Igbo political elite and Ohanaeze Ndigbo in the proscription of the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra, IPOB, and the subsequent invasion of Afaraukwu Umuahia country home of our leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, on September 14, 2017 and what Igbo land is going through now in the hands of terrorist Fulani herdsmen, and bandits are enough lesson for traitors. “It is a constant reminder of the Igbo adage that says “when you kill your hero in internal squabble, during external fight you must remember him “Three years down the line, we want to ask these traitors: How have they and Igbo land fared in the hands of the Fulani masters and their terrorist herdsmen and bandits? “The reward of treachery is shame and eternal regret! By conniving with the enemies to get rid of IPOB that is the only defence line of Biafra nation, these saboteurs have opened our land for constant attack and humiliation by Fulani terrorists, herdsmen and bandits. “First, in their shameful bid to appease and impress their Northern masters for political reward, these traitors outlawed IPOB, a peaceful movement, and paved the way for its eventual proscription as a terrorist organisation. “Ever since then, how have they protected or defended Biafra land against incessant Fulani unprovoked attacks? To their shame, Igbo land and the entire Biafra territory have been rendered vulnerable as the enemies on total annihilation and conquest mission have turned it into slaughter ground. “It was their treachery that gave the Nigerian Army the effrontery to raid the home of Nnamdi Kanu on September 14, 2020 under the guise of Operation Python Dance. Their mission was to kill him at all cost, but God thwarted their evil plans. “Not done with the recent massacre of 21 unarmed Biafrans at Emene by the wicked Nigeria security agents, the Army, DSS and Police, have now resorted to house to house abduction of IPOB members and other Biafra agitators. The question is :Where are the treacherous Igbo governors, political elite and Ohanaeze that proscribed?”