Residents of Tunga Maje, a community on the fringes of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja, woke up to terror on Thursday as dozens of gunmen invaded their community in the wee hours and abducted several persons. This incident is coming just days after tension was heightened in the city over a leaked memo from the Customs suggested that Boko Haram was setting up camps in the FCT and planning to carry out attacks. A pregnant woman, another woman and her three children, two 17-year girls, a 14-year old boy and an elderly man were among those abducted. The pregnant woman, the second woman and two of her children were eventually allowed to go when they could not cope with going with the gunmen into the bush. The gunmen who also burgled shops in the community made their victims carry the items they stole it was learnt. When The Nation visited the community the fear in the air was almost palpable as people gathered in groups conversing in low tones about the unfortunate incident. Residents gathered at the various compounds that had people abducted to condole with them and offer support. The Community Head, Salihu Na’Annbi, Dakachi of Tunga Maje said they were in shock and fear. “We don’t know when this kind of thing may happen again. Nothing like this has ever happened. We are farmers. We don’t have money. Government should intervene. Government should do more about providing security. FCT should also empower the vigilante,” he said through and interpreter. Abraham Ogebmudia whose shop was burgled by the invaders described them as terrorists. He said the community had never experienced such and they have been traumatized since it happened. Ogbemudia who said he peeped through his window as the gunmen operated, said they were heavily armed with sophisticated machine guns and were shooting sporadically banging down people’s doors and gates and taking them forcefully. He said they operated as if they were in no hurry and it was the intervention of the police that prevented them from abducting more people. He said it seemed to him they communicated in a language that sounded like Hausa and Fulani. Mrs Eze Nkeiruka, whose 17-year old daughter was among those abducted, begged that the government do something urgently to rescue her daughter. She said the girl, Eze Onyinyechi Judith, is a first year student of Agriculture in the University of Abuja. She said around 12am the gunmen broke down her door and started destroying her household items demanding for money and their phones and eventually left with her daughter. The tearful mother said such incident had never happened in the 13 years she has lived in the community. Olaiya Mike, whose 17-year old in-law, a girl, was also abducted said the gunmen shot at their gate and when they still could not gain access through that way found a way to destroy the barbed wire on their fence and jumped in through there. He said they demanded for money and phones. He also said the invaders were taking their time and even went into their kitchen to eat and drink and even left with fried chicken. Mike said the invaders seemed surprised when policemen came into the community and hurriedly left with the girl. “They were drinking mineral and eating. They heard gunshot and they were surprised. They we’re operating like they had time. They collected money and phone. They even collected N30. They went into the kitchen and carried fried chicken. When they heard gunshots from the police they were surprised. I think the language they were speaking was Hausa but mixing Fulani,” he said. He said such incident had never happened in their community before. Mrs Florence Augustine was abducted with her husband and 14 year old son. She was released along with her husband but their son was taken away. The woman who was crying as she spoke said she was released when she did not have the strength to walk on their street and her husband was released in the bush and told to get N10 million as ransom for their child. She said they had no such amount of money as she begged something should be done urgently to release her son. They were beaten up and tied up before they were taken away, she said. Her son in-law, Enebe Sunday Aminu, said “when my mother in-law said she cannot walk, they left her to go back. They walked more than four kilometers into the bush where they released the husband and asked him to go back and bring back money. They asked for N10 million.” The pregnant woman who was abducted and also released in the bush, Mrs Eze Helen, said she was woken by her husband when he heard them operating around 12 am in their neighbourhood. She said she thought they were just armed robbers and were prepared to give them whatever they wanted if they came to their house. She said they broke their window and when they eventually gained access into the house they demanded for money and their phones also. She said she gave them the N8, 000 that she had and they still asked her to follow them. “They carried my neighbor and her three children. We all sat down on the ground. They carried people from the other side and came to join us. They carried provisions and gave to some of us who were victims to carry for them. When they heard police gunshots they said we should get up fast and be going. We rested about two times on our journey. Getting to the last place they said if I have anyone that can bring N10 million. I said no. They said I was stupid not to have anyone even in government that can bring the money. They allowed some of us to go. They asked if my children were among those kidnapped. I said no. It was God’s grace that made them leave me. We did not even recognize the road to come back. As we were there we saw the police that came and helped us,” she said. Mr Frank Ovbiyedanen whose wife and three children (two sons and a daughter) were abducted was in agony. His wife and two little children were however rescued but his 14-year old son was taken. “Since I was born I never experienced such. They took my wife and three kids and later released my wife and son and daughter in the bush. They left with my 14 year old son. “We don’t have any money. Government should do something to rescue my son. Government should do something about insecurity. The insecurity is so high. Something should be done. When I went to the station just one police. The gunmen had had superior fire power. It was like the security men were scared of going after them. “My wife said they rested twice. I told police they had load and cannot go fast. If you go after them they would leave this children and go fast. They refused to follow them. I almost quarrelled with them. I never believed such a thing could happen. They carried load that an elderly man could not carry and gave my son to carry,” he cried. Another resident of the community who did not want to be named narrated, “I was looking through my window when I heard the disturbance. I heard people speaking a language that sounded like Hausa and Fulani. The next thing I heard was the breaking of my neighbor’s house and they entered. Then the man, who is the landlord, started shouting. They carried him shouting. Then they also broke into another neighbour’s house. A woman was shouting and crying. I heard gunshots. Before then while I was still peeping and hoping they would go away they came to my wife’s shop and broke into it and carried her items. “They took a woman’s grown up daughter away. They took away the son of another neighborhood. Then they took a man and his daughter. “The Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) came and that is why they stopped. They were ready to go from door to door. It was the police that stopped them. They used the people they kidnapped to carry the goods that my wife was selling. “Then the police and vigilante went after them and were able to rescue some of those they kidnapped. “About six of them are yet to return and there has been no communication and no knowledge of their whereabout. “We don’t know what is going on. These were not petty thieves. They are terrorists. We are traumatised. The vigilante did their best but it was a helpless situation. “The criminals were operating confidently and they were not in a hurry. The people are living in fear. We have never witnessed such situation before. We have had petty thieves but not ever had such traumatizing experience. Not this type a human is taken from their bed when they are sleeping. Fortunately, no life was lost but property destroyed. “They were ready to carry as many people as possible if not the police that intervened. If a group of people with heavy firearms, the kind that we saw them carry stormed a community and carry this number of people then are they not terrorists. The community was terrorised.” According to a statement by the FCT Police spokesman, DSP Anjuguri Manzah, the police responded swiftly after receiving the distress call on the incident and engaged the gunmen in a gun battle, after which five of those abducted, were rescued. Manzah said efforts were still in to rescue the remaining five. The statement did not indicate if there were any casualties from the gun battle. “The FCT Police Command wishes to assure the public that protection of lives and property remains the core of its policing mandate and it will continue to inject fresh strategies that will place the security of the Federal Capital Territory at its optimum. “The Command wishes to inform the public that when it received a distress call on Kidnap of some persons on 10th September, 2020 at about 0130hrs in Tungan Maje, a village bordering FCT and Niger state, a joint team of Police operatives from the Command Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), Rapid Response Squad and Zuba Police Division responded swiftly to the occasion. “During a fierce gun confrontation with the heavily armed hoodlums, the Police team successfully rescued five of the kidnapped victims. “Meanwhile, concerted effort has been deployed to rescue the remaining five victims that are still with the hoodlums who escaped into Niger state through a nearby forest that is surrounded by rocky terrain. “The Command reassures members of the Public with its commitment to deploy proactive crime-fighting measures to ensure the security of lives and property in FCT,” the statement read.