 FOLLOWING the Edo poll, many Nigerians, socialized into believing the worst in themselves, have claimed the election went the way it did because Uncle Sam had bared its fangs, in visa bans and allied sanctions, to put in check some political powers and principalities. That may well be.  But other dynamics too could have driven the result.  It’s good, though: that Nigerian democracy is no longer on life support!  That “either-we-win-or-they-lose” syndrome is the real threat to Nigeria’s democracy.  As PDP now enjoys its win, let it endure other possible future losses.  Elections are no do-or-die.  You win some.  You lose some.  Life continues. Still, Uncle Sam must realize that beyond the crude projection of global power, he is losing the chip on his shoulders, as self-appointed cop of global democracy — and the very proof is Donald Trump, sitting American president. Trump once claimed — and many Nigerians, to express angst, personal or political — eagerly gulped the stuff: that Nigeria was a shit hole. But little did these denizens realize the same Trump, by words and by deed, would soon crown his own “God’s own country”, as unrepentant shit hole of global democracy — and Trump himself is the unapologetic ambassador-in-chief. Asked to commit to the result of the US presidential election, billed for November 3, in which he trails in the polls to Joe Biden, his Democratic Party challenger, Trump balked.  He instead lunched into unproved allegations about mail voting and all the demons he had conjured over it, despite no proof to sustain any, except as bluster, to grandstand to his base. If all these are not troubling signs, of the making of a neo-democracy shit hole, but not from the so-called Third World Trump and other condescending westerners love to strafe, Hardball doesn’t know what it is. But the American president arrived this unflattering juncture, in quite some wild style.  First, he wanted the elections postponed, scared stiff by unfavourable poll returns.  Wait!  Was that from Trump — or from some Third World tin god? When that idea was contemptuously shouted down, President Trump embarked on his mail ballot screeds and screeches.  On that, the US Post Office, which his critics say is in the hands of a crony, became the new battleground for partisan politics. The latest in the Trump battles, en route to November 3, is the US Supreme Court, following the passing of progressive jurist, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg; and Trump’s insistence to replace her right away, so that a conservative-leaning judge could be in-situ, should November 3 need any judicial seal! Now, again, is it the so-called Third World, or God’s own country, degraded to Trump’s own country? Folks have little doubt that America has robust institutional checks to checkmate any rascality.  But the shock is that it is happening at all; and an American president is going into over-drive to de-legitimize America’s own presidential election! “The only way we can lose this election,” Trump screeched to his base on the stumps, “is if it is rigged!”  Pray, is that the American version of PDP’s “democracy is in danger?” It’s the ultimate heresy to America’s core canon.  But then, Trump would blame COVID-19 as his ultimate nemesis.  Had he not wilfully downplayed its danger for electoral win, he wouldn’t now be scared and stampeded, for fear of electoral loss.    Trump’s own country!  Phew!  