A notable group within of the All Progressives Congress (APC), the Unity Forum, comprising former deputy governor Moses Alake-Adeyemo; former minister of communication, Adebayo Shittu; Sen. Olufemi Lanlehin, Prof. Adeolu Akande, and Adeniyi Akintola (SAN), has embraced reconciliation with the party. They announced their willingness to work with the entire party at a meeting held at Premier Hotel, Ibadan Thursday. They also resolved to end all forms of divisions within the party and work for the success of the party in forthcoming elections. In a communique issued at the end of the meeting, the politicians said the meeting was conveyed to brief stakeholders on the outcome of meetings held with the National Reconciliation Committee on Oyo State set up by the National Caretaker Committee of the party in Abuja on September 10, 2020. The communique was signed by chairman Alh. Waheed Olajide and Secretary Prof. Adeolu Akande. A former chairman of the state Teaching Service Commission, Alh. Abu Gbadamosi, chaired the meeting. The report of the meetings in Abuja was given by three of the representatives to the meetings –they are senators Ayo Adeseun, Olufemi Lanlehin, and Barr. Shittu. According to them, members of the APC in Oyo State were implored to resolve their differences and work for the unity of the party. All contentious issues that led to the crisis in the party were examined and addressed. The members were also informed that there would soon be fresh registration of all members at a date to be announced. They also informed the gathering that the party will soon hold congresses to elect new executives in the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory. Then, the party will hold its convention by January 2021. Another meeting of selected leaders and representatives of stakeholders in the party in Oyo State is scheduled to hold with Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi in Ibadan on Sunday. The meeting accepted all the proposals for peace as contained in the reports of representatives to the meetings in Abuja and mandated the representatives to the Abuja meetings to select the three members that will work with others on the fresh registration of members.