The President, All Nigeria Conference of Principals of Secondary Schools (ANCOPSS) in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Alhaji Abdulkarim Abdulrahman has disclosed that schools in the Territory are safe and ready for reopening of classes. Abdulrahman said the school principals are satisfied with the arrangements put in place by the FCT Administration to ensure that the students did not contract Coronavirus otherwise known as COVID-19 pandemic on resumption. Abdulrahman made this assertion Wednesday during the distribution of 10,000 units of 3 in one protective equipment against COVID-19 for students across FCT at Government Secondary School, Garki-Abuja. He therefore reiterated that the school principals are well prepared for reopening as safety guidelines have been provided. According to him, “FCT schools are not threat to coronavirus; all the principals have brace up for reopening of schools especially with the necessary provisions by the Administration. “We are happy and set for commencement of classes because the FCT Administration through the Education Secretariat has provided all the necessary medical materials needed to ensure safety measures in the schools”. The ANCOPSS president explained that the items donated by Kas Arts Service Limited would be shared based on zones including schools under Universal Basic Education Board, UBEB, Secondary Education Board and Science and Technology. He enjoined principals to ensure that the materials are used for the purpose that they are meant for. A breakdown of the distribution shows that schools under UBEB got 600 cartoons of the protective equipment, nose mask, sanitizer and face shield. Accordingly, Bwari zone received 80 cartoons, Gwagwalada 75, Karshi 70, Garki 60, Gwagwa 60, Maitama and Asokoro 60, Kuje 50, Kwali 50 and Abaji 45 respectively. However, schools under Secondary Education Board (SEB), Science and Technology, Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC) got 70 cartoons, Kwali 50, Kuje 50, Gwagwalada 70, Abaji 45.