Energetic event and experiential marketing guru, Abiodun Richard Oshinibosi, is a man of few words, who believes more in action. He is also a strong believer in hard work and consistency. All his life, he has lived it for the downtrodden. Despite his wide scope and knowledge in the events and experiential marketing field, his milk of kindness and humane side never ceases to amaze many. During the breakout of the deadly COVID-19 pandemic, for his love for humanity, the Project Marshall of Abelinis Limited, galvanized his PR team to support the Lagos state and federal government in the fight against COVID-19, using his advocacy outreach, HypeKing to spread the message of the deadly virus around the corners of the state. The Hypeking Advocacy on COVID-19 kicked off June 17, 2020, with a strategic focus on the grassroots via rural clusters direct engagement approach to educate residents of rural and semi-urban areas about the importance of staying at home, using hand sanitisers and wearing face masks alongside facts about COVID-19. The Polytechnic of Ibadan graduate of Maths and Statistics empowered his team to move in pairs, going into clusters to share timely reports and messages about the pandemic as it affects Nigeria. The advocacy and enlightenment drive to curb the spread of COVID-19 captured all the 20 Local Government Areas and 37 Local Council Development Areas in Lagos State. From Ifako-Ijaiye local government area to Alimosho, Agege, Oshodi-Isolo, Mushin, Surulere, and Lagos Island amongst others, the goal was simple- to amplify and aid the government’s effort to curb the spread of COVID-19 through direct engagement by advocating for the government and through a partnership with the local government and state government. To further achieve a common goal using communal partnership by engaging community influencers, Abiodun structured visits to communities and one-to-one meetings with the heads of the communities to encourage community-led public statements to pledge support for government’s efforts targeted at combating the pandemic.