Born and bred in South East London, enterprising midfielder Eberechi Eze said signing for Crystal Palace, is homecoming for him. Exciting Crystal Palace new signing Eberechi Eze showed what he is capable of last Friday when he played in the colours of the Premiership side for the first time last Friday. The South East London born to Nigerian parents played for 45 minutes in a pre-season friendly at home to local rivals Oxford United. He couldn’t have had a better appearance as he played flawless football adding bite to the attack his team. The England U20 and U21 attacking midfielder looks forward to a promising time under experienced coach Roy Hodgson. Eze, who put pen to paper in a five-year deal with Crystal Palace, last week, said his smart footwork was inspired by street soccer otherwise called cage football in most parts of London. He said coming to Palace is home coming for him. “I’m a proud south Londoner. I have great memories here and happy to return home. I’m delighted, man,” said the 22-year-old talent. “It’s been a long process but I’m just happy to have it over and done with.” Eze found an attraction to Palace in his background. Born and raised in south London, less than 10-miles from Selhurst Park, starting his time in SE London meant the 22-year-old could move closer to his roots while at south London’s biggest club. “It’s perfect,” he said. “It’s great to be back in south London, local, and around my family.” As it has for so many of this generation’s brightest footballers – Wilfried Zaha included – south London has shaped Eze, with his early years in the capital’s footballing cages defining the professional player he is today. He explained: “I think any boy in London knows cage football is where you learn most of your football. That shaped me, it’s where skilful players thrive and learn what they can do. I try my best to take it onto the pitch, impress the fans and entertain.” Highly talented with the ball at his feet and tough for the opposition to pin-down, Eze’s football mirrors that espoused by many of Palace’s greatest names. And, it transpires, two of the Eagles’ more recent stars also played a hand in forming the attacker today. “I remember watching [Yannick] Bolasie and Zaha in the Championship and just thinking: ‘That’s where you want to be, that’s the goal,’” Eze said. “It’s a great opportunity for me to come and show what I’m about, and to follow in their steps.” Asked to look to his future and explain his ambitions at Crystal Palace in the coming weeks, and even years, Eze said: “As a football club, I feel like there are great players here and it’s a brilliant opportunity for me to come and be with these players, to link up with them and really push on… It’s a brilliant opportunity for me to help push this club forwards as much as I can. “I hope to see you [the fans] as soon as we can. I hope to entertain you and I hope you guys enjoy me as much as I’ll enjoy you.” The length of Eze’s deal is a clear commitment to the future between club and player. A full term would see him move from a glistening starlet to being at the peak of his career, and the Greenwich-born midfielder is well aware of its significance. “[The deal] definitely shows their [Palace’s] belief in me – and I want to be here, I want to play, I want to do as well as I can for this club and it’s a brilliant opportunity. “It was the plan that was set out for me and what they’ve said about me and it’s the most in-line with what I feel about myself. For me, that’s the most important thing – more than ‘what the club is’ or whatever. I think the plan they have for me and where they see me, that’s what it is. “It’s the position they want me to play, their goals, where they want to be, where they want to push, what they want to become, how they see me fitting in that system… The style of football they want to play suits me. It’s perfect for me. It’s a great opportunity and a great place to come.” FROM GRASS TO GRACE Eze spent his early years in football moving between various academies, starting at Arsenal, then Fulham and Reading, before eventually settling down with Millwall. At the Lions, Eze’s free-flowing and attacking football didn’t suit the club’s style at the time, and so he was let go in 2016. He was trialled at teams across England – including Sunderland, Bristol City and Swansea City – but had begun to prepare for life away from football when a chance at QPR arose. A regular in the south London cages as a youngster, the teenager captured the Hoops’ attention with his intricate ability and started on his path to a professional debut in August 2016. Eze’s career moved swiftly at QPR, and just five months after signing, the teenager made his first-team bow in the FA Cup against Blackburn Rovers. Frustratingly, he was forced from the pitch in the 18th-minute with an injury, but wouldn’t have to wait long to secure regular professional football. Eze embarked on a half-season loan to the Chairboys in August 2017, making his first appearance as a substitute in a 0-0 draw with Newport County. From there, he became a key figure in their eventual promotion to League One – netting five goals from 22 appearances in all competitions. In one stand-out game, the attacking midfielder bagged a nine-minute brace against Cambridge United. This secured the win in a 3-1 victory, with his first effort – a half-volley from outside the box – being nominated for League Two Goal of the Month. His other goals came against Cheltenham Town, Crawley Town and Yeovil Town. Upon Eze’s return to QPR, Wanderers manager Gareth Ainsworth said: “He’s been outstanding. He’s played a huge part in us winning some games and he’s been that spark when we’ve needed him. He’s still got a few bits to refine in his game but he’s got everything to be a top, top player.” Eze returned to QPR, his parent club, in January 2018 and made 17 appearances in all competitions for former Palace manager, Ian Holloway. His first goal for the west Londoners came against Sunderland in a single-goal victory and then his second was in a 4-1 triumph over Norwich City. Having just turned 20, these performances earned Eze a three-year contract in summer 2018, the same month he received the No.10 shirt and a pivotal role in QPR’s side. In 2018/19, the Greenwich-born talent featured an impressive 46 times in all competitions. His ability earned him a call-up to the England Under-20 squad in October 2018, making his debut in a 2-1 win over Italy. Exciting Crystal Palace new signing Eberechi Eze showed what he is capable of last Friday when he played in the colours of the Premiership side for the first time last Friday. The South East London born to Nigerian parents played for 45 minutes in a pre-season friendly at home to local rivals Oxford United. He couldn’t have had a better appearance as he played flawless football adding bite to the attack his team. The England U20 and U21 attacking midfielder looks forward to a promising time under experienced coach Roy Hodgson. Eze, who put pen to paper in a five-year deal with Crystal Palace, last week, said his smart footwork was inspired by street soccer otherwise called cage football in most parts of London. He said coming to Palace is home coming for him. “I’m a proud south Londoner. I have great memories here and happy to return home. I’m delighted, man,” said the 22-year-old talent. “It’s been a long process but I’m just happy to have it over and done with.” Eze found an attraction to Palace in his background. Born and raised in south London, less than 10-miles from Selhurst Park, starting his time in SE London meant the 22-year-old could move closer to his roots while at south London’s biggest club. “It’s perfect,” he said. “It’s great to be back in south London, local, and around my family.” As it has for so many of this generation’s brightest footballers – Wilfried Zaha included – south London has shaped Eze, with his early years in the capital’s footballing cages defining the professional player he is today. He explained: “I think any boy in London knows cage football is where you learn most of your football. That shaped me, it’s where skilful players thrive and learn what they can do. I try my best to take it onto the pitch, impress the fans and entertain.” Highly talented with the ball at his feet and tough for the opposition to pin-down, Eze’s football mirrors that espoused by many of Palace’s greatest names. And, it transpires, two of the Eagles’ more recent stars also played a hand in forming the attacker today. “I remember watching [Yannick] Bolasie and Zaha in the Championship and just thinking: ‘That’s where you want to be, that’s the goal,’” Eze said. “It’s a great opportunity for me to come and show what I’m about, and to follow in their steps.” Asked to look to his future and explain his ambitions at Crystal Palace in the coming weeks, and even years, Eze said: “As a football club, I feel like there are great players here and it’s a brilliant opportunity for me to come and be with these players, to link up with them and really push on… It’s a brilliant opportunity for me to help push this club forwards as much as I can. “I hope to see you [the fans] as soon as we can. I hope to entertain you and I hope you guys enjoy me as much as I’ll enjoy you.” The length of Eze’s deal is a clear commitment to the future between club and player. A full term would see him move from a glistening starlet to being at the peak of his career, and the Greenwich-born midfielder is well aware of its significance. “[The deal] definitely shows their [Palace’s] belief in me – and I want to be here, I want to play, I want to do as well as I can for this club and it’s a brilliant opportunity. “It was the plan that was set out for me and what they’ve said about me and it’s the most in-line with what I feel about myself. For me, that’s the most important thing – more than ‘what the club is’ or whatever. I think the plan they have for me and where they see me, that’s what it is. “It’s the position they want me to play, their goals, where they want to be, where they want to push, what they want to become, how they see me fitting in that system… The style of football they want to play suits me. It’s perfect for me. It’s a great opportunity and a great place to come.” FROM GRASS TO GRACE Eze spent his early years in football moving between various academies, starting at Arsenal, then Fulham and Reading, before eventually settling down with Millwall. At the Lions, Eze’s free-flowing and attacking football didn’t suit the club’s style at the time, and so he was let go in 2016. He was trialled at teams across England – including Sunderland, Bristol City and Swansea City – but had begun to prepare for life away from football when a chance at QPR arose. A regular in the south London cages as a youngster, the teenager captured the Hoops’ attention with his intricate ability and started on his path to a professional debut in August 2016. Eze’s career moved swiftly at QPR, and just five months after signing, the teenager made his first-team bow in the FA Cup against Blackburn Rovers. Frustratingly, he was forced from the pitch in the 18th-minute with an injury, but wouldn’t have to wait long to secure regular professional football. Eze embarked on a half-season loan to the Chairboys in August 2017, making his first appearance as a substitute in a 0-0 draw with Newport County. From there, he became a key figure in their eventual promotion to League One – netting five goals from 22 appearances in all competitions. In one stand-out game, the attacking midfielder bagged a nine-minute brace against Cambridge United. This secured the win in a 3-1 victory, with his first effort – a half-volley from outside the box – being nominated for League Two Goal of the Month. His other goals came against Cheltenham Town, Crawley Town and Yeovil Town. Upon Eze’s return to QPR, Wanderers manager Gareth Ainsworth said: “He’s been outstanding. He’s played a huge part in us winning some games and he’s been that spark when we’ve needed him. He’s still got a few bits to refine in his game but he’s got everything to be a top, top player.” Eze returned to QPR, his parent club, in January 2018 and made 17 appearances in all competitions for former Palace manager, Ian Holloway. His first goal for the west Londoners came against Sunderland in a single-goal victory and then his second was in a 4-1 triumph over Norwich City. Having just turned 20, these performances earned Eze a three-year contract in summer 2018, the same month he received the No.10 shirt and a pivotal role in QPR’s side. In 2018/19, the Greenwich-born talent featured an impressive 46 times in all competitions. His ability earned him a call-up to the England Under-20 squad in October 2018, making his debut in a 2-1 win over Italy.