Coalition of Civil Society Organizations, have strongly condemned the alleged plan by the 9th Senate to pass the social media bill despite its widespread rejection by Nigerians. Addressing a press briefing in Abuja, the Co-Convener, Centre for Liberty, Adebayo Raphael, cautioned the Senate against hiding behind the COVID-19 issue and other national issues and pass the bill without delay. He said that passing the Social Media Bill in such an underhanded manner would not only mean that the Senate is unwilling to listen to Nigerians, but also that it is willing to be an intransigent enabler of tyranny. Raphael said: “It is a fact; we know that the said bill was overwhelmingly rejected by Nigerians across all the fields of endeavor during the public hearing on the bill. “Our expectation following the public hearing on the said bill was a swift and decisive death of the Bill, considering it will not only constrain citizens’ right to freedom of expression, but also assault and shrink the limitlessness of our civic spaces. The fact that the bill is still alive in the Senate is enough to heighten our suspicion that there may be a sinister motive to pass the bill despite its rejection by Nigerians. “Again, the threat of the Social Media Bill becoming law in Nigeria is made real when we remember how the incumbent government passed the Company and Allied Matters Act (CAMA) 2020, and the Review Broadcasting Code, inserting nefarious clauses and sections into both, thereby bringing universal freedoms known Alto democracy under conspicuous and unchallenged threat in Nigeria. “As Civil Society Organizations, we have always considered ourselves to be progressive partners of the National Assembly, and in this case, the Nigerian Senate. It is therefore, worthy of note that Nigerians will not accept a surreptitious passage of the Social Media Bill, and such a move will drastically plunge our faith and confidence in the 9th Senate to the lowest nadir.” While expressing optimism that the Senate, having denied plans to secretly pass the bill would not turn around to betray Nigerians, Raphael also urged Senator Opeyemi Bamidele’s Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters to accept the overwhelming rejection of the obnoxious bill by Nigerians, and forward a report on same to the Committee of the whole. “We equally want to strongly recommend that, to reassure all Nigerians that there is no sinister agenda to pass the social media bill, the Nigerian Senate must swiftly kill the social media bill and focus on the other legislative matters like Electoral Reforms and Constitutional Review, among others, that are of utmost importance to our beloved country,” he added.