SIR: Outwardly, Nasarawa State governor, Abdullahi Sule of, a man of average muscular physique, looks like someone who would not hurt a fly, someone in whose mouth butter would not melt so to speak. But at the commissioning of the rejuvenated Press Centre at Government House on Shendam Road, Lafia, last week, the governor practically read out the riot act to media practitioners. He warned that his government would “not condone undue denationalization and falsehood”.  He remarked that while his administration “cherished objective and constructive criticism” as it helped to refine it, he however, advised journalists to adhere to ethics of the profession in their reportage. He outlined the government’s own support to the media since he assumed office, among which is furnishing of the state’s Nigeria Union of Journalist (NUJ) complex on Makurdi  Road, Lafia and the organization of the state’s first media award night last year. Governor Sule’s rather strong words against the media is perhaps understandable given that he has been at receiving end of at least two news reports that he considered unpalatable. First was the report quoting the governor as saying that he was not bothered by a second term. That remark set the Nasarawa political landscape and its elites abuzz. I understand that the political fallout from it somehow “rattled’ the governor. Strenuous efforts were made to refute and deny it. The other report, more recently, by an online medium alleged that the governor was among Muslim elites scheming to have the former Nasarawa State deputy governor, Silas Agara who was reportedly nominated as chairman of the National Population Commission, replaced with a Muslim. As if by coincidence, Alhaji Nurudeen Kwarra also from Nasarawa State was later announced as chairman of that commission.  The governor will tell anyone who cared that he is not the type of person in whose mould that online newspaper cast him. That he attended a Roman Catholic Mission school in his native Gudi town; that he was accommodated by a Catholic priest when he first landed in America for studies, awaiting his scholarship fund from the government; that he had mingled with and had good working relations with Christians throughout his working life; that he has a lot of respect for Christians as fellow human beings created equal as others of whatever creed by the Almighty. When asked what disciplinary actions the governor would take against journalists deemed guilty of falsehood or sensationalism in their reportage since he says he would not “condone” such, the governor’s chief press secretary, Malam Ibrahim Adra Adra said that the kernel of the governor’s message to journalists is that they should abide by journalism’s code of ethics. Governors and others can take a cue from Vice President Yemi Osinbajo who wrote to the newspapers that carried offending reports on him, tendering evidence to show that they are false and threatening to sue them in court. All five affected newspapers retracted the story with apology to wit. Editors and other gate-keepers in the media should of course, acquaint themselves with the law of libel to avoid litigations against their newspapers while our judiciary should speed up trial of criminal cases as defamation of character, etc. They should not drag on literally for ages. 