Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki has said the expectations of the people have become all-time high, following his victory in the September 19 poll. The governor promised that he and other officials of his administration would have no choice than to meet the people’s expectaions. He announced the dissolution of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) campaign council for the last governorship election, praising its members for their dedication to duty, which he said accounted for the election victory. Also, at a meeting on Monday with members of Edo State Campaign Council of his party at the Government House in Benin, the state capital, thanked them for doing a great job. He said: “We have so much to do between now and the day of inauguration (November 12, 2020). The country and the world are watching Edo. They want to see how we will manage our victory and what we will do with it. The expectations of Edo people are at an all-time high and we have no choice but to deliver. “What I can promise the people is that I will provide the leadership and I will be fair, objective and transparent in dealing with issues.” The governor described members of the state’s PDP campaign council as miracle workers. “You are all miracle workers as far this election is concerned. If you sit back and reflect on our journey so far, the time, resources and the victory that was finally achieved, you will agree with me that all those who contributed to the achievements are all miracle workers. “I joined the PDP less than 100 days ago, put together this team and everyone went to work and got the result, because we were all committed to our job. We moved round the 192 wards across Edo State and I am not surprised at the result we have achieved. “This meeting was organised first to thank you all for your efforts and to formally dissolve the campaign council now that we have got victory in the just-concluded governorship election in Edo State. I also urge you to try and document what happened, because we have made history,” he said. 