Ondo Governor and candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Oluwarotimi Akeredolu has lambasted his predecessor, Dr. Olusegun Mimiko and candidate of the Zenith Labour Party(ZLP) Hon Agboola Ajayi. Akeredolu, who spoke in a television interview monitored by The Nation, said some people were never qualified to be Ondo Governor. The Governor said the combination of Mimiko and Agboola as third force in the state does not make him nervous. Akeredolu said his works would give him victory at the polls. He said he had treated Mimiko fairly According to him: “Does Mimiko and Agboola affect me, does it make me nervous? No, I am confident of my victory by the grace of God. “They were never my allies. I ran against Mimiko in 2012. I have treated Mimiko fairly. No other Governor has treated his predecessor as I treated Mimiko. “Mimiko has his own traits. Let us leave this, If Agboola, with what he did, found solace in Mimiko, it is because they share the same trait. People who are prone to betray others must come together. They will want to work together. Mimiko is not a political force anywhere. “He left office and wanted to run for senate. He didn’t even win his local government. He is a spent force. “This man is dead politically and probably he needed resurrection and support. “Who is Mimiko in the politics of Ondo State today? He is finished politically and Agboola cannot resuscitate him. “Third force doesn’t exist. They exist only in your news media. There is no problem. We are prepared. Our work will speak for us. Our work will give us victory. “We are not a gathering of betrayals. Mimiko worked with Adefarati, did he not betray him? Tinubu and all of us supported him to become Governor, did he not betray us? ‘’He cannot be my allied. I only brought Agboola to balance power in the state. Tell me who can be in one political party in three months. He is an inconsistent person. “I respect Jegede. He is a gentleman. I have nothing against him. He is entitled to run for the office of a governor. He worked for Mimiko and he was betrayed. ‘’Jegede is a serious minded person unlike people who I know are not qualified to govern this state. Jegede is learned practitioner. He is well read Ondo State is not for neophyte, nincompoops.”