 SIXTEEEN states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) on Monday received 778 women and children said to be family members of Boko Haram fighters. At the handover in Lafia, the Nasarawa State capital, the Army described the women as the “real terorists” and “vipers” who indoctrinated new abductees, and kept the proceeds of their husbands’ nefarious activities. The states that received the 778 persons included Niger, Kano, Katina, Sokoto, Kebbi, Kogi, Kaduna, Bauchi, Borno, Adamawa, Zamfara, Nasarawa, Jigawa, Gombe, Kwara, Yobe. Commandant of Army’s Four Special Forces Command, Maj.-Gen. Moundhey Gadzama Ali, who conducted the handover, said, “These women and children are the real terrorists as they are the people that indoctrinate the newly-kidnapped, and bankers of the spoils of kidnapping and armed robbery acts of their husbands. “Recovered from the houses of these vipers are improvised explosives devices (IEDs), ammunition and materials for producing rockets. “Intelligence has proved in recent times that all these explosives were prepared to cause mayhem in the FCT and make governance difficult at the seat of power, Abuja.” The commandant said the women and children were members of a new terrorist group, Daru Salaam, which had been taken over by Boko Haram. Ali said the threat the group posed informed the  Chief of Army Staff’s directive that four special forces destroy the terrorist camps. That military operation carried out with other formations flushed out the bandits from their camps in Nasarawa and Kogi forests and hills, Ali said. He said Boko Haram terrorists have for years been using those locations as bases for kidnapping, banditry and armed robbery. Nasarawa Governor Abdullahi Sule represented by his deputy, Dr. Emmanuel Akabe, thanked the Army and other security agencies for their efforts. Niger State Deputy Governor Ahmed Mohammed Getso, and the Special Adviser to Kogi State governor on Security Matters, Dory Jerry, represented their governors at the handover ceremony. In Katsina and Zamfara states, troops of Operation Sahel Sanity killed several bandits, arrested others and rescued 10 kidnapped victims, Acting Director, Defence Media Operations, Brigadier General, Bernard Onyeuko said yesterday in a statement. One of those arrested in Zamfara was a suspected bandit informant, he said, adding that several weapons were recovered from the bandits. Those arrested were undergoing interrogation, he said. The Chief of Army Staff Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai hailed the troops for destroying the terrorists’ camps, Acting Director, Army Public Relations, Col. Sagir Musa said in a statement yesterday.   