 The Lagos East Senatorial candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Mr. Tokunbo Abiru has said he will help to achieve a special status for Lagos State. He gave this assurance on Friday when he met with the APC party stalwarts and members of the Kosofe constituency which comprises of Kosofe, Agboyi-Ketu, Ikosi-Isheri Local Government Areas respectively. The former Group Managing Director, Polaris Bank Limited, who emerged as the APC’s consensus candidate last September 3, 2020, said top on his agenda is to ensure that Lagos truly attains its special status. This, he said, becomes necessary because of the cosmopolitan nature of the state which attracts a lot of people across the country because of the opportunities. Abiru, who addressed a motley crowd of party faithful and community leaders drawn from faith-based associations, market associations, student union bodies, civil society groups, said, “My ultimate goal is to offer quality representation and I will be playing three leading roles by serving Nigeria, Lagos East as well as Lagos State.”  “With a population size of over 20million people, Lagos State has a pride of place in Nigeria and remains the economic, financial and entertainment hub of the country. This is why Lagos should continue to attract support from the federal government,” he stressed, adding that one way to achieve the special status for Lagos State is to forge a synergy of cooperation with seniors representing Lagos at the National Assembly including Senator Oluremi Tinubu, Senator Solomon Adeola (Yayi). Speaking earlier, Omooba Olumuyiwa Sosanya, a member of the Governor Advisory Council, GAC, the highest making organ of the party in the state, while delivering the welcome address, urged party members to ensure that APC candidates in the Lagos East Senatorial District as well as Kosofe Constituency 2 in the October 31 bye-elections in the state emerge victorious. “I implore you to rally support for Tokunbo Abiru and Obafemi Saheed by going all out to canvass votes for them. The two candidates have what it takes to deliver democratic dividends to the constituents,” he emphasised. It may be recalled that the Lagos East Senatorial District and Kosofe II State Constituency seats became vacant following deaths of Senator Bayo Oshinowo and Tunde Buraimoh, who died of Covid-19 complications in June and July, respectively. Echoing similar sentiments, Vice Chairman, Lagos APC, Chief Kaoli Olusanya while formally presenting the candidates to Kosofe constituents, said they were the best choice and were deserving of all the support, urging that this should reflect in the outcome of the election results.  