Relief on Wednesday came the way of residents of border communities such as Gbenro, Isashi and Akute in Ogun State, as the government assured them of its readiness to build the long abandoned Gbenro-Isashi-Akute road in Ifo Local Government. Governor Dapo Abiodun, addressing reporters after inspecting the ongoing construction of Panseke-Adigbe road in Abeokuta, said the Abeokuta road, though awarded by the last administration, was abandoned, hence the need to revisit it. “As we are working here, similar projects are also ongoing at Elite road, Obantoko, road, Lafenwa-Rounda and other access roads in the state capital. We have to build befitting infrastructure for our state capital. “We are also working on the Epe-Ijebu-Ode road, township roads in Ijebu-Ode, Ijebu-North, Sagamu as well as Ilaro-Owode road. We have completed two roads at Ota. We have also listed another set of roads such as the Gbenro-Isase-Akute road in Ifo Local Government. They are the next set of roads we are going to do,” the governor said. The Gbenro-Isashi-Akute road has been abandoned in the last 20 years and residents have been traumatised by the bad condition of the road for over two decades. Abiodun described road infrastructure as a catalyst for socio-economic development. He said his administration would prioritise the issue of roads across the state, adding that the Panseke-Adigbe road was one of the roads. “We see road as an essential component of our five pillars because it is important for us to ensure that people coming to live, work and do business in Ogun State are able to do so without going through the pain of hazardous roads. “This road was awarded by the last administration, but was not appropriately funded. Last year when I came here, I promised the residents that we will complete it. The contractor has started to asphalt the road,” the governor said. Addressing residents of the area, Governor Abiodun said he came to see the level and quality of work done so far, adding that any project with economic value, where the people’s money was involved, would be completed. The governor told the people that the Kuforiji Olubi road has been awarded for rehabilitation, adding that the contractor has promised that 300 metres of the road would be asphalted every two weeks. 