A Chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and former governorship candidate in Imo State, Uche Nwosu, has urged the United States to name and ‘shame’ fraudulent politicians affected by the Visa ban to serve as a deterrent to others Nwosu, who contested the 2019 governorship election, also called for the inclusion of officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), who aid politicians to manipulate the electoral process in the sanction. The APC Chieftain, who said he was a victim of INEC manipulations, argued that it is impossible for politicians to rig elections without the connivance of INEC officials. According to him, “the recent Visa ban slammed on some politicians by the US is a welcomed development. Going by own experience, I commend the US for the action but it is not just the politicians, the INEC Officials, and the politicians they send to conduct elections”. ” Most of the REC are the problem, they collude with the politicians to rig elections, so they should focus their tentacles on the REC and the University Professors that they engage to facilitate the fraud”. He maintained that all the INEC officials that participated in the 2019 general election should be replaced to protect the electoral process. On the Edo State governorship election, Nwosu, enjoined INEC officials, security operatives, and other stakeholders to allow the people to elect a governor of their choice, adding that, “election should not be a do or die affair”. In his words, “The US, the United Nations, and others should focus on the Edo election because it is generating serious tension. They should identify and name those people threatening to compromise the election, it is not enough to just say that you have banned them. The Inspector-General of Police, the Military are equal to the task but the people should also protect their votes. At the end of the day what the people need is the candidate of their choice”. On the chances of the APC in the election, Nwosu stated that “don’t forget that there are voters in Edo State that don’t belong to any political party, so the most important thing is to elect a governor that can perform in the State.”