A woman, Fausat Ayeni-Ibidokun has appealed to Lagos Police Commissioner Hakeem Odumosu to bring to justice persons who blinded her son, Sunday Olamilekan Ibidokun. Ayeni-Ibidokun told reporters that members of the Aiye cult attacked and blinded her son because he refused to join them. She said the incident happened in December 2016, during a street carnival which her son attended in celebration of the yuletide. According to the woman, despite filing a complaint at Ketu Police Division, the police have not arrested the suspected cultists. “My son went for the carnival in celebration of the yuletide and was attacked by members of that dreadful cult, and blinded. “I reported the issue at Ketu police station. I kept going to the station to seek justice but was frustrated by an officer. “Anytime I went to the station, I was told that the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) was not on seat and that was how I left the matter to God,” she said. According to the woman, her demand for justice now followed information she received recently that the alleged cult leader in Ketu was admitted and receiving treatment at General Hospital Gbagada. “On hearing this information I rushed to the media to tell my story again and hopefully reopen the case for my son to get justice against the criminals who blinded him,” she said. “I am appealing to the Commissioner of Police to please use his office to bring to book these criminals who have been wreaking havoc in Ketu axis in the past decade.” Narrating his ordeal, Sunday said he and one of the cultists were neighbours, adding that they invited him to join them, but he turned them down. “They decided to punish me and use me to set an example to others who refuse to join them,” he said. “I was admitted at Bolakunmi Hospital, Ketu for two weeks when the unfortunate incident happened before I was referred to Ikorodu General Hospital, then LUTH and many other hospitals. “I got tired of my parents spending money without any progress and I advised them to stop. I used to see before but now everything has gone dark. “Sometimes when I remember when I used to have my sight it pains me a lot that some group of people just took it away from me. “The challenges of getting things done as a blind person are enormous but I thank God for the gift of life and I remain hopeful that the perpetrators will be brought to book. “I appeal to the Commissioner of Police to please help me bring these criminals to justice,” he said.