Chidi Udengwu Jr. is a 22-year-old energetic Nigerian basketball player, who was born and raised in Diamond Bar California. He hails from a family of three, two males and a female. His eldest brother Nnadi is 24, his sister Chika (23) is the second born, while Chidi is the third born. Chidi graduated from Idaho State University, United States. As a young basketball player in the University, which is a Division 1 school, he signed with an agent and got his name into the 2020 NBA Draft. His ambition is to work really hard and plans on inspiring athletes and children all over the world. He was doubted and was not given much opportunity at the early stage of his career, but he took that as a stepping stone which motivated him and got him much farther than everyone that was believed in. Chidi can be described as a team player and a very hard working chap to play with in a team. He has the most energy any young basketballer can possess, he’s like a machine, he just doesn’t stop. He started off playing basketball around the age of five. Chidi’s high school career was not the typical high school career for someone who is en route to the NBA. He did not make the varsity team until his senior year. After graduating he went to a prep school for one year, and still did not have any offers. Several people told Chidi that his career was OVER. He went to SBVC (Junior College) for his first two years. After working extremely hard every single day for two years straight like a maniac. Not only did he begin to draw national attention being the starting point guard on the #1 team in California Junior College basketball, but also ended his second season picking up several Division 1 offers. After Chidi was benched at Idaho state during his first year, he was going to transfer schools, people still did not think that Chidi was meant for Division 1. Instead of leaving he stayed, a new coach came in, and it was night and day for Chidi’s Senior Season. He went from being banished to the end of the bench to being a starer and the captain of the team. After a strong senior season he declared for the NBA Draft. Chidi’s hometown of Diamond Bar supports him a lot. Chidi in an interview said, “I just want to say that I am grateful for all blessings that have been granted and put my way when everyone thought that I was down and out. My advice to all of the children and basketball players that are growing up and aspiring to play at the highest level is simple. I would tell them to bet on yourself no matter what and to always aim for the stars, so if you fall, you’ll land on the clouds. Doubt kills more dreams than failure ever will.” Chidi Udengwu is also a talented Vlogger, who spends most of his time outside the basketball court, creating youtube videos. it is only right to call him a handful. a goal getter and a focused youngman that has a strong determination to succeed. He recently made a podcast called, “ChitChatWithChidi” where he has been taking the youtube world by storm. Subscribe to ChitChatWithChidi for weekly updates and new exciting videos!  