The youths, it is often said, are the leaders of tomorrow. But the veracity of that saying is in doubt. Sadly,there would be no hope for the nation if the youth do  not wake up and take their future into their hands. There will be no tomorrow, if our leaders do not leave a legacy of good governance for us. Nigeria is blessed with agile and active citizens but the dwindling fortunes of our economy has had a negative impact on youths. In the education sector, Nigeria is lacking. The system which is meant to train for a better tomorrow looks faulty. The majority of the students are yet to figure out why they are in school in the first instance and so many just attend tertiary institutions for the certificates.. Not to mention that lecturers are underpaid and, therefore, don’t go the extra mile to educate students as they should but would rather go on strike for months without being bothered. In a developed society, citizens have access to free tertiary education, bursary, and those who don’t, have access to financial packages, get assistance from notable personalities. Although, some individuals are trying their best to assist the helpless but our leaders are seen flying their children abroad to learn and later go there to celebrate their graduations while no foreigner would fly in to study here because of our poor education sector. However, many youths after many attempts of gaining admission and luck shine on them with peer pressure and the bad gang, soon fall prey to cultist activities. This becomes burden on them for the rest of their time as dealing in cultist acts is tantamount to putting one’s life on the line each time their activities are carried out. Youths are usually used by corrupt politicians as thugs to stir up trouble during political and electoral activities such as ballot seizure/stealing, political persuasions, and intimidation, etc. They put their dear lives on the line for those corrupt leaders who would not be shaken if at all they lost their lives in the process. Why they jealousy guide their children who are mostly out of the country during those periods Youths in Nigeria are claimed to be more than half of the 200 plus million Nigeria and with reports from the National Bureau of Statistics the unemployment rate among the youth at 65 percent Many struggled through their tertiary days with hopes to find a valid and sensible job which they would in turn use to fend for themselves and their family but so is not the case, as after graduating, many more are left to deal with job searches and the bribe-infested officers in charge of recruiting. However, the lack of employment opportunities has led  many to involve in some degrading activities such as kidnapping, cyber thefts. The fraudulent act has become prevalent in Nigeria as youths who engage in fraudulent activities become rich overnight and this is most common among graduates and undergraduates. In addition, the issue of drug and substance abuse is still a prevalent social ill among the youth. It is true that drugs are used for beneficent therapeutic purposes, effective substance for good health, but they are being abused by people, especially youths. They use it illegally and unlawfully, thus it becomes harmful to the body. It is therefore recommended that parents should take good care of their children during the teenage age. Also, the invention of social media apps like WhatsApp, Facebook, Twitter is for users to connect with the world. But social media use has been abused in the country. Some lazy youths are just looking for avenue to laugh about sex stories to read, celeb news to view, who to criticise in the comment section. However, some say youths need  sensitisation on the importance of  participating in governance but does government believe in them? Youths who find themselves in politics today are those whose parents or guardians are already established political figures who then use their influence to elevate them. So, how then can a vibrant youth who’s a son of nobody that knows nobody becomes somebody  be the leader of tomorrow? Today, there are many talented youths who are still striving to survive but do not have the right connection to make headway. Those who are industrious enough to innovate and create wealth are having their businesses taxed to death. The future of Nigeria is what we make of it today, so what future do we want to see?