Aged ten, Pernille Harder, inspired by her elder sister Louise’s passion for writing, penned an essay. “I wrote how my life would be ten years later: I was the best in the world, a professional footballer in Germany. I knew what my dreams were.” She awarded herself a grade A. She chuckles at the memory. It is a fitting anecdote, representative of the confluence of factors – her admiration for her older sister, also a keen footballer, as well as her unshakeable self-belief – that have put her among the world’s most renowned female players. She will not call herself the best yet, merely saying that she is “getting closer every season”, but she is “sure it will happen at some point”. In the interim Harder is a bona fide superstar. Her move to Chelsea from Wolfsburg, announced on Tuesday, made her the most expensive female footballer in history and the latest high-profile arrival to the Women’s Super League. “The English league has developed a lot over the past years, and, in this moment, might be the strongest in Europe – or maybe the world,” Harder says. “Of course I want to be in that league. This move is just perfect for me.” The goals alone –  103 of them in 113 Wolfsburg matches   – justify a price tag thought to be in the region of £250,000, and she has scored so many that, she confesses, she can’t remember all of them. Harder’s parents were keen footballers – her mother Annie a centre back, her father a midfielder – in her hometown of Ikast, Denmark. “My mum was my coach for the local girls’ team until I was 13,” Harder recalls. “It was natural my mum was the coach because we were a football family. She loved to do it. She was good at it, has a good personality to take care of young kids. She could be relaxed and strict.” Harder’s trophies and medals reside in her bedroom at her parents’ home. The young Harder was a prolific, snake-hipped forward with whippet-like pace, habitually watching videos of Marta, widely considered the greatest female player of all time, on YouTube. As young as five, Harder’s natural talent was evident and she outpaced and out-thought her peers. “When I was little, I dribbled past lots of players and then put the ball in the goal,” she says. Harder’s sister “could have been professional” but chose university instead. Shortly after Pernille, 16, was scouted for the Denmark national team. “I was super nervous. I was like: ‘Oh, my God – I can’t believe I’m doing this.’ I was really shy when we were not on the field. Didn’t dare say anything. I was maybe five years younger than the youngest girl. But on the pitch, I didn’t think about where I was.” She marked her debut with a hat-trick that did not betray any inhibition and her playing style is similarly instinctive. “You think about what you have to do to get to the space where the ball will come, but the thing is that you don’t think too much in the moment,” she says. “When the ball is coming, just shoot.”