Ebikaboere, the wife of detained Bayelsa State Governorship Candidate of the Liberation Movement (LM) in the last election, Vijah Opuama, has expressed concerns over the safety of her husband. Opuama was arrested on 15th August 2020 at the premises of the Bayelsa State Governorship Tribunal sitting in Abuja during the judgment on the case he filed seeking the disqualification of the Deputy Governor of Bayelsa State, Lawrence Ewrujakpor. The Federal High Court sitting in Abuja earlier ordered the Inspector-General of Police to bring Opuama to court on September 2 but was surprised that the police failed to heed the order. The court presided over by Justice Taiwo, renewed the order, and gave the IG the last chance to unfailingly produce Vijah on September 7. But Ebikaboere said she became scared of her husband’s life on Friday when armed policemen took him away from his cell under the guise of taking her to the IG’s office. She said since 12noon on Friday when he was taken away on handcuffs till Saturday, the whereabouts of Opuama had remained unknown. She urged the IG not to let any harm come to her husband insisting that Opuama was not a criminal and should not be treated as one. She said: “On Friday afternoon, the police came and took Vijah Opuama out of the station on the pretence that IGP wanted to speak with him at Force Headquarters. “They handcuffed him and went out with him. We have made all efforts to find out where they took Vijah all to no avail. He is not in Force Headquarters and has not been returned to the Police station up to now. “The purported Area Court Zuba the police claimed he was taken to sat that day between 9 am to 11 am and heard only three cases which did not include that of Vijah. Incidentally, one of Vijah’s Lawyer was also in that area court throughout Friday and saw all the cases that were heard and there was no case like that of Vijah that was mentioned. Where is Vijah? “The Federal High Court has already ordered the IGP to produce the Vijah in Court on Monday. We are apprehensive that they have taken Vijah out of the station to go and harm him. I am scared of his life. Where is my husband? ” I am begging the IG under whose custody, my husband is being detained not to let anything harm come the way of my husband. He has done nothing wrong apart from fighting for justice in Bayelsa.”