Carlo Ancelotti proved his tactical superiority over Tottenham Hotspurs’ manager, Jose Mourinho when his boys disgraced the Portuguese coach with a 1-0 victory to pocket the maximum points at stake in the Premier League tie. Everton fans will forever be grateful to Dominic Calvert-Lewin’s 55th minute after the first 45th minute failed to produce goals. Super Eagles midfielder, Alex Iwobi, was not included in Everton’s squad for their opening day clash against Tottenham Hotspur. The reason for his omission was not known but it likely has to do with the increased competition in the Toffees team. Everton manager, Carlo Ancelotti, started all of his three new signings, James Rodriguez, Allan, and Abdoulaye Doucoure with all three players playing a role in the Toffees win over Jose Mourinho’s men. Everton had the better chances and should have taken the lead in the opening ten minutes when Richarlison was presented with an opportunity, but he fluffed his lines. Calvert-Lewin gave Hugo Lloris no chance after connecting with Lucas Digne’s in-swinging free-kick to earn the Toffees a first win over Spurs since 2012. In a high-octane encounter, Jordan Pickford produced two excellent saves to keep out Dele Alli and Matt Doherty, who was making his debut after signing from Wolves. But with new signing James Rodriguez in excellent form, Everton fully deserved their win after a hard-working performance. Everton should have taken the lead in the early stages but Richarlison lost his footing after rounding Spurs keeper Hugo Lloris. After Everton’s disappointing 12th place last season, their lowest position since 2003-04, Carlo Ancelotti has embarked on an ambitious rebuilding job, specifically targeting the midfield. As well as Rodriguez, Brazil’s Allan and Watford’s Abdoulaye Doucoure have also been drafted in to provide energy and creativity in the engine room – and all three gave Ancelotti huge encouragement for the season ahead. Rodriguez, in particular, stood out, with his quality passing setting up good chances. The Toffees could – and should – have won by a more handsome margin against a static Tottenham side short of ideas. Rodriguez twice picked out Richarlison after half-time but the Brazilian, who wasted a great chance in the first half, was unable to punish Spurs. Allan, who played under Ancelotti at Napoli, was calm and composed as Everton looked rejuvenated after a poor 2019-20. Pickford’s saves to keep out Alli and Doherty were crucial with Ancelotti delighted with a clean-sheet win against a side that finished 10 points and six places above them last season.  