The All Progressives Congress (APC) on Sunday flayed former President Olusegun Obasanjo and former Vice President Atiku Abubakar for contributing to the destruction and erosion of the socio-economic values of the country while in the saddle. Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the APC Yekini Nabena, in a statement, said: “It is baffling that the same political actors that midwifed and institutionalised the national rot, corruption, impunity and eroding of our value systems are the same characters posing as voices on the way forward in our national life. How ironic! “Former President Olusegun Obasanjo could start with telling us where the electricity is, despite $16billion he spent on the power sector. Obasanjo’s deputy, Alh. Atiku Abubakar, should account for the privatisation exercise under his watch, which saw national assets sold off to friends and cronies with no benefit to the country. “Successive Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) administrations can also start by accounting for the trillions stolen from our national coffers in the guise of a fraudulent fuel subsidy regime.” The ruling APC noted that the opposition and it’s leaders, in exercising their rights, have in the past raised issues through skewed letters, spew empty, hypocritical, tongue-in-cheek and two-faced economic magic models in line with their Dubai meeting strategies. The governing party’ maintained that the APC led administration is committed to “walking the talk with verifiable projects and people-centred interventions that is uplifting Nigerians.” APC further noted that both PDP and “these political actors probably only listen to their own voices because Nigerians have long stopped taking them seriously as they simply lack the antecedents and moral credentials to guide Nigeria and Nigerians to the path of prosperity and progress. “Instead of the “do or die” lingo Obasanjo and the PDP introduced to our electioneering, votes are beginning to count as our elections improves steadily. Their abandoned projects, which constituted drainpipes on national resources, are being completed by this administration.”