 The National Directorate of Employment said it had completed the training of 500 youths from across Ekiti State on how to prepare profitable feasibility report and business plans. According to a statement yesterday, the scheme undertaken by the Directorate in collaboration with the Central Bank of Nigerian (CBN) took place in all the three senatorial districts of the state. They are Ekiti South (Ikere-Ekiti), Ekiti North (Oye-Ekiti) and Ekiti Central (Ado-Ekiti). The  Coordinator, Alao Babatunde, said Ekiti South and  North had 150 trainees each while 200 were picked from Ekiti Central . Babatunde, said  the youths were tutored in business risk analysis, record keeping, cost of product and service, financial planning, customer relation and project evaluation. He noted that the mandate of the NDE was to fight unemployment and create jobs, adding that President Muhammadu Buhari was resolute to banish poverty through programmes and sustained support for federal agencies.  He stressed that the entrepreneurship training was purposefully designed to train prospective entrepreneurs on how to effectively prepare profitable and bankable feasibility report and business plans. He noted that partcipants who were able to prepare workable feasibility studies and business plan which were in tune with extant needs of the people would be shortlisted to access the CBN/NIRSAL AGSMEIS loan scheme. Babatunde, who said the training should be seen as an instrument for poverty eradication, wealth creation and employability, urged the trainees to be appreciative, diligent and creative with the skills to be acquired in order to cope with the existing realities in the societies The Ekiti State Director General Bureau of Employment and Productivity, Mr Lanre Ogunjobi appealed to the trainees to make use of the opportunity provided them to create wealth and become self-reliant and employer of labour. Speaking on behalf of the participants, Mr Awolaja Kayode commended NDE and the CBN/NIRSAL for initiating the programmes, saying it would help in taking away teeming youths from the unemployment pool and consequently reduce over-dependency on white collar jobs.