 Traditional rulers from Akoko South west local government area of Ondo state, have ssured the state Governor, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, SAN, of another four years. The monarchs made the disclosure why playing host to the campaign team of Akeredolu who visited the palace of the Olubaka of Oka, Oba Adebori Adeleye. During his speech, Oba Adeleye, said it behooves the residents of Ondo north Senatorial District of the state to support Akeredolu, adding that the projects of the present administration remains unprecedented. Reeling out the projects of Akeredolu-led government, the monarch stated the bridge linking Ikun and Oba community was revamped after it became a death trap for  commuters plying the environs. He further stated that Akeredolu worked tooth and nail to ensure that the state owned tertiary institution in the local government, Adekunle Ajasin University Akungba (AAUA), remains a 21st century university, noting that erstwhile administration kept Osustech at arm’s length. His words: “The governor is not an alien here in our town, he doesn’t promise what he won’t fulfill. In Akoko, he  constructed Owo to Akoko road, he  repaired the bridge at Ikun. The governor also awarded the Ikun to Idoani road, he reconstructed Ayegunle to Oke-oka road. “He revamped moribund schools, he also supported the Akoko farmers, he also resolved the crisis in the forest reserve. “We monarchs are in your support,” the monarch openly declared. Responding to the goodwill message of the monarchs, Governor Akeredolu said Akoko, Ose and Owo maintains a unique relationship, saying that he is optimistic that the monarchs will not let him down. Corroborating the aforementioned stated achievements mentioned by Oba Adeleye, Akeredolu stated that: For you to know that I show you love here in Akoko, we dualised the Ikare road. We made the Oke Alabojuto a dual carriage road. We will do more in Akoko. “If we have  good roads, our economy will skyrocket. Roads are imperative, and We will continue to cater for our farmers.” Other dignitaries, former SSG, Ifedayo Abegunde, Chief of Staff to the governor, Olugbenga Ale, Commissioner of Agriculture, Gboyega Adefarati, ranking Senator in Ondo, Hon. Ajayi Boroffice, Engr. Ade Adetimehin, Hon. Gbenga Omole, Hon. felemu Gudu, Hon Yinka Alabi, Other monarchs present were Alale of Akungba, Oba Isaac Ajimo Adeyeye, and the Onikun of Ikun.