SIR: Last Wednesday, Nigerians received a September gift from government. The Pipelines and Products Marketing Company (PPMC), a subsidiary of NNPC increased the price of petrol from N143 to N151 per litre. The Nigeria Electric Regulatory Commission (NERC), simultaneously hiked electricity tariff. Don’t ask me why the government took this bold, daring but unpopular decision. Even before it finally settled for these actions, indicators have continued to emerge that the days of subsidy will be over. Of course, many Nigerians viewed the development as wrong and untimely. For instance, since the outbreak of corona virus with its attendant grave consequences, many Nigerians have lost their means of livelihood. In the last five months, businesses have collapsed and many people have lost their jobs due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Besides, there is galloping inflation which made price of goods and services to go beyond the reach of the common man. The hikes in fuel price and electricity tariff will certainly have negative multiplier effects to the economy. Other sectors which depend on petroleum and electricity like transportation, manufacturing and small scale business may be forced to increase the prices of their services. When this happens, it is the already pauperised masses that will bear the brunt. It is believed that deregulation is the only way to unbundle the petroleum sector, to guarantee efficiency and attract foreign investors. This, of course is the truth. The main question on the lips of Nigerians is – has the government prepared palliatives to cushion the likely effects of new price regime or not? It is not debatable that Nigerians will experience rise in the cost of living in the coming months. The hike in price has come at a wrong time when international and national agencies like world poverty clock and Nigeria Bureau of Statistics continue to reel out shocking statistics of poverty in the country. It is estimated that, more than 86 million Nigerians are living below the poverty line or one dollar per day. With the removal of subsidy coupled with high inflation in the country, the poverty rate will certainly increase. Ironically, when in 2012 when the Jonathan administration attempted to remove the subsidy, the present leaders, then in opposition, resisted and protested. Today, those who promised to fix our moribund and comatose refineries within their first year in power have failed to fulfill the promise. The four refineries are not operational and yet have continued to incur losses to the tune of billions year in year out. The government should go beyond price hike rhetoric; it needs to come up with a programme to salvage the country’s battered economy.  Pambegua, Kaduna State.