A bandit kingpin, commonly known as’’ Sada’’, has willingly surrendered to troops at forwarding Operation Base at Dansadau and submitted three AK 47 rifles, one Sub Machine Gun, and two Magazines Army’s Acting Director, Media Operations Brigadier-General Bernard Onyeuko, told newsmen in a press release made available at Army Super Camp 4 in Faskari, Katsina State, that the surrendering of the bandit was as a result of intensified pressure from ‘’Operation SAHEL SANITY” He further disclosed that the bandit is being profiled for further necessary action by the civil authority. In another operation, troops conducting stop and search along Bingi road intercepted a suspected bandit: Isah Shehu, who was arrested with camouflage uniform concealed in a bag. Investigations revealed that he was a notorious bandit addressed as “Commander” by members of his group. According to Onyeuko, the bandit is currently in custody providing troops with vital information. He said ’’In the quest to root out bandits and all criminal elements in the northwest zone of the country, troops of Operation SAHEL SANITY have relentlessly doubled their efforts in this regard. The gallant troops deployed within the theatre of operation have recorded more successes against the bandits and other criminal elements in the zone’’. ‘’On 30 August 2020, following credible information on bandits’ movement with 40 cattle rustled at Kwanar Maje area, the gallant troops quickly moved in and intercepted the bandits along with Anka – Gummi road. However, on sighting the advancing troops from afar, the criminals abandoned the cattle and fled into the forest. All the rustled cattle were successfully recovered and handed back to the rightful owners’’ He also disclosed that troops deployed at Faskari in Katsina State on routine patrol came in contact with some bandits in the company of 2 women suspected to have been kidnapped and that after a hot pursuit the bandits abandoned their 2 kidnapped women who were later rescued and reunited with their families. There was also a gun duel with the bandits at Mararaban Kawaye following a tip-off that armed bandits have kidnapped 3 commuters. The troops were able to track the bandits through their withdrawal route and engaged them in a firefight which forced the bandits to abandon the kidnapped victims and fled into the bush.