Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Monday urged the electorate to vote for the All Progressives Congress (APC) standard-bearer in Ondo State, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu (SAN). The Lagos governor, who chairs the APC National Campaign Council, was in Okitipupa, Ondo South Senatorial District, where he also held consultations with monarchs and community leaders on the need to return Akeredu for a second term. He said the APC administration in Ondo State had performed creditably, stressing that the governor deserved a re-election for continuity. Brooms filled the air as a crowd of supporters trooped out to welcome the campaign train that rolled into Ikaleland. The Lagos governor also campaigned in Ore, drumming support for Akeredolu and his running mate, Lucky Ayedatiwa. According to Sanwo-Olu, the Ondo governor had delivered on his electoral promises, especially in the areas of good governance, road construction, infrastructural development and provision of dividends of democracy. Urging voters to reward Akeredolu for his services and achievements in less than four years, Sanwo-Olu hoped that the APC would win the poll. At a meeting with monarchs in Okitipupa Local Government, Sanwo-Olu implored them to support Akeredolu for the continuity of progressive services. He said the APC leadership at the national, regional and state levels is solidly behind Akeredolu’s re-election. Sanwo-Olu said: “As the chairman of the APC National Campaign Council, it is not enough for me to listen to the news about Ondo. I have come here to see things for myself and I’m very happy at what I have seen here. “When Governor Akeredolu inaugurated the Ore flyover, I wasn’t around then, but when I got there recently I was surprised. It shows Governor Akeredolu is really working. “I have come here to campaign for my brother based on the good work he has been doing and we see that he deserves another four years. APC governors in the Southwest are solidly behind him. All of us in APC are fully in support of him.” Sanwo-Olu said during a campaign at Methodist Primary School in Okitipupa that Akeredolu was ready to surpass his own expectations. He urged the electorate to vote for APC and defend their ballot. Governor Sanwo-Olu, who appreciated the support of the Ikale indigenes in Lagos for his election victory during the 2019 governorship poll, assured Ondo State people that Lagos State Government would collaborate more with Ondo State to bring development to the two states. Governor Akeredolu, addressing the traditional rulers, said it is God that has given him the ability to work in the last three years for the good people of Ondo State, especially in Okitipupa Local Government. Speaking about the perennial blackout in Ondo South Senatorial District, Governor Akeredolu promised that his administration will not relent until electricity returns fully to the area. He said the contract that will ensure the electrification project in the area will be signed tomorrow (today). Speaking on behalf of the traditional rulers, the Abodi of Ikaleland, Oba George Faduyile, said Governor Akeredolu has no problem as far as the people of Ikale are concerned, adding that the people will vote for him on October 10.