Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo has said the take-off of the Executive/Legislative/Party Consultative Committee’s assignment is the beginning of a more fruitful and cordial relationship among the government structures and the ruling party. Osinbajo spoke on Thursday at the committee’s maiden meeting at the Presidential Villa in Abuja. The Vice-President, who is the chairman of the committee which was established last week by President Muhammadu Buhari, noted that with the take-off of the consultative platform, there would be a more coordinated approach in the work of the Federal Government. In a statement by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity in the Office of the Vice-President, Mr. Laolu Akande, Prof. Osinbajo said: “I am a firm believer in the doctrine of the Separation of Powers, which is fundamental to our constitutional democracy. But our practice should be harmonious checks and balances devoid of bitterness and petty rivalry.” Addressing reporters at the end of the meeting, Senate President Ahmed Lawan said the committee would focus on how to enhance proper coordination between the party and the various arms of government to ensure effective implementation of programmes for Nigerians. He said: “Last week, we told you that the essence of this committee is to ensure optimum service delivery to Nigerians. The Legislature, the Executive arms of government and the party are all together in this committee, trying to shape very strategic means of delivering services to the Nigerians. “We want to ensure that there is good governance continuously for the entire period of our tenure and subsequent years that we will be in government, by the grace of God. “This first meeting was to look at those critical areas that we need to concentrate and focus on to ensure that we improve on how we deliver services to the Nigerians, either as an Executive arm of government or even the Legislature. Of course, the party is our veritable platform and vehicle for ensuring that this government, including all its arms, implement the party’s manifesto to the letter.” Aside Osinbajo and Lawan, other members of the committee at the meeting included Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege; House of Representatives Deputy Speaker Ahmed Idris Wase; Senate Majority Leader Yahaya Abdullahi; House Majority Leader Alhassan Ado Doguwa; the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr. Boss Mustapha; Chief of Staff to the President, Prof. Ibrahim Gambari;  the Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Caretaker Committee and Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni; and APC Caretaker Committee Secretary, Senator John James Akpan Udo-Edehe.