 The All Progressives Congress (APC), Edo State chapter, has asked the wife of Edo Deputy Governor, Mary-Ann Shaibu, to stop threatening violence ahead of the September 19 governorship election. APC, through its Media Campaign Council, yesterday in an online statement by its Chairman, Prince John Mayaki, described as unfortunate, Philip Shaibu’s wife’s threat of violence against anyone associating with APC supporters, in a viral video. It said: “Mary-Ann Shaibu spat fire, threatening to flog any woman she sees associating with a group, which is suspected to be an affiliate of the APC in Edo State. “The threat violates the rights of Edo people, which grant them freedom to associate with anyone within the ambit of the law and the recent peace deal convoked by the Oba of Benin, Ewuare II. “Mrs. Shaibu was seen in the viral video gesticulating wildly and requesting that the photographs of all women attending the meeting she was addressing be captured, vowing afterwards that anyone of them found identifying with another group would be flogged with cane. “The sense of urgency and desperation in the tone of Mrs. Shaibu, who has been making frantic, but futile moves to boost the chances of the temporary ruling party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in Edo North Senatorial District, through meetings with women, are as a result of the chill wind reaching her. “Although, the women openly supported her to enjoy the pleasures they could derive, she realised they secretly intend to vote for APC’s governorship candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu.” APC urged members of the party and the teeming supporters to massively vote for Ize-Iyamu on September 19, to ensure good governance from November 12 this year.  Mrs. Shaibu has refuted the allegation levelled against her that she vowed to flog women. Speaking through the Senior Special Assistant to the Deputy Governor on Media, Mr. Benjamin Atu, she said: “I was shocked that the APC governorship candidate could seek to build a bridge where there are no rivers. They have conveniently avoided my good leadership in taking care of women to spin lies. Having failed in their campaign of calumny against my husband, they have shifted to me with their lies, distortion of facts to divert attention from my unassailable credentials for good leadership. “I’ve established two women groups for more than six years now, which I have been empowering. “These women groups are my personal pet projects, which I took as a social responsibility even when my husband was a lawmaker. It’s a pet project group and not a political association. My meeting was my usual meeting and not a political event. “I have impacted on the lives of women through this group. Edo North women are available for any researcher to investigate my claims. The names of these groups are Women on the Move and Market Women Association. “What happened was that when I had my usual in-house meeting with each of these groups, I discovered that the same person whose name was written in Women on the Move, the same name was also found in Market Women Association.” “This issue was raised by the women themselves during our last get-together in a family atmosphere. I told them that the duplication of names of beneficiaries should be stopped. That if I see any name duplicated, I will flog the person. “These are women of worth. How can I flog them?”