Governors of the 36 states have resolved their Attorneys- General and Commissioners of Justice should engage in a thorough analysis of the controversial National Water Resources Bill 2020 and related provisions before taking a joint position on the issue. They took the position at the 17th teleconference meeting of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) on Wednesday after a presentation by Minister of Water Resources, Engineer Suleiman Hussein Adamu on the Bill and related issues. According to a communiqué issued at the end of the meeting, which was made available on Thursday by the NGF’s secretariat, “the minister emphasised that the basic philosophy behind the Bill is to integrate water resources management in the country by bringing all laws related to water resources management into one consolidated code. “He noted that the new Bill is consistent with the Land Use Act, and will promote equitable development, management, use and conservation of Nigeria’s surface and groundwater resources.“ After listening to the minister, the governors, according to the communiqué signed by NGF’s Chairman, Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State, commended the Minister for taking an integrated approach on water resource management. They “resolved that the proposed Bill and other relevant laws including the River Basins Development Authorities Act 2004; the Natural Water Resources Act 2004; and the Nigeria Hydrological Resources Act 2004 will be reviewed by their Attorneys General and Executive Councils of States after which a common position of States will be presented to Water Resources Minister.” The Governors also resolved to schedule a more intensive session on economic management with their Commissioners of Finance and Budget and Planning following a presentation by a member of the Presidential Economic Advisory Council (PEAC), Mr. Bismarck Rewane on the state of the economy. Rewane had, in his presentation, highlighted the deteriorating economic condition in the country as a result of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and called for an informed response from governments to steer the country to a v-shaped economic recovery in 2021. The NGF commended the World Bank for facilitating ongoing activities geared towards accelerating the uptake of the COVID-19 Action Recovery and Economic Stimulus (CARES) program during the COVID-19 period and resolved to meet with the Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget, and National Planning on the terms of the programme. The World Bank Country Director, Mr. Shubham Chaudhuri, in the company of the Bank’s Lead Specialist on the Nigeria CARES Program, Prof. Foluso Okunmadewa, had, at the meeting, provided NGF’s members with an update on the Nigeria COVID CARES Programme for Results.