 The Iposu Chieftaincy  Family in Epe Local Government Area of Lagos State has decried the persistent threat to their lives from land grabbers despite a November 12, 1982 Supreme Court judgment, affirming their ownership of the landed property. The judgment followed that of the Lagos Division of Court of Appeal delivered in 1978, affirming that of the lower court delivered by Justice Ademola Adeoba in 1974. They are, therefore, calling on Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to quickly intervene by ensuring obedience of the court ordes by the other parties troubling them over the disputed land in Epe to prevent loss of lives. The request for the intervention of the governor  was contained in a statement issued by the family and signed by the Secretary, Mr. Sharafadeen Iposu, on behalf of the family. The family pleaded with the governor to save them from persistent encroachment and threat to lives and property by the land grabbers. According to him, they were seeking government’s protection from attacks on family members and usurption of the land situated at Lagos Road, Epe, beside Lagos Theatre, by some thugs carrying out the bidding of their masters. He said that the overlords have continued to mobilise thugs to the land, destroying the fences and in the process wounded some members of the family, including those working on the land, but for the timely response of the police which calmed down the situation and prevented loss of lives. He said: “Several legal decisions ended up affirming our ownership of the land. ‘’We are informing the public that the crisis we have on our hand is not a community fight as earlier speculated by some persons,rather, it is the struggle for control over the land belonging to the Iposu Chieftaincy family by some land grabbers bent on inflicting a reign of terror on our land. “The Iposu Chieftaincy family is only challenging those who are encroaching on their land. We are law-abiding citizens; we will always abide by the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in order to take what belongs to our family.” The state government had, during the administration of Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, signed a bill into law criminalising land grabbing and extortion of money from land developers in the state. “The law prohibits forceful entry and illegal occupation of landed properties, violent and fraudulent conduct in relation to landed properties in Lagos. The family representative, therefore, appealed to the constituted authority and state government to send its task force that is saddled with the responsibility of preventing unrest caused by the land grabbers to the area”, he stated.