Christian Association of Nigeria, Lagos State Chapter and Minsters of God Prayer Network International (MGPNI) has concluded plans to build a monuments in Apa Kingdom, the first place where missionaries landed in Badagry, Lagos. The National President of Minsters of GOD Prayer Network International, Bishop Bola Oyegbami announced this last week at a Mini Crusade held at Apa Kingdom. The event tagged God releasing Badagry APA Kingdom/Lagos State into Greatness. The event brought together christains and church leaders from across Lagos which features special prayers for Apa Kingdom, the church and the nation in general. She said that Apa Kindom is the origin of the present day Christianity in Nigeria. The first effective Christianity was preached here on ground in Apa kingdom. A bronze staff handed over  by the white British missionary is still in existence here before 1840. She noted that the site of the staff though ruin and dilapidated, we jointly declare it a place of monumental tourist center.  A center where an edifice would be built. The bronze staff would be conspicuously displayed at the center of the edifice for the people to view it. She added the monumental centre came at the instance of Christian leaders in Lagos and in the government and its will help to bring investment into the area and youths in the community will be gainfully engaged She cited the scripture says that this scepter unto the people. We call on everybody and lagos State government to build this masterpiece and make it happen soonest She charged Christians in Nigeria to ask God for repentance for all sins and iniquities, especially for the murdered of white missionaries here and all the innocent blood crying for vengeance. We also for mercy and blood of Jesus to silence them in Jesus name. In his response, the King of Apa Kingdom, Oba Oyekan Ajose Illufemiloye said that the community renounced all covenant, dedications that bring backwardness and desolation into their land. Ilufemiloye, who spoke through the Christian Association of Nigeria, Apa District Head, Badagry, Pastor Awhanto Solomon said we destroy all satanic foundations bringing limitations and hindrance to development. Any sacrifice that brought bondage is reversed in Jesus name. Blood of Jesus bring fresh fire and anointing upon this land and environment He said we lay a new foundation today in Christ and rededicate our lives to the Lord on Christ Jesus. We rededicate our lives and land to God in Jesus name.