 Rotaract Club International has donated 100 waste baskets to the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN). This, according to the club, is part of its humanitarian services to promote a decent environment for the staff members and students. The President, Rotaract Club UNN, Mbanugo Johnbosco Chiemerie, said the baskets were aimed at supporting the VC’s administration on the environment. He noted  that the waste baskets would improve environmental sanitation, provide good aesthetics for the university environment and promote good hygiene  for staff members and students. He  praised the VC for his support to the club. He described the VC as an “ardent” supporter of a clean and healthy environment, urging other clubs in the institution to emulate the club. Unveiling the waste baskets, the Deputy Vice Chancellor (Administration), Prof. Patrick Okpoko, who represented the Vice Chancellor, Prof. Charles Igwe, lauded the club for its innovation in constructing the immovable metallic waste baskets. He praised his keen interest to promote environmental sanitation, which, he said, had become essential for every ‘ideal’ institution to protect its image. Okpoko urged the club members to grow, as well as uphold the cardinal values of hardwork in social and humanitarian services to the university and its environs. Okpoko, a professor  of  Archaeology and Tourism, emphasised the importance of a friendly environment to health, urging everyone  to embrace “sanity”. UNN’s Dean of Students Affairs Prof. Edwin Omeje noted that the club’s humanitarian services had shown that the university has  great future leaders. Addressing the club members, the Public Relations Officer, Dr Okwun Omeaku, who is also a member of the Rotary Club of Nsukka, urged members of the university community to join the club  to enable the execution of more laudable projects that would improve lives in the school  and its environs. Meanwhile, the waste baskets  have been installed at strategic locations on campus. Those at the event were the Director of ICT Mr. Paul Oranu; SSA to the Vice Chancellor Mr. Laz Ekeke, Confidential secretary to the Vice Chancellor Mrs. Chidinma Ambrose.