The online clothing retailing business is burgeoning with new entrants daily. Health professional, Marian Olapeju Okanlawon has claimed her share of a very satisfying retail pie, DANIEL ESSIET reports. THE online clothing retail industry is growing. Numerous sites have cropped up in the past few years to claim their share of a very satisfying retail pie. One of those who sells clothes online is the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Virgo Closet 2020, a clothing mart, Marian Olapeju Okanlawon. According to her, she went into the fashion business when she realised people work endlessly and never had time to treat themselves to the good things of life like clothing to mention a few. “As a healthcare professional, I realised that people dressed smartly and often  changed at work into their work clothes or uniform. That gave me an idea to be the representative that will bring good quality fashionable wears to them at the office and in the comfort of their homes as they wish,’’ she said. Her love for well-known designs also help. “I source for quality goods around the globe, but at the moment, I am concentrating on Turkey and Dubai. Once I have the location of where to get the items, I travel over the weekend and I always have a personal assistant waiting for me at my hotel. We set out to all the destinations mapped out, pay for the goods and they deliver to my hotel within the hour,” she added. But winning over customers requires a more tactful strategy. To achieve this, she ensures that her products match the aesthetic preferences of most shoppers. This entails responding to the complexities in wardrobes and catering to various needs through diverse markets. Since the online clothing business is large and it has large companies making billions and small beginner companies, her  strategy has been trying at all times to target  a niche market and pursue it. The whole idea is to create focus and consistency and have a better competitive advantage than her competitors. One area of challenge is on the cost of importation and shipping which gulfs a lot of money.  She said: “The cost are calculated and spread across the goods and products. I have a size chart on my handle covering all over the world. All you need do is tell us the last size you know you wear and we convert it to European, American or UK size.” One thing working for her is striving to make shopping online a ‘social experience’. The other thing is trying to build a ‘discovery platform’, where consumers come because they can discover great products at affordable prices. The platform gets significant amount of traffic from social networking sites. On the whole, the market offers great promise. Despite this, she expects a strong economic growth, scale, and rising tech savviness to make ecommerce the backbone retail business.