The Oyo State COVID-19 Task Force on Thursday cancelled the 10p.m. curfew imposed on the state in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Chairman of the Task Force Governor Seyi Makinde, in a statement, said the cancellation followed a series of review by the task force. Speaking through his Chief Press Secretary (CPS), Mr. Taiwo Adisa, the governor warned operators of night clubs to desist from accommodating persons in closed areas within their premises, adding that research has confirmed that the virus spreads faster when people cluster in closed venues. He added that an advisory would be sent to night clubs owners by the Emergency Operations Centre (EOC) arm of the task force, which will warn operators not to allow guests into their enclosed areas. The CPS added that similar warning has been issued to residents to continue to follow the ‘Own Your Action’ initiative of the state’s COVID-19 Task Force. Adisa, while noting that the state “is not completely out of the woods with regards to COVID-19”, explained that the decision by the Governor Makinde-led Task Force to abolish the curfew was premised on the need to reduce the burden on business owners in the state, whom, it said, has been affected by the curfew, especially since the COVID-19 situation has begun to improve in the state. He said though it appeared that COVID-19 cases are coming down in the state, “the confidence interval could not be determined yet”, warning residents not to jettison the guidelines on the prevention of the virus, including washing of hands, social distancing and use of nose masks. The statement added that Makinde has directed the EOC not to relent on data gathering and analysis to appropriately situate the context of the virus within the state. He said the governor has also approved the conversion of the Aawe Isolation Centre to a Level 3 Primary Health Care Centre (PHC), directing that the facility should be decontaminated and handed over to the Hospital Management Board. Former Chief Medical Director of the University College Hospital and Coordinator of the Oyo State Isolation Centres Prof. Temitope Alonge maintained that upon the decline in the number of COVID-19 patients on admission at the isolation centres, the staff strength of the healthcare workers should be reduced to a tenth of the current size.