In line with the efforts to ensure adequate security for the governorship election in Edo State next Saturday, the Inspector General of Police, IGP Mohammed Adamu, has deployed DIG Adeleye Olusola Oyabade, the Deputy Inspector General of Police in charge of Research and Planning, to supervise the general security arrangement for the election. A statement issued by Force Public Relations Officer, DCP Frank Mba, Oyabade will be assisted by AIG Karma Hosea Hassan, the Assistant Inspector General in charge of Federal Operations at the Force Headquarters Abuja, and eight Commissioners of Police. Mba said the DIG, assisted by the AIG, will superintend over the entire security architecture and ensure effective monitoring of the election and due enforcement of all electoral laws in the state. The statement said “other senior police officers similarly involved (in election monitoring and evaluation) include:  CP Garba Baba Umar, CP Habu Sani and CP Buba Sanusi. “CP Akeera M. Yonous will coordinate the operations of the Police Mobile Force (PMF) and other special strike forces. “The other four (4) CPs will supervise security arrangement in the three senatorial districts of the State. They are CP Omololu S. Bishi and CP Abutu Yaro, Edo North senatorial district; CP Philip Aliyu Ogbadu, Edo Central Senatorial District and CP Olokade T. Olawale, Edo South Senatorial District. “Meanwhile, the Inspector General of Police has barred security aides attached to VIPs and political appointees from accompanying their principals on Election Day. The IGP warns that anyone who flouts this order will be severely reprimanded. “The IGP also charges officers and men on election duties in the state to ensure they work in line with standard best practices and adhere strictly with the approved Code of Conduct and Rules of Engagement for the elections. “He calls on members of the public, particularly politicians, gubernatorial candidates and other relevant stakeholders in the state to cooperate with the police and other security agencies in the patriotic task of guaranteeing a hitch-free gubernatorial poll.” The state Council of Traditional Rulers yesterday asked the people to vote the candidate of their choice. The council made the call during a press conference shortly after their quarterly meeting presided over by the council’s Chairman, Oba Ewuare II, in Benin. The council also cautioned against political partisanship by traditional rulers in the state ahead of the poll. They urged eligible voters across the state to come out en masse to exercise their constitutional right of voting a candidate of their choice without fear. The council described peace as non-negotiable in the state before, during and after the election. The council resolved, among other things, to intensify prayers and traditional means of ensuring absolute peace before, during and after the election. It also dwelt on the worsening security situation across many villages and communities, especially villages in Edo North Senatorial District of the state. The traditional rulers insisted that the various security agencies must live up to their responsibilities to protect lives and property, especially the worsening case of adoption by suspected Fulani herders. The council hailed the Benin monarch for calling on the two main political gladiators to eschew violence during campaigns. The council described the peace pact as unprecedented, noting that it had started yielding positive outcome across the state.