A Lagos-based chieftain of the APC, Engineer Rasheed Adebola Shabi, has called on Nigerians to support and co-operate more than ever before with the APC-led Muhammadu Buhari administration in its bid to strengthen the APC in order to continue providing progressive governance for the benefit of the nation and its people. The former Executive Chairman, Yaba LCDA and ex-General Manager, Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency, LASEPA, who made this remark during his birthday anniversary, said the massive support of Nigerians is particularly vital in the bid to ensure that the reins of governance does not in any way get into the hands of the forces of anti- progress anymore. Shabi was also full of thanks for the Commissioner of Environment and Water Resources, Hon. Tunji Bello, for the transformative impetus he had brought to bear in changing the environmental landscape of Lagos State for the better. “As General Manager, LASEPA I served under him and I can attest to his proven competence and sense of excellence in addition to his patriotic commitment to make a positive mark in whatever capacity it behooves on him to serve,” Shabi said..  President, Association of Lagos State Indigenes, Mainland branch, Alhaji Ganiyu Salako, who represented Hon. Bello, paid glowing tribute to Shabi, whom he commended as a man of cosmopolitan worldview and a grassroots politician who left an indelible footprint, during his tenure as the pioneer Executive Chairman, Yaba LCDA. Hon. Olorunleke Olusola, Wasiu Adeyemo and Jide Adetona commended Engineer Shabi for his selfless service to the people. The three who spoke variously attested to the Shabi’s kindness during his time as Chairman, Yaba LCDA. Notable APC chieftain and Special Assistant (Political) to Hon. Tunji Bello, Alhaji Ibrahim Alao Megida, who described the celebrant as a friend and brother, prayed that he would attain greater heights in life. Members of the House of Representatives, Hon. Yemi Alli and Hon. Kuye, attested to the dynamic leadership of Shabi. Also present on the occasion, which took place at Remi Tinubu Hall, Yaba LCDA, were Chairman, Yaba LCDA, Hon. Kayode Omiyale; Hon. Wale Oshun, ex-Chief Whip of the House of Representatives; Hon. Olanrewaju Oshun of the Lagos House of Assembly; Mrs. Omolara Essien, Chairman, Mainland Local Government Council. 