The wife of Edo Deputy Governor Mrs. Maryann Philip-Shaibu and a former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Comrade Adams Oshiomhole has engaged in a war of words over an alleged threat to her life. The Deputy Governor’s wife in a petition to Edo Commissioner of Police, Babatunde Kokumo, by her lawyer, Idemudia Ilueminosen, alleged Oshiomhole sent thugs to monitor her movements. According to her: “We are informed by our client that on Sunday, September 6, 2020, at Jattu in Etsako West Local Government Area of Edo State, during the All Progressives Congress (APC) campaign tour to the community, Comrade Oshiomhole, a chieftain of APC, threatened to deal with our client, Mrs. Maryann Philip-Shaibu, after casting aspersions on her person and sending several warnings that she steers clear of campaigning for her party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) under which platform her husband, Hon. Philip Shaibu is contesting as a deputy governorship candidate, along with the standard-bearer, the Governor, Mr. Godwin Nogheghase Obaseki. “We are further informed by our client that Comrade Oshiomhole did not only threaten to deal with her but he has also declared that he has sent some thugs to monitor her movements in Etsako West LGA, with a view to carrying out the threat of dealing with her. “Consequent upon this, our client for fear of being hurt or harm by Comrade Oshiomhole and the assigned thugs has not been able to continue with her campaign. “It is on this note that we passionately plead with you (Kokumo) on behalf of our client, to use your good office to investigate the incident, with a view to bringing Comrade Oshiomhole and his cohorts to book, to avert any unpleasant and unforeseen harm coming to our client, especially as the Edo State governorship election is by the corner; precisely on September 19, 2020. ‘’This is more so that the lives of our client and her family (by this threat) are at stake and the situation may degenerate into a full-blown crisis if nothing urgent is done.” But Oshiomhole, through his media aide, Victor Oshioke, dismissed Shaibu’s wife’s petition as a futile attempt to divert attention from her trending video threatening to flog women, old enough to be her mother, if they attend any event other than the one she organised. Oshioke said: “The petition is a calculated attempt to drag down the name of Comrade Oshiomhole. Shaibu and his wife should find another way to launder their family image, which has been badly damaged by their numerous unguarded public utterances, captured on video, threatening violence on the Edo people. “Comrade Oshiomhole is a man at peace with himself and his environment. He is focused on marketing the Edo governorship candidate of APC, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, and his SIMPLE agenda manifesto to Edo people, for the ultimate benefit of Edo people. “Comrade Oshiomhole cannot, under any circumstance, be distracted by the buzzing of baby mosquitoes like Shaibu and his wife. “There are many petitions against Shaibu and his wife pending at the office of Edo Commissioner of Police, which cannot be acted upon, because of the immunity from prosecution, which the deputy governor currently enjoys.”