Ahead of the October 10 governorship election in Ondo State, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and former governorship aspirant, Chief Olusola Oke, SAN, has handed over his structures across the 18 local governments to Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, SAN. Oke the former National Legal Adviser of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) slammed former Governor Olusegun Mimiko for playing the role of a godfather. He said Mimiko can’t pick governor for the people of the state, especially the South Senatorial District. Oke said the re-election of Governor Akeredolu is important for the future of Ondo South Senatorial District. The former aspirant said the people of Ondo South would vote for the re-election of Governor Akeredolu. He said his decision to support Akeredolu was informed by the developmental strides of the governor in the Southern Senatorial District. The APC leader stressed that the people of the South will choose for themselves when it is time for the district to produce the governor. He said: “If we want a governor in the South, we will choose by ourselves. Not the one that will be picked from the Central. We have not chosen anyone to be our governor in the South. No person will choose our governor for us. “We have agreed that Aketi will do second term. After him, it will come to the South. We will look for a renowned son like Agagu to be our governor. But for the October 10 poll, Akeredolu is our candidate and we will vote for him overwhelmingly. “The renaming of Olusegun Agagu University of Science and Technology (OAUSTECH) after Agagu is enough for me to follow Aketi. We have used our money to train him. He has the experience of governance. We don’t want experiment. “That university for eight years after Agagu, was like a goat house. It was abandoned. We know those who abandoned it. Now, they want to choose a governor for us in the South. “Ondo South will deliver great for you. We want to use our votes to secure our future. We don’t want anyone to contest with us next time. We want to deliver a vote that can’t be challenged in court.” Governor Akeredolu said it is important for members of the party to come together to work for the party, noting that the APC is now a united big family. Some members of the PDP led by Muyiwa Afolabi joined the APC at the event.