The Boko Haram terror was has claimed one of the nation’s finest fighters, Col. DC Bako. Col Bako, who was the commander of 25 Task Force Brigade of Operation Lafiya Dole, was said to have been ambushed by the insurgents while on patrol along the dreaded Damboa-Sabongari axis in the southern part of Borno. The said ambush ensued in a sporadic gun battle where the gallant officer was wounded and later died at a hospital in Maiduguri. The Army had confirmed the passage of Col. Bako. Spokesman of the 7 Division Nigerian Army, Colonel Ado Isa, confirmed the incident in a statement last night. He conveyed the condolence of the Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Tukur Buratai, to the the family of the deceased officer, who was described as “one of the best”. “The Chief of Army Staff Lt Gen TY Buratai on behalf of himself, gallant troops of Operation LAFIYA DOLE and indeed well meaning Nigerians hereby express his heartfelt condolences to his esteemed family. ” We are most grateful for his contributions and sacrifices to the mother land. May God grant eternal rest to the gentle soul of Col DC Bako and the souls of all Nigerian Army officers and soldiers who paid the supreme prize in the defence of our farther land,” the statement reads. Borno Governor Babagana Zulum, in a statement by his spokesman, Malam Isa Gusau, said the sacrifice of Col Bako and those who pay the supreme price in the fight against the insurgency will not be in vain. According to him: “It was public knowledge that I (Zulum) liked late Col. Bako and so did many people. “Bako was a true soldier who inspired his troops and led them to front lines with exceptional courage that was clearly out of pure patriotism. He fought very hard and very well. “He defeated many enemies of peace and protected many sons and daughters of Borno state to the extent he gave his life defending the people of Borno. “By the grace of God, the supreme sacrifices made by Col. Bako and many other heroes like him in the armed forces and volunteers shall not be in vain. “The death of our heroes, sad as it is, only reinforces our confidence in the strong will exhibited by our gallant troops and volunteers, that defending our country is comes ahead of everything. The people of Borno will forever be grateful to late Col. Bako and everyone like him. “We pray that Allah forgives his shortcomings and those of all our fallen heroes. Government of Borno will continue to support through all means humanly possible, in trying to help them succeed in ongoing war against the boko haram. We pray that God protects our troops and volunteers from recording any more casualties. “I share the grief of Col. Bako’s family and the families of all those who have died fighting for Borno. I commiserate with theatre command of operation lafiya Dole in Borno state, the Nigerian army and the entire Nigerian military over the loss of a warrior. “May the gallant soul of Col. Bako rest peacefully with our God, who rewards good people with unending joy after death. Ameen.”