Tokunbo Abiru, the flag-bearer of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the Lagos East senatorial district by-election slated for October 31, 2020, has revealed plans to ensure that the district benefits from his wealth of experiences when he is elected into the national assembly. The former Managing Director of Polaris Bank, while speaking with The Nation at t he weekend, also promised to honour the legacies left behind by those who have represented Lagos East in the senate before now. “I am humbled by the decision of party leaders and members to put my name on the ballot as their candidate. There were so many equally eminently qualified persons in the race. I simply see their decision as a vote of confidence in me. When people do you a huge favour like that, you must be grateful, not disappoint them or break that trust they have in you. I intend to work hand in hand with all our leaders, other elected and appointed officials, party members and all other stakeholders in the task of further developing our district and Lagos state. ”I see the assignment ahead as a continuation of the efforts of my predecessors. I will honour the legacies of those that came before me, like my father, late Hon. Justice Mudashiru Akanbi Olatunji Abiru, Senator Adesegun Ogunlewe, Senator Olorunnimbe Mamora, Senator Bareehu Ashafa and our late Senator, Bayo Osinowo. If you take a look at this roll call, you will see that all those who came before me are great men who did so much for the people of Lagos East. The implication is that I have no reason not to perform well and build on their legacies to the betterment of our district and state,” he said. Speaking further, Abiru explained that Nigeria needs Senators who can bring experiences and expertise to bear on the business of lawmaking. According to him, this will ensure quality representation of their various districts and deepen democracy. He said, “Democracy will benefit immensely from quality representation. I am prepared to offer this with all the competencies I have acquired as an economist, chartered accountant, banker, executive director of the largest bank in Nigeria; First Bank, finance commissioner and as MD, Polaris Bank.” The former Lagos state commissioner for finance, among other things, said he will use his position as a senator to attract infrastructural development to the senatorial district. He also promised that the quest to get special status for Lagos state will be a priority for him during his stay in the national assembly when elected. “This is because everybody agrees that the federal government needs to do much more for our state,” he added.