Members of Agbidiama Community Youth Council, host of Opukushi, Tunu and Clough Creek flowstations operated by Shell Petroleum Development Company in Ekeremor Local Government Area of Bayelsa State have shut down activities at Opukushi flowstation. Youths President of the aggrieved Ekeremor community, Torke Ekpetun, said after the disruption on Thursday that the youth were yearning for dialogue to resolve face-off between them and the oil major. He explained that that the protest was carried out as a result of the refusal of the oil service companies operating in the area to meet their development obligations to the community. Ekpetun said the obligations included provision of employment and empowerment of community members, engagement of a non-indigenous firm by Shell for catering services, and neglect of community leaders by the oil major’s management. He also said they were protesting the failure of the oil firm to recognise the leadership of the youth as the duly constituted authority for employment in the area and other matters connected with oil and gas operations. Ekpetun also bemoaned the neglect of the welfare and wellbeing of the youth executives since 2018 by Clinthwealth Nigeria Limited, an oil services firm providing services at the oilfield operated by the SPDC. He described as unacceptable the maltreatment of workers on site and failure to pay community workers end of contract bonus as provided for in the employment contract. He further expressed worry over the refusal of oil services firm retained to work at the oilfields by SPDC to implement workers’ annual salary increment at the end of every work circle. According to him, the refusal of the SPDC and other firms operating in the area to donate palliatives as part of their Corporate Social Responsibility during the COVID-19 lockdown is regrettable. He also said part of the reasons for the protest was the alleged failure to secure Freedom to Operate (FTO) for contractors before coming to site for execution of jobs, stressing that the development had denied the community of the accruable benefits. Ekpetun called on the companies involved to retrace their steps in the interest of peace by according the host communities what are due them. He frowned on the current situation where the host communities bore the adverse impact of operations of the oil firms with little or no benefit and called for an end to the anomaly in the interest of both parties. When contacted, the Media Relations Manager, SPDC, Mr Bamidele Odugbesan, said the oil company valued a cordial relationship with its host communities and would not do anything to undermine it. He said: “It is a long-standing policy of SPDC to provide opportunities for its host communities, including but not limited to community contracts, scholarships at different levels, economic empowerment programmes such as LiveWIRE, healthcare support like the Oloibiri health programme and COVID-19 equipment donations to Bayelsa and other states. “We also have GMoU community development programme that funds community projects decided by the communities. “As we strive for a stronger relationship with our host communities, we are open to discussions on any complaints for an amicable resolution.”