Veteran Nollywood actor and producer Jimoh ‘Aworo’ Aliu has passed on. He died yesterday. He was 80. The one-time president of the Association of Nigeria Theatre Practitioners (ANTP) died exactly 55 days to his 86th birthday – he was born on November 11, 1939. The Governor, Ekiti State chapter of the Theatre Arts and Movie Practitioners Association, Eniola Eniafe, confirmed Aliu’s death in a brief chat. Aliu, a seasoned artist, producer, location designer, director, make-up artist and singer died at the Ekiti State University Teaching Hospital, Ado-Ekiti of medical conditions yet to be disclosed to the public. Multiple reports say his remains will be moved to his home at the Adebayo area in Ado-Ekiti before being taken to his hometown at Okemesi-Ekiti in Ekiti West Local Government where he will be interred on Friday (today). The late Aliu is survived by two wives, Bola and Folashade. He had children from the two women. He was married to a fellow movie star, Folake Aremu aka Orisabunmi, for over a decade before they parted ways. Aliu’s death has attracted reactions from  his colleagues. In an exclusive chat with The Nation, star actor, Yomi Fash Lanso, said: “It’s the end of an era. It’s so pathetic and painful. We have lost another library of culture and tradition.” We can only pray that God grants him eternal rest with the hope that we can continue to have such a revered veteran in Nigeria and Yoruba land because he was a human library with a fountain of knowledge.” After years of success on the airwaves, the late Aliu was honoured with a National Merit Award of Member of the Federal Republic (MFR) in December 2005 by ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo. Aliu’s death has attracted reactions from  his colleagues. In an exclusive chat with The Nation, star actor, Yomi Fash Lanso, said: “It’s the end of an era. It’s so pathetic and painful. We have lost another library of culture and tradition. We can only pray that God grants him eternal rest with the hope that we can continue to have such a revered veteran in Nigeria and Yoruba land because he was a human library with a fountain of knowledge.” Yomi Fabiyi, another actor, said: “Jimoh Aliu was a legend. He was one of the very few who could lay claim to pioneer status in acting and movie making in Nigeria.” Kunle Afod said: “May his soul rest in peace.” Toyin ‘Lola Idije’ Afolayan said: “May his soul rest in peace.”