At 45 years of age, Segun Toriola has etched his name in the annals of African table tennis history; he is a player with an outstanding record. However, his performance at the Beijing 2008 Olympic Games in China was as an eye-opener; on Thursday, August 20, 2008, he reached the highest stage in the table tennis event at an Olympic Games that any other previous player from his continent. He set the standard for others to emulate. OLALEKAN OKUSAN writes. When Segun Toriola made his debut at Barcelona 1992 Olympic Games in Spain, he never understood the significant of competing at the Olympic Games as a teenager. But for six consecutive editions, Toriola was present while the biggest feat by an African at the games was achieved by the Nigerian in Beijing 2008 where he stunned former world number one, Jean-Michel Saive of Belgium to work his way into the round of 32; thus being the first African to reach the last 32 in men’s singles at the Olympic Games. As a forerunner for African players, Toriola made a significant impact in Beijing 2008 in the men’s singles event to set a standard for his continental compatriots. It was David Zhuang of the United States that first fell to Toriola in a close encounter with the Nigerian advancing with a 4-3 (8-11, 11-8, 2-11, 11-6, 9-11, 11-7, 11-8). Toriola’s fairy-tale in Beijing continued when he defeated Portugal’s João Monteiro by a similar margin of 4-3 (5-11, 11-7, 11-7, 5-11, 11-9, 9-11, 11-7). Despite his difficult backhand returns and flips, Toriola delighted the crowd in the Peking University Gymnasium, venue of the table tennis with his performance against Belgium’s Jean-Michel Saive. The Nigerian recorded an unexpected win over the former world number one. Toriola had struggled to beat the American and the Portuguese but against the Belgian he had the edge. The Chinese fans were treated to an exciting match with applause accompanying every point won by both players. The entertaining encounter was regarded as one of the main highlights of the Olympic Games; it endeared him to the Chinese fans (11-8, 11-7, 8-11, 9-11, 11-3, 12-10). In the last 32 tie against Korea Republic’s Oh Sangeun, Toriola against dazzled but the Korean managed a close win of 4-3 (12-14, 15-13, 11-6, 11-5, 9-11, 9-11, 11-7) to end the Nigeria’s run in Beijing. Toriola reminisced: “I can never forget Beijing 2008 Olympic Games because my performance in China was so special. I surprised everybody and the performance  helped the rest of the players in Africa to believe that they can play very well in Olympic Games. I think, it was my performance at Beijing that opened doors for African players. The memory of Beijing will forever remain with me especially the match against Jean-Michel Saive, who was a former world number one. “The Chinese really appreciated my effort and I could still recollect that every point was well fought for by both of us. The support from the fans really inspired me and the memory will not leave in a long time to come. “All my matches at the Olympic Games were special but nothing can be compared with Beijing 2008. Every match was difficult for me from the beginning that I won my matches in a close result. But the match against Jean-Michel Saive was special to me because everybody at the venue focused on the math because of its quality. It was an interesting match because we both entertained the crowd and they were so happy with the quality of play. That is the match I cannot forget as it was still playing in my head up till date.” Toriola recalled. At Rio 2016 Olympic Games, Toriola was honoured by the world table tennis ruling body, International Table Tennis Federation (ITTF) as the fourth table tennis player in the world to compete at seven Olympic Games. he joined the likes of Zoran Primorac (Croatia), Jörgen Persson (Sweden) and Jean-Michel Saive (Belgium) as the only table tennis players to join the ‘7 Club. Also at Rio, he became the first African athlete in any sport to feature in seven Olympic Games. Also in Africa, his exemplary lifestyle on and off the table was rewarded when the African Table Tennis Federation (ATTF) also honoured Toriola as a good ambassador of the continent. Earlier this year, he was near setting a new record as the first athlete in Africa to feature in eight Olympic Games but his dream was shattered when his pairing with Olufunke Oshonaike in the final of the mixed doubles Olympics qualifiers in Tunis was beaten by Egypt’s duo of Omar Assar and Dina Meshref. Though disappointed but not ready to quit as he moves with club engagement. Unfortunately the coronavirus pandemic affected sports globally that Toriola had to quit his French club to join a Belgian team. “Unfortunately, my club in France, Bayard Argentan didn’t have enough funds to pay players. Initially I accepted to stay with the club but when I got a better offer in Belgium and that is why I decided to move to Belgium for the 2020/2021 season,” Toriola said. The 45-year-old however, said he would continue to play as long as his body would carry him. “For how long do I still want to be a professional? For now I don’t know it depends on how my body is going to take it; you know table tennis is a sport I really like and I have passion for and you know when you have passion for something you will still want to continue playing, I know age is not on my side, but for now I don’t know when I am going to stop,” the Commonwealth Games medallist added. “Actually it depends if my body and performance is not okay like the standard of what I want, then definitely I am going to stop playing professionally. Even if I stop everything is still in my blood, I am still going to continue no matter how old I am, and how it is. I will still continue to exercise my body and I am not going to give up,” Toriola explained.