I remember first meeting the then dashing young Army Captain Ike Nwachukwu sometimes in Lagos in the 1960s. He would have been in his 20s then and I was in the University of Ibadan. He was introduced to me by my friend Goke Adeniji. I then got to know later that he was dating my friend’s cousin, Gwendolyn Ejiwunmi who later became his wife years later. Those of us young boys in Ibadan used to come to Lagos virtually every weekend to attend parties. I had come in contact with young army officers before because my brother Captain Edward Abiodun Osuntokun who unfortunately died in 1964 was in the Nigerian Army Electrical Mechanical Engineers (NAEME) corps. Ike Nwachukwu was the first army officer that I could relate to as a friend. I left Nigeria in 1967 for my Ph.D program in Canada. After hanging around the western world for two years after the completion of my program in 1970, I returned to Nigeria in 1972 and joined the staff of the University of Ibadan and I was shunted to the University of Ibadan campus in Jos. Whenever I drove to Jos from Ibadan, I made a stopover in Kaduna at General Adeyinka Adebayo’s house in Kaduna where he was the Commandant of the Defence Academy and Ike Nwachukwu was one of his officers as a Major. Whenever Ike brought young officers to Jos for field exercises, he would get in touch with me and I  would visit him in the bush to have a feel of what it was to be a soldier. As young people we used to bring him from the bush to felicitate with us in town. Right from my first meeting with him, he left a great and permanent impression on me and our other friends. He was usually very reticent perhaps because he stammers a lot. If there was anyone who could be described as an officer and a gentleman, Ike fitted that description. While I was away in Canada, Ike who had himself graduated from the Royal Military Academy in Kingston, Ontario Canada, fought with the 2nd Infantry Division of the Nigerian Army in the then Mid-West. I can only imagine what mental debate if not torture he must have gone through during those difficult years of the Nigerian civil war. He was a “Lagos boy “of Ibo and Hausa- Fulani parentage having to decide which side to fight on when he had himself narrowly escaped being killed as a young Captain serving in his post in Kano for being Ibo. He has an autobiography coming out soon in which he detailed graphically his narrow escape. All I can say as someone who has read the manuscript is that the Almighty God preserved him for the great heights he reached in Nigerian military and political life in later years. God who is the Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending preserved him for what he later became in spite of several obstacles and narrow escapes he went through before his glorious retirement from the army. He rose to the rank of Major-General and commanded the 1st Division of the army, the very teeth of the military machine in Nigeria. He was military governor of the old Imo State during which time he founded the beautiful Abia State University at Uturu. He was also Federal Minister of Labour and Employment during which time he established the National Directorate of Employment (NDE) and he followed this by being foreign minister. He came after the erudite Professor Bolaji Akinyemi as foreign minister. Bolaji like Ike is my friend since high school. Bolaji will be remembered for his idealism in foreign policy formulation. He was the architect of the Nigeria’s Technical Aid Corps, Concert of Medium Powers and aggressive forward policy in Southern Africa. Ike Nwachukwu brought more realism from the idealism of his predecessor. Ike Nwachukwu was foreign minister of Nigeria (1988-1990) and for a second time in 1991 to 1993. Wherever he served, he left a lasting memory and legacy. He was the father of policy of “Economic Diplomacy” as the guiding light of Nigeria’s diplomacy after the boisterous years of successfully confronting settlers and colonizers in Southern Africa. He was also responsible for restoring ties with Israel broken in 1973 after Israel’s Yom Kippur war with the Arabs. He was actively involved in the final stages of the extirpation of settler rule in Namibia and apartheid in South Africa leading to the freedom of Nelson Mandela. He also left for posterity the building of NIGERIA HOUSE, an imposing 20-floor skyscraper in New York. He of course did not achieve all this solely by himself but he provided the leadership around which people rallied. The thing about General Ike Nwachukwu is his amiability and personality which drew people to him. Because of this, he was able to attract friendship to his country even when leaders in the wider world kept military regimes at a distance and did not want to associate with Nigeria for its democratic deficit. Many changed their minds because of Ike and his imposing figure and suave manners.  He ingratiated himself into the warm embrace of his colleagues not only in Africa but in such countries like Britain, Canada and Australia. This was to lead to dividends and support for Nigerian candidates bidding to become secretary-general of the Commonwealth, president of OPEC, the World Court, presidency of the United Nations General Assembly ( UNGA) and other multilaterals. Ike Nwachukwu without advertising it is a devout Christian and regularly worships at the Anglican denomination even though his father’s church at Ovim in Abia state is a Methodist Church which he spent considerable amount of money to renovate after his father’s death in 1989. Throughout his military service, he regularly resorted to prayers when faced with life and death threat on quite a few occasions. He has remained a Christian at heart ,even though like many of us thinking men, he has had to say like the character who was challenged in the Bible for not having enough faith –”Lord I believe, help thou my unbelief “. Like a good Christian in truth and in deed, Ike Nwachukwu tries not to keep a grudge or malice which consumes people in life more so in public life. Finally I must add that Ike knows how to keep and sustain friendship. He has maintained friendship with all those who impacted his life when he was a cub reporter in one of Nigeria’s newspapers after leaving school. He has remained in touch with all those he grew up with in Lagos and his military buddies and those he met while he served as minister in two ministries and finally when he entered politics and became a senator. One of his greatest attributes is that he sees people not from the prisms of tribe and ethnicity but from good old humanity. His command of the three main Nigerian languages, Hausa, Igbo and Yoruba has further added flair and flavour to his life. His admirable wife has also provided a pillar of support.  Gwen his wife is partly from Abonema in Rivers State and Abeokuta in Ogun State. Ike’s home environment is a microcosm of Nigeria with the North, South-south, East and West represented, thus anybody with an ethnic prejudice is not likely to find the place welcoming. How time flies! It is simply unbelievable that we are all now very old and Ike is 80. All I need to add is that it is not over until it is over and the show is not over until the fat lady sings! Congratulations dear friend and buddy!