A firm ActiveCode Business Hub has advised youths in the country to explore multiple income streams as the pains of COVID-19 bites harder. Its Managing Director, Theophilus Ogumbe who spoke in Calabar, Cross River State, when he unveiled his plan to train 100,000 youths on foreign exchange (forex) trading, said it is one alternative source of making additional income which does not affect one’s regular income. He said the training will last for eight weeks beginning on the second week of September 2020 with training classes holding both online and physically. He said: “The Covid-19 pandemic has caused a lot of damage and a lot of persons are looking for means of having additional source of income. That’s why we are preaching the gospel of forex trading. “It doesn’t stop you from doing your job, it doesn’t require any degree. I have students who passed through our school and today they are impacting on the society, they doing a lot of social responsibility projects and they are building career for themselves. Asked if the idea is not what people see as cybercrime, he said, “Active code hub is a Forex training and trading institute. What we do here basically is that we make sure we offer the appropriate training on forex trading. A lot of persons venture into Forex trading in an unprofessional way, not knowing that forex trading is a skill, it’s not a get rich quick system and it’s not a money doubling system. “The foreign exchange market is broad that is why Active Code Business Hub is coming to educate the public on the proper use of forex trading to leverage themselves from the harsh  economic situation we are right now. “In forex market we have stocks, indices, commodities and we have currencies. So, I can sit here and take advantage of the Canadian market, the Japanese market, the European markets without necessarily being in those countries and it’s purely legal. “Forex trading like every other business, the more money you have the more you have leverage to take good position. The good think about Forex is that there is no limit, you can start with what so ever you have even if its $100 and with that you commence trade and you’re making $5-$10 a day it is fine, don’t try to double that money in a day because it will increase your risk. You apply what we call maximum risk management. You can determine what you want to gain or lose; that’s the good thing about forex trading, it’s all dependent on you. That why I always preach to my students not to be greedy, minimise your risk. You know even in physical business, the more money you have the more leverage you have.” He said the training is categorised into regular and executive classes. The regular class is totally free while the executive class session would require a token in payment. The class contents are the same for both the regular and the executive classes, what makes the difference is the token in payment attached to the executive class.