West African leaders have emphasised that Mali’s junta should nominate civilian transitional leaders within days to lead the nation toward elections, Ghana’s President Nana Akufo-Addo said following a regional summit. Six leaders from the West African regional economic bloc, ECOWAS, met with Mali’s junta Tuesday in Ghana, whose president now serves as the bloc’s new chairman. They agreed the junta must install a civilian president and vice president. ECOWAS insisted that the transitional leaders must be civilians, rejecting the junta’s suggestion that the leaders could come from the military. “We need a civilian leadership of the transition,” Akufo-Addo said after the summit. “From the minute that leadership is put in place,” the regional sanctions on Mali will be lifted, he said. This should be accomplished within days, not weeks, he said. The military junta staged a coup on Aug. 18, deposing Mali’s President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita, who still had three years remaining in his second term in office. The military leaders held talks with various political and civil society groups to come up with an outline for a transition to civilian rule last week. The regional leaders appear to have accepted the junta’s call for an 18-month transitional period to new elections, instead of the one-year timeline that the regional bloc originally proposed. Mali’s junta had earlier floated the idea of waiting three years before holding a new election, a proposal quickly rejected by both ECOWAS and former coloniser France, which maintains a large military presence in Mali, where it has been fighting Islamic extremists. ECOWAS also called for the dissolution of the National Committee for the Salvation of the People as soon as the transitional government is in place. The regional bloc has already closed Mali’s borders with neighbouring countries and halted financial links in order to put pressure on the junta. Those sanctions could be lifted once a transitional civilian government is in place, ECOWAS said Tuesday. Col. Assimi Goita, who leads the National Committee for the Salvation of the People, asked ECOWAS to allow him to consult his military comrades before giving a response to the recommendations. Other leaders were pleased with the meeting’s outcome.  