 The Lagos State Government had announced September 14 for the reopening of tertiary institutions in the state. The decision to reopen schools  is coming six months after schools, and other sectors of the economy were shut down. Lagos State recorded the first Coronavirus incident six months ago, after which it shut down activities to curtail the spread of the virus. Vice-Chancellor of the Lagos State University (LASU) Prof. Lanre Fagbohun said students would resume in batches. He noted that the final year classes were  expected back in school three months ahead of others. He also said classes would be staggered so that those who live off-campus would be done by 3 p.m. After three months, Fagbohun said 300-Level and 200-Level students would resume for two months in-person classes before examinations. He said: “We have also done a gradual phasing of the way our students are going to resume. We are starting with the 400, 500 and 600-Level students. And that will run for about two months, and the two months will be intensive with them – starting lectures around 9 am and closing at 3 pm for those of them that live off campus. “And then the moment we are through with the final year group, we will go on to the 300 and 200-Level students. “And the way we intend to do it for the 300 and 200-Level: on Mondays and Wednesdays, 300-Level students will be on campus. On Tuesdays and Thursdays, 200-Level students will be on campus. We will be able to maintain social distancing because we have done an audit of our facilities; we know what each class will take. We know the number of students that will be coming in for 200, 300-Level so that at the end of the day, we are able to protect the lives of our students and our workers and protect them from the pandemic.” However, some students of the institution have expressed their fears over safety concerns,while some are very optimistic about the prospect of resumption. Adeshina Emmanuel Adewale, a student in the Department of Biochemistry, noted that resumption should be postponed till further notice or preferably till next year to avoid a massive spread of COVID-19. He said: “ I’ll say that resumption should be postponed till further notice, preferably till next year when we’re sure that we’ve been able to curb COVID-19. Students are highly interactive. Students tend to be lackadaisical, they’ll mingle with one another. We have asymptomatic patients who will spread this disease one way or the other on campus. Some students will leave the campus back to their families, board buses and move from place to place carrying the infection. Before we know what’s happening there’ll be an explosive spread of the virus.” For Aremu Olusola who studies Medicine and Surgery, Nigerians have shown zero to mild symptoms when infected with the virus, therefore, things should come back to normal while taking the necessary precautions. He said: “Since the lockdown has been eased, everyone has been strolling on the streets of Lagos daily, with little compliance with the social distancing rule, churches are opened and the whole economy seems to be back except our educational institutions. I can tell you that, in my vicinity, everyone is living just almost normal. ‘’I believe with the necessary precautions and strict adherence to the rules, which students are most likely to play by, it’s the right time to resume school.” Ebenezer Adeniyi, a final year student,  noted that it was dangerous for schools to resume because the system is ill-prepared. His words: “Well, I think the system isn’t ready for us to resume yet. How do we resume when all the guidelines are still on paper? I remember the last time I went to school, I wanted to wash my hands, pressed soap and water were not running. Resumption for now is a joke, it’s dangerous.” Temitayo Ropo, a  Law student,  said the pandemic had claimed so many lives, and based on the recent recorded cases, it’s a relief to know the outbreak of the pandemic has minimised. However, regardless of the use of hand sanitisers and the likes, the government should still take into consideration  the spread of the virus and put the resumption of schools this year on hold to avoid using students as  sacrificial lambs. Another student, Precious Omoniyi, who studies  Anatomy, noted that class size and overcrowding at ATM centres would make resumption difficult despite being eager to resume. “We, as students, will love nothing more than to resume as most of us feel we’d stayed at home for too long; we miss school life. But the fear, especially for those of us in medical schools, where we have teaching hospitals, is  that they’ve recorded a case or more, and  some of us have health problems we might be nursing privately. Then, in our class for example, we’re up to a hundred sitting four per seat. Then, we only have basically two  functional  ATM’s not in school but in the hospital. If it happens there’s anyone with the disease there, it will spread easily. Forget the face mask.” On her part, Edun Fiyinfoluwa of the Department of Physiology said: “I am very eager to go back to school. When the news of resumption came, I was quite happy. COVID or no COVID, I really want  to resume. By resuming in batches, I  believe the school management would be able to control the crowd easily and disseminate information effectively. I believe resumption would be fine and run well. I don’t see us being used as sacrificial lambs, we’ve all missed a whole lot concerning academics and would really love to progress.” Oluwaferanmi Adebowale, another 300-Level student of the Department of Medicine and Surgery, believes it is  best to reopen academic institutions now since academics has been put on hold for half-a-year. Her words: “ Being inactive, not receiving lectures and having exams that’ll put me under pressure to brainstorm and multitask has really affected me. ‘’Besides, I feel if the school management has decided to consider resumption, it definitely means they have already laid down plans that’ll prove effective in handling academic activities alongside the pandemic. Also, considering the recent number of confirmed cases, it’s evident that there’s been a decrease in the cases. With strict adherence to the safety precautions by students, I feel academic activities will run fine.” Ganiyu Ahmad of the Department of  Public Administration wants the State Task Force to regularly monitor the campus to ensure strict compliance with preventive measures. “ I can’t  say I trust those in charge in the school  to be consistent while following guidelines set down by the PTF and NCDC. What I’ll ask is that the State Task Force make it an obligation to monitor the campus regularly to ensure that the preventive measures are followed. ‘’I feel if this done, then all will be  in order. We have to move on. We can’t seat at home forever. We have to adapt as the virus doesn’t seem to be leaving any time soon. Thankfully, its mortality rate isn’t as high as other viruses. We know the risk, we should abide by the social distancing rules.” Adebayo Victor, a 300-Level Medicine and Surgery, said  it was safe to resume school on  September 14, because  ever since the graduating classes of secondary schools resumed, there has not been any case of COVID-19 infection among the pupils. Thus, tertiary institutions should embrace the new normal while adhering strictly to the rules of hygiene.