 SIR: Mokwa is the fifth largest town in Niger State. It is the headquarters of Mokwa Local Government area and is situated on the Kaduna – Lagos highway. Mokwa used to be the toast of travellers – whether by road or by rail. It is a hub of economic activities even in pre-colonial days. However, recent neglect by the government is hampering the fortunes and treasures of the town which is still contributing to the economic prosperity of the nation as evident in the varieties of both food and cash crops grown in the town and its environs. Today, it is the highest producer of melon (egusi) even though the production is left in the hands of peasant farmers with no support from government at all levels (sometimes one begins to wonder where lies the priorities of our government). For emphasis, Mokwa used to be described as the “the home of grains’. That was when federal government established the famous National Grains Production Company in the 70s. Mokwa is one of the Research Stations of the Institute for Agricultural Research of A.B.U and that of the Institute for Tropical agriculture (IITA). It is also pertinent to note that one of Africa’s premier abattoirs was established at Mokwa by the then northern regional government in 1964. Mokwa Cattle Ranch (MCR) was established in 1964 specifically for fattening purposes, under a bilateral agreement between the German and Nigerian governments. It had full compliments of infrastructures, facilities and machineries of European Union standards and was handed over to Nigeria in 1974. It was established to make full use of the molasses that is produced at the nearby Sugar Company at Bacita. Its total land area is 6,885 out of which 2,780 hectares have been prepared for grazing and cropping while 4,108 hectare remains as rangeland. The Abattoir and Cattle Ranch is a subject of litigation at the moment. Mokwa in my view is not only neglected, it is has been abandoned by the authorities. Let’s take a cursory look at the following: Mokwa General Hospital was established in 1986. It is one of the biggest hospitals in Niger State. Unfortunately, the hospital is in a deplorable state, with insufficient medical personnel. All the structures are in bad shape; most of the roofs are leaking. What the government and patriotic Nigerians are to note is that the hospital is very strategic and caters for more Nigerians than envisaged. After Mokwa, the only place to get any help in case of accident is either Ilorin – that is some 140 Kilometres away or to Bida  – that is 130 kilometers away! The hospital needs quick intervention from the Niger State government. Help is also needed from health donors to rescue lives that are being lost on a daily basis due to the deplorable state of the hospital. The location of Mokwa makes it vulnerable to security challenges. In 2009, suspected Boko Haram members established a camp – few kilometres to Mokwa which they called Darul Salam. It took the quick intervention of Niger State government under the leadership of Dr. Mu’azu Babangida to dislodge the terrorists. Mokwa has been suffering from erosion that covers the distance of about 1609.344m. The erosion dug a deep pit that runs through the middle of the town. Efforts have been made to access ecological fund at the inception the Buhari Administration in 2016 and 2017 but it has not been successful, There is the need for the federal government to intervene to save lives and livelihoods threatened by the erosion. Mokwa Local Government houses Jebba Hydro Electric Power Dam. But ironically, electricity supply in Mokwa has declined significantly. This is affecting the cottage industries in the area; hence, the need for serious improvement of electricity supply to the town and its environs. Mokwa being a gateway to the Southern and Northern part of Nigeria has one of the busiest roads in Nigeria, the road passes the heart of Mokwa, and this has been precipitating many accidents killing scores of people apart from the destruction of properties. The people now clamour for a bye pa to reduce heavy traffic in the town and put an end to the needless loss of lives and destruction of properties.