Barcelona are set for a huge fire sale under new manager, Ronald Koeman – with 12 players reportedly up for grabs. Big names like Luis Suarez and Samuel Umtiti are facing the chop as the Spanish club looks to rebuild following their 8-2 Champions League humiliation and the prolonged Lionel Messi transfer saga. The Catalan giants are also believed to be on the hunt for new names in their dramatic squad overhaul. But with Lionel Messi set to stay, the inflated wage bill must first come down to accommodate expensive signings. Along with Suarez and French international Umtiti, the likes of ex-Middlesbrough flop Martin Braithwaite and Arturo Vidal could also be shown the door. Liverpool fan favourite Suarez, 33, is tipped with a move to Juventus costing around £2.8million plus £12 million in variables, which would link him up with superstar Cristiano Ronaldo after he spent the last few years alongside Messi. The deal appeared close before Atletico Madrid become involved and now the Uruguayan is considering staying in Spain, reports say. If he were to leave, that would leave Braithwaite as the only recognised out-and-out striker at the club. But Koeman is reportedly not keen on him either and is open to offers, despite the 29-year-old’s professionalism. Vidal’s move to Inter Milan has stalled, with reports suggesting this is due to the financial repercussions of the coronavirus lockdown. And Umtiti also looks set for a move away from the Nou Camp after Koeman told him he can go. Along with the big names, the clear out could also see centre-back Jean-Clair Todibo on his way – with Leicester and Everton linked to him – and Nelson Semedo’s position is far from secure. Rafinha’s future appears to lie in the Premier League with Arsenal and Leeds battling it out for his signature. Left backs Junior Firpo and Miranda, along with youngsters Moussa Wague, Barcelona B central midfielder Monchu and defensive midfielder Oriol Busquets, may also be axed from the club. Former Everton boss Koeman is believed to be taking no prisoners to fix the crisis-hit club. Along with their dismantling by Bayern Munich, the club also finished five points off La Liga champions Real Madrid in a disappointing domestic season, with Quique Setiens sacked after only eight months in charge. On the bright side for Barcelona fans, rumours persist that Lyon hotshot Memphis Depay is on his way to join his former international manager.