A chieftain of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Ekiti State, Segun Adewumi, has blamed the internal crisis rocking the party in many state chapters on the Uche Secondus-led National Working Committee (NWC). Adewumi who said the internal rife were pointer of failure of the Secondus-led NWC, lamented that the opposition party is not only in the hand of ‘tax collectors’ but “undertakers” who were determine to sink it. In a statement entitled: “An Ode to Uche Secondus”, a copy of which was made available our correspondent in Ado-Ekiti on Thursday, Adewumi said the fortune of the PDP is fast diminishing. The former Deputy Speaker, Ekiti State House of Assembly, argued that the task of returning PDP to the presidency cannot be achieved under its current leadership. He expressed regret that the current the Secondus -led NWC had deliberately destroyed the achievements and legacy of his predecessors by sowing seed of discord among leaders of the party. “As at now, the party is completely disconnected from its teeming supporters, the Naija citizens & cannot generate any national consciousness or discourse. The role of opposition/ shadow govt that it is supposed to play is being played by APC themselves. Due to failure of leadership. “The present NWC can’t take PDP to its political destination, whoever thinks that 2023 is far is deluding himself politically. “We have a Chairman that lacks political stature, academic acumen, intellectual capacity and clout to manage a political party of PDP calibre. Can you compare Uche Secondus with Solomon Lar, Audu Ogbe or Kawu Baraje? In terms of clout, carriage, crisis and human management. “How did PDP manage the post-gubernatorial primary elections in the following states: Ekiti 2018, Osun re-run 2018 (Fayemi-led APC leaders to meet Omisore), Ogun 2019 (Buruji Kashamu was vilified by his own NWC hope we saw his burial?), Bayelsa 2019, Ondo 2020. It’s crystal clear that these people are not proactive, hence we lost the states to APC,” the statement reads in part. Commenting on the crisis rocking the PDP, particularly in Ekiti State, the ex-lawmaker opined that it would take more a grace of God for the party to find its bearing ahead of the 2023 general elections. “PDP is enmeshed in crisis in almost all states of the federation i.e. Kaduna, Plateau, Cross River, Ogun, Ekiti, etc. No wonder his promoter labelled him “tax collector” & till date, he has no balls nor can he muster the courage to denounce it. “We call on the leaders/founders of PDP & Nigeria Youths who place of the premium on their political and economic future to safe it from the sailors who are ready to sink the ship. Let’s rework the party, the polity, the system and own it.” “The goodwill and political fortunes of People’s Democratic Party (PDP) earned over the last 20 years has been squandered and wasted by the present kindergarten NWC on the altar of genuflecting and selfish interests. “Need for new order, the present NWC should b flushed out of the Wadata Plaza if PDP is serious about politicking. If and when am suspended/expelled there are other patriots to carry on with the struggle to reform the party locally & nationally,” he added.