 As a way to lessen numerous challenges many Nigerians with kidney-related problems or other chronic diseases faced in their bid to access quality treatment, the Catholic Archbishop of Lagos, Alfred Adewale Martins, has recommended that more specialist health facilities need to be built in the country. If more specialist hospitals are built in the country, they will open up more access for kidney transplant as well as treatment of other life-threatening ailments within the country, thereby giving more hope to the people in need of such services, he stressed. The Bishop made this recommendation during the unveiling of the Dialysis Unit of  St. Raphael Divine Mercy Specialist Hospital, Ikorodu, Lagos. The specialist health facility was designed to create more treatment access and opportunity for people that are battling with kidney-related diseases in the country. Because building more hospitals requires heavy spending, Martins also called on the governments at the state and federal levels to prioritise public health by voting more fund to the sector, stressing that this will help in addressing infectious diseases and other major ailments that are contributing to the country’s worsening mortality rates. Speaking further the during the inauguration of the dialysis centre, which was donated by Cardinal Olubunmi Okogie, he said having more specialist hospitals in the country would curb medical tourism, particularly in the virus era when it is safer to seek treatment in Nigeria. Martins also pointed out the need for more medical professionals who would provide adequate treatment for kidney-related diseases. “So for this reason, it is important that our health insurance schemes are strengthened and made available for everyone so as to minimise the trouble for anyone who needs to access health care facilities. Kidney disease is much more now than it used to be and there is so much money being spent going to India and different parts of the world for treatment. There is a great need for more specialist hospitals all over this country and I believe that this country is rich and well-endowed enough in terms of people, professionals and finances to establish that,” he said. Also speaking in the same vein, Cardinal Okogie said the facility will ensure people with kidney disease access treatment without barrier to cost, adding that government officials should ensure that funds are directed to the proper direction and expended on things that will really make an impact on the lives of people such as specialist health facilities like the dialysis centre. On her part, the hospital’s director of administration, Hyacintha Ihedike, noted that early diagnosis of kidney diseases ensures proper treatment and also prevents deaths from the disease. She promised that her hospital would ensure access to quality and affordable health care services for people with the disease. “If kidney problems are diagnosed early, they could be treated well. It is a project at the right time when our sick patients find it so difficult to access dialysis in order to maintain their health. Health is of utmost importance to man. An individual can make his contribution to the development of the society only if he is healthy. This informs why priority should be given to our health. It goes to show why we are happy that this dialysis centre is being commissioned today. It is a facility that would save  many lives in Ikorodu and beyond,” she said. A Consultant Nephrologist, Dr. Stella Alagbe, said lack of access to dialysis facility has triggered more mortality due to untreated kidney diseases, lamenting that the few centres available in the country are not affordable as treatment is expensive due to the fact that consumables, which are always imported from overseas, are also affected by the high exchange rate. She urged governments at all levels, philanthropists and other well-meaning individuals and organisations to begin to fill the void by funding dialysis and treatment of patients as well as providing health insurance so that treatment opportunity is available for every Nigerian in need of such services, warning that many patients die in the process of seeking financial assistance to fund treatment.