Osun state governor, Mr. Adegboyega Oyetola has expressed deep concern over the car crash that led to the death of a man identified as Idris Ajibola, ordering a full investigation. The incident was said to have led to the severe injury of three others allegedly caused by the security operatives after a hot chase on Tuesday evening. The Information and Civic Orientation Commissioner, Mrs. Funke Egbemonde made this known in a statement on Wednesday that the governor called on the Nigerian Police to immediately launch an extensive investigation into the circumstances and events that led to the reported death of a citizen. She said, “Mr. Adegboyega Oyetola was deeply disturbed by Tuesday evening’s sad events. We are shocked at the tragedy and the disruption that followed the unfortunate incident at the state capital. Governor Oyetola had asked the State Command of the Nigerian Police to get to the bottom of the matter. “The tragic events that reportedly led to the death of one person on Tuesday evening was both sad and shocking and Governor Adegboyega Oyetola has ordered a full investigation into the circumstances that led to it all. To the Governor, all lives matter, and nobody has a right under our laws to take a life summarily. While we appreciate the great job our law enforcement agencies are doing to keep Osun safe, the confusion and disruption to our peaceful state capital on Tuesday needs to be investigated. “The Governor appealed to the families of the deceased and the injured not to take matters into their hands by hurting more people or destroying properties. We implore our citizens to trust the Government to get to the bottom of this sad occurrence. However, there were violent protests in some areas in Osogbo at the early hours of Wednesday over the killing as irate youths thronged to the streets at Ofatedo, Dada Estate, and Dele Yes Sir areas made bonfires and barricaded the road. The actions caused vehicles not to access those areas as they make U-turn. Security operatives were deployed to restore peace; however, the protesters were hell-bent in causing mayhem. The security operatives shot canisters of tear gas to disperse the youths but they still regroup to make bonfires and barricades.