 NO fewer than 11 aspirants are competing for the senatorial ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Imo North District at the shadow poll, it was learnt on Tuesday. Former Polaris Bank Managing Director Tokunbo Abiru is the sole aspirants contesting for the slot in the Lagos East Senatorial district. Saheed Obafemi is the only House of Assembly aspirant in the Kosofe State Constituency II. APC Deputy National Publicity Secretary Yekini Nabena said in a statement that primaries will hold in 12 constituencies on Thursday ahead of the October 31 by-elections. He said the APC Screening Committee has cleared all aspirants for the primary. The 12 constituencies, which cut across eight states, are: Bayelsa Central District; Bayelsa West District; Nganzai State Constituency and Bayo State Constituency (Borno, Borno State); Cross River North District and Obudu State Constituency (Cross River State) and Imo North District. Others are: Lagos East Senatorial District and Kosofe State Constituency II; Plateau South District; Bakura State Constituency (Zamfara State) and Ibaji State Constituency (Kogi State). Nabena said: “Ahead of the October 31 concurrent legislative by-elections scheduled by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the All Progressives Congress (APC) screening committees have cleared all aspirants who purchased expression of interest and nomination forms to contest the Party’s Primary Election scheduled for Thursday 3rd, September, 2020.” The 11 senatorial aspirants in Imo North are Ifeanyi Godwin Ararume, Mathew Omegara, Achonu Athanasius Nneji, Uchendu Maric Chijioke, Ibezim Chukwuma Frank, Uwajumogu Edith Chidinma, Uchenna Onyeiwu Ubah, Okoro Eze Joachim, Nwachukwu Bright Uchenna, Onuoha Chikwem Chijioke and Ihim Iheanacho (Acho) Celestine. In Cross River North District, the five contenders are Ochicha Odey Anthony, Joe Odey Anthony, (SAN), Harry Godwin Odey, Prof. Zana Itiunbe Akpagu and Fidelis Ebi Egoro. According to the party, only an aspirant, Dr. Agbor Hodein Adase, was clear for the Obudu Constituency primary. The three contenders in Bayelsa West District are: Capt. Mathew Karimo, Omonikeke Kemelayefa and Ebebi Peremobowei, former House of Assembly Speaker and deputy governor. Five aspirants are jostling for the Bayelsa Central District ticket. They are Festus Dauniebi Sunday, a lawyer, Abel Ebifemowei, Timipa Tiwei Orunimigbe, Henry Daniel Ofongo and Godknows Bolaji Igali. The five senatorial aspirants in Plateau South are Prof. Doknan Danjuma Sheni, Nanvel Nimfel, Prof. Emmanuel Joseph Daniyang, Nora Ladi Daduut and Damian Dongnaán Shekarau. The only aspirant in Nganzi Constituency is Mohammed Ali Gajiradi while Maigari Abare is the only contender in Bayo Constituency. Bakura Constituency has four aspirants. They are Bello Dankande Gamji, Lawali Isa, Saídu Dan Bala and Sani Mohammed Yar’kofogi. However, six are competing in Baji Constituency. They are Mathew Omachonu Eguche, Patrick Obwu Abah, Joseph Enemona, Jerry Omaiwala, Moses Emmanuel Commander, Atule Egbunu and Ogwu Harry Uba. Delegates are warming up for the Lagos East and Kosofe primaries. Lagos State APC Publicity Secretary Seye Oladejo said: “The collation of results for the Lagos East Senatorial District primary will hold at Somolu Local Government Secretariat at 12 noon. “The collation center for Kosofe II House of Assembly primary will hold at Kosofe Local Government Secretariat on Ogudu-Ojota Road at 12 noon.”