Teachers under the umbrella body of the Nigeria Union of Teachers have appealed to state governments and non-state providers of education to comply strictly with the COVID -19 protocols and guidelines developed for the safe reopening of schools by the Federal Government. The NUT stated that obeying the protocols and guidelines would help safeguard the health and safety of the learners, the teachers, and the school community as a whole. National President of NUT, Nasir Idris stated this during a briefing to mark this year’s World Teachers Day in Abuja. This year’s celebration has “Teachers: leading in crises, reimagining the future” as its theme. Idris, who was represented by the National Publicity Secretary of the NUT, Amba Audu, noted that the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on education had further required teachers to lead and to confront the ‘new normal’ with greater capacity for innovation and creativity. He stated: “As the nation takes necessary steps to reopen schools at all levels for academic activities, we urge the federal ministry of education to ensure that both state and non-state providers of education comply strictly with the COVID -19 protocols and guidelines in order to safeguard the health and safety of the learners, the teachers and the school community as a whole. “Today, the impact of Covid-19 pandemic on education has further required teachers to lead and to confront the ‘new normal’ with greater capacity for innovation and creativity. “Indeed, teachers need to be provided with opportunities for regular training and continuing professional development, be provided with conducive environments, be adequately equipped and be empowered and supported to be able to meet the new trends, challenges and demands of the 21st century and to ensure inclusive and equitable quality education for all.” The NUT appealed to the federal government to consider an upward reveal of the retirement age of teachers and education officers, approve and implement the 27.5 percent professional allowance for teachers of unity schools. The union also demanded the establishment of Teachers’ Salary Structure (TSS) and other incentives for teachers to address the peculiarities of the teaching career and to uphold the true identity and status of the profession. They also called for the establishment of a National Secondary Education Commission for proper coordination and effective management of secondary education in the country. Minister of State for Education, Emeka Nwajiuba stated that the government instituted the President’s Teachers and Schools Excellence Award to appreciate and recognise teachers for their productivity and quality service delivery. He said 774 best teachers from the 774 local government areas would be rewarded during the 2020 World Teachers’ Day event slated for October 5, this year.