I am on a search for that person who the world cannot do without. If you find him for me, my joy will know no bounds, but truth be told: I doubt if there is anything to my quest. This year of pandemic has, more than any other year, shown us all that with or without us life will go on. Until Coronavirus took ex-Chief of Staff Abba Kyari, some must have assumed the Villa would be in a state of utter catharsis without his prim and proper ways of organising President Muhammadu Buhari’s activities. But, even before his death, while he was battling for his life at the First Cardiologist Hospital in Lagos, the Villa never stopped working for one day. When ex-Oyo State Governor Abiola Ajimobi died, many a supporter stormed his Oluyole home crying as though a part of them had died. It was like tomorrow will never come. Similar scenes were recorded in the homes of the late Senators Bayo Osinowo, Buruji Kashamu, and other political heavyweights that Coronavirus has ended their sojourn on earth. There was even a video of fans screaming that how would they survive with their leader’s death. But time has since healed their wound and they are moving on. One major mistake we make in life is to work, work, work, and leave no time to relax. Those in this category forget that the lifespan of work is more than their lifespan. Many have been known to develop high blood pressure because of a lack of sound sleep and rest. Hypertension causes quantum morbidity and mortality in Africa, and Nigeria hugely contributes to this burden. A study estimated an overall hypertension prevalence of 28.8 per cent, with a prevalence of 29.5 per cent among men and 25 per cent among women. It estimated a prevalence of 30.6 per cent among urban dwellers and 26.4 per cent among rural dwellers. Political leaders in Africa carry on as though they are irreplaceable, but no one is truly matchless. The replacement may not do the work the same way but the work will still get done. The average age of the 15 oldest African leaders, at some point, was 77, compared to 52 for leaders of the world’s ten most-developed economies. And many of them bent the law to stay put in power and create the impression that they are irreplaceable. At the time he was unceremoniously kicked out of office, the late Robert Mugabe was 94. He led Zimbabwe for 37 years. He was said to have vowed to ensure he was referred to as late president and not a former president. Good enough, he never had his way. The man who took over from him, Emmerson Mnangagwa, still qualifies as one of Africa’s oldest leader. Mnangagwa, also known as ‘Crocodile’, is about 78 years old and is already unleashing terror on his country, including the arrest of Booker Prize nominee Tsitsi Dangarembga. Yoweri Museveni, who has led Uganda since 1986, is over 76. He carries on as though Uganda will not go on without him. Or how do you explain a situation where the country’s constitution, which limited the presidential age at 75, was amended to allow Museveni to continue in office beyond that age. The amendment engendered bitterness in the country but Museveni was not moved. He got what he wanted and that was all that mattered. Whether he likes it or not, he will not be president forever. He will die and be buried in a grave far removed from the presidential palace. These leaders who take themselves too seriously forget that there are so many things we all cannot be. We will not all be rich, we will not all have degrees, we will not all be successful in our chosen career, we will not all get married, and we will not all have children, but there is one thing we will all have, irrespective of class, religion or education. That thing is death. It is an inevitable end for us all. For us to be remembered well long after this inevitable end, there is something we must do: Give. And this reminds me of a story I came across some days back. The story goes: In 1892, an 18-year-old student at Stanford University in the United States was struggling to pay his fees. The boy, who was an orphan, came up with a bright idea to raise money. He and a friend decided to organise a musical concert on campus. They chose a great pianist, Ignacy J. Paderewski, as the musician for the event. Paderewski’s manager demanded $2000 for his principal to participate in the concert. The boys were, however, unable to sell enough tickets to raise the $2,000, all they got was $1600. They sought out Paderewski and explained their plight. They offered the great pianist the $1600, and a post-dated cheque for the balance $400. Paderewski stunned them: “No. This is not acceptable.” He was said to have torn the cheque and told the two boys: “Here’s the $1600. Please deduct whatever expenses you have incurred. Keep the money you need for your fees. And just give me whatever is left.” The boys thanked him profusely. It marked out Paderewski as a great human being. Later in life, Paderewski became Polish Prime Minister. When the World War began, Poland was ravaged and more than 1.5 million people were starving, and he had no money to feed them. Paderewski reached out to the United States Food and Relief Administration for help. Herbert Hoover, an alumnus of Stanford, was the director of the agency at the time. He shipped tons of food grains to feed the starving Polish people. A relieved Paderewski decided to meet and thank Hoover personally. Hoover was quoted to have interjected and said: “You shouldn’t be thanking me Mr. Prime Minister. You may not remember this, but several years ago, you helped two young students go through college. I was one of them.” Hoover— who later became the U.S. President— was the orphan who initiated the concert before his friend bought into it. Hoover died on October 20, 1964. It is good deeds such as Paderewski’s that we will eventually be remembered for long after we are gone. Paderewski, who was born November 18, 1860, died June 29, 1941, and to this day, is still being recalled. My final take: Believing there is no one like you is a delusion. Carrying on as though only you can make things happen is an illusion. And saying if not for me, he or she would not have amounted to anything is akin to playing God. You are only a vehicle God used to bring it to fruition. I will also say overworking yourself is being unfair to yourself. Take leave annually, rest well, and enjoy yourself. Life never misses anyone, only your people do. And eventually, they will move on.