AS the new Italy Serie A season begins today Napoli will be hoping to mount a title challenge after an inconsistent season, having boosted their frontline with the arrival of Victor Osimhen. The  Gil Azzurri have gone from touted title challengers in 2019 under Carlo Ancelotti to a club now focusing on a top four finish and a return to the Champions League after last season’s disappointing campaign, save for the Coppa Italia victory. Napoli broke its transfer record to secure the Lille hit man and will be hoping the Nigerian international translates last season’s exploits under Gennaro Gattuso in southern Italy. Osimhen took Ligue 1 by storm last year, netting 16 goals in all competitions, establishing himself as one of football’s most intriguing young strikers. The 21-year-old is expected to slot in seamlessly in Napoli’s dynamic front three and will be eager to strike a partnership with Lorenzo Insigne and Hirving Lozano. The early signs in pre-season have been encouraging and Osimhen will be raring to go in Napoli’s opener against Parma tomorrow and he can’t wait playing against the likes of Cristiano Ronaldo in Serie A. “I’m really looking forward to a new career here in Serie A,” Osimhen told CAFONLINE.COM “Playing against the likes of Christian Ronaldo is something one cannot eagerly wait for. While at Lille, I had the opportunity of playing against some of the best players in the world like Neymar, Kylian Mbappe and it would definitely be a whole great experience to play against Ronaldo, who is one of the greatest players on earth. So, I’m looking forward to facing him soon.” The 2015 U-17 World Cup Golden Boot winner believes he is not under any pressure to succeed in South Italy, adding that he just needs to work harder and giving his all whenever he is in the field. “There has been no pressure on me since I came here. I just need to work and do what I love doing,” He said. “I just need to do my work on the pitch and give my all like I have always been doing and getting the goals for both my club and country.” The biggest positive for The Partenopei is the fact that they have a core set of players who understand the system and consistently perform well. Their attack scored 61 goals last season and that will only be reinforced by the arrival of Osimhen.