Wife of the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate, Prof. Idia Ize-Iyamu, has sympathised with women at Oliha Market in Oredo Local Government, whose stalls were gutted by fire recently. She said the incoming government would correct the neglect they had suffered in the past three years. The women, who expressed their approval of the SIMPLE agenda of the APC standard-bearer, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, danced and rejoiced as Prof. Ize-Iyamu and her campaign train promised to help their businesses, which had been gutted by fire, to restart. They hailed Prof. Ize-Iyamu for being humble to visit the market. Emmanuel Asuen, an APC leader in the area, lauded Prof. Ize-Iyamu for her humility and efforts towards the success of the coming election. He said victory is sure for APC. Prof. Ize-Iyamu said: “We are representing leadership by example. This is why I came here to hear and feel what you are feeling.” She urged them to call out their families and friends on September 19 to vote for Pastor Ize-Iyamu. ife of the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate, Prof. Idia Ize-Iyamu, has sympathised with women at Oliha Market in Oredo Local Government, whose stalls were gutted by fire recently.  She said the incoming government would correct the neglect they had suffered in the past three years. The women, who expressed their approval of the SIMPLE agenda of the APC standard-bearer, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, danced and rejoiced as Prof. Ize-Iyamu and her campaign train promised to help their businesses, which had been gutted by fire, to restart. They hailed Prof. Ize-Iyamu for being humble to visit the market. Emmanuel Asuen, an APC leader in the area, lauded Prof. Ize-Iyamu for her humility and efforts towards the success of the coming election. He said victory is sure for APC. Prof. Ize-Iyamu said: “We are representing leadership by example. This is why I came here to hear and feel what you are feeling.” She urged them to call out their families and friends on September 19 to vote for Pastor Ize-Iyamu.