Public and private sector experts have emphasised the importance of a liquid and vibrant capital market in the nation’s quest to bridge infrastructural gap and develop critical economic structures. In a webinar organised by FMDQ, experts agreed that there must be public and private sector cooperation to promote the development of the debt capital market. Speakers and panelists, who spoke at the event, included Mr. Bola Onadele Koko, Chief Executive Officer, FMDQ Group; Mr. Bolaji Balogun, Chief Executive Officer, Chapel Hill Denham and Chair, Steering Committee, FMDQ DCMD Project, Prof. Gbolahan Elias, SAN, Principal Partner, G.Elias & Co, Mr. Wale Shonibare, Energy Financial Solutions, Policy & Regulation, African Development Group, Mr. Daniel Mueller, Head, Origination & Structuring, Infrastructure Credit Guarantee Company Limited and Engr. Chidi Izuwah Snr., Director General, Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission. Others included Dr. Farouk Aminu, Head, Investment Supervision Department, National Pension Commission, Mr. Haresh Aswani, Managing Director, Africa, Tolaram Group, and Mr. Taiwo Adeniji, Senior Director, Investments, Africa Finance Corporation. The session was moderated by Dr. Wura Abiola, Managing Director, Management Transformation Limited & Co-Chair, FMDQ DCMD Project Infrastructure Finance Sub-Committee. Speakers explored the critical funding gaps in the key sectors of the economy including construction, mines and steel, oil and gas, health, transportation, education and information technology sectors among others and proffered ways to leverage on domestic and foreign infrastructure financing as well as various financing models to create an enabling environment for private investments in infrastructure. Experts also discussed opportunities and challenges of benchmarking the debt infrastructure market, identifying the scope of de-risking tools in enhancing bankability of infrastructure projects, and government incentives and legislation reforms to unlock infrastructure development in Nigeria.