The National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) has said due to the impact of coronavirus (COVID-19) on the economy,  food insecurity is prevalent, especially in Rivers State and the Federal Capital Territory  (FCT ), where 79 per cent and 72 per cent respectively of households have been skipping their meals. The Bureau, in its report, entitled: The Impact of COVID-19 in Kano, Lagos, Rivers, and FCT Abuja: Results from the Second Quarter 2020 Labor Force Survey World Bank Poverty Team – August 2020, said:  “Food insecurity appears to be prevalent across all four states, but especially in Rivers and FCT where 79 per cent of households and 72 per cent of households reported having to skip meals since the start of the pandemic.” According to the document, households in four states – Rivers, FCT, Lagos and Kano – are drawing down their savings and borrowing to cover their living expenses, which may leave them more economically vulnerable and reduce their investments in human capital in the future. NBS said the second quarter (Q2) 2020 Labour Force Survey (LFS) – collected between June 17 and July 8, 2020 – provides crucial information on households’ response to COVID-19 in the key four states, which can be benchmarked against pre-crisis data from the 2018/19 Nigerian Living Standards Survey (NLSS). Several key insights emerged from this analysis. The report said the share of people engaged in economic activities in the four states was lower in June/July 2020 than before the COVID-19 crisis, especially in FCT where the share of people working was down by around 14 percentage points. NBS said: “Even if some people have resumed work, incomes may still be precarious, with larger shares of workers in Kano and Rivers engaged in agriculture and a smaller share of workers in Lagos engaged in industry than before the COVID-19 crisis.” The report said more than one in five households in Kano and FCT and more than one in 10 households in Lagos and Rivers reported violating containment measures to maintain a living, emphasising the trade-offs’ households face between earning income and protecting their health. It added that the coverage of social assistance, in the form of free food, varied dramatically between the four states with 43 per cent of households in Rivers having received food assistance since the start of the pandemic compared with five per cent of households in Kano (the state with the highest poverty headcount rate of the four); social assistance in cash or in kind was far rarer. Despite some variation  among the four states, said the document, the majority of households knew about the importance of washing hands with soap and water (at least three-quarters of households in each (state) and using face masks (at least 80 percent of households in each state) to protect against COVID-19. NBS said: “To provide further state-level information on the impact of COVID-19 on Nigerian households, the Q2 2020 LFS can be complemented with subsequent rounds of the LFS as well as expanded rounds of the ongoing COVID-19 National Longitudinal Phone Survey (NLPS). “Background: This brief presents the findings of the second quarter (Q2) 2020 Nigeria Labor Force Survey (LFS) on the impact of the COVID-19 crisis on Kano, Lagos, Rivers, and FCT Abuja. The Q2 2020 LFS was conducted by the Nigerian National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) between 17th June and 8th July 2020, collecting information on labor market outcomes as well as on households’ response to COVID-19 via telephone calls. “Since households responding to the Q2 2020 LFS were drawn from the same sample frame as the 2018/19 Nigerian Living Standards Survey (NLSS), several key indicators – including employment and the sectoral composition of the workforce – can be approximately benchmarked against their pre-crisis levels. Moreover, both the Q2 2020 LFS and the 2018/19 NLSS are representative at the state level, so information specific to Kano, Lagos, Rivers, and FCT Abuja – identified as priority states by the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 for Nigeria – can be provided for these states. “The pre-crisis poverty headcount rates for these four states differed dramatically, motivating nuanced, state-specific policy responses; the share of the population living below the national poverty line in 2018/19 was 55 per cent in Kano, five per cent in Lagos, 24 per cent in Rivers, and 39 per cent in FCT Abuja. “The Q2 2020 LFS was undertaken as Nigeria’s lockdown was eased, so the deepest short-term effects of the COVID-19 crisis will not be captured. By the time the Q2 2020 LFS began in June 2020, several of the most severe restrictions in place to curb the outbreak of COVID-19 had been lifted: for example, stay at home requirements were relaxed and interstate travel was permitted. “Moreover, data collected through the COVID-19 National Longitudinal Panel Survey (NLPS) suggest that many labor market outcomes, including the share of people working, at least partially recovered between April/May (the height of lockdown) and June.”