 The photograph of President Muhammadu Buhari, in the newspapers, last week, admiring samples of gold bars and other precious minerals, brought to him by the Zamfara State governor, Bello Matawalle, at the Presidential villa, Abuja, caught the image of an absentee landlord, admiring the precious metals brought by the overseer of one of his far flung estates. Governor Matawalle visited the president, to show him the wasting assets, and notify him that ‘foreign gold poachers’ have taken over the mines and are trading the precious metals for firearms. As relayed by Governor Matawalle, the ‘foreign gold poachers’ have entered the state: “to buy gold and sometimes, instead of paying people (with money), they pay back with arms.” He confirmed that his finding is a product of an investigation. Zamfara and other parts of the northwest have become a hotbed for banditry and sundry criminality, and very regularly the governors of the states run to Abuja, to seek presidential help to curb the insecurity. Of course, the federal power cannot do much, with revenue from oil resources in doldrums, partly because of the economic crisis arising from the COVID-19 pandemic, and decreasing dependency on hydro-carbons by world economic behemoths. But more importantly, the oil revenue, is becoming insufficient, to fight the wars in the northeast and northwest, the armed herdsmen’s insurgency in the middle belt, the kidnapping and banditry in the southern part of the country, and feeding the ballooning population, without commensurate economic activities. Like a tenant who relies on his absentee landlord for survival, Governor Matawalle, is banking on the recently launched Presidential Artisanal Gold Mining Development Initiative, to curb the illegal gold mining that is fuelling insecurity in his state. Of course, he cannot legitimately touch the gold and other precious metals, without the approval of the federal government. To compound his dependency syndrome, he cannot also set up a police to curb the security menace from the illegal mining, because that will be illegal under the law. So, the governor as state chief security officer is prohibited from providing any security, just as he cannot harness the mineral resources nature endowed his state with. Except to share the resources sent down from Abuja, the governor is a caricature of a chief executive. He survives at the mercy of an absentee landlord. According to Law.com, an online dictionary, an absentee landlord is “an owner of a real estate who leaves the premises vacant. While there may be no tenant and the property is empty, they have not abandoned the property.” Like his brother governors, Governor Matawalle is trapped in a bizarre constitutional web, which makes him a chief executive, without the legal instrument to fully act as one. While section 2(2) of the 1999 constitution (as amended) proclaims that: “Nigeria shall be a federation consisting of states and a federal capital territory” section 214, says: “There shall be a Police Force for Nigeria, which shall be known as the Nigeria Police Force, and subject to the provisions of this section no other police force shall be established for the federation or any part thereof.” So Governor Matawalle is what is called in local religious parlance, ‘a powerless power.’ His legal encampment by the absentee landlord with regards to the challenge his state faces is total. By the provision of section 1 of the Nigerian Minerals and Mining Act 2007: “The entire property and control of all minerals resources in, under or upon any land in Nigeria, … shall be vested in the Government of the Federation and on behalf of the people of Nigeria.” To securely lock that door against the state chief executive and the peoples of the state, Section 2, reiterates: “All land in which minerals have been found in commercial quantity shall from the commencement of this Act be acquired by the government of the federation, in accordance with the provisions of the Land Use Act.” On its part the Land Use Act which vests all land in the state on the governor, makes an exception with respect to land with precious minerals like gold. So, a combined reading of the Land Use Act with the Nigerian Minerals and Mining Act vest all land on which minerals have been discovered or on which mining is taking place assuredly on the federal government. That is why the governor like a forlorn tenant scurried to Abuja to seek the favour of the president to mind his resources, and secure the state. If the president dislikes the governor, he can ignore his pleas and allow the minerals in Zamfara State to remain a curse of monumental consequences, instead of a blessing. While speaking to the press, Governor Matawalle recognised the abundant mineral resources in Zamfara, as the root cause of the insecurity in the state. The tragedy is that he can do little to save the state, because the laws of the land hamstring him. That is the conundrum, in Zamfara and across Nigeria. As I have argued on this page severally, the tragedy of the failing Nigerian state is substantially the result of our greedy appetite, for the oil resources of the Niger Delta. The incongruity of languishing in abject poverty and insecurity, by Zamfara State and many of its ilk, in the midst of its gold and other solid mineral resources, is because the Nigerian state cannot sever the ownership of oil minerals from solid minerals. So, if the federal government must keep control of the oil resources of the Niger Delta, then it must also keep the solid minerals and thereby render the entire nation’s landscape a poor and dejected abandoned estate. While the ordinary people have been suffering the consequences of this bizarre federal system of government, because they lack the capacity to join in the looting of the oil wealth, the chicken has come home to roost, for even the rich, with the insecurity that is trying to submerge the entire landscape, into a feisty conundrum of fire and brimstone. To make matters worse, the corona virus pandemic has shown that it is possible to lock everyone inside the cage, while the boiling runs its course. Going forward, instead of the federal capture of the mineral resources across the country remaining an issue of ‘might is right’, it has mutated into a ‘poisoned chalice’. No doubt, the gods of the Niger Delta, must be laughing at the gods of the other parts of the country, and mocking their subjects, whose gluttony for oil wealth, is about to upend their existence. Restructuring the security and economic architecture of our country, is a matter of survival. Those running the Nigerian bazaar, must realise that awuf dey run belle.