 CHINA is currently conducting clinical trials of 11 vaccines against the coronavirus disease, four of which are in phase 3, the country’s Science and Technology Minister, Wang Zhigang, announced on Friday. “At the moment, 11 vaccines have entered the phase of clinical trials, four of them are already in phase 3,” Wang said at the Zhongguancun forum in the capital, Beijing. Chinese researchers, according to him, focused on the development of five types of COVID-19 vaccines at once. The vaccines are a recombinant protein subunit vaccine, an inactivated vaccine, an adenoviral vector-based vaccine, a nucleic acid-based vaccine, and a live attenuated influenza vaccine. “The COVID-19 epidemic continues to spread around the world; it has not yet been taken under full control and with the arrival of the autumn-winter season, there is still a possibility of a return to what it was initially. “The situation in the prevention and control of the epidemic remains serious. “The virus knows no boundaries; we need to join forces, provide each other with assistance and support in order to overcome difficulties together,” Wang said. One of the Chinese vaccines is being developed by China National Biotec Group, which said earlier this month that around 50,000 people from several countries were participating in Phase 3 clinical trials. Another vaccine, which is also in Phase 3 of the trials, was created by Sinovac, which is testing the vaccine in several countries, including the United Arab Emirates, Brazil and Indonesia. China is also leading in the development of a vaccine against COVID-19 and thus Beijing does not need to steal vaccine-related data from other countries, according to Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman, Wang Wenbin. Commenting on media reports claiming that Chinese hackers had stolen data on coronavirus vaccine development from Spain, Wang said: “China strongly opposes and fights against all forms of cyberattacks and cybercrime, and this position is clear and unchanging. I would also like to add that China is one of the world leaders in anti-coronavirus vaccine research and development. We do not see any need for any illegal means to obtain a vaccine.”