 Muawuya Aliyu knew the waters were coming. They usually do around this time of the year. The Kebbi State Government had also warned on radio and television that Jega, where he cultivated rice, was one of the 11 Local Government Areas (LGAs) at imminent risk of heavier than usual flooding this year. So, the retired Army Major turned farmer and Secretary of the Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria (RIFAN) in Jega Local Government Area, was prepared. But what happened in July and August unsettled him. When The Nation met him on the Jega Bridge this month, Aliyu stared sadly, lost for words, at the thousands of hectares of rice and millet farms all under water around him. When he opened his mouth, it was to share the story of the devastation that is now the lot of hundreds of thousands of farmers across Kebbi. When farmers took stock, they found that farms owned by 50,000 persons were under water in Jega alone. The rice and millet crops were destroyed when the waters, which are still there, overflowed the nearby River Zamfara. Over 500 persons lost their homes to the flood in Jega Town alone, Aliyu added. North of Jega, the floods also caught Abubakar Maidana in the state capital Birnin Kebbi, by surprise. Maidana’s five hectares of rice and millet were along the Birnin Kebbi-Makera-Kangiwa Highway, Duku, which runs from Kebbi to Niger Republic. He said: “I can’t quantify the loss I have suffered.” Maidana mentioned bridges for a good reason, but they may not necessarily solve his problem if the flooding continued in the same intensity. Some of the minor bridges and culverts along the Birnin Kebbi-Makera-Kangiwa Highway were so battered by rushing water overflowing the nearby Rima River, that they were already at risk of caving in at Duku. The flood-induced tide from River Rima, a tributary of River Sokoto in Sokoto State, kept coming about 10 kilometres inland, destroying thousands of hectares of rice, corn and millet farms, and eliminating the livelihoods of residents of 10 villages: Wabaku Hausawa, Wabaku Fulani, Bori, Dukuwo, Kalango, Ungwa Kayi, Ungwa Alunmadi, Bokulo, Akwara, Takaluwu and Gawassu. The residents, cut off from the road, were seen evacuating their belongings via canoe. The situation at Duku so alarmed the Kebbi State government that it considered closing the international highway. Scale of the problem The flooding, which began last month ago following heavy rains, have been wreaking havoc in 15 of the state’s 21 Local Government Areas (LGA), claiming lives, destroying property and cutting off several communities from the state capital, Birnin Kebbi. But 11 local government areas were most affected. They are: Argungu, Birnin Kebbi, Bunza, Suru, Koko-Besse, Yauri, Shanga, Bagudo, Maiyama, Jega and Dandi. Kebbi State Emergency Management Agency (KSEMA) Chairman Alhaji Sani Dododo told The Nation that no fewer than 32 lives have been lost, hundreds of houses destroyed and thousands of residents displaced by the devastating flood that sacked communities. Five bridges in different parts of the state were washed away and as much as 500,000 hectares of crops including rice, millet, sorghum, maize and sugarcane were destroyed in the first two weeks, according to Dododo. Dododo said 10 people died in the boat that capsized at Geheru, in Jega local council, hometown of former Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Chairman, Prof Attahiru Jega. The victims were mainly women and children. At Argungu, famous for its annual fishing festival, the floods damaged an international highway linking Niger Republic, forcing the community to partially restrict vehicular movement on a bridge. Argungu Local Government Area Chairman Musa Mohammed Tungunlawa said a portion of the Gargagawo Bridge on Argungu-Natsini Road to Kangina and Niger Republic had partially caved in. The flood also created a humanitarian crisis. Thousands of victims had to be relocated and settled in nine makeshift IDP camps in the local government The devastation was similar in Kalgo with hundreds of ruined homes clearly visible. Council chairman Mohammad Shamsudeen Kalgo said they had not witnessed that level of destruction in living memory. He said: “We lost more than 200 houses in just this place alone. We call this area Shia Danfili and the other side is Shia Antunula where we lost more than 150 houses.” At Augie, the devastation was similar. Abubakar Umar, a resident of Birnin Tudu in Augie, said it was the worst flooding in his lifetime. At Kende in Bagudo, the Sokoto River, which according to the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), rose as high as 5.03 metres on 30 August, had barely receded when The Nation visited the area. The Sokoto joins the River Niger just south of Kende. Not even the Bagudo Prison, and the Tugga Airport, an airstrip serving Bagudo, were spared. The Nigerian Correctional Services evacuated the inmates on September 11, after it became flooded. In Yauri, the Secretary to the Council Chairman, Alhassan Adamu said the flood affected over 1,000 hectares of farmlands, as over 150,000 farmers were affected. It was a similar tale of woe in Bunzo council area. No fewer than 45 communities were affected in Koko Besse council area, leading to the setting up of six IDPs camps. District Head, Dutsi Mani District, Muhammed, said the flooding, which spread across 21 villages in his district, displaced a majority of the residents and destroyed farmlands, along the river side and upland, destroying all the crops. In Shanga, over 90 communities were affected with more than 100,000 households distressed, according to council Chairman, Yisa Abdullahi. Rice farms, sugarcane plantations and millet farms, among others were submerged. The losses were estimated to the tune of N700million. In Suru, camps were opened for IDPs and many camped temporarily to ease their burden and allow the rampaging water to recede. Impact on Kebbi’s ‘agricultural revolution’ In the past five years, Kebbi has become a pacesetter in agriculture, especially rice production, with the attendant multiplier effects on the state’s and the country’s economy in general. An example of the state’s established reputation for rice production is the LAKE rice; Governor Bagudu’s partnership with Lagos State. It was also widely reported that Kebbi recorded the production of almost 2 million tonnes of rice and over 40,000 rice millionaires in 2016, just a year after it keyed into the Anchor Borrowers Loan Programme (ABP). But, following the floods, over 600km of rice plantations and other farmlands have been submerged. According to the Chairman of wheat farmers in the state, Alhaji Abdullahi Argungu, almost the entire FADAMA rice fields in the state are under water, adding that 90 percent of farmlands were affected. Why this year’s flooding was so devastating The 2020 Seasonal Rainfall Prediction and the Annual Flood Outlook forecast heavy flooding in Nigeria. About 102 LGAs in 28 States fall within the highly probable risk areas, while 275 LGAs in the 36 states of the Federation including the Federal Capital Territory fall within the moderately probable flood risk areas. Governor Bagudu explained the context after a tour of the affected areas. He said: “Flooding is an international issue, and in deed it is. One of the sources of this flooding is the River Niger, which we share with four countries, Guinea, Mali, Niger, and Nigeria. “Nigeria, starting from Kebbi, Niger, Kogi, Anambra, Edo, Rivers, all share the challenge of water coming downstream from as far as Guinea. So, describing it as an international issue is quiet understanding, and it’s really necessary for us to understand. “Secondly, in Kebbi, where we also have water coming from the North, Goronyo Dam in Sokoto, and a little bit further, Bakalori Dam in Zamfara, where it comes to Kebbi that has a flood plain of about 300 kilometers, which is the River Rima flood plain, which is the rice producing plane. And we have River Zamfara also pumping water from other parts of the state. So, the first thing is to establish that flooding is not a state problem. It can affect states, but all of us in Nigeria should realise that we are dealing with a national challenge affecting many states, and certainly affecting everyone. “In Kebbi, because of the length of the FADAMA plain, the rice producing belt, which, like I said the River Rima, the north to south where the River Rima joins river Niger is about 312km, and on both sides of it are rice with other crops, and all of it is flooded. ”So in terms of food production, it’s significant. But like I said, it’s not only Kebbi, as it is now finishing Kebbi and going into Niger State. Niger State will be under water; it’s already under water. And then, when it finishes in Niger, it would move down to some parts of Kwara, Kogi, and it’s going to the Niger/Delta. So, this is a big one. This level of water has not been seen since 2012, that is what distinguishes it from 2018 flooding.” Rising from the floods But Kebbi isn’t letting the flood pangs hold it down. Across the state, people understand that the floods are, in many cases, a natural occurrence and are finding new ways to cope while waiting for the waters to subside. In Duku, for instance, after Mohammed Nasiru’s maize and beans farms went under water, he tweaked his second occupation – fishing and became a commercial canoe driver. He now ferries stranded persons to and from the 10 communities. In Bunza, following Bagudu’s financial relief to LGAs, councils Chairman Alhaji Bello Mamuda, purchased 20 canoes to bolster the transportation of the residents of the adjoining communities. Bagudu has also emphasised on dry season farming as a way to help the people get back on their feet. Fortunately, it is possible across Kebbi’s fertile, well-watered lands. To this end, Bagudu has introduced a special package for cassava farmers that will include loan and agricultural input to boost massive production of the commodity. The pilot project, Gangije Cassava pilot farms, in Gwandu has the backing of the Central Bank of Nigeria.   