Chief Magistrate Court in Makurdi, Wednesday remanded a businessman, Benjamin Uttah, and his wife, Ada Benjamin in prison for criminal conspiracy and kidnapping. The trial magistrate, Vincent Kor ordered that the two defendants who live at Federal Housing Estate North Bank, be remanded due to the weight of the allegations against them, and adjourned the case to October 26, 2020, for further mention. Earlier, the Police Public Prosecutor, Hyacinth Gbakor told the court that on August 12, 2020, one Isiana Amarachi of Oji River, Enugu State, reported at ‘C’ Division Police Station North Bank, Makurdi, that on August 1, 2020, she was kidnapped and taken to Makurdi by someone from Abuja to one Benjamin Uttah and Ada Benjamin. The said Ada Benjamin told her that she will stay with her until she would deliver her baby. She stated further that Ada told her that if she delivers a baby boy she will be paid N300, 000 and if she delivers a baby girl she will be paid N300, 000 for the baby. According to the Police, Amarachi refused and insisted to be allowed to go back but the couple threatened to kill and take whatever baby she delivers. During Police investigation, the couple was arrested for committing the crime which is contrary to section 97 of the penal code law of Benue State 2004, section 3(2)of the Abduction, Hostage-Taking, Kidnapping, Secret Cult and Similar Activities (Prohibition), Law, 2017. No plea was taken, counsel to the defendants, Barr. A.A Andenira made an oral application for the bail of his clients, but the trial magistrate turned down the bail application. Also in the same court, the same Ada Benjamin was arraigned for allegedly kidnapping a 4 months old baby at Kadarko, Nassarawa State. According to the Police, a certain Mbalamen Dogo was in her shop at Kadarko Market selling palm oil and her baby was crying. She stated further that one lady walked into her shop and demanded to help her carry her baby and she obliged. However, when she returned back to collect her baby after she finished attending to customers, and discovered that the lady had disappeared with her child to an unknown destination. Investigation revealed that the lady had conspired with one Ada Benjamin, who is an ardent child trafficker, who was arrested. Again, Ada Benjamin was remanded in prison custody, and case adjourned to October 26, 2020.