Speaker, Nasarawa State House of Assembly, Ibrahim Balarabe Abdullahi has announced the defection of the member representing Keffi East Constituency, Hon Abdulaziz Danladi from the Social Democratic Party (SDP) to the All Progressives Congress (APC). The speaker Balarabe Abdullahi while reading the defection letter of the lawmaker during the House proceedings Monday in Lafia assured him of togetherness in the interest of the party and for the overall development of the state. According to the speaker “Let me use this opportunity to congratulate our brother, Hon Abdulaziz for joining our party, APC, you are indeed welcome home. “We are ready to extend hands of friendship to you at all times, I also expect other members from the other sides to join our party soon. “We will want to see at the end of the day that everybody in the state is a member of APC,” he said The speaker wished the lawmaker well, assuring him of equal opportunity in the party. Speaker Balarabe presented him with a broom as the house leader Hon.Tanko Tunga officially received him into the party. His defection has swayed the number of APC lawmakers to 17 while the opposition PDP has 6 with Zenith Labour Party having only one. Speaking to Journalists after sitting, Hon Abdulaziz said that his decision to join the APC was as a result of the developmental strides of President Muhammadu Buhari, Governor Abdullahi Sule, and the speaker’s pragmatic and inclusive leadership. He added that the crisis in SDP currently was another reason for leaving the party. Meanwhile, the Assembly equally passed into law a bill for a law to establish the Nasarawa State Investment and Development Agency. The bill is charged with the responsibility among other things to promote, facilitate, and coordinate investment in the state and other related matters. The Speaker said that the bill if finally assented to would go a long way in promoting and coordinating investment in the state. “A bill for a law to establish the Nasarawa State Investment and Development Agency charged with the responsibility among other things to promote, facilitate and coordinate investment in the state and other related matters, third reading and pass. “This bill if finally signed into law will also boost the state socioeconomic activities, improve IGR and as well as improve on the standard of living of the people of the state,” he said.