Chairman of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 Boss Mustapha has advised Christian and Muslim leaders to prevail on their members to wear mask. He gave the advice while responding to questions during the PTF media briefing on COVID-19 in Abuja. Mustapha, who doubles as the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, expressed displeasure over non-compliance with COVID-19 protocols, adding religious leaders and traditional rulers have a lot to do to curb the further spread of the pandemic. He said: “Best we can do for our people and our country is to adhere to these none pharmaceutical interventions that have been put in place. Wear your mask, observe social distancing. Stay away from large crowd and if you have no business don’t travel. “It is sad when people gather and they do not think it is appropriate to wear mask. What we can do is to continue to appeal to our people that COVID-19 is still alive. It has not gone on any vacation. “It is not relaxing. As much as we are not seeing the figures reflecting in our country does not mean that inflations are not going on in other countries.’’ He added: “People are dying on a daily basis from COVID-19. The high, the mighty, are dying. So it is a very serious issue. ‘’And I keep saying this, as we expect vaccines to show up on the horizon. The only vaccine we have in our hand now let us apply it. And the only vaccines we have are the non- pharmaceutical interventions. “So we will continue to appeal to our people in places of worship to ensure that they insist on members of their congregation to wear mask either in the mosque or in the churches and we will continue our engagements. “Because we have ceded the risk communication to the communities now. We will often time remind them at this level that it is the responsibilities of traditional rulers and religious leaders to drive home that point”. Our correspondent, who monitored the adherence of the COVID-19 protocols, last Sunday observed that most churches in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), have shunned precautions. It was observed large number of people is being allowed into church services without wearing face masks or maintaining physical distancing which negates the recommendation of the Presidential TaskForce on COVID-19. A pastor, who pleaded anonymity, told The Nation enforcement of the COVID-19 protocols in churches have become difficult as worshippers are reluctant owing to the fact that the positive cases of the pandemic are decreasing.