SIR: Many times I question if we have a ministry of environment and health services as it were in this country. On many visits to abattoirs, you see appalling sights of a messy environment.  What the authorities care about is the tax they generate from abattoirs and not about the safety of the environment and the barbarity shown to animals. Before the slaughtering of animals in Nigeria, they are maltreated before being killed. Have you ever watched the killing of animals in China: they first inject the animals (cows) to weaken their muscles, after which they dip them either in hot water or pour hot water on them and remove their skins whilst the animals are alive and start frying, cooking or roasting? How barbaric? And yet China claims to be a world leader and blasé about the welfare of animals. You need to see people dragging cattle with ropes from different end, so the cattle can stumble on the floor before it can be killed in Nigeria. We are so technologically backward and refuse to copy decent ways of killing animals painlessly. You are what you eat; maybe the barbarity shown to animals is the reason why Nigerians are aggressive in their dealings with people. Animals are transported in cruel ways; in the booth of vehicles and shut with no air coming in. In the market on days earmarked for their sales, they are treated with disrespect. Dog eaters buy dogs and trick them to spots where they deal them fatal blows with iron rods on their heads after which they go on smashing their heads to pieces. I think there should be legislations to stop this cruelty to animals in Nigeria. Animal lovers naturally love human beings. It is this massive dose of disrespect to animals that has seen the upsurge of hate messages and the killing of human beings in Nigeria where animals and human lives aren’t valued. Animals need to be looked after with love, sold with regret, killed for food with regret. Shouldn’t we respect animals and promote their rights? Shouldn’t we put them in an arena while we provide for their meals as should, in habitable environments free from epidemics? We should also get the pledge of buyers to treat them with dignity and respect before and on the day of their death. I remember a Russian woman in Kaduna who buried her dog as she would a human being, mourned the death of the dog for days and had a painter make a portrait of the dog which she hung in her living room. That is the way to go. Show animals respect. We need to copy from the Israelis how to kill animals painlessly. 