Times without number in the course of the past week, I got drawn into this debate as to whether the Buhari administration has not only finally lost its humanity but its touch with reality merely by its timing of the ‘twin evils’ of ‘punitive fuel price hike’ and ‘iniquitous cost-reflective’ electricity tariff. While public anger may not necessarily be nearing the boiling point; there is certainly a lot to say of current moods to suggest a growing irritation with an administration that came with a bag of promise but has delivered very little. Imagine yours truly in the midst of all of that, trying to remind some fellows that the deregulation train actually set out a while back. Refer them to the new pricing dynamics which saw the fuel price regulatory body bring down the price from N133.29/litre to N113.28 in March and then to N108 in May as presaging the long awaited dawn of the market forces era in fuel price determination, and get branded an administration apologist – whatever that means; then you are told that the so-called cost recovery nonsense should be the last thing on the government’s mind in the season of Covid-19.  So much about winning arguments; that is how dangerous the current time can be! Whether it is the question of the contentious fuel subsidy or the other long-running squabble over the so-called cost-reflective tariff, I do understand why the government, even with the best of arguments, declarations and pious intentions, is unlikely to win the heart of the common folk on the matter. To begin with, if the irony of the economic argument seems long lost to the government itself whose best case has been that the local gasoline price should take its cue from Rotterdam prices which it sets as standard, and insists that the luxury of paying for the cost/price differentials which are in large part derivatives of the current folly of wholesale fuel importation – now belongs in the past; why should the citizen not also insist that the government also set local wages along the same international parameters if only to make all things whole? Talk of the other business of electricity tariff, which if you ask for my opinion, would seem a lost cause in the hands of the current bunch of clueless operators. It’s the same story of the government, which, long after it shirked its responsibility of delivering the public good, seeks some magical remediation through a one-sided, inequitable pricing mechanism! Precisely the reason we are back to the wearisome debate about subsidies and all of that; or even more appropriately, the question of whether the government, in the current atmosphere of poor and inequitable standards of service delivery should, in fact be talking about hiking charges! But then, these, if I may borrow the language of former Emir of Kano, Lamido Sanusi, these are at best moral – not economic – arguments. I have followed the arguments of those who accuse the government of choosing a wrong time to administer the latest potion. They are right – at least in a sense. This is an impossible season.  Today, we know that Covid-19 has taken everything out of joint. The economy in particular, has been terribly hit. The nation’s GDP, once projected to grow at 2.6 in the current year is now expected to shrink by some six per cent. As for, unemployment, National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), puts the rate at the end of the second quarter at an unprecedented 27.1 per cent. If you add those described in street lingo as ‘managers’ but who are more appropriately under-employed representing another 28.6 per cent, you get a more representative figure of 55.7 per cent of able bodied Nigerians who can’t find something productive to do! And then of course the other reality – of biting inflation, exampled by the fact that 50kg bag of rice, which at this time last year sold for N18,000 now goes for anything between N25,000 to N30,000; the latest hikes could in fact pass as measures of an uncaring government. But fuel subsidy as elixir at this time? And for how long? And where will the funds come from? From the underperforming oil revenue or taxes? Can we begin to talk of new taxes at this time? Let somebody educate me how a government currently pressed for cash can be expected to take on the additional burden of fuel subsidy. By the way, I assume here that the debate on under-recovery is now somewhat settled, and that Nigerians have seen through the lies of denial of the differentials of the landing cost and the price of fuel at the pump and by extension the rent economy and not least the associated corruption which became its derivative. Or is someone still living in denial of the differential? Let’s talk about the electricity sector. I believe that Nigerians have sufficiently made the point to the operators. As it is, I am not aware of anyone being in denial of the need to review tariffs; the sticking points have always been the twin issues of service delivery and value for money! This is where Nigerians expect the government to drive the bargain with the operators hard – through firm and effective regulation. In any case, the government has done well to assure that there will be no change in tariff for the most vulnerable especially those consuming 50KW or less and those receiving less than 12 hours of supply. Now, let’s put the focus where it matters most. Too many Nigerians are suffering. Too many are out of work. The numbers of the poor are growing in uncontrollable numbers. Our industries need all the help they can get to keep jobs. The federal government needs to prioritise its spending to ensure that Nigerians get the value for every kobo of public funds spent. Our infrastructure needs continuous upgrades. It’s time to take a hard look at the structure of the bureaucracy, the compensation for public office holders particularly those disguised perks which come to a huge chunk in the expenditure outlay. It may yet find in them elements that are just as toxic as the subsidy on fuel.