The Osun State University is set to hold the 9th convocation ceremony for 1,946 graduates of the 2018/2019 academic session virtually. The University hinted that 95% of the graduating students have registered to be part of the convocation ceremony that would be held virtually on September 21, 2020, as kits were dispatched through courier service. The Vice-Chancellor, Professor Labode Popoola while addressing journalists at Olagunsoye Oyinlola Auditorium on the main campus of the University in Osogbo, on Monday, handed over the convocation kits to courier service to deliver to graduands in ensuring proper virtual convocation ceremony. He noted that instead of the institution to be complaining about the new norm brought by the Coronavirus pandemic, they are ready to conduct the first-ever virtual convocation ceremony in the history of public Universities in Nigeria. Prof Popoola said; “this virtual convocation will be our 9th convocation ceremony and the convocation lecture will be delivered by Professor Jeffrey D. Sachs, a professor of Economics, Director of the Center for Sustainable Development at Columbia University, New York, and Special Adviser to the Secretary-General of the United Nations (UN) on Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We are indeed expectant and so look forward to a thought-provoking lecture on the topic: “The New Normal: Challenges and Opportunities for Tertiary Education” According to him, the total graduate output of the University for the 9th Convocation captures our graduands for the 2018/2019 academic session and it is 1,946. These graduands will be conferred with first degrees and fifty-two graduands with higher degrees and Diplomas. Out of this number, 35 bagged first-class degrees, representing 1.79% of the total number of graduands. Also, 603 made second class (upper), 972 made second class lower, 274 made the third class, while only 10 will be awarded the pass degree. “I will be handing one thousand nine hundred and forty-six (1,946) convocation kits to the courier service to deliver them to the door-steps of our graduands to be able to participate in the first of its kind 9th convocation ceremony of the University virtually from their respective locations. Each graduating student has five (5) distinct items and they include the well-laundered convocation gown with cap, the convocation brochure, scroll, and a customized as souvenir and memorabilia from the Osun State University,” he added.