 SIR: Benjamin  Sinclair  Johnson  (popularly  known as  Ben Johnson), the Jamaican born  Canadian  former  sprinter came  into  limelight  in  the 1984  Olympic  championship where  he won  two  bronze  medals  in the  men’s  100 meters  and  200 meters  dash. He came to  the  apogee  of his  athletic  career  when  he won two  gold  medals  in  1987 and 1988 consecutively. Even  though  he was  later  stripped  off the  gold  medals on the  allegation  of  testing  positive  to  steroid, his  name  remained a  recurring decimal and synonymous  with  exceeding  speed for overtaking  competitors. In  Ben Johnson’s  competitive days, his  famous style  was  always  a surprising  overtaking  or  out-pacing  his  competitors  from behind  to win  all the  medals  he won. The common  parlance  in the  streets of the  world then was using  the name of  Ben  Johnson  to  illustrate  either speedy  running  away from  danger  or  overtaking  opponents   in any  race in whatever  form. Therefore,  when Governor Hope Uzodimma  used the metaphor  of  Ben  Johnson to illustrate  how he  became  the  All Progressives  Congress (APC) gubernatorial  candidate  in Imo State  and subsequently  won the election  in less than a year after  he joined  APC, he was  trying  to demonstrate  or illustrate  the grace of God  in his life to  his audience. Yes,  it’s only  the  mighty hand of  God  which would  have  made  it possible  for a  then  new  entrant into  APC to  displace  all the  formidable  structures and  tendencies  to become  its  governorship candidate. Before  his  entrance  into  APC , there  were  the  Rochas Okorocha’s structure, the Ifeanyi  Araraume  structure, the Eze Madumere structure, etc. All these structures were at daggers-drawn to one another. There was no meeting point for all of them. The centre could never hold. Against this background, when Governor Uzodimma told Okorocha’s  appointees who recently  paid  him a solidarity  visit  at  the  Government  House pledging  their  unalloyed  loyalty  to his  government , that he became  the  governor  of  Imo State through the “Ben Johnson way”, he was merely  explaining  to them that he became  the  governor  through  the grace of  God . His “Ben Johnson way” connotation or context doesn’t mean that he became governor through a fraudulent means. He couldn’t have said that he became a governor through fraud. In any case, no “Ben Johnson way” succeeds in any endeavor if God doesn’t sanction it. Uzodimma  came  from behind  and overtook  the several structures  and  tendencies  in the then  APC, and  became  its candidate. He went ahead to win the general election. Uzodimma has abundant grace in his political   life because  he  became  the governor  of Imo State in just  two attempts  whereas many  couldn’t  achieve  it after many  attempts. In politics and life  generally, “Overtaking is allowed” and that was exactly  what he did in  2019 gubernatorial election  through  the  “Ben Johnson  way” which  means  the grace of  God. 