West Africa Container Terminal (WACT), Onne has acquired two more state-of-the-art Mobile Harbour Cranes (MHCs) and two 45-ton Reach Stackers. These have made the terminal one of the most-equipped in the country. The arrival of the MHCs brings the number of such cranes at the facility to four, a feat that has set the pace in port terminal facility in Eastern Nigeria. Since last year, WACT has implemented its growth and development plan of becoming the most efficient container terminal in West Africa. WACT’s Commercial Manager Noah Sheriff, confirmed that the two new Konecranes Gottwald Mobile Harbor Cranes arrived Onne aboard MV Hanna earlier this month. He described the equipment as “highly sophisticated and designed to provide versatile and economical handling of containers at the terminal.” “These cranes stand for high performance, versatility, and eco-efficiency. Now I can assure you that WACT Onne will maintain her superior services and match our liner customers’ quest to upgrade their vessel fleet calling East Nigeria,” he said.  The Managing Director of WACT, Aamir Mirza, said: “The acquisition of additional container handling equipment is part of our earlier announced expansion of the terminal capacity – a $100 million investment that started last year and that will be fully in place shortly. The expansion plan will deliver sufficient capacity to meet the envisaged growth in East Nigeria for the next 15 plus years.” WACT made history on August 15, 2020 when it received the largest containership ever to berth at any Nigerian port. The huge container carrier named Maersk Stadelhorn, with a length overall of 300metres and a beam of 48.2 metres, has the capacity to carry about 10,000 TEUs (Twenty Equivalent Units) of containers. Maersk Stadelhorn was also the largest gearless containership ever to visit Nigeria. WACT, which is part of the Onne Oil and Gas Free Zone, is the first greenfield container terminal built under a public-private partnership model in Nigeria.