 The governorship candidate of the Action Democratic Party (ADP) Martin Olateru-Olagbebi has assured he would secure victory in 15 local government areas in the October 10 governorship election in Ondo. Olagbebi said he would win if residents were not hindered from attending his rallies to listen to his message. He urged the media to help him get the All Progressives Congress (APC) off his back and allow fair competition in the state. Speaking in an interview in Akure, the ADP candidate said he was worried about the beating and harassment of his supporters especially in Owo where he and Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu hail from. Olagbe stated he has petitioned the police and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to inform them of what he is suffering. He said it was wrong for his supporters to be harassed for putting on his campaign paraphernalia. According to him: “I am not worried about defeating Akeredolu. I only appeal to the media and people of like minds to appeal to the ruling party to create an enabling environment. “Let everybody compete fairly. Instead of muscling people with guns, bottles, and not being able to campaign. “My hometown, Owo, has been decimated with the ruling party supporters saying the town must have only one party. “If the Governor is confident that he doesn’t have a problem, he should allow free and fair contest. Nigeria is not a one-party system. If he has done a fairly good job, he should not be worried. “I am not worried about winning. I am worried about fair competition. I have taken my case to the Commissioner of Police and INEC to let them know what we are going through because in order to get free and fair elections. “There should be free and fair competition. Why is everybody unable to speak their mind? Why are they attacking my people? I spent my hard-earned money to put all these up. “All public facilities are plastered with posters of the ruling party. Allow free and fair competition and allow people to listen. “Don’t let people be afraid to attend rallies to listen without being feared of being maimed and attacked. We have made a report. I am a Prince from Owo. Why should anybody said my party cannot be free in Owo?”