  The governorship election holding today in Edo State should ordinarily be a festival of choice in an atmosphere of democratic freedom. . The choice can be in two dimensions. It could either be affirmation, or the rejection of the current leadership, which translates into the liquidation of the power of incumbency. The fear today in Edo does not revolve around the spread of Covid-19 pandemic. The protocol was violated during the campaigns. What is more frightening in the state is prospects of violent eruptions in potential flashpoints. It is because, as warned by credible observers, strongmen; thugs, touts, gangsters and cultists are on the prowl. When miscreants spoil for bloodletting on account of elections, it means that Nigeria’s civil rule is still on trial; democracy is still a tall order. The puzzle is: will these hooligans dare the 31,000 policemen drafted to the Southsouth state by Police Inspector General Mohammed Adamu? The periodic exercise of franchise, which either leads to continuity or change of government, underscores the beauty of democracy. It is an inalienable right, based on citizenship and the constitution. The goal of the democratic contest is to demonstrate the numerical superiority of supporters through votes, so that majority can carry the day and the loser, who loses honourably, accepts defeat gallantly, and without a perceived bruise to ego and bravado. Unfortunately, popular rule has often suffered, owing to the bastardisation of elections. The democratic maturity appears to be lacking across the federation to the extent that the polity is enveloped in anxiety or apprehension whenever an election is imminent. Not only is Nigeria assailed by its weak political culture, its weak institutions are also its albatross. The watchword across board seems to be electoral terrorism; a colossal assault on the sanctity of the ballot box and the inadvertent declaration of loser at winner, particularly from 2003. It also logically follows that political leaders are confronted by collective amnesia, because faulty elections were among the factors that drew the curtains on the first and second republics. Also, a major source of worry, concern and confusion is the gradual acceptance of systematic rigging through the strategy of vote buying, making power to land on the palm of the highest bidder. This makes voting a cosmetic exercise. A rigged election deprives the beneficiary government of legitimacy, an important quality that should not be compromised in any proper democratic setting. It also amounts to vanity of voting and a great disservice to the cause of political decency. When will Nigeria get it right? When will votes actually count? Is there hope that electoral battles will not always shift from the ballot box to the court, with the temple of justice always having the last say or giving the final verdict, and with parties in dispute bearing enormous cost of justice and litigation stress? Last week, Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Chairman Prof. Mahmud Yakubu raised the alarm that the agency will be conducting the Edo election under a charged atmosphere. It is an understatement. Ahead of today’s poll, Edo has been in the news for a wrong reason. Intra-party tension has heightened. Party meetings and rallies had been disrupted. Vandalism and destruction of property associated with rivals, stock pilling of small arms and light weapons and recruitment of militia groups had been reported. There is political desperation across board. Those who were compatriots yesterday have become sworn enemies. Both the ruling and opposition parties have threatened fire and brimstone. Edo, it appeared, was spoiling for war; a sort of mutual assured destruction. The arrowheads of the major two parties are combative. It evokes the do-or-die slogan and style of a former Nigerian leader in a bid to sustain his party in power by all means and at all costs Irked by the turn of events, Oba Ewuare 11 of Benin urged the gladiators to sheath their swords and call their troublesome supporters to order. The contest for the Government House became stiff because of the split in the political family that led to the parting of ways. It is expected that the peace accord signed by the leaders and candidates will calm nerves and restore a conducive electoral atmosphere. However, the peace accord can only be effective when the factors and conditions that guarantee free and fair elections, which the accord stands for, are satisfied. Election is a collective duty involving all and sundry in Edo. The onus is on the stakeholders-flagbearers, party leaders, supporters, security agents, media, monitors and observers, and the umpire to play their roles in accordance with the electoral law and the constitution. In the absence of electoral offences tribunal and lack of stiff penalty for monumental electoral fraud, the exercise may continually be at the mercy of political barons who fund thuggery and violence. It cannot be ascertained whether the United States’ proposed Visa ban on those unpatriotic Nigerians who usually undermine or subvert the democratic process will halt the trend of political brigandage. Candidates and party leaders should not take delight in an Edo State that is on fire. They should appeal to their followers to shun impunity; ballot snatching, vote buying, hijack of sensitive materials, intimidation and violence. Those who perpetuate electoral mayhem are not children and relations of candidates and big party men. They are ordinary folks who are financially induced to create obstacles to credible polls, based on the assurance of more crumbs after the completion of their disastrous political project. Their involvement may have been fueled by soaring unemployment, the greatest challenge that government has woefully failed to resolve Security agencies, in the process of providing security for the process and participants, should maintain neutrality. They should refrain from the peculiar tendency to become willing tools in the hands of the money bags in politics bubbling with vested interests. It is the patriotic duty of security agents to police the votes, without let and hindrance. Police who aid and abet should not be spared from prosecution. When security agents are neutral, the message will be internalised by political actors that certain acts of sabotage are outdated. Eyes are on the umpire, which is expected to live to expectation. Having claimed to have prepared well for the exercise, faulty implementation of the electoral procedure should be avoided. Polling officers should not report late for electoral duty. When polling materials do not arrive on time, when card readers are consistently down, when materials meant for a different unit are mistakenly taken to another unit, whenever any aspect of the process is compromised, the electorate will develop negative thoughts. Therefore, INEC should get its logistics right. The electoral law should not be set aside at any stage of the process. In Edo, elections in riverine areas are often problematic. In 2012, the challenge stared the electoral agency in the face. A boat was hired to convey sensitive materials. The helmsman was drunk. It was akin to hiring a dumb and deaf to drive a car. The consequence was fatal. The mistake should not be repeated. The image of Nigeria has been dented by poorly conducted polls, although the country favours a semblance of political stability. The danger is that in some states, districts, constituencies and local governments, attainment of political power is not premised on people’s choice. There is also an allegation that political parties have infiltrated the ranks of observers and monitors, with partisan members of the civil society groups turning in subjective reports on elections. Trust is damaged. The umpire does not trust that candidates and political leaders will obey rules and regulations. The political class does not believe that the commission will be neutral all the times and as it should be. Politicians see politics, not as a vocation, but an occupation of high economic value. To them, there must be enormous returns on investment. Winning by all means and at all costs is the baseline. INEC officers and ad hoc staff should resist political influence that may tempt them to indulge in collaborative malpractices.  Rigging is very difficult. It can only be accomplished through a curious team work, and motivated by bribe. Tales of inconclusive elections are boring. It is an agonising experience as the electoral timeframe is reviewed and extended. Also, when an election is at half, it extends the period of panic and bitterness. It may underscores incompetence on the part of handlers. It may also mean that there is an impediment to successful outcome. It increases the electoral expenditure on the part of INEC. It elongates the suspicion, nightmare and palpable anxiety. It does not show that previous lessons were learnt. But, these can only be averted when all participants play by the rules and leave no stone unturned, even under the charge atmosphere.  