A member of the Federal House of Representative representing Iseyin, Itesiwaju, Kajola and Iwajowa federal constituency, Hon. Shina Peller has described the hike in fuel price and increase in electricity tariff as untimely. The lawmaker called on government to reverse the unpopular price increment, to avoid the wrath of the masses who were already burdened by the excruciating effects of Covid-19 pandemic. The federal lawmaker who spoke with newsmen at a two- day youth leadership training programme tagged: Get Involved Leadership Programme” held at Jogor Event Centre, Ibadan called on the people to resist the increase. The novel training programme which attracted over 160 youths across the state, according to the organisers, is committed to creating opportunities for over 40million Nigerian youths across the 36 states and 774 local government areas in the country. Responding to questions on the controversial hike in fuel price and electricity tariffs, the lawmaker who is the lead sponsor of the youth leadership training programme said” For whatever reason, a hike in fuel price and an increase in electricity tariffs is not timely, things are tough. “Everyone is bearing the heavy burden of the covid-19 pandemic, we shouldn’t suffer any further, we must resist this fuel hike.” According to him,”The motive behind the youth training project was to call the young people in Nigeria to take responsibility for building their immediate communities. Most of the young people in Nigeria are tired of the present situation and that is why we see most of our young people focusing on ‘Big brother Naija’ and all these entertainment programmes. Miss Karima Odebode, one of the trainees said the training has been able to equip her and other participants with the necessary ingredients for leadership. One of the organisers, Mr. Ekpa Stanley Ekpa, Secretary Lead Generation Initiative described the training as a tonic for the trainees to engage in leadership position in their various communities.  