The Senate Committee on Independent National Electoral Committee (INEC) on Sunday warned politicians against violence during Saturday’s governorship poll. Its Chairman, Sen. Kabiru Gaya, gave the warning when the committee visited the commission’s office in Benin. He said the committee was in Edo on oversight functions to ascertain INEC’s preparedness for the election. “From what we have seen, INEC is ready for the election. We have been told that they have 14 activities lined up for the election, of which they have successfully executed 11 and the remaining three will be ongoing until the election day. “We will give them the needed support to ensure that the election is conducted as scheduled,” he said. Gaya appealed for synergy between security agencies and the state government in ensuring a peaceful atmosphere for the conduct of the election. He, therefore, urged the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) to work with the security agencies to provide security during and after the election. The committee’s Vice Chairman, Sen. Sahabi Ya’u, advised the ICT unit of INEC to monitor the activities of its officials to avoid sabotage within. Network for Best Practice and Integrity in Leadership (NEBPRIL), a group, has urged politicians and stakeholders in Edo State to desist from inflammatory comments, violence and other tendencies that can mar Saturday’s governorship election. NEBPRIL, in a statement yesterday in Abuja by the Chairman, Victor Ogene, a former member of the House of Representatives, said: “It is frightening and worrisome, how stakeholders in the project have allowed rancour, bitterness and violence to define the path to the poll.” It added: “Violence prone persons, no matter how highly placed, should not be treated with kid gloves. Rather, the full weight of the law should be brought to bear on anyone or group, irrespective of status that continues to engage in hate speech, vandalism and violence. “The success of the September 19 governorship election should not be seen to be the duty and responsibility of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), security agencies and the candidates alone. It behoves stakeholders, including eligible voters and non-voters, to see to the success of the poll.” 