 Just as well, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) just blew the alarm: the declining cases of COVID-19 for August were due more to reduced testing. That false dawn, of putative safety from COVID-19, could yet come back to hit us hard. First, it could elicit reckless non-pharmaceutical behaviours — like shunning mask-wearing, social distancing, regular washing of hands, bearing hand-sanitisers and avoiding huge crowds — all embedded in the COVID-19 preventive protocols. That could lead to soaring cases. Then, testing is imperative because it is vital to scientifically identify those infected with the virus. After that is contact-tracing, to find out those the carriers have had contact with, test that population, ascertain those uninfected, and trot in those infected for early medical care. Besides, studies worldwide have shown many infected persons are asymptomatic. This brood of innocent spreaders are especially dangerous to community health, as COVID-19 is known to be very infectious. So, taking COVID-19 testing with levity could be the wilful hugging of catastrophe. Which is why the NCDC report for August, of most states falling back on their test sample-collection duties, was especially depressing. Yes somehow, Nigeria’s COVID-19 fatality rate (with the rest of West Africa) has been puny: compare Nigeria’s figure of 1, 027 deaths (as at September 3), with the United States’ 186, 000 (and still counting), despite America’s far better health facilities and medical personnel. Yet, that is no excuse to take testing, the most basic step in COVID-19 control, with levity. Besides, it is clear Nigeria lacks a robust healthcare infrastructure to cope with a virulent surge. Adequate testing, therefore, recommends that old health saying: prevention is better than cure. That remains Nigeria’s best coping strategy, despite what appears a COVID-19 environmental bolster, due to age-old exposure to malaria, lassa fever and other flu-like diseases. However, a glimpse of what an all-out COVID-19 blitz could be appears the reported mass deaths in Kano, even if there were no conclusive proof they were all COVID-19 deaths. Which is why it is rather surprising that the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 fingered states like Kano (with its earlier traumatic experience), Lagos (the ebbing national epicentre), the Federal Capital Territory (the next affected after Lagos), Oyo and Edo, as states with reduced collection of test samples. Kogi, with quite a history of COVID-19 denial, on the basis of its touted expertise in Lassa fever management, was also reported to have collected zero samples for testing, from any of its local government areas. How such lethargy would benefit anyone is hard to understand. Still, is Kogi back-tracking into its initial but abortive COVID-19 denial?  That would be bad public health strategy, given that it is a major transit state, sharing boundaries with 10 others, including the FCT. Over all, however, all states should scale up their testing duties. With 2020 gradually dragging to a close, and the expected flare in parties and allied festivities, it is imperative that Nigeria gauges its COVID-19 status fairly accurately.  Only adequate testing can guarantee that.  But at the PTF briefing, Elsie Ilori, the NCDC head of Disease Surveillance, rued: “In the month of August, we had very low number of samples collected.” Yet, even with that below-par August data, the PTF is relaxing COVID-19 restriction regimes. The nation-wide curfew was shrunken from 12 midnight to 4 am, restrictions on markets have been lifted, while eateries and event centres could do bigger businesses, so long as they are restricted to out-door services. Cinemas and gyms could also open at half-capacity, Guests at weddings, funerals and allied parties have been scaled up to 50. But even before that official nod, some Lagos neighbourhoods have been holding bigger and bigger parties. Nothing suggests this is a sole Lagos monopoly. Inasmuch as these re-openings are desirable, they must not be premised on wrong scientific data, that could spark a new wave of COVID-19 spread. Nigeria, as most countries, has lost too much to COVID-19 in 2020.  That is why we must be strictly and scientifically guided, as we continue to cope with the challenge of the virus in 2021. That is why we can ill afford a false dawn of safety.