 The 729.606 hectares of land acquired by Anambra State Government at Umueri, Anambra East Local Government Area for the Cargo Airport, is the source of renewed crisis between two neighbouring communities in Anambra State. The situation has heightened tension among the youths of the two neighbouring communities and requires urgent intervention of government and other stakeholders. Already, the people of Umueri have petitioned Governor Willie Obiano, the Obi of Onitsha, Igwe Nnaemeka Achebe and the Ohanaeze Ndigbo to look into the situation. The Umueri community is alleging that the portion of their land had been encroached upon by the state government for the Cargo Airport, adding that all efforts to stop the encroachment had been rebuffed. But in a quick response, the State Commissioner for Works, Engr. Marcel Ifejiofor, told The Nation in a telephone interview that there was nothing like that. He maintained that the government was making use of the original map of the place handed over to them, adding that there was no encroachment of Umueri land whatsoever. But in a statement from the community, which was made available to The Nation  yesterday, the three kindreds that own the majority of the lands in Umueri, namely Umuopu, Umuinu and Enuagu, described the government’s position as untrue. It was signed by Chief Uchenna Ndumanya, Chairman of Umuopu and his Secretary, Amb. Chibuzo Ekwenye, Basil Ojide, Chairman of Umuinu and his Secretary, Titus Nwoye and Uzochukwu Dieli, Chairman of Enuagu and his Secretary, Innocent Igwedimma.  They alleged that the government was deliberately making them refugees in their land, by taking away all their lands after taking the portions of land agreed upon for the Airport project. “The three kindreds, Umuopu, Enuagu and Umuinu contributed over 85% of the 729.606 hectares donated to the government and this accounted for 75% of our entire land holding. “We use this medium to demand that Governor Willie Obiano should call the Commissioner of Works, Mr. Marcel Ifejiofor, to order. He should warn him that there is life after the Government House. “It is also on record that up till date, there is no Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between our community and the government for such a huge project.” Anambra State Commissioner for Information and Public Enlightenment, Mr. C Don Adinuba, said the Cargo Airport project was one of the signature projects of the Obiano administration and should not be joked about. He said Obiano, being a listening governor and peace maker would not want any form of trouble and would be willing to listen to every side. “There is no need for any one or group to issue threats. The Cargo Airport will benefit every single person in the state and not Umueri alone and therefore, we should allow peace to reign in our state,” Adinuba said.