 Edo State readily comes to mind once human trafficking in Nigeria is mentioned. The vice, for decades, has proved insurmountable, especially with the people’s insatiable desire to travel overseas for greener pastures which often landed thousands of them in very uncomfortable situations in North Africa, Middle East, Europe and America where they are usually exploited and dehumanised. For many decades, Edo State was red-flagged as human trafficking den. The victims, majorly young women, are forced into sex slavery and prostitution abroad. This development created some sort of stereotype which successive administrations deployed a cosmetic approach to solving. Faced with these challenges at the assumption of office in 2016, the government of Governor Godwin Obaseki made it a duty to tackle the root causes of the vice which has robbed the people of their dignity. Since April 2016, available statistics showed that 16,102 stranded migrants, including 1,200 victims of human trafficking, have voluntarily returned to Nigeria as part of the European Union (EU)-International Organisation for Migration (IOM) Joint Initiative for Migrant Protection and Reintegration with 35 per cent of these returnees attributing their travel abroad to search for better employment opportunities. With the greater number of these migrants originating from Edo State, the Obaseki administration, in collaboration with the Oba of Benin Palace, hit the ground running by setting up the Edo State Taskforce against Human Trafficking (ETAHT) enabled by the Edo State Trafficking in Persons Prohibition Law (2018), which provides an effective, comprehensive legal and institutional framework for the prohibition, prevention, detection, prosecution and punishment of human trafficking and related offences in Edo State. Meanwhile, in 2017, the administration initiated reintegration and rehabilitation programme for stranded Edo people who returned from Libya, Mali, and other African and European countries. Since the initiation of the programme, over 6,000 returnees have been received, rehabilitated and reintegrated into the society after they were equipped with skills for self-reliance by the state government. Out of this figure, 5,000 were said to have been evacuated from Libya alone. Among the 18 returnees were 17 young girls and a year-old boy who were received from Mali and reintegrated on August 15 by the Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Prof. Yinka Omorogbe in Benin-City. The government further entered into a partnership with the International Organisation for Migration (IOM) which was aimed at keeping the returnees gainfully employed through a private sector-driven community-based pineapple factory operated by a business co-operative consisting of returnees and unemployed youths. Located at Iguobazuwa, the facility, which is part of the IOM’s integrated approach to sustainable reintegration, employed 42 returnees and other youths after they had received technical and vocational training under a project funded by GIZ. Aside providing direct employment opportunities, 250 individuals, their families, as well as farmer associations and residents of the community will benefit from the project. In addition to this, a cassava factory, which was unveiled in Ehor Town with 25 direct job offers to 25 returnees, 150 individuals in the community would benefit from the project. With these initiatives, returning migrants and their home communities are engaged in income-generating activities to promote inclusive local development while also reducing socio-economic challenges. The initiative serves to complement existing reintegration modalities and addresses the structural issues of unemployment and social cohesion. While receiving the returnees from Mali, Prof. Omorogbe, who is also Chairperson, ETAHT said the administration of Governor Obaseki has stemmed the scourge of illegal migration through massive investment in the education sector, in addition to creating various empowerment programmes for the youth. “The Edo State Task Force against Human Trafficking, as usual, brought them back to Benin. Ever since we began operations in early November 2017, the task force has been on the ground to receive all who are indigenous to Edo State brought back into the country. “These people just returned and we have taken and stored their information in our database. They will be incorporated into our numerous programmes initiated by the Obaseki-led administration to make them independent and employable. “So, as they have just arrived, we will be seeing to their needs. We have been seeing to their basic medical needs; they have been profiled and we will ensure that they are fully reintegrated into the society,” she said. The Commissioner earlier revealed that the administration had spent N300 million on the upkeep of the returnees and other logistics within the period, adding that the gains recorded so far have corrected the wrong perception held by the international community about Edo State. “Our efforts in Edo State have been acknowledged internationally. If you look at the trafficking in persons before 2019, you will realise that copious references were being made to Edo State and there is no doubt that this was the reason the state, in the latest report, was upgraded because they saw our great effort and they realised the different things being done in the state,” she said. Recently, the Special Adviser to the Governor on Media and Communication Strategy, Crusoe Osagie reassured that the permanent shelters being constructed to accommodate returnee Edo citizens, who were trapped abroad as victims of human trafficking and irregular migration will strengthen the state government’s rehabilitation and reintegration programme. Osagie said the facilities would enable the state government to fast-track short, medium and long-term objectives of rehabilitating and reintegrating the returnees. He noted that the shelters would support the state government’s far-reaching approach to providing support for returnees, which include medical screening, payment of stipends, capacity building and provision of starter-packs, reunion with families as well as regular monitoring and follow-ups. Furthermore, the government sought the partnership of the Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS) with regard to accurate statistics in order to enable the state to plan effectively so as to provide succour to returnees from Europe. Some of the beneficiaries of the reintegration programme who urged Nigerians to avoid being lured by traffickers, said they were happy to be back home to start life all over. A returnee from Libya, Rescue Esosa said: “I am glad to return home and start my life again in Nigeria after all the troubles I went through in Libya in search of greener pastures. The pain and experiences I went through trying to cross over to Italy were unbearable. I lost my friends to the desert and some at sea. I will rather stay and invest in my country than risk my life in the hands of smugglers. I am glad to have something doing now.” A physically challenged returnee from Libya, Frank Obeahon, who has established a tailoring outfit in Benin-City said to have something doing in one’s fatherland was better than any job offer abroad. “The truth is that people consider travelling out of the frustration they face in the country. If they are gainfully employed, a lot of people will jettison the idea of travelling out for greener pastures. “Travelling through these routes is an issue of life and death and the chances of getting to the destination is 50-50 because a lot of people die in the process,” he  said. 