Director-General, National Youth Service Corps, Brig-Gen Ibrahim Shuaibu has said the scheme would prosecute those who attempted to illegally participate in its programme or had participated in the past through fraudulent means when discovered. The NYSC, the DG noted, would not entertain any request for leniency by those who deliberately participated illegally in its programme and are seeking restitution for their “past fraudulent acts.” According to him, the NYSC would allow the law to take its course on such matters through the prosecution of such persons and organisations/institutions who aided and abetted them. The DG stated that the management of the NYSC has intensified efforts at ensuring that any sort of infringement on the provisions of its enabling laws is prevented by enforcing its general operational guidelines. He stated this during the inauguration of the NYSC Anti-Corruption and Transparency Unit (ACTU) by the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission, on Wednesday in Abuja. Shuaibu stated: “The management of the scheme has intensified efforts at ensuring that any sort of infringement on the provisions of its enabling laws is prevented through the enforcement of it general operational guidelines. “Therefore, those who attempt to illegally participate in the programme of the scheme or had participated in the past through fraudulent means will be prosecuted when discovered. “It must also be noted that the scheme will not entertain any request for respite or leniency by those who deliberately participate illegally in its programme and are seeking restitution for their past fraudulent acts. “We will always allow the law to take its course on such matters through the prosecution of such persons and organisations/institutions who aided and abetted them.” While inaugurating the team, the DG said corruption slows down the realisation of government objectives of providing for citizens all the basic necessities of life. He urged the team to discharge its duties with fairness while maintaining the standards laid down by the ICPC. While urging them to shun acts that may compromise their position, the DG said the organisation was open to opinions and suggestions that can help the management in taking goo decision. He said: “Corruption as we manifest in different facets of our public and social lives in very negative ways and oftentimes, causing pains and untold hardship to the citizens. It goes beyond the issues of misappropriation, bribery in workplaces, embezzlement of funds and nepotism, as it slows down the realisation of government objectives of providing for her citizens all the basic necessities of life. “It is, therefore, necessary for all hands to be on deck in the fight against this scourge. It is not a war that should be left only in the hands of the statutory bodies set up by the government to fight. “The conceptualisation of the ACTU as a unit in every government organisation by the ICPC is, therefore, a laudable step at involving other stakeholders in this onerous task.”