The Akwa Ibom State Command of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps, NSCDC, has denied that one of its officers killed a man during a shooting incident in the Umuokporo community, Obingwa local council of Abia State last Monday. The Corps expressed regret over the death of the deceased, Onyekachi Wogu, and extended its condolences to the bereaved family. It however attributed the incident to accidental discharge. The state commandant of NSCDC, Mr. Samuel Fadeyi said in a statement in Uyo Thursday that the deceased died as a result of a gunshot wound sustained when struggling to disarm the officer who was on a security escort with two Chinese expatriates. The said officer, Inspector Robinson Otobong is said to be on a protective assignment for a road construction company, CGGC Global projects, and it’s workers for the rehabilitation of the Aba-Ikot Ekpene highway. “On the 8th of September 2020, he was on a mobile protective assignment for two expatriates of CGGC in a Hilux vehicle in transit to Ikot Ekpene from Aba. They were on the Obingwa section at about 1630hrs when they got to a bad section of the road. In a bid to access the good portion of the road, they saw a barricade and some persons with shovels, machetes, and sticks. “Officer Robinson initially believed that they were community youths so he came down from the Hilux to talk to them and clear the barricade. Initially, they allowed him but immediately they saw that he is escorting white expatriates, they became violent brandishing their weapons and seeking to disarm the officer in order to get at the expatriates for whatever reasons. “Sensing danger of harm to himself and abduction or harm of his principals, Robinson retreated but they surged at him with their cutlasses and shovels so much so that he had to fire a warning shot. The shot did not deter them as they rushed him with sticks, machetes, and shovels, trying to disarm him. “It was in the ensuing struggle that a second shot was fired and the leader of the mob who grabbed the nozzle of the gun was shot. ”At the time, the driver who had seen the hostility and heard the gunshots had maneuvered the Hilux to Robinson to leave the scene with the expatriates but Robinson took compassion on the shot hoodlum and in a bid to save him he carried him into the Hilux and sped off in search of a hospital. Wogu was however pronounced dead on arrival, unfortunately,” he explained. Fadeyi further explained that the officer was however attacked by youths of the community who besieged the hospital where the deceased was taken to for medical attention with the assistance of some solders. “It is however in view of these happenings that I find it regrettable that it will be reported without verification that our officer recklessly shot the deceased in front of his compound. I believe the notoriety of this area is well known to travelers on that road and their history of violence even on security personnel is not hidden,” He said, referring to a press statement from the Abia State government. The security driver of the Hilux vehicle Mr. Ibrahim Abdullahi also corroborated the story and said the deceased was hit by a bullet from the officer’s gun while he was trying to disarm him.