The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) has again appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to immediately constitute the University of Port Harcourt (UNIPORT) Governing Council. The Chairman of ASUU in UNIPORT, Dr. Austen Sado, wondered why the Federal Government had refused to yield to their many calls to inaugurate the essential council following its dissolution in June 2020. Sado said the University Autonomy Act is not in support of an arbitrary dissolution of governing councils and is averse to a vacuum. He said the absence of a governing council has made the appointment of a substantive Vice-Chancellor for the university impossible and allowed tacit approval of arbitrariness in the institution. Sado said: “The Governing Council is the statutory organ empowered to supervise the administration of the University. It is disheartening to observe that the Federal Government has failed to constitute a Governing Council even though the Governing Council is the organ responsible for the appointment of a Vice-Chancellor for the University, a process which has been stalled since the dissolution of the Council. “The University Autonomy Act does not support the arbitrary dissolution of Council, and by the letter and spirit of the law, a vacuum is abhorred. This implies that in the event that the Governing Council is dissolved, it shall be reconstituted almost immediately as if the Governing Council were not dissolved in the first place. “By refusing to constitute a Governing Council for the University, the government has given tacit approval for arbitrariness in the University. Even more worrisome is the fact that on the 14th of July or there about the Federal Government constituted and inaugurated governing councils of thirteen federal universities during which period the Council of the University of Port Harcourt had been dissolved. “Furthermore, government by its action has become a cog in the wheel of a smooth selection of a Vice Chancellor for the University. This is an invitation to the disruption of academic activities at the University. We call on the Visitor to the University to, without further delay constitutes the Governing Council which is a necessity for the much talked about the fight against corruption.”