President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday urged Kaduna State government to keep up its laudable investment efforts and surpass the impressive results already attained. Buhari gave the advice during the virtual opening of the Fifth Kaduna Economic and Investment Summit, with the theme ‘KADInvest 5.0, Infrastructure, Industrialisation and Innovation.’ Buhari said: “I wish to commend the efforts of the Kaduna State government to establish its credentials as one of the new investment destinations of choice in Nigeria. These efforts have received just recognition in the response of the business community which has put in new investments in the state. “This is a further affirmation of the ranking of the state as Number One for Ease of Doing Business by the World Bank’s Doing Business Report 2018. I call on the Kaduna State Government to keep up these laudable efforts and surpass the impressive results already attained.” He said the success of state governments in attracting investments, creating jobs and increasing their internally generated revenue (IGR) would be critical to the development of the  country. “Therefore, I am impressed that the Kaduna State government has from inception used KADInvest as a serious platform for showcasing its investment potentials. The state’s commitment to consistent implementation of the Ease of Doing Business Charter is exemplary, including its ability to increase its IGR to N44billion in 2019 from N13billion in 2015 without hiking tax rates. This is very laudable,”he was quoted to have said in a statement endorsed by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina. The state governor, Nasir El-Rufa’i, said the government has attracted both domestic and foreign investments worth about $800 million since 2015. ‘’The summit also facilitated investments through the creation of a one-stop shop and operationalising of the ease of doing business charter, to break down barriers to investments and expansion of the fiscal space,” he added. The president spoke after Governor Nasir El Rufai revealed that Kaduna state has attracted both domestic and foreign investments worth about $800 million since 2015, with investors pledging a further $2.1billion. El-Rufai further said the second edition of the summit witnessed the launching of Kaduna State Development Plan (SDP) and ‘’Sector Implementation Plan (SIP) as a vehicle to achieving SDP through annual budgeting framework.” ‘’The Ease of Doing Business charter, Bus Rapid Transit(BRT) system, the Eyes and Ears Citizens Engagement platform were all launched at KADINVEST 2.0,” he added. According to him, a three-year Memorandum of Understand (MoU) with the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), to help drive the economic development of the state was signed at the event. He further said that that edition of the summit attracted ‘’a number of foreign Direct Investment in the state, especially Olam Poultry and Feedmill, Mass Housing at Millennium City and KADICT.” The governor also said that, Kaduna State Infrastructure Masterplan (2015-2050), 14 + investments solidified through foreign and local domestic investments, were launched at the third edition of KADINVEST 3.0. El Rufai said that the summit focused on building human capital, adding that it attracted 79% Foreign Direct Investment and 21per cent Domestic Investment. ‘’Last year, KADINVEST 4.0 focused on the operationalisation of Kaduna Industrial Plan and Improvement of the investment portfolio by 300%”, he further pointed out. The governor said that Kaduna was launched into the Industry 4.0 phase by focusing on developing a knowledge driven economy while revamping industries, during the summit. El Rufai said that Kaduna state took some measures in order to mitigate the effects of Covid-19, by commencing staff verification and screening to reduce overhead cost. According to him, the government revised the 2020 budget to manage the revenue and expenditure impact of Covid-19. In his good will message, President Muhammadu Buhari noted that KADINVEST “has become a respected fixture on the investment calendar, held annually since 2016.” According to him, ‘’it is a fitting statement of the resilience of the Kaduna State Government that it is able to host the 2020 edition amidst the severe disruptions to the normal order caused by Covid-19. This is the sort of determined focus that can help the country to navigate the challenging consequences of the pandemic,” President Buhari added.