The Forum of Ogoni Elders and Leaders of Thought has presented an award of bravery to Divisional Police Officer of Bori-Ogoni, Bako Angbashim, a superintendent of police, for combating crime in Ogoni land and beyond, At the event, which took place at Bori Divisional Police Headquarters, Rivers State, the forum’s chairman, Senator Bennett Birabi and secretary, Dr. Desmond Nbete, said as elders, they deemed it their duty to point out areas of lapses in the peace efforts and also offer advice and commend good initiatives. “It is in this regard that we have observed the activities of the current Divisional Police Officer (DPO) superintending over the Bori Police Division, with deep appreciation. “Since his assumption of office in the division, which coincided with a period of profound security challenges in the area, Mr. Amgbasim has carried out his duties with the utmost professionalism and uncommon bravery so much so that the mention of his name evokes considerable fear in the minds of criminal elements, not only in Khana but the whole of Ogoni. “No time in the history of policing in Ogoni had one DPO’s influence spanned the whole of Ogoni,” Birabi said. He added that it was as a mark of appreciation for his uncommon bravery in combating crimes in Khana Local Government Area and other parts of Ogoni that the elders  decided to pay this solidarity visit to the DPO and present the award, “which is first of its kind, to him in recognition of his highly commendable policing measures which have resulted to a significant reduction in the spate of violent crimes and a general improvement in the security of lives and property in Ogoni”. “This token but priceless award is to send message to SP Amgbasim that he is not alone in the fight against crime in Ogoni. We, and indeed the overwhelming majority of Ogoni people are solidly with him and the agencies in the fight against crime and criminality in our land. “Without diminishing the efforts of other hardworking security officials, we also hope that this gesture will also encourage and spur others to work harder and to be assured that we are committed to giving our maximum cooperation and assistance at all times to the security services in our collective efforts at improving the peace and security of our land,” the former minister said. The elders thanked Commissioner of Police and the Inspector-General of Police for deploying Amgbasim to Ogoniland and also for giving him the necessary support to actualise his potentials.