 Because adolescence is a period of transition from childhood to adulthood during which adolescents develop biologically and psychologically and move towards independence, experts say many young people die prematurely and unnecessarily through accidents, suicide, violence and pregnancy-related complications. Some of the serious conditions of adulthood like sexually transmitted infections (STIs), HIV and tobacco use have their roots in adolescent behaviours. But the Deputy Director for Adolescent 360 project, Mrs. Rakiya Idris, has said she is confident that issues that often disrupt adolescents’ future can be taken care of if parents come to terms with the fact that young people of today are growing up in circumstances that are quite different from those of their parents. With greater access to formal education, increasing need for such technological skills as computer and internet literacy, and more exposure to new ideas through media, telecommunications and other avenues, she said parents need to know that the environment in which young people are making decisions related to sexual and reproductive health is also rapidly evolving. To change this, Idris said parents should stop ignoring their children’s reproductive health concerns, especially girls. Speaking during the closeout meeting of Adolescent 360 (A360) project in Lagos, she stressed that parents should desist from shying away from teaching their adolescent girls about contraceptives and reproductive health issues generally. The A360 project was a programme by the Society for Family Health, which provides girls with skills, health information and facts of life. During the closure of the project, which had ran for five years in eight states in Nigeria, reproductive health experts shared gains, insights and challenges of managing adolescent reproductive health programmes. Idris also dispelled age-old cultural assumptions about child upbringing, noting that teaching adolescent girls about contraceptives and reproductive health would not make the young girls to be promiscuous. “When we teach adolescent girls about contraceptives and family planning, we are trying to give them information about sexual and reproductive health issues so that if they are sexually active they know where to go for advice. It is likely that most parents didn’t grow up with their parents listening to them, so, they shun off their children when they ask about sexual and reproductive health issues which is not supposed to be so. For our project we emphasise that any girl below 18 must get assent from the parents before we give them contraceptives and other family planning services.  When you give them the information, you give them the strength to stand in front of anybody and tell them the right thing to do,” she said. Because the negative health consequences of adolescents can pass from one generation to the next, Dr. Folasade Oludara, Director of Family Health and Nutrition at the Lagos State Ministry of Health, said the state government would continue to prioritise the health needs of adolescents. For example, she explained that babies born to adolescent mothers have a high risk of being underweight or stillborn; while such babies are also likely to suffer from the same social and economic disadvantages encountered by their mothers. Oludara noted that the state government believes in addressing the needs of adolescents because it as an intergenerational investment with huge benefits to subsequent generations. While noting that the A360 project had impacted the lives of adolescents in the state positively, she said the state government has put in place strategies to not only to continue where the SFH team stopped but also to expand the scope of the project.