The selection process of 25,000 Deltans for the Federal Government’s Special Public Works Programme will soon round off, the Delta State Committee has said. Its Chairman, Prof. Kelly Ejemudo, disclosed this during a phone conversation with the Nation, Thursday. He noted that this was to enable the commencement of the “next stage”, which would involve bank capturing of those selected, to begin. The Special Public Works programme scheduled to kick start in October is expected to engage 774,000 Nigerians, 1,000 drawn from each of the country’s 774 council areas. The programme, an initiative of the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration, is targeted to employ mostly unskilled Nigerians. Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Festus Keyamo, had said that the Federal Government may extend the programme or make it an annual event. Prof. Ejemudo, while noting that there is little time before the envisaged October 1 kick off of the scheme, assured that the committee is “sticking to the original sharing formula” as no counter directive had been received from the presidency. According to him, traditional rulers such as the Olu of Warri, Isoko, as well as Ijaw monarchs in the state have turned in their lists of nominees, adding that work is ongoing to collate the various lists. Among the special interest groups that have complied thus far are the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), the Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA), the Christian Youth Organisation (CYO), the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) and market women. “The work is ongoing and we are close to rounding off so that the next stage can commence because banks will be involved. They have to capture those selected. We are getting to the end of the selection process. “We are expecting that of the traditional rulers from Central. Between now and Saturday, hopefully, there will be further progress. As they come in, the collation secretary has to do the collation, to accommodate the various nominees in a comprehensive list of a thousand for each Local Government Area and that will run across the 25 LGAs in the state,” Ejemudo stated. He further disclosed that an official of the National Directorate of Employment (NDE) had visited the state to monitor the progress of work being done.