Over 50 per cent of University of Benin (UNIBEN) students reside in Ekosodin. But accessing this off-campus community has always been a challenge to students due to the terrible state of the road. However, relief is coming the way of students following the move by the Edo State Government to reconstruct and tar the road, reports IFUNANYA OSAKWE (UNIBEN) Before now, students of University of Benin (UNIBEN) residing in Ekosodin have found it very tough to get to school on time, especially during rainy season.This is due to the terrible condition of the road that leads to the main campus. Investigation by CAMPUSLIFE revealed that the few taxi and tricycle drivers in the community charge the students exorbitantly for a ride to the very short distance. Some commercial vehicle drivers noted that it was almost impossible to drive on the damaged road to drop students from the Ugbowo main campus. On Newton Street for example, the road is badly damaged by gully erosion that vehicles going to the street have to make a detour to access it. Sadly, the state of the  Ekosodin road and its sub-roads has made the price of foodstuff and other essential products for students and other residents very costly as traders find it difficult to convey their goods to their destinations within the community. Further findings revealed that despite the pitiable condition of the road, rent for houses in Ekosodin campus community is high since most students bid for hostels closer to the main campus. The community has over 500 buildings serving as hostels. However, fortune has smiled on them as the administration has begun to reconstruct the road. The road project which began early this year was awarded to NFRO Nigeria Limited. The major Ekosodin road linking Uselu and Isior has been asphalted and is nearing completion.The sub streets have been graded and drainages have been constructed. Students  have expressed their delight and applauded the state government since Ekosodin is considered an annex of the Ugbowo campus. According to Mike Nwafor, a student of the Department of Biochemistry, the improved outlook of Ekosodin due to the construction of the road is a welcome development. “The road was so bad before now, so much so that most students found it difficult to attend lectures on time. This was due especially to the fact that no vehicle plied the sub streets in Ekosodin. ” Living in Ekosodin has been stressful. For example, I live in Newton Street, which is not close to UNIBEN back exit gate. For me to attend 7:00am classes, l have to leave my house at 6:15am. If not, I will miss the morning lecture. ” Under normal circumstances, if one has to walk from any of the hostels in Ekosodin due to the fact that vehicles do not ply the road, it will take such a person about 45 minutes whereas, it won’t take up to 10 minutes with a vehicle. ” As a student, when returning from holidays, to carry food items from home is never encouraging because one will have to carry it on one’s head, but if one must use taxi, N1,000  is the fare.Taxi drivers are always ready to exploit you due to the bad state of the road. ” It is good that the roads are being fixed. It will enhance the standard of living here in Ekosodin and make students’ life easier and more enjoyable”, he said. Another student, Joshua Osunde of the Department of Political Science, applauded the efforts of stakeholders involved in the facilitation of the road project, saying that the completion of the road will bring further development to Ekosodin. He, however, said that the construction of Ekosodin link road was long overdue. ” Ekosodin is a promising community and it houses a great percentage of UNIBEN students despite the  poor state of the roads. ” With the construction of these roads, linking Ekosodin  to other areas in Benin city, I believe a lot of people especially non students will start living here. ” This is because Ekosodin is a very peaceful community. Thanks to the various security agencies in Benin city. Also, a lot of businesses can now start in Ekosodin because it is now easier to access the community. ” We the students are going to benefit more from it because food items will become affordable unlike before,”  he said. Emanuella Okafor, a student in  the Department of Anatomy, said she was overwhelmed with the new look of Ekosodin link road. ” I couldn’t believe that Ekosodin has changed so much over this short period of time. I had to go to the town myself  to confirm it because I saw the pictures on Whatsapp. When I got there, I discovered it was true. The major road linking Ekosodin to Isior and Uselu has been graded and the left lane has been tarred. ” Most students will be lost when they resume because the community has changed. I am happy with this new development and I will like to use this medium to call on UNIBEN to introduce shuttle buses in Ekosodin now that the road is good. “I believe this will make the life of students living in Ekosodin easier. I for example, normally trek from my hostel which is about 30 minutes walk to the university main campus. But if campus shuttles are introduced by the management of the university, it will be faster for students to get to the campus”, she said. “The poor state of the road even affected security in Ekosodin. Most times if there is a crisis that requires police attention in Ekosodin, it takes forever for the police to get to the scene. “But with this development one is sure of better security response to any crisis in Ekosodin. Even house rents will reduce because one can now decide to live inside the community unlike before when students bid for hostels closer to the school.’’ Meanwhile, some traders and residents also expressed their joy over the road construction in Ekosodin. A trader who sells household items, Mrs  Vera Ezeh, disclosed that she sells her goods at  higher prices because it is not easy to convey them from the market to her shop. She said that it is not their intention to sell their goods at exorbitant prices but they have to make their sales and break even if they want to continue in their businesses. ” Students have always complained that things are costly here but it is not our intention to sell at such high prices. The bad state of the road caused that. Most times the drivers who deliver our goods charge us N5,000 from New Benin to Ekosodin. ” I am deeply grateful for those who made this road project possible and I believe everyone, especially UNIBEN students who patronise us  in Ekosodin will benefit from this development “, she said. Also, the few taxi and Keke drivers in Ekosodin said that they are relieved and happy over the  construction of Ekosodin link road. ” We are very happy with this road project here in Ekosodin. It is a great relief for us. We can now easily drive on the road and sub- streets of Ekosodin. The road construction will now enable us to give adequate transport services to students of UNIBEN at affordable prices unlike before”, they said.