Eleven persons have joined the ranks of millionaires as they received dummy cheques of N1 million being their star prizes in the ongoing Dangote Cement Bag of Goodies Season 2 Promo. They were presented with the prizes at a ceremony held in Ikorodu, Lagos State, during the week. The new millionaires included block makers, bricklayers, labourers, building contractors and tilers. A winner, Victor Amaa, a tiler, commended the management of Dangote Cement for the promo. He stated that he had been using Dangote Cement for years and always recommended the brand to his customers. Explaining how he was able to gather the cards and successfully spelt ‘Dangote,’ Amaa said that he had been picking and storing the cards. For a building contractor, Thaddeus Ohadiro, the star prize of N1 million came as an incentive to continue to use Dangote Cement in his work. He said Dangote Cement is of good quality and suitable for construction. He praised the management of the company for the transparency of the promo. Regional Sales Director, Lagos/Ogun, Dangote Cement Plc, Tunde Mabogunje, who welcomed guests and winners to the ceremony, described the promo as one of the biggest and most impactful in the economy given that 1,000 winners would received N1 million each. The star prize, he said, was enough to kick start a business that would change the economic standards of the winners. He explained that 1,000 families would have been lifted out of poverty when the promo is concluded. Marketing Director, Dangote Cement Plc, Mrs. Funmi Sanni, said the promo was aimed at rewarding its customers who had, with their patronage, made Dangote Cement the number one product in the country. She stated that there was no better way to appreciate them than the cash reward. Mrs. Sanni said: “The beautiful thing about the promo is that the new Dangote Cement millionaires can win again and win. There is no limit to the number of times they are expected to win. So, my advice is that they should keep on buying Dangote Cement and keep on winning,” she said. Aside winning N1 million, Mrs Sanni said consumers also stood a chance of winning tricycles, motorcycles, television sets, refrigerators, Dangote Food Goodies packs, recharge cards and other gifts. To be a part of the promotion, she explained: “All the consumer needs to do is to buy any promo bag of Dangote Cement during promo period, pick out the scratch card inserted in the bag, scratch open the inserted card to see what you have won, and go to the nearest redemption center to collect your prize.”