The Nigerian Army operating under ‘Operation SAHEL SANITY’ has foiled banditry attacks in parts of Katsina and Zamfara states and also rescued some of the victims. Acting Director, Defence Media Operations, Brigadier General Bernard Onyeuko who made the above disclosure in a press release made available to newsmen at Super Camp 4 in Faskari Katsina said the troops have stepped up their quest to rout remnants of bandits and other criminal elements in the northwest zone of the country. He said; “The gallant troops have relentlessly redoubled their efforts in this regard recording more successes against the bandits and their collaborators across the Theatre’. ‘‘On September 12, 2020, troops deployed at Dandume while on patrol rescued two young girls kidnapped by bandits at Dandume LGA in Katsina State. The girls were rescued after a hot pursuit by the troops which forced the bandits to abandon their victims, escaping troops’ wrath by the skin of their teeth. “The victims who were reportedly kidnapped on August 18, 2020, have been reunited with their families.” He also announced that troops deployed at forwarding Operation Base Wuya recovered one AK-47 Rifle buried in a sugarcane farm at Yarsabiya village in Anka LGA of Zamfara State. According to him, several other recoveries were made by troops deployed at Moriki and Jangeru responded to a distress call, foiled planned armed bandits attack Mai-Zuma village in Zurmi LGA of Zamfara State.” He said ”the troops immediately mobilized and engaged the marauding bandits in a shootout along Kayawa axis forcing the bandits to withdraw in disarray and in the process abandoned 3 motorcycles which were recovered by the gallant troops.” Also, troops deployed in Faskari arrested a suspected bandits informant named Isah Indo while spying on troop’s location. According to Onyeuko, the suspect claimed to be a native of Sabon Layi village in Faskari LGA, but that investigation revealed that his claims were false as the villagers denied knowing him. The troops deployed at Yankara also arrested a suspected bandits collaborator called Idris Isah from Yampa village in Faskari LGA of Katsina State, who is reported to be engaged in illicit activities with bandits.