Today, we’re talking turkey, cold turkey, but our title is not meant to slight the physically challenged among us or anyone for that matter. Far from it. It is indeed to pay homage to their long-suffering tolerance of the uncaring society that they dwell in. So today, we’ve taken the liberty to play around a bit with the popular saying about the blind leading the blind. Just as the idea of the blind leading the blind does indeed make for an impossible situation, so also does the mind boggle at the idea of the deaf leading the crippled in Nigeria. Bad roads. Whereas the crippled can see that they’re bumping towards a dirty, brimming, sooty, oozy, malodorous, repulsive culvert, his guide can’t. So, he shouts vainly to his distracted deaf guide to steer clear of it. Oops! Too late. The consolation is that both of them come to the same fate. Dear reader, the crippled are the Nigerian populace who have been maimed by years of governmental neglect, especially of infrastructures that could have cured and enriched them. The result is that the people are groping around vainly recycling the ‘Maggi and salt’ economy while the world, ruled by more serious governments, is juggling more technologically advanced economies. The Nigerian people’s entrepreneurial backs have been broken. Their manufacturing teeth have been blunted in useless fights for survival. Their wills have been subverted again and again by the government’s insouciant attitude to everything ranging from how the people get electricity to what they eat for breakfast. That is why the Nigerian populace is crippled. On the other hand, who do you think the deaf one is? Yes, you’re right; that is the one steering the chair. It cannot hear the people, or the world telling it things about its people, and worse, it cannot even hear itself think. It is so distracted. It is making such a din, preening here and there, and even washing the mirror to be sure it gets the correct image of itself, so much so it cannot hear anything else. Take this fuel price problem for instance. Successive governments have had no end of troubles over it, mostly because they want to raise it all the time and the people have never wanted it raised. Naturally. But the thing is that the reasons have never been clear. Even when the country was producing the commodity, it wanted the people to pay more for it mostly because the world banks told it to do that. Now that the country is not producing the commodity, the excuse now is that the landing costs are higher than the pump price. So, now, the pump price is to jump from N148 or so to N161. Worse, the government is also talking about increasing the electricity tariff to N66. Honestly, I am tempted to give up on this country and especially all governments. Their actions show that indeed, we have a problem when the deaf leads the crippled. Worse, the government is pretending not to see a few things too. Well, what else can I call it when it is refusing to acknowledge that before the corona virus, things were very bad for the citizens. Now, even in what appears to be some respite from the virus, things have become deplorable. The people are in dire straits; with many personal economies crippled and many do not know where to turn. Bandits continue to roam the country, kidnapping and killing people, and there appear to be no solutions in sight. There are talks of the south being overrun by boko haram and other detestable terrorist organisations, yet mum is the word from the government. Prices of foodstuff seem to have picked up their feet and are doing a ‘catch me if you can’ race to the skies, and there is no succour from the government. The physical and mental health of the people is declining rapidly and yet there is no help. The people are shouting at the top of their voices that they need help but the government also does not appear to hear them, like I don’t hear ‘no money to add to housekeeping allowance’. So, there’s nothing for it now but the dirty, brimming, sooty, oozy, malodorous, repulsive culvert for us all. I rather like the words credited to the NLC, in reaction to the news of the proposed hike, which went something like, ‘stop killing the dead.’ I think we all know what they meant; a price hike is adding to the unbearable burdens of many a Nigerian family. It also reminds me of a joke. A news item somewhere in the world read something like some dead bodies were killed when the roof of a mortuary collapsed on them. Obviously, the dead can’t be too careful where they lay their heads these days. On the radio this morning, someone said something to the effect that everyone is angry with the government these days. True. The reason is that all the failures (including lack of rain) being experienced in the country right now can be traced to the government. Yet, it insists on steering the chair of the crippled and seems to be so distracted – by self-interest, mostly by self-interest. What irks more is that while all these tales of woe are going on, we are bound to hear sometime in the (near) future how some intrepid individual has managed to put some tidy billions of naira into some foreign account where moths do dwell richly, or in some lucky soakaways, or in some innocent looking tanks lazing their days away in the sun. In other words, the sums that could have been used now to make some of these problems go away for many Nigerians are probably being bagged and stowed away by some fear-less fellow. What do you think are the odds of that happening? Unfortunately, my gambling days are way behind me; I would have given you a thousand to one bet of that happening right now. That, ladies and gentlemen, is our Nigeria. Taking all these into account, the last thing this government wants to do is to increase the pump price of fuel. Fuel price is central to the people’s economic existence for many reasons.  To increase the pump price is to add inflation to foodstuff prices, transportation costs, cost of materials, not to talk of my own housekeeping money. Things are bad enough. Families are under immense pressures right now. In fact, things are much worse than they seem because appearances can be very deceptive. The person you shared a bus seat with some hours before might just be on his way home to commit suicide, not seeing any other way out. Then you’ll be full of ‘but… but… but… we were just abusing each other a few hours ago…’ For most Nigerians, these new tariffs will spell doom. It is not the fault of Nigerians that fuel is being imported. We trusted governments to find the perfect solutions to providing affordable, locally refined fuel. It is also not their fault that electricity is in such short supply in the country. Heck, three quarters of the time, people are on their generators which use more fuel, thus driving up the consumption… You see the connection? Nigerians find they have to suffer so much to eke out a living on account of these failures and more; hence, many more are taking their own lives now. I charge the government to first ensure that economic pressures on people reduce to a minimum before it will contemplate increasing any tariff. The time has come for the government to stop taking our smiles and passivity as indicators of wellness or happiness. Sometimes, smiles can hide some pretty deep intents, such as frowning…