Workers in the aviation sector are set for a showdown with the Federal Government over its plan to lease the four major airports in the country. The Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria’s (FAAN) offices in Lagos were shut during the protest, from 8.00a.m. till 2.00p.m. Indeed, leaders of the four unions – Association of Nigeria Aviation Professionals (ANAP), National Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE), Air Transport Services Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (ATSSSAN) and the National Union of Pensioners (NUP) – addressed the workers on why they should reject the planned concession. Reasons given by the respective union leaders included job losses which they said would not be in the workers’ interest; some wondered why the Federal Government was interested in concessioning what they called national patrimonies, especially since the four airports slated for concessioning are the viable ones. These are the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos, Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano, and Port Harcourt International Airport, Port Harcourt. Some of the union leaders suggested the option of Greenfield concession which involves the concessionaires building world-class airports on virgin land on build, operate and transfer basis. They contend that rather than lead to job losses, the Greenfield arrangement would in fact lead to creation of more jobs during and after construction, as well as drive competition. Others allege lack of transparency in the process, saying it is a one-man project by the Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, and is being facilitated clandestinely in connivance with the Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC). The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) on its part said in a statement signed by its national president, Dr. Ayuba Wabba, that “the unwholesome and unpatriotic attitude of giving away our prized national property to private sector operatives is not only unjust and immoral but also in ultra-violation of Chapter 2, Section 16 of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” Some of these reasons are not without merit. But, the most important question now is whether the four airports being proposed for lease, or the remaining 18 are well run. This is doubtful. One indisputable fact is that governments in Nigeria have challenges running their parastatals, what with the ubiquitous corruption that has eaten deep into virtually all facets of our national life. Ordinarily, we would have had no qualms with the idea of concession, our fear is whether this would necessarily lead to efficiency, with the benefit of hindsight. The workers have also raised germane issues which cannot be glossed over. Their fear of job losses is real and could even pass for enlightened self-interest, especially in our kind of country where in previous concessions, the workers were just left at the mercy of the concessionaires whose eyes are only on the balance sheet. Here, we recall the workers of defunct organisations like the Nigerian National Shipping Line (NNSL), National Electric Power Authority (NEPA), Nigeria Airways and NITEL. It is unfair to throw workers, some of whom have served in the concessioned institutions meritoriously for the better part of their lives, into unplanned joblessness or premature retirement. There is also the allegation of the planned concession not following the due process. This is serious in that most other concessions in the country failed because the processes were not transparent. For instance, the workers allege that it was during the coronavirus pandemic lockdown that the aviation minister received the outline business case (OBC) certificate for the concession of the airports. This does not engender confidence with stakeholders like the workers who should be carried along to ensure hitch-free exercise. It serves notice that the government is up to something sinister, even ab initio. We therefore urge the aviation minister to enter into dialogue with the workers. They need to be assured that what happened to their colleagues in other organisations that were privatised or concessioned would not happen to them. Which is that even if the government would still concession the airports, their own entitlements would be paid before the concessionaires take over. People who claim they are being owed about N200billion pension have every reason to fear that government is only rehearsing how it would throw them into the unemployment market at a time some of them might no longer be employable due to old age and sundry reasons.