Want a living primer on crass presidential bluster, with galloping bad grace?  Check out US President Donald Trump! Now, let’s bring that home for full impact: imagine a President Muhammadu Buhari calling an Eti-Osa local government chairman names; and the chair returning the crap, telling the president to go drown at Oniru Beach, in the near-by Atlantic? Or the president, during the electioneering for the 2019 polls, cynically mangling the name of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, just because the opposition candidate was challenging for president? Or even, horror of horrors: the president, standing on full presidential dignity, ranting his supporters could vote twice — a clear electoral crime — just to, in blind panic, bad-mouth mass mail balloting, forced by COVID-19 exigencies? But first, this caveat: whatever happens in the American electoral space, Hardball would normally regard as Afgahnistanism: that media term that decries sounding off on matters that little concern — or impact — your local readership or audience. Still, when a sitting American president, in a fear-induced bluster, brazenly suggests his supporters could vote twice, for whatever reason, then it becomes something else. For starters, America prides itself leader of the so-called free world.  For another, ahead of the next electoral cycle, the “saner climes” ensemble here might start bleating “double voting is democratic”, and pleading justification from Uncle Sam himself, the glorious global police of democracy! That would be lose-lose, for the abnormal then becomes “new” normal.  That holds prime destabilization danger for fledging democracies, like ours, with rather weak institutions, after decades of disastrous military rule. But driving Trump’s bluff is his tragic refusal to take responsibility, on COVID-19, now a Trump electoral nemesis, with almost 6.2 American cases and 186, 000 deaths. Again, imagine COVID-19 Nigeria today, had Lagos Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, adopted the Trump bluster, knowing full well Lagos was the first Nigerian COVID-19 epicentre? To be sure, America had New York as its first COVID-19 vortex, as Lagos was Nigeria’s.  Again, State of New York Governor, Andrew Cuomo, sprang into action, like Lagos’ Sanwo-Olu. But instead of Trump to rally the US Federal Government and show leadership, he downplayed the pandemic, with an eye on November 3.  But now November 3 looms, yet he finds himself clutching at straws! First COVID-19 would vanish, according to Prophet Trump.  It didn’t. Then ace Medic Trump serenaded hydroxychloroquine, as new magic drug.  It fell flat.  After, Saviour Trump touted the convalescent plasma therapy, as triumphant “breakthrough”.  But “inconclusive!”, countered the scientific community. Now, a president, at the end of his wits, appears pressuring to rush out a vaccine, well ahead of November 3, as a last-ditch effort.  But again, virulent dissent from experts who should know, saying such a rush could undermine trust in the vaccine! Whoever wins on November 3, America will endure the Trump trough for decades to come.  It’s the latest gripping horror movie, on how reckless leadership sinks empires.