Many still wonder how Abdusamad Rabiu, the head honcho of BUA Groups – a business conglomerate with several chains of businesses – has remained distinguished despite the dwindling and unfavorable business climate in Nigeria and Africa. Naysayers and detractors are quick to forget that Abdulsamad has never despised his humble beginnings, sowed in tears, and now reaping bountifully with smiles on his face. Those who had contact with him will attest to the fact that he is modest and respectful to a fault, despite being rated by Forbes as one of the richest men in Africa. For any young undergraduate, who loves to bag a degree in any business-related issues most especially on business sustainability, negotiation, financial intelligence, and investment choices, Abdulsamad’s journey in the business world should be quietly studied. He is an authority when it comes to business and finance-related issues. He didn’t just attain his current status, he was properly tutored by his late dad, Alhaji Khalifah Isyaku Rabiu, who was also a successful business magnate during his lifetime. With an intimidating net worth spanning into billions of dollars and a well-structured conglomerate that will outlive him, the Kano born entrepreneur still has the thought of every Nigerian at heart. “Samad hardly sleeps at night. He is busy strategizing on how to attract more direct foreign investment to Nigeria. He is not relenting until a substantial average Nigerian youth gets employed.” a close source told Society Rendezvous. To achieve his long term dream for Nigeria, the generous money bag jetted far away France to secure a refining deal with France’s largest hydrocarbons group; Axens. The deal, when completed, will stop Nigeria’s importation of refined crude. “The new refinery, with a capacity to produce 200,000 barrels per day (BPD), should be operational in 2024.” A source added. The contract was signed in Paris between Abdulsamad and the CEO of Axens, Jean Sentenac, in a ceremony presided over by France’s Minister Delegate for Foreign Trade and Economic Attractiveness, Franck Riester. Also, Samad met with the French President who also pledged his unending support to invest more in Nigeria’s economy.