A gubernatorial aspirant on the platform of the Labour Party (LP) in the Anambra State 2021 election, Group Capt. Nnamdi Nnoruka (Rtd) has expressed disappointment over the indifferent disposition of South-East governors towards defending Biafra agitators. He regretted the recent alleged killing of members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) in Enugu, wondering why the governors were yet to make a categorical statement on the ugly development. Speaking to newsmen on Wednesday in Onitsha, on his intentions to run for the exalted seat in the state, Nnoruka accused the governors of being afraid to talk for what he termed “giant skeletons in their cupboards.” He also linked the prolonged pro-Biafran agitations to frustrations occasioned by unemployment and hopelessness, saying such anomaly would be corrected through meaningful engagement if he secured the opportunity to govern. He said, “The governors are not living up to their responsibilities because they have a giant skeleton in their cupboards. All of them have been found wanting in one way or another. They all have case files in DSS and EFCC and are afraid of being exposed if they talk. “I’m totally against killing these children. They are our children. This nonsense won’t happen in my own state. The same day I’ll enter the plane and meet with the President and tell him these ones that killed my children will be brought to justice. That’s what a Governor should do. “Again you also need to engage with them and find out who they are and try to keep them down. The problem is that the kind of political leaders we have lost the moral authority to be able to engage these children because they’ve not been doing what they’re supposed to be doing.” Describing the Biafra project as a collective cause, Nnoruka advised the agitators to apply caution in their actions so as not to jeopardize their struggle. He added, “We’re all Biafra at heart. By virtue of the fact that we’re Igbo, we’re all Biafra. IPOB members are not more Biafrans than us. They are not more Igbo than me. I even saw Biafra myself. I was a Biafran at some point in my life. “Most of them were not because they were not born by then. So they don’t even know what being a Biafran feels like. But I know. As a governor, I will lead from the front. There won’t be any confrontation between the security and IPOB.”