A former spokesman of the Peoples Democratic Party in Ondo, Banji Okunomo, has explained why its governorship candidate, Eyitayo Jegede, has taken campaigns to markets. He said PDP resorted to market campaigns across to lack of grassroots appeal of the party. Okunomo contested at the PDP primaries but got 90 votes after which he defected to the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP). Addressing ZLP supporters at a campaign rally at Okitipupa, Okunomo said Jegede opted for market areas to campaign to enjoy the natural gathering of people. He said most of the people in the campaigns were traders and not supporters of the PDP. Okunomo said the PDP has lost out in October 10 governorship elections because it fielded a candidate whose zone is not the turn to produce the Governor. He said it was not yet the turn of Ondo Central to produce the Governor as expressed by Minister of State for Niger/Delta Affairs, Senator Tayo Alasoadura, who hails from Akure South in Ondo Central. The former PDP spokesman said the October 10 contest was between the ZLP and APC, stating majority of them formerly working for the PDP have abandoned the party for the structure loyal to Jegede. His words: “Now, PDP has again picked from the wrong zone, Ondo Central and the people are saying no, including a minister who is their son from Akure”. ”My people, it is not the turn of the Central to produce the governor thus the contest is a straight contest between the candidate of APC and ZLP. “But I’m optimistic that what affects Jegede also affects the incumbent governor of Ondo State from Ondo North Senatorial District who also doubles as the APC flag bearer. “Though the constitution permits him to run if he so wishes the people are against him based on number one factor which is zoning. “Many people in Ondo State want power to shift to the South because they believe Ondo North where Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu hails from, has used 12 years. ”Let me also state that a pot does not come kettle-black, I would have taken the statement of Sen. Alasoadura more serious , if he had said it is not the turn of the North senatorial district this time but he is being political because he didn’t extend that statement to affect the candidate of his own party.” He added: “The reality is that neither the North nor the Central is favoured, it is only the South senatorial district that is favoured at this moment, I mean it is only the ZLP that has produced a candidate from the south which we want in Ondo State and that is the reason why in the last couple of days, there have been a number of people trooping in from the APC and the PDP to join the ZLP. “As we speak, you’ll discover that no single person is joining the PDP or the APC in Ondo State, it has been the chieftains of PDP and APC that are joining the ZLP. “The ZLP together with the candidate is the beautiful bride of the masses. People are satisfied with the pedigree of the Deputy Governor Agboola Ajayi who has been elected to serve in various capacities before and he did well and this time around the National Leader who is also a former governor, Dr Mimiko, is strongly supporting the continuity of those caring-heart projects in Ondo State.”