Ondo State Deputy Governor and governorship candidate of the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP) Hon Alfred Agboola Ajayi has stated reasons why he would emerged victorious at the October 10 governorship election. Agboola boasted that he would defeat both candidates of both the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Eyitayo Jegede and the All Progressives Congress (APC) Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu. He said the ruling APC failed the people of the state with what he termed lackluster performance of Governor Akeredolu while he said the PDP has no structure to win election in the state. The Ondo Deputy Governor spoke while he receiving former PDP members in Okitipupa Local Government led by a former governorship aspirant, Mr Banji Okunomo and a former chairman of the local government, Mr Solomon Bitire. He said the PDP breached the zoning arrangement in the state and therefore would be punished by voters. Agboola stated that the achievements of Akeredolu in the last three and half years fell short of people’s expectations as the governor has personalised government. In Akure South where Agboola received some former APC members led by the party’s secretary, Mr Olukayode Abiodun, the Deputy Governor said the people would punish Akeredolu with their votes. He hailed the defectors for displaying high level of patriotism. His words “PDP and APC are dead in Ondo South. We can postpone burial ceremony, but you cannot wake up the dead political parties. Okunomo said he joined the ZLP to rescue the people from the misrule of Akeredolu’s family. His words “I contested with Ajayi in PDP. He was the newest in the PDP race and came second. He contested within three weeks. The youth have the opportunity now to elect one of us. “We don’t want someone who will increase the school fees. We don’t want a governor who will make life difficult for the people of Ondo State. “The PDP made the mistake of 2016 by presenting a candidate from a wrong zone. The PDP lost in 2016 and will lose in this election because it failed to look at the local content of zoning. “It is not that PDP is not a good party but the handlers have mismanaged the fortune of the party.”