Anambra State House of Assembly Committee on Sustainable Development Goals, (SDGs) Economic Planning and Donor Agencies has warned contractors executing public projects in schools in the state to adhere strictly to government specifications. Chairman of the committee, Mr. Ebele Ejiofor gave the warning following a tour of some World Bank projects in secondary schools across the state. He expressed dissatisfaction over the quality of work by the contractor handling fencing of Community Secondary School, Ifite Ogwari and Community Secondary School Omor where portions of the fences had fallen due to substandard materials. He said strict adherence to specifications was critical to realising the objectives of the Governor Willie Obiano-led administration especially in the education sector. “When contractors work according to government directives and specifications, cost is saved, value gotten and the living standard of people enhanced,” he said. Ejiofor who doubles as Deputy Minority leader of the House, however applauded the contractor handling the construction of hostel blocks at St John Science and Tehnical College, Alor and Archbishop Herrey Technical College, Ogidi for utilising the fund released to them in raising the project to the expected level. “I also commend the firm that handled the fencing of Community Secondary School, Igbariam for completing his task as well as the quality of work amidst unavailability of funds from government,” he added. He called on the executive arm of government to consider releasing fund for the Contractor handling the fencing of Community Secondary School, Igbariam to ensure project execution as specified. Manager of St John Science and Technical College, Alor, Rev. Fr. Francis Unegbu and the General Secretary, Archbishop Herrey Technical College, Ogidi, Mr Emmanuel Chukwuzubelu thanked the government for the hostel project, saying it would meet the accommodation needs of the school on completion. The Principal, Community Secondary School, Omor, Mrs Christiana Obiorah, appealed to the government to prevail on the contractor, regretting that most of the completed fences had fallen thereby exposing the school to security risk. nambra State House of Assembly Committee on Sustainable Development Goals, (SDGs) Economic Planning and Donor Agencies has warned contractors executing public projects in schools in the state to adhere strictly to government specifications. Chairman of the committee, Mr. Ebele Ejiofor gave the warning following a tour of some World Bank projects in secondary schools across the state. He expressed dissatisfaction over the quality of work by the contractor handling fencing of Community Secondary School, Ifite Ogwari and Community Secondary School Omor where portions of the fences had fallen due to substandard materials. He said strict adherence to specifications was critical to realising the objectives of the Governor Willie Obiano-led administration especially in the education sector. “When contractors work according to government directives and specifications, cost is saved, value gotten and the living standard of people enhanced,” he said. Ejiofor who doubles as Deputy Minority leader of the House, however applauded the contractor handling the construction of hostel blocks at St John Science and Tehnical College, Alor and Archbishop Herrey Technical College, Ogidi for utilising the fund released to them in raising the project to the expected level. “I also commend the firm that handled the fencing of Community Secondary School, Igbariam for completing his task as well as the quality of work amidst unavailability of funds from government,” he added. He called on the executive arm of government to consider releasing fund for the Contractor handling the fencing of Community Secondary School, Igbariam to ensure project execution as specified. Manager of St John Science and Technical College, Alor, Rev. Fr. Francis Unegbu and the General Secretary, Archbishop Herrey Technical College, Ogidi, Mr Emmanuel Chukwuzubelu thanked the government for the hostel project, saying it would meet the accommodation needs of the school on completion. The Principal, Community Secondary School, Omor, Mrs Christiana Obiorah, appealed to the government to prevail on the contractor, regretting that most of the completed fences had fallen thereby exposing the school to security risk.