Chief Whip of the Senate, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, on Thursday, said that the President Muhammadu Buhari’s approval of N12billion for the construction of the second section of the Ohafia-Arochukwu road will improve the nation’s economy. Kalu, who represents Abia North Senatorial zone, in a statement in Abuja, commended Buhari for funds for project. The Federal Executive Council (FEC) had on Wednesday approved N12 billion for the construction of the road project. He described the approval as a great favour to the people of Abia North. He said getting the road approved has increased his fulfillment as a representative of the people, adding that, it would breathe life into the economy and livelihood of Ohafia and Arochukwu. He lauded the Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola; President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan; Speaker House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila; Acting Permanent Secretary of Ministry of Works, Engr. Abubakar Aliyu and the Chairman Senate Committee on Works, Senator Adamu Aliero, for their efforts in getting the funds approved. He also appreciated the Managing Director of the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA), Mr. Uche Orji; Permanent Secretary of Ministry of Interior, Barr. Georgina Ehuriah for their relentless efforts and for working hand in hand with him to capture the road in the appropriation process. He further thanked the Abia State All Progressives Congress (APC), stating that the stakeholders worked as a team and their teamwork has given them victory. He also thanked the Deputy Chief Whip of the House of Representatives and member representing Isuikwuato /Umunneochi federal Constituency, Rt Hon. Nkeiru Onyejiocha; Minister of state for Mines and steel, Dr Uche Ogah; Member representing Arochukwu/Ohafia Federal Constituency, Rt Hon. Uko Nkole; Member representing Bende Federal Constituency and spokesman of the House of Representatives, Hon . Benjamin Kalu for their commitment and assistance in facilitating the road approval He said: “I, on behalf of the good people of Abia North Senatorial zone and Abia state, express sincere appreciation to President Muhammadu Buhari, for this great favour to the people of Abia North. “I am deeply excited because the completion of the road would improve the quality of life of our constituents, by easing the stress they currently face commuting the road especially Arochukwu road. The Chief Whip said that he believed that the road, being strong economic artery of his Senatorial zone, would ameliorate the hardship facing the commuting public when completed.