 Born to legendary creative scorer of Leventis United FC, Bunmi Adigun, Bayo Adigun, wanted to follow in the step of his father, until he was converted to a defender. “My early playing days were like a learning process and l must admit that my father encouraged me a lot. He told me l needed to work harder for better days to come. As a former footballer, who played for the great Leventis United team as well as the Nigeria senior level, he was my mentor and role model,” Adigun said. “I started off as a striker but later converted to a defender when I was playing for Accurate Stars under coach Neyo.” But for his dogged fighting spirit and steadfastness, Adigun would have ended up in the dunghill of history. He was spotted by late Yemi Tella while putting together the Nigeria U17 team for the 2017 World Cup qualifier, and became an integral part of the team. The skilful and hard defender however missed the FIFA U17 World Cup due to an injury he cropped few days to the team’s departure. Speaking exclusively with The Nation, the London based footballer turned player manager, described the moment as the hardest in his career, which ended in 2016. “Playing under coach Tella was special. He was a disciple and technically good and must have seen something in me that warranted my invitation to the team. I played all the qualifying matches before l left the country for trials with Sporting Lisbon of Portugal. Unfortunately on arrival back to camp l got injured.  This was few days to the U17 World Cup in Korea. “I was devastated to say the least. I was dropped on the eve of the team’s departure. It was the saddest day of my life! I felt the whole world came down on me. Nnamdi Oduamadi and l were dropped,” he stated as he missed out in the celebrated team that won the FIFA U17 World Cup same year. He continued, “The team went on to make history winning the World Cup. It was very painful that I missed out.” It also battered his Portugal deal but Adigun was bent on playing football. “After l got over the injury and since l missed the Portugal deal l had to settle for the Japanese League deal with Kashnwa Reysol. I later moved to Tokyo Verd FC.” He had short stints with in Albania with FK Bylis and 3SC of lbadan before moving back to Al Tahadi of Libya. “I had a great time there but the internal crisis at that time which resulted in heavy fighting and loss of hundreds of lives put an end to my stay and contract with the club as l had to leave when it got worse and President Muammar Gaddafi was killed. “On returning to Nigeria in 2015, l was signed on by Sunshine Stars of Akure but left during the season in 2016 for FK Ventspils of Latvia which unfortunately was my last bus stop as a player due to the serious injury l sustained. I had series of operations which put paid to my hope of returning to the field. In one of the matches l got injured again on the same leg and was advised by doctors to quit active football at the risk of permanent disability. I had no choice than to take to their advice and quit at that stage of my career.” The father of two quickly moved on to football management and development. He founded VIA football academy where he has been discovering football talents and nurturing them. “It was not difficult for me to choose going into player management/agent being a former player as l understood the terrain a lot. While playing as a kid l had developed a passion for it and as such it was easy for me to make the switch. I run a football academy in lbaban called VIA and the boys are being coached by a former Super Eagles player Tony Alegbe. We also have a general manager and team manager, so we run it professionally. Though l don’t reside in the country but l do come in often. I’m happy the academy has produced talents that are now playing in the home league and abroad.” One of the products of VIA is Omojesu Oguniyi. “Oguniyi plays Sunshine Stars last season. He is a skilful attacking midfield player.  He is being sought after by many clubs both in Nigeria and abroad.  Watch out for him.” If any Nigerian player has had an impression on Adigun, it is former Super Eagles captain, Sunday Oliseh, who he described as ‘a dictator and field marshal on field.’ “Aaaah! That has to be Sunday Oliseh. I watched him play while growing up. He was a dictator on the field of play, a Field Marshal on the pitch. Everything about him was to perfection. He tried his hands on coaching the Super Eagles at a point in time but threw in the towel when things were going the wrong way. I would want to see him come back to coach the Eagles in future.” He also believed strongly that indigenous coaches are good for Nigerian teams. “No doubt we have good indigenous coaches. Is Samson Siasia not a product of our local coaches!! He has done well with the teams he had handled in the past. I believe he should be given another chance to handle any of the national teams. Was late Keshi not a local coach? He won the Nations Cup and took Nigeria to the World Cup. I believe the NFF should encourage our local coaches the more. “Right now (Gernot) Rohr is doing a good job, putting together a team of young players based in Europe. When Keshi was there didn’t he do a fantastic job and was he not a local coach so to speak? He also believed that local players have a lot to give and should be given an opportunity in the national teams. “We have an array of good players in the Nigerian League but they still have to keep playing well and improving to get invited to the national team. The likes of Kenneth Omeruo, Godfrey Oboabona and others came from our League. I think Keshi gave them the opportunity and they took the bull by the horn. Today they are better off as they play in Europe for big clubs. Adigun kicked off his career from Greater Tomorrow FC under late coach Baba Gomez. “He was a great influence on me as a young up and coming player.