 THE Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in  Imo State, Prince Marcellius Nlemigbo has defended the result of the senatorial primary for Imo North District. Speaking in Owerri, the state capital, Prince Nlemigbo, said that there was no controversy arising from the  primary, adding that the only recognised primary was the one conducted by Senator Ajibola Bashiru-led committee. “The Chairman of the committee, Senator Bashiru led other committee members to return Frank Ibezim as duly elected flag bearer of the party for the October 31 by- election in the Senatorial district,” he said. Nlemigbo said, Ibezim polled 13,637 to beat 10 other contestants. He said: “In every election, there must be a winner and losers, the losers should be magnemous enough to accept defeat as has been done by eight other asspirants who contested the primary. The chairman disclosed that a day after the primary, eight of the 11 aspirants came to the party secretariat to congratulate Ibezim and pledged to support him to win the senatorial election. Nlemigbo added: “So, if 11 aspirants contested an election and eight have declared support for the winner after losing, then it is obvious  that there is no controversy of any kind trailing the conduct and out come of  the APC primary for the forthcoming Imo North senatorial district bye. “We have no record of any parallel primary of our party anywhere across the 64 political wards of Imo North senatorial district (Okigwe zone), as we witnessed a most free, fair, transparent and hintch-free exercise supervised by the National Election Panel led by Senator Bashiru and monitored by officials of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and other relevant security agencies.” He frowned at the unwarranted fabrication and falsehood to bring the party into contempt and public opprobrium. Nlemigbo said: “We wish to remind those responsible to desist forthwith, as the party will no further tolerate any act of anti-party related activity, indiscipline or violation of any relevant provision of the party’s constitution.” 