 Ardova (AP) Plc has assured its shareholders of improving performance and returns in the years ahead as the integrated energy company seeks to consolidate the gains from recent initiatives by the new board and management. At its First Annual General Meeting (AGM) after the emergence of new majority core investor, the board and management of Ardova, formerly Forte Oil Plc, assured shareholders that the growth recorded last year was indicative of the future outlook of the company. Ignite Investments and Commodities Limited led by Prudent Energy Services Limited had in June, last year completed the acquisition of 74.02 per cent majority equity stake in Forte Oil from the company’s erstwhile chairman, Mr. Femi Otedola. The transaction was valued at about N64 billion. The company subsequently changed its name to Ardova. Key extracts of the audited report and accounts of Ardova for the year ended December 31, 2019 showed that turnover rose from N134.71 billion in 2018 to N176.55 billion in 2019. Gross profit declined slightly from N11.33 billion to N11.28 billion. Profit before tax however rose by 351.5 per cent from N1.03 billion to N4.65 billion. Profit after tax also jumped by 520 per cent from N631.47 million in 2018 to N3.92 billion in 2019. With these, earnings per share increased from 48 kobo in 2018 to N3 in 2019. Addressing the shareholders, Chairman, Ardova Plc, Mr. AbdulWasiu Sowami said the change in strategy introduced by the new management has begun to yield returns. According to him, despite what was a challenging economic environment, the evolution of the company’s business model to one focused on improving operational efficiencies, leveraging existing core assets and positioning the company to be at the forefront of renewable energy distribution in Nigeria has led to significant improvement in top and bottom lines. “We will continue to focus on delivering value to our shareholders as we continue to drive the growth and profitability of our business,” Sowami said. Chief Executive Officer, Ardova Plc, Olumide Adeosun, said the vision of the new management was to create an energy firm that would become the brand of choice for consumers. He explained that the new management’s strategy to deliver on the goal of the first choice energy firm is to be laser-focused in increasing operational efficiency and leveraging core assets to maximise growth. “On this premise, we divested from our non-core subsidiaries, a strategic move that quickly resulted in a cleaner balance sheet and a healthy platform from which our resulting growth stems,” Adeosun said. He noted that the 2019 financial results marked the start of the company’s repositioning plan as it continues to be deliberate about building an energy company designed for the future. “Our performance over the latter half of 2019 shows that moving forward on this course will set us on the right path to our long-term goals. We remain committed to delivering improved profitability and value for shareholders in 2020, as this remains a core component of our transformation,” Adeosun said. He assured that Ardova will continue to execute on its transformation strategy by leveraging new opportunities, innovation and partnerships that further its goal to emerge as Nigeria’s energy provider of choice. 