 NIGERIA and Arsenal legend Nwankwo Kanu has praised Gabonese international Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang for renewing his contract with Arsenal, adding that his continued stay would be a morale booster to other players in the team. Aubameyang on Tuesday put pen to paper on a bumper new Arsenal contract in what serves as a major boost for manager Mikel Arteta’s rebuilding project. The 31-year-old new deal runs until 2023 worth an initial £250,000-a-week but bonuses included in the contract can take it beyond the £350,000-a-week paid to highest earner Mesut Ozil. “I signed da ting! It’s finally done, I am really happy to be staying here,” Aubameyang said. “This is my home. It’s a great day. I want to become an Arsenal legend and leave a legacy. It’s the time to work a lot but for sure I will give my best, as always. “Signing for this special club was never in doubt,” he added. Kanu  who  spent an impressive five years with  the Gunners and was part of the famous Arsenal Invincible that won the 2003/2004 English Premier  League (EPL) title without losing a match, said the Gabonese forward represented the best hope of the club. “Auba’s signing a new contract is great news for all Arsenal fans and the club itself,” the 44-year-old who won two EPL titles and three FA Cup at Arsenal told NationSport. “A lot of clubs really wanted him but  for him to make up his mind to sign  a new contract means he really loves the club; knows all what the club is about   and he wants to be  part of the club’s history which is good for us as a team. “Since he is the captain of the club, his stay means he wants to do more for the club. “I want to wish him the best because he has shown commitment which other players would be motivated and want to emulate him; I’m particularly happy about this development.” Speaking further, the former Ajax and Inter Milan forward said Aubameyang’s stay further underlines the current revolution going on at the Emirates under the Belgian coach. “Every coach needs time to achieve results and I think winning the FA Cup  and the  Charity Shield  is good development for him  and  there’s a lot of positives going forward  for him and the club,” added the two-time African Footballer of the Year.