 PETROLEUM worker on Tuesday staged a protest at Port Harcourt refinery in the Rivers State capital. They accused the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) of poor management of the country’s four refineries. The angry workers claimed that the refineries were deliberately abandoned to enrich a few privileged persons. The Chairman of Independent Petroleum Marketers (IPM), a branch of National Union of Petroleum & Natural Gas Workers of Nigeria (NUPENG), Uche Udunwo, gave the Federal Government two months to fix the refineries. The union leader urged the government to open newly built refineries and 30 days to rehabilitate the abandoned ones. He said: “We are here gathered to protest and march against the insensitivity of the managers of this place. We can’t understand why the four refineries in Nigeria cannot be put to active work when we have crude oil in the country. But they rely on going outside the country to bring petroleum products. If they do that, they siphon the products to private tank farms. “We cannot accept it any longer. The public is dying. Why should the government allow these facilities to rot and private tank farms owners are living large? “Again, we are giving a 60-day ultimatum to the government to ensure that the new refinery be put into active work and 30 days ultimatum to revamp the already existing refineries, which we know are in good shape. “We, the stakeholders, are worried about why Port Harcourt Refinery depot and other refinery depots have been abandoned and private depots are working. That is why we are protesting today. “The Port Harcourt Refinery is in a good condition. We are saying that the refinery should be put to use. If the place becomes operational, products would be more available and a lot of workers would be working. “The Port Harcourt Refinery depot, for the past two months, has been without products, but private depots have products and are working optimally. The NNPC is the sole importer of petroleum products in Nigeria; yet, the government-owned depots have no products.”