Priesthood is a job with its own peculiarities. It requires the one going into it to be Christlike. He must be seen to carry himself with grace and to keep his head always no matter the situation. Priesthood is no tea party. Is it the denial of the things of the world or the expectations of others that you want to talk about? A priest is like a goldfish that has no hiding place. Whatever he does or does not do attracts attention. Where he is famous, it is double trouble. Many priests covet this double trouble because it comes with influence and affluence. Unfortunately, the craze for wealth has become the attraction for going into priesthood these days. Yet, the Bible says in the Book of Timothy that a priest must be vigilant, sober, of good behaviour, given to hospitality, apt to teach…not given to wine, no striker, not greedy of filthy lucre; but patient, not a brawler, not covetous. These seem to be tall attributes, but some priests, who fall into the category of the chosen few, have them. They are meek, godly and compassionate. They tend their flock with love and empathy. They mind their business and do not pick quarrels with people. These are priests with the heart of gold and they are few and far between. The Scripture says it all: Many are called, few are chosen. Even the unchosen ones will argue until thy kingdom come that they are among the chosen even when they behave contrary to their calling. To accept the Order of Priesthood comes with challenges. It is not a bed of roses. As the man of God that your sheep look up to, you must be above board. You cannot misbehave in public. You must lead by example and practice what you preach. You cannot tell your sheep to keep their heads while you lose yours. You cannot tell them to love their neighbours as themselves while you do otherwise. All eyes are on you as a priest because your followers are learning from you. Once in a while, though, the flesh has its way in the affairs of ministers and they go gaga before their followers. Rather than rebuke the devil for their fathers in the Lord, they hail them, indirectly endorsing their misdemeanour. Yes, a priest is first and foremost a man with all the foibles and frailties, but having been ordained a minister, he is a step or two above other men. He looks unto God for direction and is in the Spirit always to avoid falling into temptation. He should more than his spiritual children, who follow him blindly, imbibe the biblical injunction: we walk by faith not by sight. When a minister allows the flesh to take control of him, that is walking by sight, he departs from the spiritual realm and becomes of the world. Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. Since that is the case, why then will a priest, not just any priest, but a celebrity minister at that, take to the pulpit and exact revenge from a ‘mere broadcaster’, to borrow the pastor’s word? Pastor David Ibiyeomie of the Salvation Ministries flew off the cuff in his church on Sunday as he descended on Ifedayo Olarinde aka Daddy Freeze, calling the on air personality (OAP) names for taking on Bishop David Oyedepo. What did Daddy Freeze do to incur Ibiyeomie’s wrath? He claimed that the OAP attacked “my father Bishop Oyedepo”, asking:  ”who is Daddy Freeze to attack Oyedepo? Oyedepo may not talk, but I will talk. I will skin him alive”. He said he cursed the day Daddy Freeze was born, claiming that the OAP was born on the wayside by a Somali. He goofed. Daddy Freeze is said to have a Nigerian father and a Romanian mother. Ibiyeomie went on: “if he tries it again, I will sue him and use every other means to cut him to size”. Daddy Freeze seems to have taken Ibiyeomie’s curses in his strides. Rather than pay Ibiyeomie back in kind, the OAP just clarified that he never insulted Oyedepo. “I did not insult Oyedepo. I only corrected him. He quoted from Ephesians 5:22, and I drew his attention to Ephesians 5:21. To correct a person scripturally is not an insult”. What then is eating Ibiyeomie up that he spoke like a worldly man? The Oyedepo that Nigerians know will not have waited for his son to fight for him if Daddy Freeze had actually attacked him. Oyedepo, just like his son, does not have such patience. He believes in an eye for an eye  and a tooth for a tooth, just like Ibiyeomie. The very things that the Lord they claim they serve warned against are the things they cherish. What is bad is bad. And as an adage goes, it does not have any other name, but bad. When men of God throw caution to the wind and descend so low to curse rather than bless critics, no matter their perceived offence, then there is no hope for the lost, who Christ said He was sent to. These pastors have turned themselves to God of men with the way their flock follow them sheepishly. I shook my head in disbelief as I watched the video clip where Ibiyeomie’s followers were clapping and shouting amen as their pastor cursed Daddy Freeze. A pastor cursing inside church. It beggars belief, but it happened. Ironically, Daddy Freeze, who many expected to go the Ibiyeomie way in his reponse, has shown that the cassock does not make the priest. Nor do a big church or a large congregation show how holy a pastor is. What confers this grace, for grace it is, is to live according to the will of God:  be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good.