The Chairman of Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) in Adamawa State, Bishop Stephen Mamza, has recovered from Covid-19. He tested positive two weeks ago and publicly announced it, declaring that he was going on isolation and to concentrate on treatment against the disease. The CAN chairman, who is also the Bishop of the Catholic Diocese of Yola, came to the public again yesterday, this time to announce that he had regained his health. “I have been certified free of Coronavirus and I want to use this opportunity to thank very sincerely all people of goodwill who have been praying for me in order that I get well and I want to assure everybody that I’m now physically well,” he said. Bishop Mamza, who is a member of the Adamawa State COVID-19 Containment Committee, urged citizens to continually adhere to laid down protocols to curb the spread of the virus. He said, “Coronavirus is real; there is no doubt about it and there is a need for the public to take the necessary precautionary measures, especially the protocols which include wearing of face mask, washing of hands with running water and maintaining social distancing.” He commended health workers for their “relentless efforts” in the frontline of the fight against the virus, but scored government low on the capacity of the health sector to effectively handle the COVID-19 pandemic. He said, “I think Nigerians need to appreciate the efforts of the health workers, those in the frontline collecting samples, those in the lab, doctors and nurses at various treatment centres. “This is why I feel very sad when I hear that medical doctors will be going on strike. This is not when such should happen. The government should please attend to the needs of the doctors immediately so that there will be no strike.” He called for an immediate upgrade of all health facilities in the country, saying, “COVID-19 has exposed our weaknesses in terms of health facilities in Nigeria. Our bad sides have been seen and we have a lot to learn and also improve. ”It is God that has been helping us because nobody expected that the virus will be mild in Nigeria and Africa in general, having heard what happened in Europe and other parts of the world.”