 Osun State Governor Gboyega Oyetola has hailed Senator Ajibola Basiru for introducing empowerment programmes that would impact positively on his constituents. The governor urged other elected representatives to emulate Basiru’s gesture. Oyetola made the call while declaring open an intensive capacity programme for members of co-operative societies facilitated by the senator. Basiru represents Osun Central Senatorial District in the Senate. The governor said “I admonish other elected representatives, groups and well meaning citizens of Osun to organise empowerment programmes for our people.” He said the training programme sponsored by Basiru rests within his administration’s efforts at exploring legitimate avenue to utilise people’s potential to deliver prosperity and good life to the people of the state. The governor who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Prince Wole Oyebamiji stated: “I heartily appreciate Senator Basiru for organising this training programme for the people who voted him as their representatives. This is a good dividend of representative governance.” He therefore implored the participants to take advantage of all empowerment activities that may come their way so that they can prosper and contribute to the progress of the state.  While thanking the Federal Co-operative College, Ibadan, that coordinated the programme, Oyetola noted that the training will surely add value to the lives of not only the trainees but many others in the state. In his welcome address, Basiru said the training was a product of an extensive research tailored to meet the need of the ordinary people and improve their economy. The Senate spokesman said: “The training was conceptualised and tailored to suit our local dynamics with a view to enhancing the capacity of our constituents who are mostly in the informal sector of the economy”. A critical ingredient of the training, he said, would be taking the participants through information and communication technology skills which would useful to management and entrepreneurship. Basiru used the occasion to mention some of the intervention programmes he had carried out in his first year as a senator. They include provision of potable water in six different communities, provision of solar power at the Oba’s market to facilitate night trading, empowerment of 80 youths with appointments and grading several roads within his senatorial district. The event attracted many dignitaries including the former governor of the state, Chief Bisi Akande, the immediate past deputy governor, Mrs Titi Laoye-Ponle, the Ataoja of Osogbo, Oba Jimoh Oyetunji, the Akirun of Ikirun, Oba Rauf Olawale, Aragbiji of Iragbiji, Oba Rasheed Olabomi and the Owa of Oke-Ila, Oba Dokun Abolade. 