Afenifere, the pan Yoruba socio-political group, has urged the Federal Government not to tinker with structure of the security outfit, Operation Amotekun, initiated by Southwest states. The group said: “We restate our rejection of the gaffe by the Federal Government that the Yoruba states security initiative Amotekun will function under the IG of police. “We fully back our Governors that being a product of law by federating units, the outfit should be independent and not be muzzled under the failure of single police that necessitated it in the first place. “Seeking to take Amotekun over negates the untruth by the FG that it has commenced restructuring.” The group, led by Pa Reuben Fasoranti, also enjoined the Constitution Review Committee headed by Deputy Senate Between Ovie Omo-Agege, to consider report of the 2014 National Conference set up by former President Goodluck Jonathan. Afenifere reiterated its call for restructuring, saying it will lead to true federalism and foster peaceful co-existence. The national caucus of the group met online to discuss the state of the nation. A statement by its Publicity Secretary, Yinka Odumakin, said the meeting discussed the proposed constitution amendment, Water Resource Bill, fuel price increase, demise of Ambassador Walter Carrington, Amotekun and re-election of Dr. Akinwumi Adesina as Managing Director of Africa Development Bank. Afenifere observed that constitution review has become a ritual every four years without tangible progress, adding it would be sad if the country is being taken through another motion without movement in the midst of its constitutional disorder. “We, therefore, recommend the reports of the 2014 National Conference and other profound positions on restructuring as a basis of a meaningful new constitutional order for Nigeria. The mainly pro-federal reports have enough provisions to take Nigeria out of its present crisis,” it added. Rejecting the water bill, Afenifere said a dangerous agenda was being pursued by the Executive to subvert the Land Use Act in the constitution that vests the control of lands in the states in the governors. It stressed:” The Bill seeks to convert waterways to RUGA facilities for the Federal Government. “The Bill seeks to give 18kms after River Banks to FG when in a state like Lagos you hardly can go beyond a kilometer of any river before meeting residential buildings. “We ask that the Bill be droppeed immediately, except there is an agenda to divide the country.” According to Afenifere, the recent increases in the prices of petroleum products and electricity are the most insensitive policies against a people being ravaged by a national pandemic without adequate support from their government. The group said “to ask Nigerians to pay more for these facilities is wicked.” 