Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila has applauded the decision of President Muhammadu Buhari to sign into law, the Nigeria Police Act passed by the National Assembly. In a tweet on his official twitter handle, the Speaker said the Police Act is the first step towards enhancing effective policing in the country, adding that the House will continue to monitor the implementation of the law. The bill was sponsored by a member of the House from Plateau state, Yusuf Ahmed Gagdi. The Speaker said “On the 2nd July 2020, the 9th House of Representatives passed the Police Act, 2020. The Act seeks to provide for an efficient police service that will ensure accountability and transparency, the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and ensure cooperation and partnerships between the police and communities in maintaining peace and combating crime. “The Act is the first step of a broader action towards wholesale reform of the Nigerian policing and national security infrastructure. The House of Representatives will continue to review the Act in its implementation to identify additional ways to improve our policing so that government can live up to its primary responsibility of protecting the lives and property of all Nigerians.” Meanwhile, sponsor of the Police Act, Gagdi said signing Act into law by President Buhari will promote intense security in the country, adding that by signing the bill into the bill, the President has demonstrated hi is resolve to promote the security of lives and property in the country and ensure that people orient d policies are put in place. The Lawmakers said “I want to commend Mr. President for this giant stride as this is coming at a time when the country is facing serious security challenges. “This for me is a step in the right direction that will address the challenges of structuring, appointments, promotions, discipline, postings, living conditions, pension and retirement benefits of the Nigeria Police Force as identified in the Principal Act.”