The Senior Staff Association of Electricity and Allied Companies (SSAEAC) has picked holes on the recent minimum remittance orders issued to Discos by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), saying that salary of workers that collect revenue are not taking into consideration. The union said the NERC which is the regulatory body has been docile in facing its responsibilities, but rose to the occasion by issuing Orders on minimum remittances by all DisCos. It pointed out the looming danger of collapse of the system, if not urgently arrested.  In a letter to the Minister of Power Saleh Mamman, signed by  Deputy General Secretary, Comrade Nnamdi Ajibo, the union said the recent minimum remittance orders issued to Discos which required Discos to pay 100 percent of Market Operation (MO) Invoice and minimum percentage of Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading Plc (NBET) bill, without taking the salary of staff that collects the revenue into consideration, is a major oversight that can trigger a domino effect capable of pulling down the sector‘s market. The union said: “The reason is that most DisCos are not paying the paltry staff salaries as and when due or the full amounts. The potential negative impact of this situation is better imagined because a hungry worker will not collect money and return it or be healthy in mind to do his best. He assured them of government’s cooperation and partnership in the development of the area. The Surveyor-General, Olutomi Sangowawa, said: “This is going to be the beginning of new things to happen in the communities.” He said the mistakes of the past while creating new towns would be avoided if the residents worked with the government officials to bring in the needed expertise for the development. The representative of the Oba of Ito-Omu, Akogun Fatai Kosoko, said the exercise was long overdue “as only Ito-Omu and its adjoining communities that are yet to be developed and connected to the main  network of roads coming into Ibeju Lekki and Epe axis.”