The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo has declared residents will punish Governor Godwin Obaseki of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for regularly insulting and attacking the Oba of Benin, Ewuare II, and a billionaire industrialist, Capt. Hosa Okunbo. Edo APC, in a statement by chairman of its Media Campaign Council, Prince John Mayaki, described as unfortunate, Obaseki’s lack of respect for eminent Benin indigenes. It said: “Reports in Edo State have disclosed that Obaseki has offended the state’s morality, following a social media attack on the palace of the Oba of Benin, traceable to officials of the Edo State government, after the September 2 this year’s peace meeting with the Oba of Benin and series of attacks on the personality of Capt. Okunbo, a prominent Benin son, Edo governor will be due for punishment at the September 19 poll. “Clearly, with the endless roll call of notables, who have voiced their support for and are committing their names to the success of Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, the governorship candidate of APC for the September 19 election, the game is up for Obaseki. “Obaseki has offended not just the political class that in 2016 superintended his emergence as governor of the state by his illogical predilections, but also by lording only seven House of Assembly members above whole seventeen in a 24-member state Assembly, Obaseki has offended the entire Edo State and its people. “He offends the people and calls them illiterates, when he parades himself as a democrat. Clearly, today, he is a king without a kingdom. He lost the coming election well over three years ago. “Capt. Okunbo cannot, but be right in voicing his support for Pastor Ize-Iyamu, who today enjoys the favour of every meaningful individual, including notable industrialists and monarchs in the state, who are just too numerous to mention. Even the electorate across the streets of the state knows the next governor of Edo State is Pastor Ize-Iyamu.” It added: “As a loner left under the heavy weather of politics, he must bring anyone down, in his bid to get a second-term ticket. Obaseki petitioned and took former Deputy Governor, Dr. Pius Odubu, to court and ensured he was denied the chairmanship of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), just as he equally denied duly-elected members of the state Assembly inauguration, among others. “Obaseki demolished hotels and businesses in Edo State, and with defeat staring at him, he wants to now make the state ungovernable. “Obaseki is yet to recover from the twin-bombshell unleashed on him by Capt. Okunbo and the tongue-lashing reprimand by the Oba of Benin, especially calling on his deputy, Philip Shaibu, to call his thugs to order.” But Obaseki, through his Special Adviser on Media and Communication Strategy, Crusoe Osagie, said there was no connection between the State Government and the article attacking Oba of Benin. He insisted there was no link between the Obaseki-led government and a social media post attacking the first-class monarch authored by Canada-based Osaro Omoruyi. Obaseki’s media aide said: “The Governor Obaseki-led government holds our royal father (Oba of Benin) in very high esteem and will never be part of any unholy plot to attack or undermine him. “We have studied the article and the desperate efforts made by some persons to link the article to the Edo State government. In the political season that we are in, some misguided people can go overboard to impress their principals. “We wish to advise such persons to desist from such irresponsible acts and accord the royal family the respect it rightfully deserves.” Edo Governor also warned the name and palace of the Benin monarch should not be used for petty politics.