 The people of Ajiran community in Eti-Osa local government area of Lagos State have appealed to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to intervene in the feud between the traditional ruler and head of Ojomu in Council, Oba Tijani Akinloye, the Ojomu of Ajiran land, and the indigenes of the town. Speaking on behalf of the community, Hon. Yekini Wasiu, who led other aggrieved members to the corporate headquarters of Vintage Press Limited, Lagos, publishers of The Nation newspaper titles, at the weekend, alleged that the people of Ajiran town have been facing neglect for years. According to Wasiu, who doubles as the Secretary of Ajiran youths under the auspices of Concerned Ajiran/Ojomu Indigenes, this informed their decision to petition Governor Sanwo-Olu in a letter dated, Thursday, August 20, 2020, a copy of which was made available to The Nation. He said that the vast land of Ajiran belongs to the entire indigenes of Ajiran land; the dead, the living and even generations yet unborn and that the proceeds of the land where sold or occupancy thereof, should be for the benefit of the entire community but the reverse has been the case. “Ajiran is landlord to many multinational companies including Chevron Nigeria Limited, Shell Petroleum, major real estate companies and other businesses, who have all signed lease agreements with the community and they pay one form of royalty or the other. But no one can account for how these monies are being expended. Our conditions have remained the same. We lack basic amenities.  “An average member of the community, which offers a lot to non-indigenes in terms of opportunities, is very poor by even Nigerian standards. No shelter, no primary and secondary school, no proper healthcare facilities but traditional birth attendants, no market, no social welfare for the aged and less privileged. We’re suffering in silence. “We have been on this matter for some time now. We met the Ojomu in council, petitioned the Area J Police Command and held several meetings with the royal father but nothing has changed. Tension is high now and we want to prevent a complete breakdown of law and order, hence we’re counting on Governor Sanwo-Olu to kindly intervene.” At press time, phone calls made to the monarch’s GSM mobile as well as text messages were yet to be responded to. However, when our correspondent put a call to one of the palace chiefs, Yekini Bakare, the Balogun of Ojomu land, to react to the petition written by the community to Governor Sanwo-Olu on the alleged highhandedness of the monarch amongst other issues, he said he was not ready to entertain any discussion whatsoever. 