Ogochukwu Anioke, Abakaliki  MEMBERS of Omege Agalegu Village, Ndufu-Alike, in Ikwo Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, on Wednesday raised the alarm over what they called the continuous pollution of their land and water sources by a mining company, First Patriot Nigeria Limited. They said the pollution had been going on for over three years. The community stated the allegation in a letter to the company, titled: Re: The Devastating Effect of Your Company’s Waste Disposal on Our Land and Water Environment and Demand for Compensation. The letter, which was addressed to the Director of the company, was signed by the Chairman of Omege Development Union, Sunday Nwewor and the Secretary, Ogbonnaya Nweke. It reads: “We have watched helplessly the destruction and devastation of our plants, animals, crops and economic livelihood, the degradation of our land and water environment caused by the waste discharged into our water through the company’s activities of mineral exploration and exploration. “The company, through its numerous activities of improper discharge and deposition of waste into our river, has destroyed our plants, economic trees, flora and other aquatic lives, thereby denying the people their fundamental right to enjoy their God-given natural resources.” The community asked the company to pay N300 million compensation within 30 days. It was gathered that the community had engaged lawyers to handle the matter on its behalf. The lawyers, it was also learnt, have written to the Federal Ministry of Mines and Steel Development, the Coordinator of National Environmental Standards and Regulations Enforcement Agency (NESREA) and Ebonyi State Field Office to get justice for the community. But the Project Manager of First Patriot Nigeria Limited, Mr. Neelam Sada, denied the allegations. He said: “Omege Community is not within our area of operation. They didn’t give us land directly and so, they are not our land owners. What they are claiming is not correct. “Where the community is busy writing and claiming environmental hazard is almost five kilometres away from our operations base after our host community. Our host community doesn’t have any complaint on any kind of effluent discharge or any damage.”