A former Managing Director of Polaris Bank, Mr Tokunbo Abiru, says he will join hands with others in the National Assembly to further efforts at securing special status for Lagos, if elected a senator. Abiru, the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate for the Oct. 31 Lagos East senatorial bye- election, said this at his unveiling by the party on Monday in Ikeja. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Mr Obafemi Saheed, the party’s candidate for Kosofe II state constituency bye-election, was also officially presented to party members along with Abiru at the occasion. The APC candidate said he would pursue and support initiatives and policies that would better the lot of the people of the state and Nigeria in general, if elected. “I will join hands with colleagues in the National Assembly from Lagos to further efforts to secure a special status for the state in view of its status as the financial, industrial, media and entertainment capital of Nigeria. “There is pressure on Lagos State infrastructure due to federal establishments like sea ports, airports and military installations and the mass rate of migration from other states into the state. “Also, I will contribute towards improving national economic performance, in particular, national revenue generation, industrialisation, infrastructure development, financial deepening and inclusion, employment generation and poverty reduction. “I intend to pay attention to execution of projects and initiatives which will have significant impact on the Lagos East Senatorial District and Lagos in general,” Abiru said. He said he would work towards the speedy completion of Epe-Ijebu Ode expressway and ancillary industrialisation along the axis, if elected. Abiru also pledged to work with the relevant authorities to ensure speedy completion of Lagos -Ibadan expressway, if elected. He said he would work to ensure the development of tourism potential of Ibeju-Lekki and sustain industrial and commercial development of Ikorodu,Shomolu, Epe and Kosofe areas. “I will also establish and institutionalise programmes for the poor, the vulnerable, the unemployed, the aged and women generally to create employment and reduce poverty in Lagos East,” he said Abiru said he did a lot to reposition Polaris Bank as CEO and was going to senate with the same zeal, if elected. He thanked party members for his nomination and affirmation as candidate, describing it as “the greatest honour ever done him as citizen of Nigeria.” Abiru thanked APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu for their support. “At this point let me assure our leaders and members that I will never betray the trust they have reposed in me. “Rather, as we approach the bye-election and afterwards, I will build on this trust and join forces with all public office holders elected on the platform of our party to build upon the foundation of progressives the party has laid for our country since 2015,” he said. He urged party members to work assiduously for the victory of the party at the bye-election scheduled for Oct. 31. Speaking, State Chairman of the party, Alhaji Tunde Balogun, said both Abiru and Saheed were great candidates that would not disappoint the people, if elected. NAN reports that a 100-member campaign committee was also inaugurated at the the occasion. The Lagos East Senatorial and Kosofe 2 state constituency bye-elections were necessitated by the death of Sen. Bayo Osinowo and Mr Tunde Braimoh, respectively (NAN)