 A 23 – year- old man, Dansu Asogba, has been arrested by the Police detectives in Ogun State for killing his 60 –year- old aunty, Iyabo Dansu, on suspicion that she was a witch. Dansu claimed the aunty through witchcraft, responsible for the death of his first child and miscarriage suffered by his wife later. The suspect was arrested on Friday following a report by two children of the deceased, who reported at the Ipokia Divisional Headquarters that they received a message on 22nd of August 2020 that their mother had died. The children told the police that their mother had no history of illness to warrant her death at such time but since they were not suspecting any foul play, decided to bury her. However, a few days after the burial, information filtered in that the suspect who is a nephew of the deceased, was last seen in the house on that fateful day, and shortly after he left, the woman was declared dead. This arouse the suspicion of the community which threatened to carry out a traditional ritual to  expose the killer, but on hearing the community’s intention about the deceased death, the suspect (Dansu Asogba) quickly reported himself to the community, also confessing that he was responsible for the woman’s death.  The Ogun Command’s Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola  Oyeyemi, who disclosed this in a press statement, said  the Divisional Police Officer, Ipokia Division, Adebayo Hakeem,  a Superintendent of Police(SP), detailed detectives to the scene and arrested the suspect. Abimbola, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), added that upon  interrogation, the suspect admitted killing the deceased, claiming he did so on suspicion of her being a witch and that she was responsible for the death of his first child and the subsequent miscarriage suffered by his wife. The suspect further confessed that he used an iron rod to hit the woman on the neck which resulted in her death. Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Police, Edward Ajogun has given directive for the transfer of the suspect to the Homicide Section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID) for further investigation and prosecution. Ajogun, who expressed concern over the ignorance and primitive beliefs of some people, warned that anybody who for any reason takes law into his or her own hands would be made to face justice. He therefore appealed to the public to always report any of their grievances to the law enforcement agencies who would properly investigate such complaints.