 ALL Progressives Congress (APC), Edo State chapter, has dismissed the Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP’s) claim on online polls and results on the positions of the two leading governorship aspirants: APC’s Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu and PDP’s Godwin Obaseki. Edo APC, through the Chairman of its Media Campaign Council, Prince John Mayaki, yesterday at a news conference in Benin, said Obaseki had run out of verve and rendered dispirited by his growing rejection by Edo residents. Edo PDP, through its Publicity Secretary, Chris Nehikhare, on Sunday at a news conference in Benin, alleged that APC-sponsored online poll showed that Obaseki was leading in 16 of the state’s 18 local governments. APC in Edo said: “Their (Edo PDP leaders’) hallucination has grown worse and is this time manifested in a bizarre fantasy of a purported victory in an online poll, which they falsely and irresponsibly claim was sponsored by us (APC). “While we understand PDP leaders’ desperation as informed by their cluelessness on how to proceed further, now that the people’s message of rejection to them has become clearer and impossible to ignore, we nevertheless expect them to at least put in some efforts in their creation of fiction and spinning of lies, especially since the new strategy they appear to be deploying is to build a mountain of excuses in anticipation of the disgraceful defeat they will suffer at the polls.  “It is important to state that the irresponsible and false claim bandied by the PDP that the APC sponsored and lost an online poll is dismissed by two factual points: the first being that as a party, we, the APC, are too busy doing the groundwork of grassroots mobilisation of voters across the 192 wards of the state and building on the existing support and love the people already have for the party, with the aim of attracting even more supporters on the strength of our manifesto – something the PDP lacks – to be involved in the petty tricks of staging or sponsoring such poll as alleged by the busy-body party (PDP). “We acknowledge the importance of weighing public opinion on issues, but we also know that such exercise must be carried out in a transparent process, using credible mediums that are protected from the manipulation of desperate parties like the PDP that are on the frantic chase of any form of good news to breathe some life into their deflated and dull campaign.” “If the PDP leaders want to be taken seriously, then they should provide un-debatable evidence of our sponsorship of the said opinion poll. They should not only publish the contractors or the organisation contracted, but must also disclose the full details and result of the said poll conducted by APC and won by the PDP. We know that the PDP will come up empty, because the things do not exist and the allegation is only the product of their crooked minds.” Edo APC also stated that the latest noise by the PDP members was an act of propaganda, aimed at confusing the emerging demeaning narrative of a party losing in reality and in the polls and as a result, were suffering early trauma and having ghoulish nightmares. It said it would continue with its issue-based campaigns, while advising Edo people to disregard the false claims made by the PDP.  