The Lagos East chapter of the Late Chief Lanre Razak (KLM) Support Group has congratulated Tokunbo Abiru on his emergence as the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate for the by-election slated for October 31 by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The widow of the late politician, Mrs. Jumoke Razak, disclosed this in a congratulatory message to Abiru at the weekend. She said members of the KLM Support Group across the five local government areas, Epe, Ibeju-Lekki, Ikorodu, Kosofe and Somolu that make up the district would join forces with other APC members and mobilize the electorate to ensure total victory for the party’s candidate. Mrs Rasak said: “One of the immediate steps we members of the KLM political family should take to keep my late husband’s memory alive is to fully identify with his party, the APC and its candidate in the forthcoming bye election to achieve total victory for Abiru against his opponents.  “This is expected because Chief Razak until his passage to the great beyond on August 15 was not only a loyal and prominent leader of the APC, but he deployed his intellect and financial resources to ensuring resounding successes for our great party in past local, state and national elections and the records are there for all to see. “His contributions to the socio-economic and political development of the district and the state as a former local government chairman and commissioner for public transportation in Lagos state are immeasurable”. Mrs. Razak called on the electorate to troop out and vote for Abiru and other candidates of the APC during the forthcoming bye elections. Abiru, a former Lagos State Commissioner for Finance, had recently paid a condolence visit to the Magodo residence of the late member of the Lagos Governance Advisory Council (GAC) where he was received by his widow and the coordinator of the KLM Support Group, Mr. Femi Olowole Denmark. Abiru, while condoling with the family, said the death of Razak, had depleted the tribe of loyal party men in the APC in Lagos State, describing the late politician who was also the Balogun General of Epe as a loyal, dedicated and compassionate party man.