The Experiential Marketers’ Association of Nigeria (EXMAN) has disclosed that organisations inviting experiential marketing agencies for pitch should prepare to pay N500, 000 as rejection fee to the agencies not considered. This was one of the resolutions reached at EXMAN’s Annual General Meeting (AGM) recently. EXMAN President, TadeAdekunle said “When you invite 17 or 18 agencies to come and pitch for a business they will only take one or two agencies and thereafter you will start seeing some of the ideas that some of the rejected agencies have given. Also, when agencies go for pitch they incur cost on research, creatives and others. “So, the association has decided that clients can ask for the profile of the various agencies, and then they can say this agency is good enough to work for us instead of calling 20 agencies to come and pitch.” The EXMAN boss further stated that the association has come up with the resolution that “If you are inviting any EXMAN member to come and pitch be ready to pay rejection fee of N500, 000 for those not picked.” He explained further that if organisations write back that they can’t pay rejection fee, no EXMAN member would partake in such pitch, stating that “If corporate organisations champion corporate governance, then it will be unethical to ask agencies to wave rejection fee.” He added that member must have informed the association secretariat that they are invited for a pitch and EXMAN would write the client who must have agreed to pay the fee before embarking in the pitch process. The experts at the conference tasked experiential marketing agencies, others on innovative consumer experience, collaboration and others amid Covid-19. Ose Osundeko, Group Head Digital Marketing, Fidelity Bank Plc and keynote speaker who spoke on ‘Using digital to transform the customer experience’ said it is imperative for brands to put customers at the centre of what they do and deploying the right strategies in the digital space will further help transform customer experience.