The governors of the 36 states have resolved to retain till next year, the tax relief measures for individuals and businesses. The resolution was part of the outcomes of the 16th teleconference meeting of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) held on Thursday. Many state governments adopted the measures to lessen the burden of COVID-19 (Coronavirus) on some individuals and businesses. According to a statement by the NGF’s Chairman, Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State, “all state governments through their Internal Revenue Services (IRS) will ensure the seamless implementation of their tax relief programmes for businesses and taxpayers. “These programmes, which were released in some states since March 2020, are designed to reduce the financial burden of taxpayers in the country up till 2021 in some cases.” The NGF also resolved to work, through its sub-committee interfacing with the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19, to address concerns raised by states on the reception of new inmates. “The forum, according to the statement, agreed to provide leadership for the COVID-19 response in the states “by ramping up risk communication activities and community testing for the virus.” The governors also resolved that every state government would nominate a focal person that would interface with the Ministry of Petroleum Resources on the actualisation of the National Gas Expansion Programme (NGEP). The Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, had last July addressed the governors on the NGEP which is designed as a catalyst for exploiting Nigeria’s vast natural gas reserves. The plan is intended to spur revitalisation across gas-based industries in fertiliser, methanol, textiles and feedstock for industries among others. The forum also agreed to maintain vigilance to ensure that the structures put in place for routine polio immunisation are not jeopardised by COVID-19. It noted that some states are already in advanced stages of developing a geographic information system (GIS) that will help them gather, manage and analyse geospatial data both for the purpose of spatial planning and property taxation. The Legal Committee led by the Vice-Chairman of the NGF, Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State, updated members on consultations with the office of the Attorney General of the Federation to resolve concerns on the implementation of Executive Order Number 10. The committee assured that a technical committee, comprising members from all parties has been working to finalise an acceptable framework for the implementation of the order. The forum, according to the statement, also received updates on the status of pending COVID-19 interventions for states. It stated that the members expressed concern over the delay in the release of the results of the SMART survey conducted for the Saving One Million Lives Performance for Results (SOML-PforR) Project.