 By reviewing Nigerian Islamic cleric Hafeez Ibrahim Ibrahim’s Sharia-based death sentence, and setting him free, the Saudi Arabian authorities demonstrated a sense of fairness and reasonable flexibility. Ibrahim, from Zamfara State, had been wrongly convicted of drug trafficking in Saudi Arabia, and spent time on death row. However, the considerations that informed justice for Ibrahim are apparently not under consideration by the authorities in the case of Yahaya Sharif-Aminu, the 22-year-old Islamic musician sentenced to death by hanging, for “blasphemy,” by a Sharia court in Kano State on August 10. Unfairly, the Kano authorities made it difficult for him to appeal against the death sentence. Appeal is allowed by law. In Ibrahim’s case, he had travelled to Saudi Arabia in February 2017 to perform the lesser Hajj but was arrested by the police in his hotel room and charged with drug trafficking, following the discovery of a bag full of a banned substance linked to his passport details. He was found guilty in a lower Saudi court and also in the upper court. It took the intervention of Zamfara State Governor Bello Muhammad Matawalle to get the Saudi authorities to review his death sentence. The governor “sent a team of experts with the help of the Federal Government and appealed the case. He employed a team of Saudi lawyers for Ibrahim who proved to the court that the said bag did not belong to Hafeez Ibrahim,” the governor’s spokesperson said in a statement. Ibrahim’s acquittal early this year is a testimony to the governor’s effort to get him released. When he eventually returned to the country on September 1, after a delay caused by the restriction of international flights because of the coronavirus pandemic, he was appointed senior special assistant to the governor. It is disturbing that, in Sharif-Aminu’s case, Kano State Governor Abdullahi Ganduje is enthusiastic about signing the death warrant, unconcerned about whether the convicted singer got a fair trial. Unmoved by the opposition to the controversial verdict in some quarters, and dismissive of the criticism that execution is an extreme penalty in the circumstances, Ganduje was quoted as saying, “What the court did is absolutely right.” The Kano Upper Sharia Court had found Sharif-Aminu guilty of “insulting religious creed” based on a song he circulated via WhatsApp in March. The song was said to have elevated Senegalese Sheikh Ibrahim Niass of the Tijaniyyah Muslim sect above Prophet Muhammad. After his conviction, Sharif-Aminu had 30 days to appeal against the death sentence but Sharia court officials were reported to have unjustifiably denied him access to his lawyers, and also unreasonably delayed in providing copies of the judgement needed to file an appeal. Indeed, it was only on September 3, six days before September 9 when the period allowed for appeal would lapse, that media reports said he had been able to file a notice of appeal through his lawyer. Importantly, Sharif-Aminu stated that his trial, conviction, and sentencing “were unconstitutional, null, void having grossly violated and conflicted with the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (1999) as amended and having violated the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, respectively.” This death sentence yet again raises fundamental issues about the operation of Sharia, or Islamic law, in a multi-religious but secular country such as Nigeria where the Islamic system of justice operates in 12 Muslim-majority states in the northern part of the country alongside a secular justice system. Considering the country’s overriding secularism, and constitutional provisions protecting rights to freedom of thought, conscience, religion and expression, the Kano authorities should not give the impression that Sharif-Aminu’s death sentence cannot be reviewed, or that it is irreversible. They should learn from the reversal of Ibrahim’s death sentence in Saudi Arabia, which was based on fairness, even though that country operates Islamic law. Justice must be based on fairness. Sharif-Aminu’s case should be treated with a sense of fairness and reasonable flexibility.