 THE Police Service Commission (PSC) has said they will checkmate the conduct of policemen deployed for the Edo governorship election and ensure they operate within established rules. According to a statement issued by the Head, Press and Public Relations unit of the Commission, Ikechukwu Ani, they were Edo State to monitor the conduct of police officers on electoral duties to ensure that the nation’s democracy is deepened ahead of the 2023 general elections. “The Commission notes that the police, the lead agency in election and internal security, have a great role to play to ensure the success of Saturday’s governorship election in Edo State. “The Commission believes that if the police gets it right and ensures that the people of Edo State enjoy unhindered and peaceful exercise of their voting rights in an atmosphere that is free of intimidation, fear and terror, the election will be a huge success. “Austin Braimoh, a commissioner in the Commission, representing the South-south Zone of the country and leading the Commission’s delegation in Edo, said the PSC monitors were in Edo to ensure that police officers play by the rules. “Mr. Braimoh said the Commission is constitutionally empowered to discipline and exercise disciplinary control over all police officers except the Inspector General. He noted that the PSC Monitors were in Edo State with a check list on how the police officers on election duty should conduct themselves. “We are going to checkmate their conduct and ensure they operate within established rules,” he said. He also said the Commission would commend officers found to have discharged their duties meritoriously. He said: “We are here with the carrot and the stick, and we will ensure the police get it right ahead of 2023. “Meanwhile the Commission will also be participating in the Situation Rooms for the Edo governorship election. “The Commission also took part in the INEC meeting with election observers in the state held on Thursday, September 17, 2020. “The PSC monitors will cover the three Senatorial zones of the state.”   