A member of All Progressives Congress (APC) National Committee on Ondo Gubernatorial Election, Mr Osita Okechukwu, has assured the party will not lose the election. Speaking to reporters on Wednesday in Abuja, Okechukwu, who is the Director General, Voice of Nigeria (VON), stated Rotimi Akeredolu and Godwin Obaseki share a lot in common, adding that there is no cause for alarm. His words: “I don’t harbour any fears of APC losing Ondo State for His Excellencies Akeredolu and Obaseki share a lot in common. “One, they devoted much more resources in the past four years to physical infrastructural development than stomach infrastructure. “This is why some elites are antagonistic to both. Secondly, both diligently reconciled with their fellow gubernatorial aspirants within their parties thus going into the election with the spirit of internal democracy advantage. “Thirdly, they both defeated same candidates in 2016 and one does not see the danger naysayers are hyping. Fourthly, don’t forget that they are products of our great party APC.” Reminded that President Muhammadu Buhari has vowed to uphold free and fair election as the bedrock of democracy, making the use of the proverbial federal might a mirage, Okechukwu said: “yes, that’s a good omen for Nigerian democracy. “Yes Mr President’s position of non-interference and creation of level playing field is a good omen to our fledgling democracy and is in no matter particular hindrance to Akeredolu’s chances of winning the October 10, 2020 Ondo gubernatorial election. “Aketi, I know, has no damaging baggage and all the tendencies in APC are solidly behind him, unlike what happened in Edo State APC gubernatorial election”. Informed of the warning of the gubernatorial candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Eyitayo Jegede that Ondo is not a conquered people or territory and anyone coming to rig should forget such idea, Okechukwu said: “Guess what, we will hear many stories like that as we approach the election. “If Aketi didn’t keep his house in order, by diligently rallying the support of his former traducers like Senator Ajayi Boroffice, Engr Ife Oyedele, Olusola Oke (SAN) and co, one could have bothered about the said statement”.