 The campus is a reflection of the Nigerian society on a small scale. We have a standard unit of a society running within the four walls of a tertiary institution; name it, politics, governments, commerce, lovers/families and journalism. With the guidance of the bigger Nigerian society as a big screen, the campus plays the role of a mini-Nigeria all too well. Unionism in Nigeria was pioneered a long time ago, and over the years has seen many reforms, but it is not what it used to be.  Ideally, the union is created  to fight for students’ welfare and its executive/legislature are selected by the common students to serve. However, it’s not the same story these days. A regular unionist most likely got such position without merit. You will find a students’ union president who cannot  string up a word or two in English, yet they want to  represent the students in a formal setting. How do you win an argument when you cannot even speak? I have  seen an aspirant who cannot even construct a single sentence in English Language vying vigorously for a post that would require eloquence. The structure in schools is  quite similar to that of the Nigerian society: the students’ union serves as the federal government, the faculty associations as state and departmental association as local government. It is well fitting and there’s the students’ representative council (SRC) which  serves as the Senate. A proper democracy! Unsurprisingly, this environment is often marred with exports of corruption, something ridiculous for such level were academics should be a priority. Also, government and school management are now an active presence in the games of campus politics. They give off a passive outlook, but are actually firm in their hold over who is who in this power plays. In plain words, they support people controllable, weak-willed or the corrupt ones that could be bought with incentives. This has  put a dent on  campus politics in such a way that the ideal and well-meaning individual is scared away from unionism. The ritual and politics required to campaign, be voted for and run a campus position is too complicated for the level. The criteria for running are shorn of decency. Radicalism is worshipped but when it comes to confrontation, you find unionists  trying  to consolidate, trying to reach some agreement. And when it is time to be diplomatic, they start to bicker. More than 80 per cent  of those in these capacities are not mentally equipped for such engagement.Motives need to be questioned. Most of them are not necessarily after anyone’s welfare but theirs alone. This is the same greed that has condemned this country to its current sorry state. Students’ unionists would fight for something that only personally benefits them at the expense of the public. Besides  trying to use this capacity to enrich their pockets, they see this position as a tool to advance their relevance. They soon start abusing power; intimidation and nepotism become the norm. Most of these politicians have godfathers and stakeholders inside the same campus. Just like a  remix of the big game in Aso Villa. To prove my point, I will share the story of an incident  that happened at  The Polytechnic  Ibadan, last July. The Oyo State Government had  provided palliatives for the students’ union to distribute. Apparently, this was an initiative championed by the SUG President, Fadare Blessing alone.  He had consulted and lobbied for this provision from the state for students stranded due to the pandemic lockdown and also students living around campus with their source of livelihood cut short  by the curfew. A survey link was released to the school social community to take demographics of the least privileged students and the most affected. The palliatives did arrive. All kudos to the SUG president and the state government. Then the day of the distribution was  a nasty affair. Poorly planned, the  inaction from the unionists frustrated most of the beneficiaries into leaving angrily. But that wasn’t the worst of it. After distribution had started, some students  stormed the venue. They were the  faculty and departmental presidents. They along with nameless stakeholders littered the students’ union building. They demanded that the distribution be stopped using  ‘ transparent’ criteria, and that the palliatives be handed to them equally so that they  handled the distribution  by themselves. Mind you, only the SUG knew and fought for this provision and it was only fitting they distributed it accordingly. Now it was a stalemate, the SUG could not give in to their demands and these  ‘cabals’ laid siege to the union building threatening to hijack the proceedings. They realised that if the criterion was followed through, there was a chance they would not benefit from the provision as they had declined taking part in  the survey. Selfishly, they would prefer to monopolise the sharing under any pattern they deemed fit, this would limit the chance of the stranded students benefiting from it as these politicians would share it among loyal friends and acquaintances. This was a deliberate  ploy to enrich themselves and their friends. These saboteurs intended to destroy the face of the government; I wonder what they would do at the main stage of national politics. In plain words, these young men and women would prefer to seize a provision for about 200 stranded students to share among  themselves and only give people with political affiliation with them. Many of these students go to any length to get power.Sadly, we have more figureheads than leaders in campus. Thus, most comrades are deficient in executing their duties effectively.  And there you have it, a government from cabals, for the cabals and by the cabals. This reminds me of a discussion I had with a fellow campus journalist from Ado Bayero University, Kano. She shared how a SUG president and some  key members of the union were sacked and probed for corruption. Apparently, they had cornered some millions. Fast forward two years later, students were complaining about the inactivity of the union. Unknown  to them, the problem was from the school management. The deanery controlled and oversaw the union expenditure. Politics as far as anyone is concerned, is only a tertiary objective of all students in any institution. The primary and secondary being academics and social experiences respectively. Academic excellence should be our major concern.  Less than 10 per cent  of the individuals who delve into school politics do so for the service to humanity. It just comes as a thought, and they follow the feeling because it feels right. Why? Because they feel that they are ripe for whichever roles they want. But even that isn’t the worst. Though student unionism remains relevant, there are still some dents which are to be corrected. Some sets of students depict unionism as a means of making ends meet. Reorientation is required to ingrain values of what proper leadership entails coupled with  a proper psychological test for  candidates vying for office.