Tension has enveloped Egunughan community in Abua/Odual Local Government Area, Rivers State, following the killing of a man identified as Siyammi Levi by gunmen. It was learnt Levi was ambushed on his way to fishing by the hoodlums, who cut off two of his legs and slit his throat. A source from the community, who spoke in confidence, said the assailants hid in the bush and waited for indigenes of the community. He said the deceased was accompanied by his kinsman, who narrowly escaped death and later reported the incident to the community and security agencies. He said: “Some men with guns attacked Siyami Levi in Egunughan community, matcheted his legs and cut open his throat in the bush near the river where he was on his way to fishing. “He was in the company of his friend, but that his friend managed to escape the attacker and later informed the community and the military men stationed in the community who intervened but could not get them, but were able to recover the corpse of the victim and deposited it in the mortuary.” It was learnt in another development gunmen killed a graduate of the University of Port Harcourt Godknows Opudaa at Eteoo road in Eleme Local Government Area of Rivers State. Opudaa, an indigene of Ogu, Ogu/Bolo LGA, who worked in Onne Sea Port, was killed on his way home from work around 8pm. A source, who spoke in confidence, said the victim was found in his a pool of blood before he was taken to a nearby hospital where he was confirmed dead. When contacted, the Rivers State Police Public Relations Officer, Nnamdi Omoni confirmed the incidents. He said the Commissioner of Police Joseph Mukan had ordered investigations to arrest the perpetrators. Omoni said that the hoodlums that attacked Egunughan community gained entry through the waterways and escaped before the police could catch up with them. He said: “Unknown invaded Egunughan community on Thursday through the waterways. The police was alerted, mobilised and went after the criminals conjunction with the JTF, but could not meet them. “Our men had been stationed there to guard against further attacks, as the Commissioner of Police has ordered an investigstion to unraveling those who invaded the community and their intent.”  