 As Nigeria opened its air borders to international flights at the weekend,  her strength as a member of the international aviation community passed the litmus test as it invoked the principle of reciprocity in her Bilateral Air Services Agreement (BASA) with over 93 countries some of which shut their air spaces to Nigerian carriers during the COVID-19 pandemic? The government barred Air France, KLM, Etihad, RwandAir, Lufthansa, TAAG Angola Airlines, Air Namibia, , Royal Air Maroc, South African Airlines and Cape Verde Airlines from flying into Nigeria. But, it gave approval to 14 airlines, including Air Peace, British Airways, Emirates, Delta Airlines, Middle East Airlines, Qatar Airways, Egypt Air, Ethioipian Airlines, Virgin Altantic Airways, Asky Airlines, African World Airways,Turkish Airlines, Air Cote d’ voire and Kenya Airways to fly into Lagos and Abuja Airports. The Federal Government, a few weeks ago, threatened that it would not grant entry to carriers from countries that banned Nigeria and her airlines from flying into their countries. The Director-General, Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Captain Musa Nuhu, who issued the threat at a recent briefing, reaffirmed the government’s resolve to enforce the principle of reciprocity in granting permission to foreign carriers to fly into Nigeria. He said the NCAA was working with the Ministry of Aviation to draw a template that would only allow airlines from countries that allowed flights from Nigeria during the pandemic. Nuhu said the government’s decision was informed by the ban placed by some countries on flights from Nigeria, and that Nigeria’s decision was taken in the interest of its citizens. The aviation ministry said airlines from the European Union (EU) would not be allowed into Nigeria as the EU recently banned flights and visitors from Nigeria. The Council of the EU, last month, drew the battle line with Nigerian aviation authorities when it opened its borders to 15 countries, excluding Nigeria, from the countries it allowed into its airspace. The EU said the flight ban became imperative as an exercise of self-responsibility amid global surges in COVID-19 pandemic. And, according to information obtained from the EU website at the time, Nigeria was not part of the countries from where visitors were allowed into Europe. Expectedly, the EU’s action did not go down well with Nigerian aviation authorities. Nuhu said: “We are working on the comprehensive list of countries that were banned, but the main one that came up is when the EU opened their borders effective July, and Nigeria was among the list of 54 countries that were not allowed to enter the EU. “To my understanding, as the situation changes, we are going to look at the list. But, so far, we don’t have any contrary information to that first one that Nigeria is banned from going to the EU. So, as we open our airspace, we are going to apply the issue of reciprocity to those countries.” The approved airlines will not fly more than 1,280 passengers into the Lagos and Abuja aerodrome temporarily cleared as ports of entry. Regulatory data as at last year indicated some of the countries Nigeria had BASA with. With Republic of India as one of the latest, according to the data accessed by The Nation, the Federal Government, last year, also signed air agreement with Algeria, Congo, China, Qatar and Singapore. A BASA, according to experts, is an air transport agreement between two countries facilitating commercial civil aviation services between the concerned countries, covering transportation of passengers and cargoes. Apart from agreements with countries outside the continent, Nigeria also has an Open Skies treaty known as the Single African Air Transport Market with about 27 member states of the African Union (AU) as well as other potential signatories. However, over the years, stakeholders have lamented that most air agreements between Nigeria and other countries have been one-sided. According to them, Nigerian airlines have been unable to reciprocate the agreements. Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika, however, said many of the BASAs had been reviewed to create opportunities for domestic carriers. Currently, 33 foreign airlines operate flights into Nigeria. They include British Airways, Virgin Atlantic Airways, KLM/Air France, Lufthansa German Airlines, Turkish Airlines, Emirates, Qatar Airways, Middle East Airlines, Egypt Air, Delta Airlines and others who operate daily flights under multiple entry policy. While only one Nigerian airline, Air Peace,  operates internationally, one or two others, including Overland Airways and Arik Air, operate on regional routes. Industry analysts said while BASAs were supposed to create opportunities for Nigerian airlines to expand their operations, the reverse has been the case as foreign airlines have rather been increasing frequencies and further suppressing domestic carriers. They noted that while some of the agreements had been beneficial, others had barely provided an avenue for foreign airlines to feast on Nigeria’s market. For instance, analyst and Chief Executive Officer, Belujane Konsult, Mr. Chris Aligbe, said many of the agreements had not been reciprocated since they were signed. His words: “Only one has been opening routes, but how many BASAs can one airline reciprocate? We need formidable airlines, at least three, because our market is open to foreign and regional airlines to scoop from, and we can’t respond. The only way we can do that is to have formidable airlines.” The Director of Research and Strategy at Zenith Travels, Olumide Ohunayo, stated that, in principle, reciprocity remained one of the cardinal points of BASA. He said for Nigeria to adequately reciprocate the BASAs, there is the need for strategic planning. “In planning, we don’t just go and scrap existing BASAs. What we can do is to provide a market and an environment that will strengthen our airlines and encourage investors to participate so that we can have airlines that are strong enough to start the process,” Ohunayo said. He noted that BASA was not an issue that should be responded to spontaneously without recourse to the gestation period. The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Air Peace, Allen Onyema, commended the Federal Government’s decision to enforce the principle of reciprocity in granting permission to airlines to resume operations in the country as it opens its airspace. Onyema said the decision would elevate the image of Nigeria in the comity of nations and send signals to international airlines that it is no longer business as usual. In a letter the Air Peace boss wrote to the Minister to commend him on the issue, he said: “You are causing a positive revolution in the aviation world. You have, by this action, brought so much respect to our people and our nation. “Nigerians all over the world are walking tall with enormous pride since the news broke. This is the beginning of the end of the stigmatisation of Nigeria and everything Nigerian …” Onyema said  the government needed to raise the stakes by reviewing the dual designation and multiple entry policies, noting that this has the potential to destroy aviation. He said the minister had ensured that the industry is unencumbered. According to him, Sirika has done so much to protect domestic airlines by spearheading earlier the policy that only Nigerian carriers should engage in evacuation by the Federal Government. An analyst, Mr. Lanre Bamgbose, aligns with Onyema. He said government’s decision to invoke the principle of reciprocity was commendable. He and affirmed that going forward the policy would give indigenous carriers the opportunity to prove their capacity. Bamgbose, however, said the government should take further steps and empower indigenous carriers to enable them play in the international arena. According to him, reciprocity should go beyond mere threat of invoking the clause, but initiating frequency review policies that will put indigenous carriers flying intercontinental routes in good stead. For the President, Aviation Safety Roundtable Initiative (ASRTI), Dr. Gbenga Olowo, a review of the country’s BASA was long overdue to protect indigenous carriers. He said it was time the Federal Government reviewed BASAs it signed with foreign countries to make them reciprocal and support the growth of airlines. Olowo said the government must wake up from its slumber and come up with sustainable policy frameworks to grow the sector, adding that the industry needed a stable legal and regulatory framework to grow. Olowo decried the multiple entry points for foreign airlines, describing it as “disastrous and deliberate annihilation of the domestic market.” He described the situation where some airlines fly to multiple airports in Nigeria without any Nigerian airline reciprocating as “a negative balance of trade”. Olowo has an ally in the President of African Airlines Association, Mr. Nick Fadugba, who said a situation where 90 per cent of the Nigerian market was controlled by non-Nigerian airlines “was damaging to the economy. “Nigeria needs to urgently review its BASA policy. An air route is like an oil bloc. You don’t just give it out without something in return,” Fadugba said. The President, Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON), an umbrella body of indigenous carriers, Captain Nogie Meggison, urged the government to put a stop to the extra flight frequency it granted some foreign carriers, describing it as an unfair competition. AON said granting extra flight frequencies to foreign carriers, in particular airline’s from the United Arab Emirates (UAE), would trigger unfair trade deals between Nigeria and the UAE. Meggison said such approval slot of four daily flights into Nigeria by the UAE carrier would put indigenous carriers operating same route in a disadvantaged position. He said such move by the government besides putting Nigerian carriers in a disadvantaged position would also have ripple effects on the economy, manifesting in job loss for youth and massive capital flight. Continuing, Meggison said the additional frequency to Emirates makes 150 flights per month from UAE. According to him, granting only three flights to a Nigerian carrier, thereby bringing the total flight frequency to 12 monthly into the UAE amounted to an unfair deal. He said: “Emirates before the COVID pandemic started was operating two daily flights out of Lagos and two daily flights out of Abuja. ‘’Etihad, from the same country, also operates daily flights out of Lagos as well. This translates to five flights daily and a total of 150 flights per month from UAE, as against a Nigerian carrier that was operating three flights weekly bringing it to 12 flights monthly into UAE. “We would, therefore, like to use this medium to call on the government to review all existing BASAs to redress the unfair trade advantage given to foreign airlines against Nigerian airlines. “This will go a long way in safeguarding the economy from continued plundering of our resources, preserve the livelihood of workers in the aviation sector, create jobs for our unemployed youths, promote technology transfer, and significantly reduce capital flight in line with the vision of the President Muhammadu Buhari administration.”