An Australia-based social enterprise Thank You has announced an invitation to two of the world’s largest and most influential consumer goods companies- Procter &Gamble and Unilever- to distribute its products globally. The decision to convince the two companies to embark on the bold move is part of measures aimed at reducing extreme poverty. The social enterprise- Thankyou, according to its founders, Daniel and Justine Flynn and Jarryd Burns, was created to close the gap between the 736 million people living in extreme poverty around the world and the $63 trillion spent on consumer products each year. To drive the initiative, Thankyou is asking people around the world to get involved and show the collective power of people who believe in change through its “No small plan” campaign. Flynn said: “Thankyou offers consumer products – personal care and baby product ranges – for the sole purpose of funding life-changing projects. “After all the costs in running a business to get great consumer products to people are taken care of, every last cent that Thankyou makes goes toward ending extreme poverty. With this model, Thankyou seeks to flip consumerism for good. ‘With $63 trillion spent on consumer goods each year while 736 million people are stuck in extreme poverty, we believe that business as usual is broken. “But we also believe that we, together with people and a partnership with one of the two biggest companies in the world can change this by funneling the dollars spent on consumer goods into helping end extreme poverty. “Currently, Thankyou only sells its products in two of the world’s smallest countries – Australia and New Zealand – but with COVID-19 increasing both global poverty numbers and demand for personal care products such as hand sanitisers, the company feels that now is the time to expand, and quickly. “If either P&G or Unilever choose to accept Thankyou’s invitation, together they could change the course of history and route millions of consumer dollars to ending extreme poverty.” The social enterprise has set virtual meetings with P&G and UNILEVER to take place at the end of the campaign.