Following the public notice place for the advertisement for the position of the Vice-Chancellor of Benue State University (BSU) Makurdi, 10 professors have so far submited their online applications. The tenure of the Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Msugh Kembe, ends in November. The Nation gathered that among the 10 applicants are two women, Prof. Magdalene Dura and Prof. Eember Genyi. The university has only had one woman Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Charity Angya since its inception. The Nation gathered exclusively from the ICT directorate of the university where the online application was submited that two governorship candidates, Prof. Eugene Aliegba and Prof. Tor Iorapuu are also on the list. Others interested in the BSU’s top job are Saasongu Nongu, Ama Doki, Terver Ubwa, John Ababa, a former Vice Chancellor of Christian University of Mkar (UMM) Hemen Agba and U. D. Ikoni. Investigation by The Nation revealed that unlike before when the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) and the University Senate had input in the appointment of a vice chancellor, such powers have been stripped by a new law passed by the Benue State House of Assembly and accented to by Governor Samuel Ortom. A peep into the new law put the age limit for the position at 60, not 65 as was previously the case.  Also, the Benue State Governor would on the recommendation of the university’s Governing Council go ahead and announce a new vice chancellor without the usual recommendation of three names from the Senate to the council, which they used to  forward to the visitor. The Nation gathered exclusively that a search party comprising two representatives of the Council, Senate and Congregation would meet on September 24, 2020 to screen and prune the 10 applicants to a reasonable number before those who would appear for interview would be invited. It is, however, expected that Governor Samuel Ortom, who is the visitor of the university, will to a large extent, determine who becomes the new Vice chancellor.