Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has congratulated Governor Godwin Obaseki on his victory at the Saturday election in Edo State, urging him to be magnanimous in victory in the wider interest of the state and country. Obasanjo said the success recorded by Obaseki was an attestation that the people of the State valued his leadership and appreciated the efforts made thus far on their behalf. The elder statesman, in a statement by his media aide, Kehinde Akinyemi, on Monday urged the Governor to use his second tenure to deepen the people’s faith in democracy and improve their living standard. Obasanjo said: “I salute you and all those who worked for your re-election,” Obasanjo stated in a congratulatory letter, a copy which was made available to newsmen by his Special Assistant on Media, Kehinde Akinyemi, on Monday. The former President noted that, “no doubt, that the outcome of the elections that have taken place so far broadly reflects the choice of the Nigerians who have, by their conduct, visibly demonstrated that they value our present democracy and will do their utmost to make it work. “I urge you, therefore, to reciprocate their trust by doing everything you can to strengthen their faith in democracy and in its ability to bring about improved material conditions and better service delivery. “I also count on your support of well-meaning Nigerians like me in our quest for national peace, stability and economic development and trust that you will play an active and visible role in our pursuit of these noble and desirable objectives. “You have fought and won the elections and deserve to savour the victory despite all the odds and challenges posed by opposition. As you rejoice, however, I would urge that you should be magnanimous in victory and stretch a hand of fellowship to the other candidates who failed in their bid for the elected office. “Such a gesture is not only charitable but should also help at this time to cool passions in the wider interest of the nation and your State. You are now, as before, Governor of Edo State and not Governor of only those who voted for you in Edo State. “I felicitate with you, once again, on your renewed mandate and, as you prepare for another four years at the helm, I extend best wishes for your good health and the continued progress of Edo State under your able leadership.”