Cristiano Ronaldo has topped the footballers’ engagement ring league by giving his fiancée the most expensive sparkler. The Juventus star is thought to have splashed about £615,000 on the diamond number for Georgina Rodriguez. According to GamblingDeals, who compiled a list of the most expensive engagement rings in football, England keeper Jordan Pickford was second on £500,000 for wife Megan Davison. Ashley Cole’s £275,000 ring for ex-wife Cheryl ranked third. Juventus have allegedly ended their interest in signing Barcelona forward Luis Suarez. With the Catalan giants open to parting ways with the 33-year-old, Juventus have been keen to add Uruguay international to their ranks ahead of the new campaign. However, earlier this week, it was suggested that the Serie A champions were also considering a move for Chelsea frontman Olivier Giroud. According to reports in Spain, this has led to Juve shelving plans to push through a deal for Suarez. Sporting director Fabio Paratici is said to regard Juve’s chances of finalising a transfer over the coming weeks as “impossible”. The Italian giants are eager to replace Gonzalo Higuain, who has moved to Inter Miami. A transfer tug of war for the services of French superstar Kylian Mbappe looks set to begin in earnest amid reports that the 21-year-old wants out of the French capital next summer. Mbappe currently stands as the second most expensive transfer of all time when he joined Paris Saint-Germain from Monaco three years ago as he became the most expensive teenager in history for a reported fee in the region of $211 million. But that fee may well be broken next summer after the Times reported that he has told the French club of his desire for a new challenge. PSG are understood to be resistant to let Mbappe depart from the club and have made multiple lucrative offers to extend his contract past its 2022 expiration date. These included promises to make him the club’s best-ever paid player, as well as a declaration that they will build the team around the French international. However, the 2018 World Cup winner appears to be resolved in his desire to move to another European powerhouse, with the likes of Real Madrid, Manchester City and Liverpool thought to be circling.  Having found her voice off the court, Naomi Osaka returned to the top on it with her third grand slam title. The 22-year-old from Japan was comprehensively outplayed by Victoria Azarenka in the first set but recovered brilliantly to triumph 1-6 6-3 6-3. The trophy goes into her collection alongside ones from the 2018 US Open, where her achievement was overshadowed by the infamous row between Serena Williams and umpire Carlos Ramos, and the 2019 Australian Open. Already the highest-earning female athlete in the world, Osaka adds another £2.3million in prize money to her fortune, while she becomes the first Asian player to win three grand slam singles titles, surpassing Chinese trailblazer Li Na.