Coalition Against COVID-19 (CACOVID) has rolled out palliative measures to cater for 1.7 million households amounting to about 10 million people across the 774 local governments, including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The coalition simultaneously flagged-off distribution of palliatives in: Bauchi, Jigawa, Kogi, Anambra, Ogun, Kebbi, Ekiti, Borno, Yobe, Enugu, and Plateau. Each household will receive 1 bag of 10kg rice, 1 carton of pasta, 2 cartons of noodles, 1 bag of 5kg of sugar, 1 bag of 1kg of salt and 1 bag of 5kg of garri, semovita, and maize. To ensure the palliatives get to the intended vulnerable, the distribution has taken a bottom-up approach. The coalition will leverage its networks to reach all 774 local government areas and will assign its member partners (Over 80 Private organizations) to oversee the delivery of these food items. According to CACOVID administrator and CEO of Aliko Dangote Foundation (ADF), Zouera Youssoufou, “CACOVID has since the onset of the coronavirus pandemic been committed to providing relief packages to the most vulnerable. “The coalition’s primary focus was to aid the Federal Government in the fight against COVID-19. Having done this successfully, we are turning our attention to offering a reprieve to households who have been adversely affected by the scourge of the virus. “Through this food relief programme, we will be reducing the risk of a second viral wave by encouraging people to remain indoors rather than expose themselves when seeking to provide food for themselves and their families.” CACOVID is a private-sector alliance tasked with pulling resources across industries to provide technical and operational support while providing funding and building advocacy through aggressive awareness drives. So far, the coalition has built and revamped testing and isolation centres to strengthen the response capacity of states. They’ve also supported the NCDC with over 300,000 test kits and personal protective equipment (PPES).