My instinctive reaction to the Federal Government’s new Special Works Programme (SWP), designed to create 774,000 new jobs for 1000 unemployed persons from each of the country’s 774 local government areas, who will receive N20,000 per month for three months, was to dismiss it as another grandiose scheme aimed at  corrupt material enrichment as is all too often the case with our governing elite across party divides. This perception was strengthened by the seemingly needless squabble between the members of the National Assembly and the Minister of State for Labour, Mr. Festus Keyamo (SAN), on the mode of implementation of the programme. Much more important than the method of the programme’s implementation, I thought, the legislature ought to have raised fundamental questions about the rationale for the SWP in the first place. It appeared to me that the PDP caucus in the House of Representatives, in a statement by Hon. Kingsley Chinda, made an important point when it said that the rationale for the programme “flies in the face of reason and common sense as this government insists on expending enormous resources for the implementation of a politically motivated transient programme dubiously shrouded as “employment” having no empowering or enduring benefit to ordinary Nigerians especially when several viable and veritable job and wealth creating alternatives exist”. Continuing, he said “Elementary division of the approved programme budget of N52 billion by 774 local government areas in Nigeria implies expenditure of N67.184 million (about $150,000) in each local government area, which if applied judicially and transparently will suffice for the establishment of a viable industry in each local government area that for several years to come will provide gainful, enduring and sustainable direct and indirect employment for more than 100 skilled and unskilled poor unemployed Nigerians per local government area…”. Well, it is only that the PDP did not set any example in this regard even though the country earned enormously more revenue during its 16 years tenancy in power than the present administration does. Yet, it is this administration that is frenetically working on the completion of scores of infrastructural projects across the country that had been abandoned by the previous ruling party. Surely, it’s better to spend public funds on this kind of SPW programme than the obscene and blatant sharing among public office holders of public funds as happened under the PDP. Further research for this article showed that the SWP has indeed been more carefully thought out and the ground laid for its meticulous implementation than supposed. The SWP had indeed earlier started as a pilot project in five local governments each in eight states. Over 40,000 transient jobs were created in the eight states, namely Adamawa, Borno, Ebonyi, Edo, Ekiti Jigawa, Katsina and Kwara during the period. The beneficiaries were employed to carry out various tasks in traffic control, drainage digging and clearance, irrigation canals clearance, rural and feeder roads maintenance, street cleaning and cleaning of public infrastructures as well as maintenance of the Great Green Wall nurseries in Borno, Jigawa and Katsina states. In the wake of the coronavirus epidemic, the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs Zainab Ahmed, announced on Monday, April 6, 2020, that presidential approval had been received to extend the scheme to the 36 states of the country and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja. This time around, its main focus will be on agriculture and its value chains. The unnecessary altercation between Keyamo and the National Assembly gave the impression that this was just another scheme for political office holders to share job slots among themselves for their cronies. But there is absolutely nothing abnormal or illegitimate about the 15% (116,000) slots allocated to members of the executive and legislature at the federal and state levels. The important thing is that the beneficiaries are Nigerians and it will offer some succor for them in these tough times. It is difficult to understand what the PDP means when, in its words, it “rejects the resort to political godfatherism as well as underhand measures in the allocation of the Federal Government’s 774,000 jobs to cronies of political holders instead of an open process that will accommodate every Nigerian”. The party describes the programme’s mode of implementation as “an injustice to the generality of unemployed Nigerians who do not have political office holders and are not affiliated to any political party”. But how is this so? To the best of my knowledge, every state in the country, irrespective of the party in power there, is to benefit from the exercise. The important thing is that 1000 unemployed Nigerians in all 774 Local Government Areas will enjoy the N20,000 stipend for an initial period of three months with the possibility, as Mr. Keyamo has said, of being extended beyond the three-month timeline or being made an annual event. This should have considerable stimulus effect on the grassroots economy. It appears that Mr. Keyamo has gone to quite some length to ensure that the programme is implemented as transparently as possible as well as ensure a reasonable measure of fairness in selecting the participants. This is evident in the composition of the programme’s State Selection Committees, which have 20 members each. The Chairman and Vice Chairman of the State Selection Committees must be indigenes of and ordinarily resident in the state. The state coordinator of the National Directorate of Employment (NDE) will serve as secretary to the committee, which means that the agency is a key part of the implementation process. Other members of the State Selection Committees include representatives of the governor, the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Supreme Council of Islamic Affairs (NSCIA), National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), traditional rulers, youth organizations, Civil Society Organizations s well as special interest groups. The Minister says that this composition of the committees is “to ensure that majority of Nigerians who do not belong to any of the political divides benefit from the programme”. Of course, the PDP does have a point when it says that investing in programmes and initiatives that create permanent and sustainable jobs are preferable to the SWP’s focus on three-month transient jobs. But the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has announced several initiatives to cushion diverse sectors of the economy, particularly Small and Medium Scale businesses, to enable them tide through the pandemic, reduce job losses and possibly even employ new workers. This is in addition to the administration’s enormous investment in the last five years in diversifying the economy especially with reviving agriculture and its immense job creation potentials along its various value chains. The SWP does not negate efforts along that line but offers succor to a large number of indigent unemployment persons even as the economy gradually picks up with time and absorbs larger number of people into the workforce. One critical thing that the minister and all those involved in the implementation of the programme must guard against is the injection of ghost names into the list by unscrupulous officials, intent on defrauding the system. Hopefully, the payment of the stipend directly to the bank accounts of beneficiaries will aid transparency and prevent duplication of payments to accounts as a result of the Bank Verification Number. Again, the administration should also consider value re-orientation programmes for beneficiaries of the SWP. For instance, it really will not be beneficial both to the individual or the society if the stipend earned for the three months is expended on dangerous drugs or other socially harmful practices. The SPW programme marks another major step in the Buhari administration’s efforts over the last five years to transfer resources directly to the poor and underprivileged through its various cash conditional transfers and Social Intervention Programmes (SIP). It is no exaggeration to say that direct transfer of funds by the Buhari administration to the poor to fight poverty, boost small and micro businesses as well as stimulate job creation is unprecedented in the country’s history. At least the huge amounts so transferred to the weak and vulnerable cannot be available to be shared by the governing elite as was the norm under the PDP. Does that mean that corruption is not still going on right now in government at all levels? That would be a fraudulent claim. But what is indisputable is that the scale has greatly reduced. This is certainly one of the reasons why the administration has been able to spend heavily on its Social Intervention Programmes while at the same time accelerating work on major infrastructure projects nationwide even though the country’s revenue has crashed to only a minuscule proportion of what it was for most of the PDP years. Even as it spends on these poverty alleviation initiatives, however, the government must also ensure continuous scientific impact assessment of these programmes to determine how much they are actually reducing poverty levels in order to continuously streamline, modify and strengthen them for greater efficacy. 