The Society for Family Health has expressed worry over the high rate of teenage pregnancies and sexually transmitted diseases, among others, in Osun State. The Non-Governmental Organisation thereby advocated for use of contraceptives, confiding in parents and guardians by the adolescent girlchild to tackle the menace of pregnancy and diseases. This was disclosed during a meeting in Osogbo, capital of Osun, by the NGO to mark the end of adolescent 360 Project, which started in April 2018 in Iwo Local Government Area. The Project Regional Manager, Tunde Ogungbenro, while presenting the field survey of the NGO, said the project focused on reproductive health, HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment, maternal and child health for adolescent girls between age 15 and 19. It has three components; demand generation, service provision and system strengthening. According to Ogungbenro, the NGO identified states in Nigeria that teenage pregnancies and sexually transmitted diseases were prevalent. The project targeted eight states namely; Delta, Lagos, Oyo, Nasarawa, Kaduna, Edo, Ogun and Osun with the goal of improving the sexual reproductive health and removing barriers to access and voluntary use of modern contraceptives amongst adolescent girls aged 15- 19 years. “During the exercise in Iwo Local Government, we find out that many of those girls age 15 and 19 already had abortion, STDs and some of them have experienced gender-based violence. We find out that many of those girls are sexually active and already single mother which is not palatable to them, they were enhanced to have modern contraceptive. Between the period of 2018 and September 2020, we have reached over 17,000 girls in Iwo Local Government Area about 15,000 receive modern contraceptives to help them secure their future,” Ogungbenro said. He noted that there is a huge gap in accessibility and uptake of modern contraceptives in Osun State as adopters increased from 2,284 in 2018 to 10,374 in 2019 representing a 78 per cent increase in voluntary uptake of modern contraceptives. However, Ogungbenro lamented that COVID-19 mitigated against the field activities of the project thereby making them record 4520 new adopters contrary to the 10,374 statistics recorded in 2019. The Osun State Health Commissioner, Dr Rafiu Isamontu speaking at the event, commended the exercise, saying the lives of adolescent girls in Iwo community have been positively impacted. “We have negotiated with the NGO to replicate the project in other local government areas of the state aside Iwo. We have assured them of support because the achievements recorded are notable,” he said. Subsequently, Deputy Director of the adolescent 360 project, Rakiya Idris, assured that more work will be done to ensure that the sexuality of adolescent girls remains a priority by giving constant support to relevant.