A member of the Interim Management Committee (IMC) of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Caroline Nagbo, has narrowly escaped assassination in Port Harcourt, Rivers State capital. It was gathered that gunmen suspected to be assassins trailed Nagbo while she was returning from a church service at Ozuoba in Obio-Akpo Local Government Area on Tuesday morning. Nagbo, who confirmed the incident through his Special Assistant, Technical and Youth Matters, Sogbeye Eli, said the operation to kill her was aborted by the police and the Department of Security Service (DSS), which reacted swiftly following distress calls. Nagbo, who expressed shock over the development thanked God for her protection and commended the gallantry of the security officials. She showered praises on the Commissioner of Police, Rivers State Command; the Director, State Security Services, Rivers State Command and Head of Security at the NDDC, Mr. Tonye Frank Oputu, saying their professionalism and timely intervention saved her life. Nagbo also thanked her colleague in the Interim Management Committee and Acting Executive Director, Finance & Administration, Mr. Effiong Akwa, for his prompt response to the rescue effort. She called on the Commissioner of Police and other security agencies operating in the state to intensify efforts in tracking down persons after her life. She said that criminal elements terrorizing the state must be flushed out to secure the lives of law-abiding citizens and stop scaring investors in the petroleum and gas resource-rich state. The Movement for the Survival of the Ogoni People (MOSOP) condemned the attack on Nagbo and called on security agencies to investigate the incident. MOSOP in a statement signed by its Secretary-General, Alex Akori said: “MOSOP is appalled by this act and calls for an immediate and full scale investigation into this act. “While we commend the security forces for living up to the expectations by averting the assassination, we note that this act of assassination attempt on a high profile personality like Ms. Nagbo further reflects the vulnerability of our society and reinforces the need for an upgrade of our intelligence and internal security system.”