 The federal government has appealed to ICT company, Huawei, to help it expand the country’s rural telephony spread. Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, made the appeal in Abuja during the courtesy visit by Trevor Liu, Managing Director and Nigeria Representative of Huawei Technologies Company Nigeria Limited. Government wants rural telephony expanded to bridge the gap between urban educational systems and what obtains in rural areas. Government’s desire to expand rural telephony is based on the fact that the Nigerian education system has been negatively impacted by COVID-19 pandemic. The federal government urged Huawei Technologies Company Nigeria Limited “to help with affordable solutions that would guarantee digital value additions and accessibility to the Nigerian rural communities”. Mrs. Zainab Ahmed lamented that the “education system has been most impacted by COVID-19 and only students and children in the cities have been able to have access to digital learning”.  According to Ahmed, “a lot of our kids and students in the rural communities are not fortunate enough to plug into such platform”. She also appealed to Huawei to bring into Nigeria assembly plants and repair workshops that could help create jobs and expand the value chain for the Nigerian citizenry, giving that the country is a big market. Responding, Trevor Liu, Managing Director of Huawei, said Nigeria is the second country in the world that benefits from Huawei’s training. He said the company has been providing training with many Nigerian universities and communication companies, including MTN, GLO, and Airtel. Highlighting Huawei’s contribution in Nigeria, Liu stated that while the total investment of the company in Nigeria is worth USD$76million, its procurement in the country between 2016 and 2019 is $630million and the tax revenue generated within the period is $103million. The company, according to him, has created over 400 direct job opportunities among whom Nigerians make up to 70 percent. This is in addition to over 60,000 indirect job opportunities and over 470 Nigeria sub-contractors and partners. Liu also stated that in the company’s ICT job creation efforts, there are over 54 Huawei ICT Academy in universities and polytechnics, the company has certified over 880 students and teachers each year. Over 13,600 Nigerian students participated in Huawei ICT Competition for 2018-2019 and won third prize in the global final.