All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has felicitated with Osun State Governor Adegboyega Oyetola on his 66th birthday. In a statement on Monday by Tunde Rahman of his Media Office, Asiwaju Tinubu said: “The welfare and well-being of the people ought to be the raison d’etre of any government. It should be at the core of its very existence, and at the heart of democracy itself. Democracy must work to create and enhance the provision of its dividends to the people. “Osun State government has taken this guiding principle as an article of faith. That is the way it should be. “Governor Adegboyega Oyetola has been doing just that in the last two years. He has demonstrated his financial ingenuity and administrative expertise. “With little, the governor has done much. He is quietly but effectively making the difference in the lives of the people of the state. “Governor Oyetola’s giant strides in all sectors ranging from the economy, provision of infrastructure and the environment to health, security, justice and law are particularly remarkable. “Building on the foundation laid by his predecessors, particularly by immediate-past governor, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, Oyetola prioritised economic development and industrialisation. “Today, he has placed Osun on the pedestal of economic stability, rejuvenation and prosperity. “The icing on the cake is the recent inauguration of the construction of an international trade centre and inland port in Dagbolu, aimed at turning the area into the industrial hub of the state and the Southwest, and taking maximum advantage of the train infrastructure. “This excellent achievement is hardly surprising, given the governor’s distinguished background as an insurance guru and his successful career in the private sector. “We thank him for making us proud, for making our progressive party proud. “Oyetola is a bundle of wisdom, maturity and integrity. More importantly, he has displayed the Omoluabi ethos, which separates us from the reactionary elements. “As he turns 66 today, my prayer is that Almighty Allah should grant him many more years, robust health and imbue him with His grace and protection as he pilots Osun to enviable heights.”