The Chairman of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Ekiti State, Otunba Bisi Kolawole, in this interview with RASAQ IBRAHIM, speaks about the crisis rocking the chapter and the recent congresses that produced parallel Tongues are still wagging over the recent Congress that produces parallel party executives in Ekiti People’s Democratic Party (PDP). What is the stand of your group? About the congress, I am sure you must have seen what happened, but it is very easy for the press to help us exaggerate a minor situation. I called it a minor situation, because if some set of people gathered themselves in a beer parlor and compare it with a well conducted congress supervised by the supervising authority, that is, the National Working Commitee (NWC). They came, things were done properly and you had two governors attending the congress and you just had some few people gathered somewhere trying to create a semblance of parallel something. My brother I know you are doing your job, but the fact is we had a congress in Ekiti State that produce my very good self. A congress that was attended by two former governors. Former Governor Ayodele Fayose and Segun Oni and many notable leaders in the party were all there, supervised, conducted by the National Working Committee (NWC). So, how do you compare that with a group of people trying to create semblance of whatever happened in their group. I know there is faction, but it is not unusual in politics, I know you know that. There is nothing strange about it. So, I want to tell you that there is only one congress conducted by the NWC of the PDP under the chairmanship of Prince Uche Secondus. We don’t have two national chairmen and the only one we have, which Secondus is appointed Engr. Balogun led commitee to conduct a congress in Ekiti State, which we successfully do and I don’t think there should be any issue about it because some people talk about INEC not been present. You can read the constitution of the party and that of Nigeria, there is not section that say they must be there, but they must be notified by the NWC, which has been done appropriately and, if it is approved by the national body, they would forward it to INEC. Just for the information, it is not meant for them to supervise or witnessed. It was only meant for them to be notified. We had a single congress. It was well conducted according to the rules of our party. Is it right to say PDP is split into factions going, by what happened upper last saturday? Well, there are always people with opposing views. It is nothing to talk about compared to what is happening in APC. They have different factions in APC, but it is this congress that is bringing the semblance of faction in PDP and we will overcome. It always occurred sometimes. There would be time for us to come together and move forward together as a party. That would happen under my chairmanship eventually and I want to tell you that PDP is one. There is no cause for alarm. We would talk to ourselves. The ultimate is to dislodge the current interloper at Oke-Ayoba. You know the last election, we won it and you know how it all happened anyway you may not agree with me, but you know how it all happened, but the fact remain that the ultimate and goal of PDP is to take back power because Ekiti is a PDP state and we would eventually come together and sent them packing. We pray for good health for Governor Kayode Fayemi he will complete his tenure, but the civil government of APC will not come back to Ekiti State. We are all aware of this and we would come back at the appropriate time as a party to dislodge them. But, some people believe that the battle for leadership is between Senator Biodun Olujimi and former Governor Ayodele Fayose? I don’t believe that because it’s a common sense. A situation where you have a two time governor and a senator that is saying she is the leader of the party, maybe it is on her senatorial district. What impact does she has in the North and Central? After all, the South where she comes from, we still have deputy governor Eleka from Ikere, you have Adekola coming from Ekiti Southwest, you have former acting governor. It’s not as if she is the only notable figure, but because you are in senate does not impose you on all of us. The constitution of the party is very clear about it. The leadership is not in contest. People must have promoted somebody to wrestle leadership, but leadership is not for grasp. Former Governor Fayose is the leader. Even a former PDP governor Oni recognise Fayose as the leader and Senator Olujimi serve as Commissioner under former Governor Olusegun Oni, so how come you wake up one day that you are the leader. It is a tall ambition and I want to believe that there is a misconception about the issue. I just believe it is unnecessary struggle for power and well I said earlier it happens like this when we want to have our congress. The congresses, as far as PDP is concern as come and gone. We have conducted the ward, local government and the state congress, so the next thing for us is to come together until another four years. I don’t think we should waste time unnecessarily on what is not. Other than to come together and have a purposeful party. Like I said the issue of leadership, I don’t see it as been real at all because the leadership was never absent and it has always been there. There is no how you  expect everybody to love or like a particular situation. The people that are complaining about what is happening, of course former Governor Fayose did his best, he gave appointment and many experienced under him and some of them were complaining that they could not make enough money. It is something we should not be talking about because people will lynch us, if they know why some of them were complaining. For instance, you were commissioner for four years and suddenly you wake up and started complaining that he did not allow us to make enough money. You are to serve the people, what if people that never receive salary for four years. You were there for four years and you were still complaining. What of those people that were never appointed? Unfortunately in PDP, the people that are doing well were those that were not appointed because they are still hopeful that tomorrow will be better. Those are the majority of the people usually in goverment and the appointed ones they are the few that are always misdirecting the ignorant ones, so to say. So, I don’t see any issues. But, some PDP leaders came together to endorse Senator Biodun Olujimi, being the highest ranking member of PDP as at then? Who are the people, how many governors were there, then how many senators were there? Look, they are just set of disgruntled people not happy with the government of Fayose. I don’t want to emphasise this issue much because definitely we would resolve. So, I won’t allow you to say things I don’t want to be publish in the paper. We would come together. It is just a family problem. Pundits are already identifying 2022 gubernatorial politics as reasons for the development within the opposition PDP. Do you agree? It can’t be ruled out in any political settings. It’s not about opposition alone, the one in APC is worse to the one in PDP. Do you know how many factions they have in APC? It’s all about 2022/2023. It is a build up to the next election. I agree with you, but the fact remains that it is always like that, there is always time for this and there will be time for settlement and coming together. It’s not strange. Do you think your party could defeat the ruling APC in 2022 going, by the internal crisis rocking it now? Internal crisis rocking PDP is child play compare to the crisis rocking APC. By the time their problem starts, you will know there is no APC in Ekiti State. They will disintegrate and scatter. They will not get their bearing. There are so many factions incubating between them. We are experiencing the peak of our own problem which is our worst situation. Their is still in incubator by the time it get mature, you will know that there is no APC in Ekiti State. More so, this is a deceitful government that is not running well at all. People are hungry and disenchanted. People are so sad of what they are experiencing under this government beacuse they have been able to compare the government of APC and PDP. And when a few people are just there at Oke-Ayoba doing what they like, disregarding the feelings of people on the street. The  health sector is dead. Nothing is happening. Education funding is poor. Nobody is happy with them. They are just managing and praying for Governor Fayemi to finish his government in good term and dislodge APC. Enough of this in Ekiti State. So, what is the way out of the internal wrangling? The way out of the crisis is for us to come together. That’s why you have a reconciliation. This is a family problem. We would resolve. But, I want to tell you that there is nowhere you will have 100 per cent unification. But, when you a vast majority coming together, that solves the problem. But, I am reminding again and note my words. When APC problem starts, you will not be able to curtail it. If you are given an option to relinquish your position for peace to reign, are you willing to do that? Relinquish for who? I’m duly elected. For your information 90 per cent PDP members rooted for my emergence. And if there is any issue, it is personality clash between the ranks and files of the party. Go and check it out yourself. My emergence has been well celebrated. So, settling down for who? I am well accepted and that’s why they voted for me. It’s only people that were aspiring and could not make it that needs to be appeal to that, well you can start preparing for another set of four years, but this has come and gone. As a matter of fact nobody has come very close to me in the chairmanship kin. I worked for it. I have been on it for eleven months. I have toured the sixteen local governments in Ekiti State, as if I was contesting for governorship election. It has never happened in Ekiti State. Not even in APC. You know what they do is to just appoint. They don’t do congress. I contested for it. I familiarise myself with the people at the grassroot in the party. I was on the thirteen local government when former Governor Fayose opted to support me. I was begging all of them to support me. The idea you are talking about does not exist. But, the other group said they enjoy the backing of the majority of party faithful? It’s left for you to do the investigation on your own. But, I know that you know a situation where two former governors coming together to support a candidate. Some people former House of Assembly and some people that are not even known in the party. We know who is stronger and recognised by the NWC of the party. It’s not just talking by mouth. Is it true that Governor Oni’s desperation to become governor made him to align with Fayose? It’s very insulting. You know Segun Oni is a very gentle man and for reasons best known to him, he went to pilgrimage to Mecca to throw stone on satan and after doing that he had come back home. Whoever is saying that he is desperate is an insult. That’s why I am trying not to insult people. Even in this interview, I am trying not to insult anybody in any form. It’s insultive for anybody to have open his or her mouth vomiting that Segun Oni is desperate, he made up his mind he knew where the power is. He took his time before he aligned with Fayose led PDP and the party appropriately. So, where is the desperation in that? He is not a desperate person. We all know Segun Oni, it is a serious attack on his person and I take serious exemption as a number one citizen of the party, I won’t encourage any insult on Fayose neither will I encourage any insult on Segun Oni and even other leaders.