We have it on good authority that within two weeks, Governor Godwin Obaseki and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have ferried into Edo, busloads of thugs from neighbouring PDP states,” the All Progressives Congress (APC) Media Campaign Council has alleged. A statement by the Chairman of the council, Mr. John Mayaki, alleged: “Buses loaded with strange faces have been spotted entering Benin City, capital of Edo State. The buses with unidentifiable registration numbers have been sighted around Ring Road, making their way to the Government House, Benin as well as other major cities in the three senatorial districts.” He added: “While their mission may not be immediately clear, intelligence report indicates that the manner and consistency of entry, the direction of the buses and the all-male occupants, justify reports that Governor Obaseki is recruiting thugs and on a mission to set Edo State ablaze with violence. “The buses, Toyota products, have been shipping into town suspected thugs in droves who, according to credible intelligence gathering, are now being camped at the Government House for preliminary briefing and training before dispatching them for the election. The Special Adviser to Governor Obaseki on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr. Crusoe Osagie, declared as false, allegation by the APC that thugs were being ferried into the Government House. Osagie, who made the declaration in a statement issued in Benin City, said: “Convinced that its candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, is no match for Governor Obaseki, APC is churning out lies and propaganda in its bid to get the September 19 poll cancelled or postponed.”We have it on good authority that within two weeks, Governor Godwin Obaseki and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have ferried into Edo, busloads of thugs from neighbouring PDP states,” the All Progressives Congress (APC) Media Campaign Council has alleged. A statement by the Chairman of the council, Mr. John Mayaki, alleged: “Buses loaded with strange faces have been spotted entering Benin City, capital of Edo State. The buses with unidentifiable registration numbers have been sighted around Ring Road, making their way to the Government House, Benin as well as other major cities in the three senatorial districts.” He added: “While their mission may not be immediately clear, intelligence report indicates that the manner and consistency of entry, the direction of the buses and the all-male occupants, justify reports that Governor Obaseki is recruiting thugs and on a mission to set Edo State ablaze with violence. “The buses, Toyota products, have been shipping into town suspected thugs in droves who, according to credible intelligence gathering, are now being camped at the Government House for preliminary briefing and training before dispatching them for the election. The Special Adviser to Governor Obaseki on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr. Crusoe Osagie, declared as false, allegation by the APC that thugs were being ferried into the Government House. Osagie, who made the declaration in a statement issued in Benin City, said: “Convinced that its candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, is no match for Governor Obaseki, APC is churning out lies and propaganda in its bid to get the September 19 poll cancelled or postponed.”