 The management of the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU)  has disowned a statement circulating around that the management has fixed a new resumption date for its students and staff. The statement, which went viral last Tuesday on all social media platforms stated that the university would resume for the continuation of 2019/2020 academic session on September 19, 2020, adding that academic calendar will be adjusted after it has been halted by the Coronavirus pandemic. It reads in part: “This is to inform students and staff of the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife that the school will resume for academic activities on the September 19, 2020. This is to ensure the continuation of activities put on hold as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.” However, the university management in a statement published on its official Twitter handle admonished students, parents and guardians to disregard the directive put up by unknown individuals. It further stated that students should stay calm and await authentic information from the school management as regards the resumption date which would be in line with the directive of the Federal Government.  “The attention of the authorities of the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife, has been drawn to a circular purportedly issued and signed by the University Registrar which has gone viral. The university management wishes to officially inform our students at all levels, their parents and guardians, that the said circular is fake and malicious both in content and context and it should be disregarded in its entirety. “Obafemi Awolowo University is a Federal Government owned institution and the instruction to go on recess in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, in the month of March 2020, by the Federal Government has not been reversed. “Accordingly, we want to use this medium to urge our students to remain calm, and await authentic information from the university management as soon as the Federal Government gives the go ahead to reopen the university,”  the statement said.