With the amended Penal Code 2020 signed into law on Wednesday by Kaduna State Governor Nasir El-Rufa’I, rapists risk surgical castration upon conviction. Besides, convicts’ names are to be listed on the Sex Offenders Register that will be published by the Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice. The amended bill was passed into law last Thursday by the Kaduna State House of Assembly. The development was disclosed on El-Rufai’s official Twitter handle @GovKaduna Wednesday night. According to the Twitter post, “Malam Nasir @elrufai has signed the Kaduna State Penal Code (Amendment) Law 2020 which provides stiff penalties upon conviction for the rape of a child, including surgical castration for male convicts and bilateral salpingectomy for female convicts” Similarly, a statement posted on the governor’s Facebook wall said “the amendment updates the penalties for the offence of the rape of a child, which include the punishments of surgical castration and bilateral salpingectomy for male and female convicts of child rape, and death. According to the statement signed by the Governor’s Special Adviser on Media and Communication, Muyiwa Adekeye, said, the convicts will in addition, be listed in the Sex Offenders Register to be published by the Attorney-General of the state. He said: “Following Malam El-Rufai’s assent to the amended law on 11th September 2020, the new law has come into effect in Kaduna State. It introduces stricter punishments than the previous law which carried a maximum penalty of 21 years imprisonment for the rape of an adult and life imprisonment for the rape of a child. “Under the amended law, the punishment for the rape of a person older than 14 years will include surgical castration or removal of fallopian tubes, but the death penalty shall not apply. In cases where the rape convict is also a child, the court shall order an appropriate punishment under the Children and Young Persons Law Cap 26, Laws of Kaduna State 1991. “While commending the members of the Kaduna State House of Assembly for passing the amendments, the Governor stated that these drastic penalties are required to help further protect children from a serious crime. “The Kaduna State Penal Code (Amendment) Law 2020 amends the Penal Code Law (No.5) of Kaduna State, 2017 by substituting section 258 as follows: