Halogen Group, a leading Nigerian security risk management organisation has been voted Nigeria’s outstanding contract security company for the third year in a row. In an international webinar marking the Nigeria Outstanding Security Performance Awards (OSPAs), Halogen Group emerged the nation’s top security risk management company in a keenly contested selection process. According to the OSPAs organisers, which coordinated  the security industry awards in partnership with SECUREX WEST AFRICA, “The awards recognise exceptional industry talent and innovation in different categories.” OSPA winners, the organisers explained in a statement, “were selected by an esteemed panel of industry figures who judged entries using the same criteria which is applied across the world.  Each winner demonstrated that they have performed at an exceptional level and has shown their commitment and outstanding performance within the security sector”. In a triple win which marked a major milestone in the security industry awards, two of Halogen Group’s operating companies, AVERT Halogen, its technology solutions company and Academy Halogen, its degree awarding security risk management training institute, were also voted as the outstanding security technology installer and /integrator and the outstanding security training initiative, emerging the singular OSPA winners in their areas of specialization respectively. This year also marks the third in a row that Academy Halogen would cart home the top security training honors. OSPAs is a globally recognised independent security awards, which reward outstanding performance in the security sector in the United Kingdom (UK), United States of America (USA), and other parts of the world. Group Managing Director, Halogen Group, Mr. Wale Olaoye described the award as a vindication of the company’s commitment to global best practice, uncompromising commitment to excellence and its focused investment in technology and capacity building. He expressed gratitude to the group’s employees, associates and clients for their staunch support, noted with delight that the triple recognition by the global body came barely one year after Halogen announced its robust digital transformation. 