Ogun State Government has assured workers that their outstanding entitlements will be paid soon. Governor Dapo Abiodun, speaking yesterday during the swearing-in of permanent secretaries, principals-general and head teachers-general, said workers, as “co-builders’’ who contributed their quota to the advancement of the state, deserved to be “well taken care of’’. He hailed labour union leaders in the state for their maturity in handling issues. “Our administration will not, and I repeat, will not, deny you the rewards of your hard work. You have all worked and contributed your quotas to the continued development of our dear state. “Personally, as a child of a retired public servant, I appreciate the import of these entitlements to the welfare, wellness and well-being of workers, either, serving or retired. “I am particularly using this occasion to state the commitment of our administration to offset all outstanding dues and other entitlements as financial status of the state improves,’’ Abiodun said. The governor said his administration does not renege on promises, but deploying resources towards ensuring  conducive environment for workers to deliver efficient and effective service. He said workers’ pensions and other entitlements were some of the issues that attracted his attention and immediate intervention on assumption of office. “We cleared the backlog of promotions of over 10, 000 personnel in the education sector. We also sent some on overseas training as we are committed to human capital development. “I must state that the process to clear the backlogs of the 2018, 2019 and 2020 promotion is at an advanced level,’’ he said. The governor congratulated the permanent secretaries, noting that their appointments were testaments of their past records. Abiodun challenged them to do more in the service of the state and humanity. He said the process that led to their appointments was on seniority, merit, professionalism, equity, inclusiveness and the overall interest of the public service and the state in general. The governor said he was restoring the positions of the principals-general and head teachers-general to motivate teachers to attain higher position of authority.