Former Senate Minority leader Biodun Olujimi has urged Oyo Governor Seyi Makinde to ignore the threat by former Governor Ayodele Fayose. Olujimi was reacting to comments by Fayose barring the Oyo governor from visiting Ekiti. The ex-governor had warned Makinde against tampering with leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ekiti and other South-West states. Fayose insisted Makinde had no right to interfere in the local politics in South-West states despite being a zonal leader of the party. But Olujimi, who represents Ekiti South senatorial district, dismissed Fayose’s threat as empty and shallow. She insisted Makinde remains the indisputable leader of the PDP in southwest, declaring him free to visit Ekiti at will. The Senator spoke in Omuo Ekiti, Ekiti East Local Government Area of Ekiti while distributing empowerment materials to her constituents. Olujimi, who blamed the Uche Secondus-led National Working Committee (NWC) for the crisis rocking southwest PDP, expressed her unalloyed support to Makinde’s leadership. According to her: “What has Makinde done? He said we should wait and resolve this crisis before conducting the congresses because no individual can run Ekiti and deliver. “Let me say this, Governor Seyi Makinde is welcomed in Ekiti anytime. He should even come now, so that we can celebrate him. Fayose’s comment was just an empty threat. She added: “We state unequivocally that Governor Makinde is the leader of the party in the zone. All these have happened because the party at the National level has supported the former governor so far. “The time has come for the national body to declare support either for Fayose or the party in the zone led by a sitting governor. “Suffice it to say that Fayose when he was on seat would not have allowed that to happen. Why is the party allowing him to own our party? Is there something we don’t know? “In Ekiti, we have adopted Makinde, we have refused impunity, undesirable attitude and the wholesale destruction of the party, let it be noted that we will resist all attempts to foist a man who supervised the total loss of the party on us with all our blood. “We will also not allow him to rubbish the only governor in our zone. If this bull is not eased out carefully from this delicate china shop, we will assist the shop owner to remove him with attendant consequent.”