A 55-year-old woman, Nkechi Odinye has been arrested in Obosi in Idemili North Local Government Area of Anambra State over alleged child trafficking. The suspect who was said to have evaded arrest for over three years reportedly remained on the run and changing locations until her arrest. The Nation gathered that the suspect was arrested following interrogation by her accomplices who voluntarily confessed they brought stolen children for her to buy at the rate of between #200-400,000 depending on their age and gender. Police spokesperson, Haruna Mohammed confirmed the incident, saying three accomplices of the suspects have also been arrested He said the police equally rescued twelve children of various age brackets, comprising of 8 boys and 4 girls reasonably suspected to have been stolen from different parts of the country under her custody. He said the children are presently under protective care and Investigation is still ongoing. He said, “It would be recalled that on the 22/10/2019 following intelligence report, Police detectives attached to Anambra State Command arrested three female suspects at Nkpor market/Tarzan junction in Idemili North LGA of Anambra State. “Investigation revealed that the children were stolen from Gombe State by one Hauwa Musa ‘f” on the 20/10/2019 and brought to her accomplices in Anambra State. “Following the public announcement by the Command on the 27/10/2019, parents of the two kids from Gombe State came to Awka and identified their children. “Meanwhile, the children have since reunited with their parents, and suspects were handed over to Gombe State Police Command for further investigation and prosecution. “Consequently, upon interrogation, the suspects voluntarily confessed that they usually steal the children and bring to their sponsor one Mrs. Nkechi Odinye who buys the children here in Anambra State at the rate of between two hundred and four hundred thousand (#200-400,000) naira depending on their age and gender. “However, on the 31/8/2020, following the confession and while acting on a tip-off, Police detectives attached to 3-3 Division Onitsha in Collaboration with Operatives attached to the Command Special Anti-Cult Section (SPACS) stormed the hideout of the principal suspect one Nkechi Odinye ‘f’ aged 55 years and effected her arrest at Obosi in Idemili North Local Government Area of Anambra State. “The suspect who evaded arrest for over three years has remained on the run, busy changing locations until her arrest. “In view of the foregoing, the Commissioner of Police, John Abang urges parents and guardians to always monitor their children and caution them against following strangers. “The CP further enjoins the Public whose children were either stolen or missing to report at 3-3 Police Station Onitsha for proper identification and claim their children.”