Leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State are at war over the speculated resignation of the state’s Chairman of PDP, Dr. Tony Aziegbemi, and his defection to APC. Edo PDP, through its Publicity Secretary, Chris Nehikhare, yesterday in an online statement blamed the APC for the speculation on resignation of Aziegbemi, describing the information as fake news and a hoax. It said: “The rumour is the fabrication of members of APC in their last minute and desperate efforts to save an unpopular candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, from quitting the governorship race, which the party is set to lose. “With just a week to the September 19 election, and worried by the lack of acceptance of its candidate, the APC has resorted to desperate and unconventional campaign tactics, fake news, deceit and falsehood to attempt to sway Edo voters. “The Chairman of PDP in Edo State, Dr. Tony Aziegbemi, has not resigned from the PDP. He is committed to leading the party to victory on September 19, with the party’s standard bearer, Governor Godwin Obaseki.” The PDP in Edo also urged the people of the state to ignore the “shenanigans of the APC” and come out en masse to re-elect Obaseki on election day. Edo APC, through the Chairman of its Media Campaign Council, Prince John Mayaki, however, denied knowledge of the news, noting that it had nothing to do with the party. It said: “We are not aware of Aziegbemi’s resignation. He has no need resigning, because he will go down in history as a party chairman that could not deliver his candidate to victory. “For our victory to be memorable, we need to beat someone, and Aziegbemi is one of those that will cry the morning after September 19, 2020, along with Godwin Obaseki, the governorship candidate of PDP in Edo.” Fourteen political parties are participating in the crucial poll next Saturday, but the battle will be between Obaseki and Ize-Iyamu to determine who will be inaugurated as governor on November 12 this year.