 As the news of coronavirus rented the media space early this year, I was hungry for information, like many people, about it. The story was that the initial source was linked to a ‘wet market’ in Wuhan, China – Huanan Seafood Market. A ‘wet market’ is a market where fresh meat, fish, produce, and other perishable goods are sold. My curiosity was piqued and I wanted to get a visual idea of what the market at a wet market looked like. I took to YouTube and the images from China, when I finally saw them were bad, with animals and human mixing in close proximity. And with poor hygiene, it was a good launchpad for diseases. However, in the course of researching, I came across Toyosu Fish Market in Japan. This market is very different. It is modern, clean, orderly in a chaotic fashion, and most of all ginormous. It is the largest seafood market in the world. Aside from being in the business of fish, it also serves as a tourist attraction. I thought to myself, can African countries have such a large specialised and ordered market. I thought of the rowdiness of Onitsha Market in Anambra, the chaos of Computer Village, Lagos and the informality of the Zaki Biam Yam Market in Benue. I reasoned that, well, maybe in a matter of time, the country would attain such a feat like the Toyosu Fish Market. But with the news about a fortnight ago that the Lagos State government is set to establish a N10 billion Lagos Aquaculture Centre of Excellence (LACE) in Igbonla, Epe, such a market is about to kick off. This was disclosed when the state government distributed agricultural inputs and productive assets to 2,743 farmers under the 2020 Agricultural Value Chains Empowerment Programme. According to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu who was represented at the event by the deputy governor, Obafemi Hamzat, the centre would be sited on 35 hectares and be managed under a Public-Private-Partnership (PPP) arrangement. It is designed to directly produce 2,000 tonnes of fish annually. Lagos has about 180km of coastline and with 22% of its 3,577 square km consisting of water, fishing is a major occupation of those living around the water. Every day, fishermen in these areas take to the waters and come back with different types of seafood. And in places blessed with water like Epe, Badagry, Makoko and Apapa, fish markets have erupted. There is Oluwo Fish Market in Epe which attracts buyers from both within and outside the state. The Makoko Fish Market in Yaba, which is predominantly populated by Eguns is small but plays a huge role in satisfying the fish demands of not only its immediate environs. Other clusters of fish markets abound across the state. However, LACE would serve as an off taker for various fish farm centres across the state under the Lagos Nucleus Farms scheme. Last year, when the state celebrated a seafood festival and at the last edition of the programme, the former Lagos State Commissioner for Agriculture, Prince Gbolahan Lawal, who is now the Oniru of Iru, said that the state with a population of 22 million people needs to produce at least 374,000 tonnes of fish per annum compared to a domestic fish production of 155,262 tonnes per annum. Surely, the decision to open the Aquaculture Centre will spur growth in the sector and attract investment along the fisheries value chain. And with government presence and a coalition of resources, the Aquaculture Centre would also draw in infrastructures such as access and regular electricity to ensure preservation of seafood, a problem which confronts many fish traders and often forces them to sell at a loss. Already, I can imagine how the construction would drive the employment of a set of builders. When in operation, fishermen, fish sellers and various providers of ancillary services would benefit. Also, like the Toyosu Fish Market in Japan, there can be restaurants serving seafood delicacies located on LACE grounds. And Epe, an outpost and border town of the state would surely be better for it. At the event, Sanwo-Olu also revealed the state’s plan to establish two food production centres in Epe and Badagry to be known as Lagos Food Production Centres, in order to sustain food production and supply. This move would consolidate the progress on the Lagos State Songhai project in Badagry and the Agricultural Training Institute, Araga, Epe. “The experience of the past few months during the lockdown occasioned by the Covid-19 pandemic has further reinforced the urgent need to expand the state’s food production base to meet such a spontaneous increase in demand for food in the future,” Sanwo-Olu said. The governor is planning ahead. And, collectively, these little moves by the state government aggregate towards ensuring food stability. “Currently, our level of food self-sufficiency stands at about 20 per cent, leaving a deficit of about 80 per cent, which is mostly accounted for by supplies from other states. Our goal is to achieve 100 per cent increase in food self-sufficiency by 2023.” The governor listed other agricultural initiatives embarked upon by the administration to “include the 32-tonnes-per-hour rice mill in Imota which we hope to commission by December this year, the Lagos Agripreneurship Programme, the Agro-Processing, Productivity Enhancement and Livelihood Improvement Support Project (APPEALS), the coconut value chain development project, the red meat value chain project and the fish cage culture project among others.” According to the state acting commissioner for agriculture, Abisola Olusanya, the overall aim of the agricultural value chain empowerment programme which started in 2014 was to provide the necessary agricultural inputs and productive assets to farmers as a means of achieving improved food production and supply. And via the scheme, “a total of 11,233 farmers, fishermen, butchers, processors and marketers have been empowered.” Despite being the state blessed with the smallest land mass but highest population in Nigeria, Lagos is not deterred from pursuing food security. Some years ago, the state partnered with Kebbi State to produce rice – LAKE Rice. It also has farms in Osun State. But adding more value to this pedigree is what the Sanwo-Olu administration has continued. And in September 2019, the Lagos State government acquired 84 hectares of land in Osogbo, Osun State, to farm on. With its constraints, Lagos is doing well. But for the country to achieve food sufficiency, other states and the federal government must join in. If every state maximised whatever it produced, developed a mechanism for collaboration and a central government ensures that hiccups in distribution are removed, Nigeria would stand a better chance at staving off food insecurity.