  Zilan have officially announced the renewal of Zlatan Ibrahimovic’s contract until June 2021. “AC Milan are pleased to announce that they have reached an agreement for the contract renewal of Zlatan Ibrahimovic, extending the partnership with the Rossoneri until June 2021,” the club wrote in a statement. Ibrahimovic continues his extraordinary journey with the Rossoneri, an adventure that started with a Scudetto and the Supercoppa Italiana. He returned last January and helped the club back to Europe with 11 goals in 20 matches and the 38-year-old will continue at San Siro until next June. He has joined his teammates and coach Stefano Pili at Milanello, where he had his first training session after the summer break.  lionel Messi’s future is dominating football and one Stuttgart fan has taken matters into his own hands to try to help his club sign the Barcelona star. Tim Artmann has set up a fundraising page with a target of 900million Euros (£805m) to try to stump up the cash for the Bundesliga side to acquire the Argentina international. And five days since its creation only 262 Euros (£234) has been donated to the cause, but Artmann has revealed that if the target is not met or Messi departs to another club the donated amount will be given to a water charity. Meanwhile, Messi could be suspended and have a portion of his salary seized by Barcelona if he continues to refuse to attend official club events.  Paris Saint-Germain superstar Neymar has confirmed he will be staying at the club for at least another season. The 28-year-old forward won four pieces of silverware with PSG across the 2019/20 campaign but was denied the trophy he craved the most as Thomas Tuchel’s men were beaten by Bayern Munich in the Champions League final. But Neymar wants to go one step further with PSG in Europe next term and has no plans to move on from the club anytime soon.  Ciro Immobile, who won the Golden Shoe as top scorer in Europe’s top divisions last season, has reportedly extended his contract with Lazio until 2025. Immobile, who is 30, had the best league scoring season of his career, hitting 36 goals, 14 of them penalties, to lift Lazio to fourth place in Serie A. “With this choice, Immobile has opted for Lazio for life,” said Stefano De Martino, Lazio’s communications director on the club’s website.  Former European football chief Michel Platini arrived yesterday for a meeting with the Swiss public as part of proceedings investigating a two million Swiss franc ($2.2 million) payment he received in 2011. Platini was summoned to the Swiss capital Bern by prosecutor Thomas Hildbrand. Sepp Blatter, the former president of the sport’s world governing body FIFA, is due to meet the prosecutor today  as part of the same probe. Platini, the former head of European football’s governing body UEFA, arrived at the Office of the Attorney General of Switzerland (OAG) complex in a taxi accompanied by his lawyer Dominic Nellen.