 Corruption is a problem that every country and organisation must have to confront. Today, the extent of corruption depends on the power a person exercises. Nonetheless, corruption has paved way for injustice, maladministration and enmity. Worse still, it has become so dangerous for journalists to report corruption effectively. In countries or places where selfish and corrupt individuals hold political government offices, journalists find it difficult to uncover such. At times, it becomes a matter of life and death for a journalist to reveal the truth or make investigations. Journalists are meant to be at the frontline of the war against corruption. Journalists research, investigate and verify information to provide the masses with reliable news and information. Thus, they’re  relied upon for information. Today, it is baffling to see politicians and some government personnel establishing  media organisations. That makes it even more difficult to expose corruption in high places because of some vested interests. Sadly, millions of educated and hardworking graduates roam the streets tirelessly with enveloped credentials in their hands while ghost workers exist in government offices. For journalists, press freedom has been restricted, hence, it is difficult to perform well. Lots of media organisations are not independent. How free is the media? The media and journalists need  protection in order to keep up the good work of combating corruption and to defend the foundations of democracy. If journalists would be neutral as expected, then, corruption would be fought headlong. Poor media organisations, lack of investigative journalism and citizen’s indifferent attitude towards corruption are obstacles in the fight against it. Before the fight against corruption can succeed, it is, therefore, recommended that an international fund should be set up for journalists and the independent media. Most importantly, an international fund would assist journalists to publish their works.  