A former aide of ex-Governor Olusegun Mimiko, Mr. Femi Adekanmbi, has said the plot to use fake documents to sway votes against Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu will fail. He said the citizens would rather vote for a performing governor than published fake documents about the manner he ran his administration. Speaking with our reporter in Akure, Adekanmbi said it was normal for any governor to work with the people he could trust. He said all former governors of the state used their family members to run their administration and not only Akeredolu as the Opposition had been painting the issue. Adekanmbi said: “PDP and others have been saying Akeredolu is practising the government of the father, the mother and the son. Tell me which governor will not do that? The best people you can trust in your life are your wife and your children. If I am a governor today, it will be my three sons I will trust. Are you saying my first son who is studying Computer Science and he is good, are you saying I cannot bring him in to head my IT section? “When Adefarati was there, the wife and son, Gbenga, supported him to succeed. Agagu came in and his family was all over the place. His brother was chief of staff. During Mimiko time, there was cry that his in-laws were taking over everything because his children were still young. There was no way he could have placed them. It was his in-laws that were over the place. You must trust somebody. “Akeredolu’s son, Babajide, did well for his father in the 2016 campaign. He is sound and you don’t expect the father not to listen to him. That is the truth of the matter. The governor’s wife has performed well through BRECAN.” He urged the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, Eyitayo Jegede, to wait for the right time to contest for the governorship election. Adekanmbi said it will be unfair for Eyitayo, who hails from Ondo Central, to contest in the election when Ondo North, where Governor Akeredolu hails from, is yet to complete their eight years.