 THE African Democratic Congress (ADC) has disowned the purported adoption of the Zenith Labour Party’s (ZLP’s) candidate, Agboola Ajayi, by a group masquerading as ADC members. It said no ADC member had joined any other party and affirmed its confidence in its governorship candidate, Prince Dapo Adelegan. A statement yesterday by ADC National Publicity Secretary Yemi Kolapo described the report as fake and mischievous, “as those involved are not known to either the state or national executives of the party.” The statement said ADC’s popularity among Ondo indigenes, which had produced House of Representatives members, including Abiola Makinde, could not be played up for pecuniary reasons by those in search of a political platform to actualise their sinister motives. ADC said: “As a party with integrity, we distance ourselves from the purported adoption of another party’s candidate. Prince Dapo Adelegan, the governorship candidate of ADC in Ondo State, remains the best the state has to offer in terms of the promise to deliver the real dividends of democracy to the good people of Ondo State. “We stand by our candidate and assure members and stakeholders of victory in the October 10 governorship election in the state.  “ADC is not in competition with ZLP, but is focused on the governorship race and determined to form the next government of Ondo State. Our politics is purpose-driven and we abhor violence. “This is the time to vote out non-performance, treachery, corruption and poverty and embrace new, practical initiatives that will take Ondo State to the forefront of development in Nigeria. This is what Prince Adelegan is putting on the table.” The ADC urged members, stakeholders and the people of Ondo State to disregard the antics of politicians doing the bidding of their paymasters, but in a very amateur manner. “Dr. Peter Abiola Makinde, the state Chairman, Mrs. Tokunbo Saka; and Board of Trustees member, Chief Johnson Akinlosotu; remain the only leaders who can speak for ADC in Ondo State. The claim to leadership by one Iwaloye and his co-conspirators are not known to the party. “We are going into the election for victory and nothing short,” the party said.