Energetic Nigerian midfielder, Michael Omoh is looking forward to making it big in the Israeli Premier League following his transfer to Hapoel Kfar Saba. Omoh quit Romanian club Politehnica Iasi to join ‘The greens from the Sharon’ in the 2020-2021 seasons which kicked off last week. The 28-year-old moved to Israel after a promising time in Romania, where he netted four goals and registered four assists in 21 games last season. He wants to follow in the footpath of Nigerian players like Vincent Enyeama, Yakubu Aiyegbeni, Dele Aiyenugba, Dimaku Felis, Anthony Nwakame, and John Ogu, who have left a good legacy in Israel due to their soccer prowess. Omoh said: “The league has produced lots of fantastic players from Nigeria. It’s a familiar league to Nigeria players and that’s one of the considerations for me when the deal came. When the offer came I thought about Nigerian players that had made it good there and it gives me the courage to consider it good for myself. Like every other Nigeria player who had done wonderfully well in the league, I want to continue in that direction and keep the good legacy of Nigerian players there. I want to join the league of successful Nigerian players in Israel who have won trophies in Israel.” Omoh, who, previously featured for Dalkurd FF, Ostersunds, Orebro, and Mjallby, all in Sweden and played over 200 matches and scored 40 goals.  He spoke with SAMSON OTI about new adventure in Israel and Europe. Life in Sweden I started my European journey in Sweden where I was privileged to have great facilities to develop myself. The ability was there for me to prove to everybody on the pitch and fortunately I got the chance to present my game to the world. I have enjoyed and contributed to every team I have played in Sweden. Sweden was a perfect league for me to start. Today, I am a better player because of the process I went through. I featured in over 200 games and scored 40 goals-not bad for a midfielder-if I must say.  And that was what opened the Romanian league for me. On coach that helped me tremendously is Graham Potter (now coach of Premier League club Brighton & Hove Albion). He made me feel most welcomed in Sweden. Limelight in Romania league I had a wonderful outing with CSM in Romania. And that has given me the opportunity to be where I am today. It’s a pleasure playing and expressing myself in the Romania league before the Coronavirus pandemic affected the league. I started well in Romania and scored two goals in six games. I was fit, played a lot and did well. Therefore, it was a bit sad that the league was stopped, but what can you do? The virus has affected a lot, from the economy to the football. The whole world is in the same boat. I want to thank to CSM for this past season and the very difficult period we went through together. I really appreciate everything and everyone, from the staff to the players.  Hapoel Kfar Saba of Israel Moving to Israel was a great decision for me. Hapoel Kfar Saba showed great interest in me, having gone through my videos and my experience over the years.  So, it was a good move for me. Aside that fact, Israeli league is a fast and stable league in Europe and I want to give my best there. I am here to contribute to what I met on ground in the team. I’m delighted to sign for Hapoel Kfar and thanks to God and everyone that made it possible. Personal target My personal target is to play well, help the team achieve good result and improve myself as a player. For now, I want to see how I can quickly adapt to life in the country. I am used to moving around, so I don’t think it would be difficult. I want to remain focused for the job at hand. Israeli league and Nigeria connection The league has produced lots of fantastic players from Nigeria. It’s a familiar league to Nigeria players and that’s one of the considerations for me when the deal came. When the offer came I thought about Nigerian players that had made it good there and it gives me the courage to consider it good for myself. Like every other Nigeria player who had done wonderfully well in the league, I want to continue in that direction and keep the good legacy of Nigerian players there. I want to join the league of successful Nigerian players in Israel who have won trophies in Israel. Childhood dream Like most Nigerian players, I started kicking football on the street. Even if you are born in foreign land, you would go through street football before enrolling in academy, and it’s a major process for any footballer.  I have always wanted to play in decent and bigger leagues. My journey over the years has enabled me to gather lots of experience and be a version of my own style. As a midfielder, I have a tenacity to propel my team at any needed time. It’s a passion I derived from my childhood and it has become a part of me. Everybody cannot have the same opportunity of playing for Barcelona or Real Madrid but as a footballer, you must always keep learning for bigger chances, such chances can come at the twilight of your career but the most important thing is to be ready to climb the ladder and let the world see what they have missed. My passion for the game of football has given me hope and consistent joy in my life. I am glad to be a proud soccer player irrespective of ups and downs.  It has been a great and wonderful journey so far. Super Eagles door Like I said earlier, everybody cannot have the same chance at the same time, all I want to do is to continue giving my best wherever I am and be consistent. I believe one day it could be my turn. The only thing I know is that whenever I have the chance I will grab it well and utilize it. Frustrated by Covid-19 It is quite unfortunately that the notorious pandemic has disrupted a lot of things.  I started well in Romania and scored two goals in six games. I was fit, played a lot and did well. Therefore, it was a bit sad that the league was stopped, but what can you do? The virus has affected a lot, from the economy to football. I pray that nothing of such come into the world again, and God shall bring a permanent solution to Covid-19.