The Nigerian Military, Thursday, said it cannot determine when it will be safe for Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in Borno State and other places affected by the Boko Haram insurgency to return to their respective villages. It said that the decision to resettle the IDPs in Borno State, is the sole responsibility of the civil authorities, adding that the Military can only provide an enabling environment for the implementation. Coordinator Defence Media Operations, General John Enenche, who stated this while fielding questions from journalists during the weekly media briefing with Defence Correspondents at the Defence Headquarters, however assured that the Military will continue to work with civil authority to provide adequate security for the resettlement of the IDPs. It will be recalled that 80 IDPs were abducted by the insurgents in Kukawa town in Borno State, shortly after they were resettled in their village by the Borno State government. But responding to a question, Enenche, said, “I cannot give you a yes or no answer whether it is safe for the IDPs to return or not, we will do analysis with other security agencies, even when we do that I can’t give that to you. We are working together; we are ready to assist the civil authorities, which is our task as contained in Section 127 of the Constitution. We are aware that the Chief Security Officer of the State is making efforts to resettle them; we will support him by creating the enabling environment. “As you are all aware; the Borno State Government has remained resolute in its efforts to resettle the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in the State back to their home communities. “In spite of the Boko Haram/ISWAP criminal elements’ attempts to thwart its efforts, the State Government is determined to resettle more of the IDPs to their home communities. The Armed Forces of Nigeria, as always, will support the State Government in its effort to resettle its citizens back to their various communities and ensure they go about their businesses unperturbed. “This is considerably, an evidence of gradual restoration of normalcy in some parts of the North-East zone of Nigeria.” Meanwhile on the update Military operations in the last one week, Enenche said, “the Armed Forces of Nigeria and other security agencies have continued with the major operations across the country with significant successes”. According to him, “in the North-East zone, the Armed Forces of Nigeria and other security agencies have continued to sustain the tempo and display resilience in their efforts to forestall the activities of Boko Haram/ISWAP criminal elements. “Within the period under review, troops have maintained clearance operations to dominate the Joint Operational Area and constant Intelligence Surveillance Reconnaissance missions as well as intensive air strikes. These have considerably put the activities of the terrorists’ in-check. In addition to these kinetic operations, the Armed Forces of Nigeria have not relented in its non-kinetic operations in various parts of the North-East zone.” He continued that, “within the week under review, the gallant troops working together with other security agencies conducted several clearance operations and repelled BHT/ISWAP attacks on own troops and civilian locations in Yobe State. The operations led to the neutralization of three BHT/ISWAP fighters and recovery of caches of arms and ammunition. In the same vein, six terrorists and armed bandits were arrested and currently being profiled for necessary action. Meanwhile, as the Air Task Force of Operation LAFIYA DOLE intensifies air strikes against terrorists’ targets in Borno State, some compounds housing BHT/ISWAP fighters were destroyed leading to the elimination of scores at Kaza along Gulumba Gana – Kumshe axis in Borno State on 1 September 2020.” He added further that, “in the North-Central zone, troops have continued to sustain intensive clearance operations which have yielded remarkable successes. Within the period under review, troops of Operations SAFE HAVEN AND WHIRL STROKE conducted raids, ambushes and clearance patrols at various locations which resulted in appreciable successes. “These ongoing kinetic efforts were supported by Civil Military Cooperation (CIMIC) activities such as Reconciliation and Conciliation efforts in the form of stakeholders’ meetings amongst the various ethnic groups in the zone, amongst others. “Notably, troops of Operation WHIRL STROKE, within the period under review, following aggressive intensive kinetic operations at identified bandits’ enclaves at Uttu in Toto Local Government Area of Nasarawa State. The successful operation resulted in the neutralization of several bandits, not less than 410 members of the Darul Salam Terrorists group, surrendered to the gallant troops and other security agencies deployed. “This was followed by a robust clearance patrol around the same area which resulted in a raid on a Darul Salam terrorists’ bomb-making factory. In the course of the operation, troops recovered several Improvised Explosive Device making materials, six rocket launcher bombs, 10 locally made hand grenades and one Rocket Propelled Grenade bomb fuse. The camp was subsequently destroyed. In the follow-up operations, troops mopped-up additional 290 terrorists’ family members, as well as the destruction of their camps and hideouts between Koton Karfe in Kogi and parts of Nasarawa States. “It is worthy of mention that, these efforts are evidence of the redoubled efforts of the Armed Forces of Nigeria and other security agencies in securing the territorial integrity of our dear country, most especially following recent alerts by the United States Africa Command on the incursion of armed bandits and terrorists into the country. “Similarly, troops of Operation SAFE HAVEN conducted a robust night patrol within Angwan Duruwa area in Barkin Ladi Local Government Area of Plateau state. During the patrol 5 suspected drug peddlers were arrested with large quantity of substances suspected to be Cannabis Sativa and other illicit drugs. The suspects were duly profiled and have been handed over to the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) for further action. “Furthermore, on 28 August 2020, troops in conjunction with personnel of the Department of State Services (DSS) Plateau State Command, conducted a raid at Unguwan Chiroma in Wase Local Government Area of Plateau State and arrested 2 kidnappers/gunrunners with various blacksmith tools used in locally fabricating weapons. Both suspects and items recovered have been handed over to the DSS for further action”. According to Enenche, “as part Of Civil Military Cooperation activities within the period, Headquarters Operation SAFE HAVEN held stakeholders meeting with community leaders in various parts of Plateau state. Areas covered include: Bassa, Jos, Barkin Ladi, and Riyom Local Government Areas of Plateau State, and Jama’a Local Government Area of Kaduna State. “In the South West zone, troops of Operation AWATSE have continued to intensify the fight against pipeline vandals, economic saboteurs and other criminal elements. Within the period under review, Nigerian Navy Ship BEECROFT conducted patrols of creeks and discovered 350 litres of Premium Motor Spirit contained in seven jerry cans of 50 litres hidden in the bush at Akimbo and Orita on the Atlas Cove Island. Similarly, the Base discovered 600 litres of PMS contained in 12 jerry cans of 50 litres hidden in a bush at Akaraba. “In the North-West zone, Armed Forces of Nigeria and other security agencies have continued to build on recent successes against armed bandits operating in the zone. Within the period under review, troops of Operations HADARIN DAJI and SAHEL SANITY carried out aggressive clearance operations against armed bandits. Most importantly was on 28 August 2020, troops of Operation SAHEL SANITY deployed at Mara laid ambush on suspected bandits who attempted to invade Gobirawa village but were repelled by combined effort of troops and local vigilante. “During the ambush, troops made contact with the armed bandits and engaged them with superior fire power neutralizing two in the process while others escaped with gunshot wounds. Additionally, in the course of the exploitation, troops recovered one AK-47 Rifle and one Motorcycle from the fleeing bandits. In the same vein, troops deployed at Zakka acting on credible intelligence arrested 3 suspected armed bandits. “Suspects were identified by locals to be members of a syndicate terrorizing the general area. During preliminary investigation, the suspects confessed to their involvements in recent cattle rustling and other criminal activities at Kwaya, Sabon Birni and Baure villages. All arrested suspects are undergoing interrogation while effort is ongoing to apprehend other criminals in the general area. “Furthermore, AFN troops carried out several Civil Military Cooperation (CIMIC) activities at various communities within the North-West zone. These efforts include: Renovation of schools, drilling and completion of boreholes at Zurmi Local Government Area of Zamfara State. Plans are also underway to renovate more schools in the zone. “The general public is once more assured of troops’ commitment to safety of lives and property within the zone. They are also encouraged to continue to avail the troops with timely and credible information that will assist them in the operation. “In the South-South zone, troops of Operation DELTA SAFE have continued to degrade the activities of economic saboteurs in the zone. In continuation of the subsidiary Operation SILENT HEAT, on 31 August 2020, Forward Operating Base IBAKA patrol team, while on routine patrol around Parrot Island and Ikang creek respectively intercepted and arrested 3 medium sizes wooden boats laden with 796 bags of 50kg of foreign parboiled rice smuggled in from the Republic of Cameroon. “Relatedly, between 27 and 30 August 2020, the patrol team also intercepted and arrested 5 medium size wooden boats laden with 120 drums of product suspected to be Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) with 9 suspects around Effiat Waterways and James Town respectively. The suspects and items recovered are currently in custody and will soon be handed over to the appropriate prosecuting agency. “Similarly, within the week under review, Nigerian Navy Ship PATHFINDER patrol team located and dismantled an illegal refining site at Busonomei Kiriyo. The site had a metal reservoir laden with an estimated 578 barrels of crude oil which was impounded. In another development, troops of 16 Brigade Garrison on 27 August 2020, discovered and destroyed an illegal refinery at Abbissa in Akuku-Toru Local Government Area of Rivers State. “The Military High Command appreciates the general public for their cooperation in providing credible information which has so far facilitated the successes of these operations. Furthermore, it enjoins the general public to be proactive in the provision of timely information. This is very necessary for enhancement of operational activities. “The Armed Forces of Nigeria assures that these offensives against the common enemies of this Nation will not cease until normalcy is restored to all the troubled zones of the Country.”