Telecoms operators have so far invested $321billion as capital expenditure (capex) to grow the network and build infrastructure, an information communication technology (ICT) expert has said. A professor, Information Systems and Head, Artificial Intelligence and Business Analytics Cluster/Information Operations and Management Sciences, TBS Business School, Barcelona, Prof Fosso Wamba, who spoke at the virtual Nigeria Computer Society (NCS) international Conference, said baout 700 million new subscribers will join the mobile network, arguing that half of the new subscribers would come from Asia Pacific. He said Nigeria, India, China, Pakistan, Indonesia, the United States (US) and Brazil will produce the new addition to global mobile subscribers. Speaking on the theme of the forum: Emerging Applications and Technologies for Industry 4.0, he said at the end of 2018, 3.6 billion people were connected to the mobile internet, representing an increase of just over 300 million compared to the previous year. However, Wamba said more than four billion people remain offline. Around one billion of these are not covered by mobile broadband networks (the‘coverage gap’), while around three billion live within the footprint of a network but are not accessing mobile internet services (the ‘usage gap’). “Over the next few years, as the enablers of mobile internet adoption (infrastructure, affordability, consumer readiness and content/services) continue to improve, millions of people will start using the mobile internet for the first time. By 2025, five billion people across the globe (more than 60per cent of the population) will be mobile internet subscribers,” he said. To continue to reap the fruits of digitalisation, he said key government services should be brought online, adding that Nigeria and other countries must exploit online services to access health and education services. According to him, the regulatory frameworks that are no longer suited to today’s digital economy should reformed to conform with modern trends, arguing that shaping a favourable business environment will allow operators to roll out broadband to the last mile which has been a challenge the challenge in the country. Wamba advised governments to facilitate access to public sector sites for operators to deploy network equipment. On the issue of punitive right of way (Row) charges which have become a disincentive to expansion of infrastructure, he urged the government and its agencies ‘not to eat their seed, but plant them and harvest abundant fruits’. “With the right partnership, a digital future can emerge, supported by high-speed, low-latency, secure connectivity that is as ubiquitous as it is reliable,” he said. Also speaking on the occasion, NCS President, Prof Adesina Sodiya, said the conference was truly international in all ramifications. He said more than 40 per cent of manuscripts submitted for the conference came from outside the country. “We received articles from all over the world including United Kingdom, Sweden, Iran, Norway, Pakistan, Malaysia, South Africa, Qatar, Slovenia and Australia. This is the first time in the history of the NCS that selected articles will be published in the Springer Indexed Advances in Intelligent Systems and Computing. We carefully chose top-level technology experts in and outside Nigeria as our speakers.  Some of our speakers are also from Australia, France, UK and Poland. This conference provide an international forum for industry experts, researchers, academics, professionals and students from various Information Technology (IT) fields and other cross-disciplinary interests in Industrial 4.0,” Prof Sodiya said.