Governors elected under the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC) have commended President Muhammadu Buhari for effectively managing the economy despite the global recession. They applauded him for initiating enduring policies to fast track the economy. Operating under the aegis of the Progressive Governors Forum (PGF), the Governors in a statement on Tuesday by the chairman of the forum, Atiku Bagudu, after a teleconference meeting, pledged to continue to support the President to expedite delivery of all the party’s electoral promises to the masses. The forum eulogised the exploits recorded in the revival of the railways, the second Niger Bridge, and moves to resuscitate the moribund Ajaokuta Steel, describing the development as indicators of efficient management of the economy. The statement also commended the recent stay of execution of penalty against Nigeria in respect of the $9.6 billion Process and Industrial Development (P&ID) debt judgment granted by Justice Rose Cranston of the Royal Courts of Justice Strand, London. Resolutions at the teleconference meeting of the Governors read: “Commend the Federal Government for successfully getting the UK Commercial Court to order a stay of execution, which also suspends any penalty against Nigeria in respect of the $9.6 billion Process and Industrial Development (P&ID) debt judgment against Nigeria. Progressive Governors in particular commended the legal team led by the Attorney General of the Federation Abubakar Malami. The Governors also commended Buhari for setting up the APC, Executive, and Legislative Tripartite Consultative Committee under the chairmanship of Vice President Yomi Osinbajo. “This is a welcome innovation to enhance the capacity of APC to resolve all our political challenges and therefore develop our democracy. “Forum members unanimously re-affirm commitment to continue to support President Muhammadu Buhari, the Federal Government, APC, and all our party leaders to expedite delivery of all our electoral promises to Nigerians.”