At a time the nation’s energy crisis appears intractable, Koolboks Nigeria Ltd, is set to tackle the problem frontally with renewable and solar-powered solutions. Koolboks, headquartered in France and with footprints in other parts of the globe including Nigeria is already leading revolution within the solar-energy landscape. Giving insights on the range of products including cool chain stores during the maiden press conference in Lagos at the weekend, Ayoola Dominic, the CEO of the Group led other members of staff including Olalekan Agbaje, in-country engineers, Adelowo Adebumiti, Marion Okewih, during the virtual interactive session. According to ominic, who doubles as the President, Co-Founder of Koolboks, Koolboks products aim to bridge the gap in the three basic needs of Nigerians, which are light, energy and refrigeration, saying that the Koolboks vaccine fridges, also come equipped with external LED bulbs to aid sight at night and other emergencies and also two USB ports to charge mobile phones. “It is designed with an advanced temperature monitoring system that enables the user to remotely access, monitor and control the vaccine fridge from anywhere in the world, even in rural areas with no GSM network coverage.” Expatiating, he said, the company’s new offerings hope to bridge the gap in the cooling system in the country. He explained that with a KoolHome Freezer, those in the business of needing a quality cooling system can go and sleep. “KoolHome Solar Freezer is equipped with an ice battery that can power the freezer for up to four hours without power supply or sunlight. It is inbuilt with a lithium battery. “The freezer is unique in the sense that it has two USB ports for charging of phones and also has automatic switch between AC and DC, with a two 150W solar panel and it comes with as low as N14,179 installment payment with assets financing scheme with some of the banks for prospective customers and interested members of the public. “With two external LED bulbs, you are sure that even without power in the house, you can light up your apartment and it comes with installment payment and with three years warranty,” the President said. “This is a product that without power can refrigerate your food, drinks and medications for up to four days even in the absence of sunlight. Our mission is to make cooling affordable and accessible to everyone that needs it,” he said. Fielding questions from journalists, Dominic said their entrant into Nigeria’s market is strategic at this point in time giving the hike in electricity tariff announced recently. The market categories for the company, he said, is divided into three bands including: domestic users, commercial and healthcare providers as the case may be. The company currently operates from Delta State, Nigeria but hopes to make inroads across other parts of the country with the planned unveiling of the products formally by October-November later this year.