Lagos State All Progressives Congress (APC) on Monday kicked off its Lagos East senatorial campaigns for the October 31 by-elections. The senatorial candidate, Tokunbo Abiru and House of Assembly standard-bearer for Kosofe Constituency 2, Femi Saheed, received flags from the party Chairman, Alhaji Tunde Balogun, who also inaugurated the all-inclusive campaign committees and sub-committees. Urging party members to follow COVID-19 protocols, the chairman said there would be no ‘on the spot rally,’ adding that the party would only encourage street-to-street mobilisation, ward to ward campaigns and street walks “so that all the people will know and embrace our party.” He urged the committees and party members to adopt other measures, including souvenir distribution, television and newspaper adverts, radio jingles and social media platforms. Accompanied by his wife, Feyisara, the senatorial candidate promised to offer good representation and live up to expectation, if elected. Abiru pledged never to betray the APC, saying he had a name to protect as the son of the late Senator Justice Akanbi Abiru, one of the pillars of the progressive bloc from Ikorodu Division and an associate of the late sage, Chief Obafemi Awolowo. The campaign committee headed by Lagos APC Vice Chairman (East), Ashipa Kaoli Olusanya, with Bode Oyedele as his deputy, was inaugurated by Balogun during the unveiling ceremony held at the party office on Acme Road, Ogba, Ikeja. Membership of the committees is drawn from the House of Representatives, council chairmen, House of Assembly, Lagos State Executive Council, local council chairmen, boards and parastatals from the Lagos East Senatorial District. The campaign committee also has sub-committees for planning and strategy, mobilisation, publicity, finance, security, youth matters, logistics, protocol, women affairs, legal matters, special duties and welfare. Balogun hailed party leaders and members for the exemplary peaceful primaries that threw up the two candidates. He acknowledged the sacrifice made by other aspirants who conceded to the idea of a consensus candidate as provided for in APC constitution. Before the commencement of the ceremony after the opening prayer by by the Lagos APC Vice Chairman (West), Chief Funso Ologunde, a minute silence was observed in honour of Senator Bayo Osinowo and Tunde Braimoh, whose demise created the basis for the by-elections. Also, the Publicity Secretary, Seye Oladejo, drew attention to the demise of a Governance Advisory Council (GAC) member, Chief Lanre Rasak, praying for the repose of his soul. At the event were GAC members, including Chief Busura Alebiosu, one-time Finance Commissioner Olawale Edun, Omooba Muyiwa Sosanya, Alhaji Akanbi Seriki Bamu, Chief Mutiu Aare and Chief Kemi Nelson; Lagos APC Deputy Chairman Prince Sunny Ajose, party Secretary Lanre Ogunyemi, Lagos APC Vice Chairman (Central), Hakeem Bamgbola, Mrs. Fausat Gbadebo, Woman Leader Jumoke Okoya-Thomas, House of Representatives members  Rotimi Agunsoye, Ademorin Kuye, Bayo Balogun, Jimi Benson, Segun Olulade, Sesan Daini, Abdullahi Enilolobo, Israel Akinyode, Abiodun Tobun, Rotimi Abiru and Sinai Agunbiade. Welcoming the chieftains, Ogunyemi said: “We are set for work. We are set to reclaim our seats. By the grace of God, we will win.” Oladejo said: “We are campaigning, not because we are afraid. But, we want our party to record huge votes to lay the foundation for 2023, which is also important to us in Lagos State.”