 The Media Office of All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate for Lagos East senatorial by-election,  Tokunbo Abiru, yesterday clarified that Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu endorsed his senatorial aspiration and worked for his emergence as the candidate. It said that there was no basis for power struggle between Sanwo-Olu and him, adding that they were both party faithfuls utterly committed to the progress and prosperity of Lagos State and Nigeria at large. In its statement, Abiru’s media office faulted publications that his emergence as the APC candidate set the stage for power struggle between Sanwo-Olu and him. The publications had also claimed that the APC National Leader, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu, imposed Abiru on the party leaders in Lagos East and Lagos State and that Abiru’s sudden resignation raised suspicion that might lead to power struggle in the state ahead of the 2023. However, the media office noted that the publication misconstrued the extensive consultation and consensus that preceded the emergence of the former GMD/CEO of Polaris Bank Limited, Mr. Tokunbo Abiru, as the APC candidate for Lagos East senatorial bye-election scheduled for October 31. The statement said: “The publication erroneously claimed that the APC National Leader, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu, imposed Abiru on the party leaders in Lagos East and Lagos State. This claim is far from the truth.  “Asiwaju Tinubu, as an unrepentant democrat and a former governor, encourages all party adherents and faithfuls to seek their aspirations while promoting the values that the APC stands for. “However, in order to manage conflicting interests of all aspirants seeking the party nomination for the senatorial bye-election, the leadership arm of Lagos APC, Governance Advisory Council (GAC), embarked on broad consultation with all party leaders and aspirants in Lagos East Senatorial District. After the all-inclusive consultation, consensus was reached in favour of Mr. Abiru, hence his subsequent affirmation.” On power struggle, the statement said the publication claimed that Abiru’s nomination has set the stage for power struggle with the Sanwo-Olu. It said: “This claim is as good as the figment of the author’s imagination. HE Sanwo-Olu is a strong supporter of Abiru’s senatorial aspiration. He also endorsed him. There is no basis for power struggle. “Rather, both HE Sanwo-Olu and Mr. Abiru are party faithfuls with interest to work for the progress and prosperity of Lagos and Nigeria at large,” the statement said. Specifically, the media office expressed concern that the publication misrepresented, even muddled up the resignation history of Abiru. 