 The  National Council of the Federation of Oyo State Students (FOSSU) has suspended its planned protest over the non-payment of bursary to students following an invitation to dialogue by the government. In a statement by the President of the union, Comrade Azeez Muritala Olowoeko and Senate President Senator Ajadi Isaac Oluwasegun, the association had decided to embark on the protest at a virtual meeting, which had in attendance  executive members. The protest was scheduled to hold early this month. The union had called the attention of Governor Seyi Makinde to the non-payment of bursary to students and issued an ultimatum of 14 days which lapsed last month. However, at a meeting with the members of FOSSU, the Special Adviser to the Governor on Students’ Affairs, Victor Olojede, and other educational board members at the meeting, faulted the union for not following the three Cs in Unionisms (Consultation, Consolidation and Confrontation) as expected. He  said: “FOSSU didn’t make any consultation on the issue of bursary and other privileges expected  from the government as they claimed that they did in February. The union met the government for introduction and familiarisation, but no consolidation followed their introduction before now that they were planning a peaceful protest.” The Commissioner for Youth and Sports, Hon. Seun Fakorede, also advised the union members to remain calm and always send their requests through the appropriate channels with back-up, rather than fighting for their rights in a wrong way. He noted that the payment of  bursary was not compulsory, adding that they should appeal for it because it was a privilege. His words: “It is not compulsory for the state government to pay bursary to students because it’s not their right but a privilege which should be appealed for. “Things are expected to change at this era of ours because we have the government that is always ready to listen to the masses. We must act intellectually and change the story of being radical youths. Fight if necessary, but fight intellectually.” The students were assured that the bursary would get to them as it was already in the year’s budget. FOSSU National President, Comrade Olowoeko, however, urged his members to be calm and suspend the protest. He gave the FOSSU local chapters two weeks to get the data of their students submitted and forwatded to the right place, then wait for response before making any decision. He  said: “Let’s give the FOSSU local chapters two weeks’ to get the data of their students signed and submitted and then forwarded to the right place. We will then wait for a reasonable response from them, but besides that, protest shall then be the next step.” 