  To improve urban transportation and safety, the Ekiti State Government has entered into a partnership with Metro Africa Xpress (MAX.ng), a leading mobility platform focused on Nigeria and West Africa to transform informal motorcycle and tricycle transportation, popularly known as “Okada and Keke” in the state. With the partnership, MAX.ng will deploy MetroGov, a secure urban mobility platform that uses next-generation technology to provide identity management, remote monitoring, crime prevention, digital payments, and financial audit solutions. Ekiti is taking the lead in securing and digitising transportation. The state has an estimated population of three million people and over 100,000 motorcycle and tricycle operators across the state. As part of the recently launched Ekiti State Mobility Transformation Project (ESMOT), the state aims to formalise the transportation industry while delivering safety, security, insurance, vehicle financing and other essential support services to transport operators. By deploying MetroGov, the government seeks to accelerate its transformation plan for the transport industry. The MetroGov platform provides digital identities for drivers and a platform for vehicle registration and tracking. Motorcycle operators would also be trained and licensed. Operators registered on the platform would eventually gain access to affordable health insurance, life insurance, and vehicle financing. The platform would also enable increased transparency by providing data for more effective revenue collection to drive infrastructure development in the State. The MetroGov platform would provide the Government greater visibility into urban mobility and would aid the implementation of more effective safety and security standards. The data captured would assist the Government in the development of effective responses, interventions and policies to optimize the Ekiti State transport industry. The goal is to ensure that all riders, drivers and vehicles are registered on the platform, licensed, and properly trained. Chairman of the Ekiti State Internal Revenue Service Mr. Eleazar Ogunmilade  said the partnership with MAX.ng would improve security and transparency while providing government with more actionable intelligence that would be extremely helpful for policy formulation for the industry at large. “We have engaged with relevant authorities and interest groups. They have expressed their commitment to the new system as they agree this would guarantee the safety of our citizens, and would deliver improved services to both transport operators and commuters,” Ogunmilade said. Special Adviser to the Governor on Investment, Trade and Innovation, Mr Akintunde Oyebode, said that the initiative was developed to address the issues of safety, security and operator identification in the State. He added that ESMOT would ensure the proper registration and licensing of all transport operators. Through the digitization of the sector and the introduction of systems that ensure transparency, this initiative would deliver greatly improved transportation services to the residents of Ekiti State. As part of the initiative, the Ekiti State Government will require all motorcycle and tricycle operators within the state to undergo onboarding within the stipulated and approved time-frame. Speaking on the partnership, Chief Executive Officer, MAX.ng, Adetayo Bamiduro said the initiative was at the core of MAX.ng’s mission to build technology  infrastructure to make mobility safe, affordable, accessible, and sustainable for all Nigerians. “Our goal in developing the MetroGov platform is to volunteer and offer our expertise to Regulators, Governments, Public Sector partners, Transport Associations, and non-profit organizations in delivering safer transportation services to citizens,” Bamiduro said. He said MAX.ng has built strong capabilities in secure mobility infrastructure, transport operations, vehicle financing, ride-hailing and electric mobility for the benefit of riders, drivers, enterprises, commuters and governments. “We are extremely excited and honoured by the opportunity to support the Ekiti State Government in its effort to provide safer and more resilient transportation services to its people,” Bamiduro said. He added that MAX.ng and the Ekiti State government will work together to introduce various safety initiatives to transform the industry, such as traffic laws, speed limits, helmet usage, and protective equipment to commuters. They will also offer training programs to drivers. 