Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Monday announced that the state has started witnessing the flattening of COVID-19 curve. He stated this during the official opening ceremony of the second session the 34th Synod of the Dioceses of Lagos, Church of Nigeria, Anglican Communion at Our Saviour’s Church, Tafawa Balewa Square, Onikan, Lagos. He said: “It has been said that we will be picking dead bodies on the streets, but we thank God He kept all of us. We have less than two per cent fatality, when the statistics said that it will be 10 to 15 per cent. “We had estimated that by August, the curve would have flat out – meaning that the positivity rate would have flattened and we will begin to see a downward trend. I’m happy to inform the people of God that the curve is coming down, and we are beginning to see a low number in the positivity of the COVID-19 in the state. “Though we are not out of the woods yet, we need to take precautions as we see the numbers coming down in Lagos. Lagos, the epicentre indeed has risen up to it and we are beginning to see the numbers coming down on a daily basis.” The governor added: “We sympathise with the people that lost their loved ones, and we pray that God will spare our lives. As a government, we will continue our best to save lives. Sanwo-Olu urged the church to pray for the state government, noting: “We acknowledge our limitations as human beings. We need the Supreme, who knows all and is in charge of all circumstances man may face. “As a government, we are indeed lucky because the church stood behind us, understood what the challenges were and you worked with us.” Making reference to the story of Daniel in the Bible, who survived the Lion’s den through prayers, the governor said COVID-19 has shown in reality that prayers are needed always. “We need to pray, we need to serve, whatever we find ourselves doing let us do it well with the best intentions because we do not know who is watching,” he admonished Sanwo-Olu said, to build a “Greater Lagos, we certainly need to hold on to God, to continue to pray and use God as an instrument for contact for all of us.   He urged Lagos residents as well as Nigerians to continue to hold on to God and be thankful for His mercies, particularly at these trying times. Describing the theme of the Synod “Pray, Serve and Grow”, which was taken from Romans 12 vs 11 as very apt, considering the global pandemic, Sanwo-Olu noted that “serving God is service to humanity”. He thanked the Anglican Church for its COVID-19 donations and promised to support the N5 billion Centenary City the Church is building in the Ibeju-Lekki area with his personal fund. The President of the Synod and Diocesan Bishop of Lagos, Rt. Rev. Humphrey Olumakaiye, condemned the fuel price and electricity tariff hike, saying it would lead to more hardship for Nigerians and corporate organisations. “It is heart-rending that all these are coming up at a time when we are just trying to get over the hassle brought upon us as individuals and collectively by the much-dreaded Coronavirus,” he said. Bishop Olumakaiye lamented the loss aof jobs occasioned by the pandemic as well as the many businesses that went down and investment yet to yield, saying the crime rate also increased in the country while some even committed suicide when hope was lost. According to the cleric, the poor masses should be able to find solace in the government and not otherwise, with the nation’s refineries made to work at full capacity. He also urged the government to ensure transparency at all levels.