The governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, has said the projects of the administration of Governor Godwin Obaseki are failing because he is not consulting the required experts. He made the disclosure on Wednesday morning when he appeared in a conversation on Arise Television’s Morning Show, anchored by Dr. Reuben Abati, which ought to also feature Obaseki, but he did not show up for the two hours that the programme lasted. Edo APC, through the Chairman of its Media Campaign Council, Prince John Mayaki, said yesterday was the third time that Obaseki would avoid a similar debate. He accused him of having nothing to offer. The PDP in Edo, through its Publicity Secretary, Chris Nehikhare, however, described Ize-Iyamu, Mayaki and other leaders of APC as propagandists. The governorship candidate of APC said: “Obaseki’s government lacks transparency. We need to set up agricultural clusters in Edo State, to make maximum use of what we have. The potential is huge. Funds collected on behalf of Edo farmers are being diverted. Obaseki’s government wasted close to N2 billion on Sobe farm project, which is a joke and it has failed. The N2 billion has gone down the drain. The Obaseki government’s rice project of over N5 billion in Agenebode also failed. “The projects are failing because they are not consulting the required experts to handle them. I will not do projects without bringing in professionals, because I know my limitations. If you have professionals guiding you, things will work. “Honestly speaking, I do not even need to look outside for professionals. Edo State is blessed with enough manpower. We need to cash in on the availability of professionals and use them for consultancy. Since they are from Edo, they will be passionate about the development and progress of their state, and they will be able to do the consultancy at less cost and they will be more committed. “Edo State has not made progress in almost four years. Obaseki’s government is a joke. Nothing is happening at the Industrial Park, Benin. We need to diversify the state’s economy. My SIMPLE agenda will address the challenges. My administration will also set up economic management team. My job is not to lament, but to move Edo State forward.”