Lack of adequate health facilities has been of serious concern both to the government and the citizenry. This has resulted in needless pains and high cost of treatment, especially for those seeking remedy overseas. The Nigerian Sovereign Investement Authority (NSIA) is, through its strategic investment in medical infrastructure, is presently closing the gap, reports Group Business Editor, SIMEON EBULU. In the years preceding the year 2000,  Nigerians were used to hearing a common cliche severally echoed by senior government officials to the effect that ‘this and that thing shall be available  for all by the year 2000.’ In no other area was this more pronounced than in health matters. It was a common saying by nearly every health minister in every government then that there shall be ‘health for all by the year 2000 ’. Other ministers, or commissioners as they were commonly called then  in their respective ministries lashed on to it. So a commissioner for housing for instance would come on stage and echo the same thing – housing for all by the year 2000. The one for agriculture wasn’t left out either, neither was his counterpart in water resources, name it. It was an era of food for all, water for all, and so forth and so on in the year 2000. And it was so widely believed, or rather accepted because the year 2000 was in the future and many just settled for it as though some magic wand would bring those promises to pass. But Nigerians are wiser today, so I think. The Nigerian Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA) broached the idea of investing in Nigeria’s health ecosystem in just about six years ago. Within that time space, the evidence of that intention is already there and obvious for all to see. The most recent proof of that pronouncement was the unveiling of the   NSIA Umuahia Diagnostic Centre located at the Federal Medical Centre, Abia State. From the words of the agency’s Managing Director/CEO, Uche Orji, the commissioning and operationalisation of the NSIA-Umuahia Diagnostic Centre is the culmination of a journey that started in January 2015 when the agency made known its investment strategy in healthcare. The strategy includes partnering with teaching hospitals and federal medical centers in the country to develop centres of excellence in healthcare as part of a public-private partnership. Orji listed tertiary healthcare ( non-communicable diseases), diagnostics and medical and pharmaceutical manufacturing as  the three key segments and focus of this strategic engagement, saying with the support of the Federal Ministry of Health, NSIA engaged with 14 federal medical institutions across the six geopolitical zones to identify the projects suitable for each zone so that steps can be taken to actualise them. The first project out of this collaboration, he stated, was the NSIA-LUTH Cancer Centre, which has since become operational since its unveiling by President Muhammadu Buhari in March 2019. He pointed out that at the time of its commissioning, the NSIA-LUTH Cancer Centre was one of two operational cancer centres with functional radiotherapy capabilities, adding that the NSIA-Umuahia Diagonistic Centre and the NSIA-Kano Diagnostic Centre that were commissioned in March 2019 are currently standing as ultra-modern diagnostic facilities offering needed medical support and service to patients. NSIA’s strategy in its build-up to the intervention in the health sector was well thought out, and the specific areas of engagement were properly identified. As Orji put it, “in the course of selecting the segments of NSIA’s healthcare strategy, diagnostics was flagged as a key segment as we discovered that there was an acute deficit of modern and automated medical diagnostic infrastructure, which had led to the prevalence of delayed and inaccurate diagnosis for critical care cases. Consequently, NSIA commenced its Diagnostic Programme, which aimed to develop and operationalise diagnostic centres in each geo-political zone of the country.” As against spurious promises and pronouncements by those who declared year 2000 as Nigerians’ year of eldorado (which they never intended to bring to fruition, even though they had the resources, opportunity and time on their side), Orji, matching words with action and within a a short time, has offered a life-line for those whom the NSIA-Umuahia Diagonistic Centre now beckons. In his words: “Following years of project development, the NSIA-Umuahia Diagonistic Centre was built in 18 months and at a cost of approximately $5.5 million,” adding, “once fully operational, this will be the largest and most modern diagnostic centre in the South-East and South-South region of the country.”  He pointed out that the project was executed as a Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) via a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) owned 90 per cent by the NSIA and 10 per cent by the Federal Medical Centre Umuahia, saying after 15 years, “the period over which we anticipate the NSIA will have recouped its investment, full ownership of the SPV and its assets will revert to FMCU.” Orji underscored the importance of the NSIA-Umuahia Diagonistic Centre, saying within the first year of its operations, the center is expected to serve as many as 70,000 clients and provide direct employment opportunities to about 47 people. He said to ensure that the centre remains operational and functional, NSIA has contracted a private sector hospital operator, Statpath, which is a joint venture between Synlab, a global leader in pathology and Crestview a tier-1 radiology company in Nigeria, to operate the centre and facilitate skills and knowledge transfer to the FMCU pathology and radiology teams. With this PPP structure, we will ensure that the centre is maintained to the highest standards and FMCU benefits both financially, as well as through training of its staff, Orji said. The FMCU Chief Medical Director, Dr. Azubuike Y. Onyebuchi, said the the medical centre was envisioned to ensure the provision of state–of-the-art facilities for quality service delivery, research and training, and  to cater for the needs of the community, asserting that the establishment of the NSIA-Umuahia Diagnostic Centre, has taken health institution a step closer to achieving this vision. He said FMCU was birthed from a six-year collaborative effort with NSIA from conceptualisation, development and construction, saying the centre remains a full-service diagnostic facility that will provide automated laboratory and radiological diagnostic services, to ensure the highest quality of care. Onyebuchi said the project serves as a validation of the feasibility of Public-Private Partnerships with our institution, expressing confidence that this would lead to the development of several more novel projects that FMCU is interested in, going forward. The Abia State Governor, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu, praised the Federal Government for the NSIA-Umuahia Diagonistic Centre domiciled in the FMCU, through the NSIA. “We are pleased that the Federal Government through the NSIA is complementing our efforts by establishing a centre of healthcare excellence in Umuahia which I trust will be the first of many,” the governor said, restating one of the underlying objectives of citing the centre in Umuahia, which is to serve the two geo-political zones of the southeast and southsouth.  “The decision to consider Umuahia for a diagnostic centre will serve not only the Southeast region but the South as a whole and complement the growing stock of healthcare infrastructure in other parts of the nation. The NSIA-Umuahia Diagnostic Centre, from what I have been told, is a full-service Diagnostic facility that will provide comprehensive Radiology and Laboratory services to ensure the highest quality of care for all Nigerians,” Ikpeazu stated. The Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning,   Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, said the NSIA-Umuahia Diagonistic Centre is an outcome of Mr. President’s pledge and commitment to improve the quality of healthcare for the Nigerian people, placing a focus on greater investment in the sector and working to ensure increased access to safe, high quality healthcare for every Nigerian, saying the unveiling of the centre is an acknowledgement of the modest but laudable strides that government has made through the partnership between the NSIA and the FMCU in fulfilling that promise. Our goal is not simply to celebrate and applaud the culmination of months of hard work to achieve this objective. Neither is it to revel in the successful completion of a world class and well equipped diagnostic centre in the South East region. Indeed we are proud, but we recognise that this modest effort to address the gaps in our secondary healthcare system is alone insufficient to address all the challenges faced by the sector. We expect private investor to increase their participation.  Our goal is not simply to celebrate and applaud the culmination of months of hard work to achieve this objective. Neither is it to revel in the successful completion of a world class and well equipped diagnostic centre in the Southeast region. Indeed we are proud, but we recognise that this modest effort to address the gaps in our secondary healthcare system is alone insufficient to address all the challenges faced by the sector. We expect private investor to increase their participation’’. 