 The coronavirus pandemic has become one of the biggest storms that have disrupted the world education systems for centuries. There is a widespread closure of schools due to COVID-19 and millions of students have been negatively affected. Educators and students now rely heavily on remote education for continued teaching and learning during the pandemic. Remote education is an education strategy that allows teaching and learning to be conducted remotely online. Remote learning is fast becoming the new reality in education as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic which has halted face-face academic activities. Just recently, a university in Japan held a graduation ceremony for students using Robots remotely controlled by the graduating students from their homes. The robots were dressed in graduation gowns and caps with tablets projecting the graduates’ faces. Remote education is dependent on the internet technology and use of various computing devices, including mobile devices to teach and learn remotely. The reliance on internet and use of computing devices for remote education makes it difficult for disadvantaged people to engage in remote learning. Even teachers and students also struggle during the transitioning process to remote education. The transition to remote education may likely affect the quality of Science education considering the nature of some core social and Science courses which are mostly practical-based and requires experiments, and use of laboratories. Some practical and problem-based courses cannot totally be taught online because it requires a lot of guidance and experiments. Also, other non-science courses may not be able to run smoothly in remote environment because of the need for practice. For instance, English teachers and students may need to use the language lab; Engineering faculty may need to visit work sites, and Law students would need to do court and Chamber attachments during their studies, and Music students have to do rehearsals. Also, many students require extra physical guidance and mentorship for their learning. Hence, it might be very difficult for these categories of students to cope without the physical face-face interactions with their teachers. There are problems of digital divide of which many educators and learners particularly those in the rural areas and persons with special needs do not possess the digital skills and equal access to the relevant resources, facilities and technologies needed to engage in remote teaching and learning. Remote learning is new to most third world countries and it is still being experimented, but it does seem that if the necessary infrastructures that support online education are not put in place, it may be difficult to implement remote education in developing countries like Nigeria due to lack of supportive infrastructures. However, some private educational institutions like Coal City University Enugu, Nigeria have proven that indeed remote education is possible and implementable in Nigeria, if the right environment and digital infrastructures are put in place. Matters arising from remote education – The Nation NewsThe coronavirus pandemic is a reminder of the need for change and transformation in our education sector, and the need for more investment in technology across all spheres of life, particularly in the education sector. Remote education is good, but it cannot totally be compared with the experiences of being in a face-face classroom. Unless the various barriers that inhibit the transition to remote education are addressed, it may be very difficult to implement it in developing countries like Nigeria. Hence, there is need for authorities to invest more on educational technologies, and also put the right measures in place to ensure safe reopening of schools as soon as possible. This is because protracted school closures could be more devastating to all stakeholders in the education sector and the society at large. Onyema, Head, Department of Mathematics and Computer Science Coal City University Enugu, wrote via michael.edeh@ccu.edu.ng