 Chieftains of the National Union of Food and Beverage and Tobacco Employees (NUFBE) have urged the leadership of the union to respect a restraining order against unlawful tenure elongation by the outgoing executive members of the union. Aggrieved chieftains of the union led by Peter Onoja, on Thursday, said the tenure of the outgoing leadership of the party led by Lateef Oyelekan, has since expired on January 11, 2020. Onoja said: “2020 is our election year and we are against unlawful tenure elongation in any disguise because we are supposed to have an election in line with the spirit and letters of our constitution. “We are not keen on being in power but all we want is adherence to due process as clearly stated in our constitution, which is to conduct the periodic election and not tenure elongation.’’ In his response, the Acting National Secretary of the union, Mike Olanrewaju, said the allegations are mischievous. He also explained that the union was unaware of any restraining order from a court barring the extension of the executive committee of the union from extending its tenure.  “The National Industrial Court has ruled against the convocation of illegal emergency delegate conference being proposed by the outgoing leadership of the union for the purpose of ratifying an equally unlawful extension of their union by two years, they should not flout the court order.”  He said: “The brains behind the allegations are not saying the truth; our tenure expires on December 9, 2020, which was the day we took the oath of office, not January 11, 2020, as being misleadingly portrayed by the aggrieved members. “We are not aware of any court order restraining us from carrying out the extension of our tenure in office which was held last month. As I speak with you, we have not been served with a copy of their purported court injunction. “Those making these allegations are just being mischievous because our secretary, Comrade Busari and Comrade Onoja were both parts of the decision to extend our tenure in office for the purpose of ensuring the completion of an ongoing hotel project the union is building. “The conduct of our periodic election requires huge funds and we all agreed that the available funds should be spent on completing the hotel project and that we should extend our tenure by two years, so we can have enough funds to organise our delegate conference and elections.”