 Sexual harassment has become a pandemic ravaging the serenity of our campuses and the country at large, and threatening the moral fabric of our society. More troubling  is that our tertiary institutions seem to be in bondage, under the spell of a sex-for-marks epidemic. It is pertinent to assert that no institution is immune from the onslaught of sexual misconduct. Even our religious institutions have recorded scandalous cases of clerics  defiling female worshippers and congregants. Yet, none compares to the tales of sexual molestation oozing from our universities and polytechnics. According to a study, tertiary institutions in Nigeria lead with about 90 per cent cases of sexual harassment. Why is it so? What have our lecturers turned into? It must, however, be said that most cases of sexual molestation targeted at the female students do not happen by accident. They are orchestrated and induced by the female students  who dress indecently. It is depressing to note that most female students abhor dressing decently and modestly to lecture halls; a situation that seduces some morally-depraved male lecturers. It is, therefore, safe to conclude that indecent dressing is a major factor  for sexual harassment. Despite the negligence and laxity of some parents in inculcating good dressing morals in their female children, teachers and lecturers are expected to be epitome of virtuousness, hence they should eschew the temptation to molest their female students. They should rather see themselves as doting fathers who are supposed to help mould the future, career and lives of the young females. Meanwhile, school authorities should enforce strict rules and codes that will compel female students to dress responsibly within and outside the campus. Serious surveillance should be mounted at staff offices to check lecturers who like hosting only female students. They must be checked from further perpetrating the unholy act that does nothing, but only defiles the pride of our womanhood.