 TWO medical doctors, Iyoha Joseph and Mukaila Oladipo, were last week reported sanctioned by the Medical and Dental Practitioners Disciplinary Tribunal for professional negligence that resulted in the death of a three-month-old baby named Peace Oluwole. The tribunal ruled the doctors were ‘manifestly incompetent’ in their handling of the baby girl’s case, saying they failed to do all that was appropriate and reasonable for treatment of the patient. Baby Peace had developed malaria symptoms and was rushed to the hospital where the doctors worked. But she eventually died and the family petitioned the medical council accusing the doctors on duty of negligence, upon which the doctors were arraigned before the tribunal on a seven-count charge. In the verdict delivered by its chairman, Prof. Abba Waziri, and made public last week, the tribunal held Iyoha guilty on three counts, saying he did not exhibit reasonable diligence when he prescribed and caused to be administered on the three-month-old baby oral chloroquine, fansidar and several other drugs, thereby exposing her to multiple anti-malarial when she had as well been placed on Artemether injection. For his part, Oladipo was held guilty on two charges because, according to the tribunal, even though he found the patient asphyxiated and in obvious respiratory distress, he chose to busy himself with taking the patient’s history for more than 30 minutes rather than attend to the obvious emergency. In consequence, the tribunal sentenced Oladipo to three-month suspension while Iyoha Joseph was ‘convicted and admonished.’ A third doctor, Obafemi Kuye, who was charged with professional negligence in relation to the case was found not guilty by the tribunal. The unfortunate death of Baby Peace freshly highlights the damage that lack of professional commitment and diligence on the part of some medical personnel does – not just to individual clients but also the entire national polity. Only Heaven knows the potential of that baby patient that was so prematurely cut short by negligence on the part of the sanctioned doctors who, by their career creed, namely the Hippocratic Oath, should have been alive and sensitive to all necessities warranted to save the precious little life. Their respective conduct as cited was a damning commentary on the same profession that produced the likes of the late Dr. Stella Ameyo Adadevoh, who in instinctive commitment to save Nigeria from deluging outbreak of the Ebola Virus Disease in 2014 literally sacrificed her own life to hold the index case, Patrick Sawyer, in compelled quarantine. Without doubt, many doctors and other healthcare workers yet conduct themselves in similar self-sacrificial manner, as in ongoing battle against the COVID-19 pandemic; only that Iyoha and Oladipo aren’t of that breed. That is why we think: for a case in which an innocent and promising baby patient lost her life to negligence by those entrusted with managing her to recovery, the sanctions meted out by the medical tribunal were too mild, if not altogether tokenistic. Of course, the tribunal must have its guiding codes; but it somehow doesn’t seem commensurate that a life was lost, and one of the doctors ruled liable for incompetence and negligence got handed a three-month suspension, while the other merely got ‘convicted and admonished.’ In other climes, practitioners lose their licences in addition to being jailed for negligence that involves loss of life. But it all depends on the parents of Baby Peace – whether they want immediate closure and just move on, or they desire further redress. In the latter event, they can yet approach the civil court to sue for damages.