 No fewer than 100 female pupils in Eastern Obolo, in Akwa Ibom State, have been enlightened on the dangers of teenage pregnancy, rape, the importance of personal and menstrual hygiene and the rights of a girl-child, at a seminar organised by the National Association of Eastern Obolo Students, (NAEOS) University of Uyo (UNIUYO) chapter. The seminar with the theme: Educating Ebibaan Kiji (Educating our females) held at the Obolo Hall complex. It was attended by pupils from Government Comprehensive Secondary School, Amadaka; St. Silas Comprehensive Secondary School, Okoroete; Community Secondary School, Iko Town; and Heroes International Academy, Okoromboho, among others. Addressing the participants, one of the resource persons, Candy Festus, a lawyer, who spoke on The Girl-Child Rights, told pupils that they have the right to education and parental care. She advised them to take their studies seriously and never feel inferior to boys. She said: “The world has changed from where women used to be weaker vessels to those who will inherit the inheritance. “ Candy encouraged pupils to have  good role models, shun indecent dressing, report sexual harassment and maltreatment from teachers, friends and parents. Another resource person, Miss Dorathy Jaja, a 500- level Medical Student from the University of Uyo counselled students on the the importance of maintaining good personal and menstrual hygiene. According to her, using one sanitary pad for a whole day during menstruation causes many  problems to the body. She advised them to avoid using  one underwear for a long time to avoid infections,while urging them  to always bathe  several times daily. The programme Coordinator and Chairman Planning Committee, Miss Josephine Ntene, a 500-level Petroleum Engineering student, said the initiative was borne out of the passion to educate future female leaders who will, in turn, be able to educate the generation to come. She added: “We are having this enlightenment seminar because of our observation that many female students consider themselves as second fiddle to their male counterparts and rush into early marriage. We see this as a challenge that must be properly addressed before we can move forward.The  girl – child must enjoy equal rights as the opposite gender.” The event also featured drama presentation from Obolohood TV crew, paper presentations, quiz and debate competitions. Some of the participants, Blessing Awajiokanuche, Selinah Adasi and Benice Daniel told CAMPUS LIFE that the seminar had inspired them to be focused. “We have come to know that we don’t need to feel inferior, and that we have right to quality education. We have learned to believe in ourselves, and that nobody can tell us that we cannot make it in life. We were also made to understand that education is  the best legacy,” they said. Other dignitaries at the event were NAEOS Uniuyo President, David Enoch; NAEOS Uniuyo Vice President,  mother of the day, Zilpah Ukafia, Sarah Iyokossa, actress; Pharmaceutical Association of Nigerian Students National President, Daniel Nkarijo, NAEOS Worldwide SU President, Gwun-awaji John, and NAEOS Worldwide VP, Sunday Uroetor, among others. High point of the event was the distribution of sanitary pads to the female pupils.