Dubai-based Nigerian music maker, musician, show promoter and businessman Badmus Akeem O better known as Baddyoosha has gone yet again for the jugular of the street as he drops his second EP in a little over a year. Baddyoosha, fondly referred to as “Daddy Street” set a whole new vibe and attitude on the street with his first EP titled “Street”. He is back again with another EP titled “September 30 the EP” which drops on all notable digital platforms today, September 30, 2020, which incidentally is his birthday. The 7-track EP displays Baddy Oosha’s versatility and playful side which is something, the artist has not featured on his previous releases, focusing previously on heavier subject matter. “At a time when there is so much sadness around the world, I want to bring joy to my fans,” says Baddy Oosha. The project opens with ‘September 30 the Intro” which acts as a round-up of his first EP “Street” as well as introducing people to the new project and playful subject matter, appropriately setting the tone. “Hustler’s Anthem” follows featuring Oosha’s friend and producer Pjay’s soulful voice as they create a melodious street anthem and rags to riches guaranteed to resonate with many. The third track “Ashakasha” is bound to put a smile on your face, the cheeky lyrics aren’t for thef faint-hearted “44-4 Foti” is the fourth track and big highlight on the project which was as spontaneouscollaboration, following Naira Marley performing at one of Baddy Oosha’s sold-out events in Dubai. The track features the two exchanging braggadocious lyrics. The following offering “H’oil 2.0” is the hottest track on the EP which is centred around a viral meme of Oosha and a fan from his “Lion’s Party” show on Instagram live. Following the success of H’oil, Oosha called on Slimcase to join him on the hit. “Party Hard,” the sixth track and the standout dance track, features an infusion of dancehall and reggaeton vibes, the infectious beat and Reminisce’s punchy verse are guaranteed to get you dancing. The final song on the EP “It’s“Plenty” is a joyous song about opulence and serves as an opportunity for Oosha to thank his comrades, supporters and fans. “September 30 the EP” is named after Baddy Oosha’s date of birth and also the EP’s release date as it is a celebration of Baddy Oosha’s life thus far and also a gift from him to the streets to get them dancing again. The CEO of Ooosha Empire has demonstrated why is called ‘Daddy Street’ by assembling the finest street artistes for this job. Reminisce, Naira Marley, Slimcase and P Jay ganged up for this masterpiece of street work. Over the years the head honcho behind Oosha Empire, Badmus Akeem O a.k.a Baddyoosha has discovered many faceless talents and transformed them into a force to reckon with in the industry. Fondly referred to as ‘Daddy Street’, he’s been instrumental to the success of many popular street artistes ruling the scene now. He is a businessman, first and foremost, who owns a audiovisual equipment company in Dubai known as Oosha Empire Audio and Visual Equipment Company. He’s also an International promoter and a musician with over 10 singles to his credit. After his debut single ‘Esemi’ in 2014, he has gone to record hits like ‘Timbalowo, ‘Angeli, ‘Oga’, ‘Talon Shaye and many more. His last effort was an EP titled “STREET” and the “September 30 EP” set to drop on September 30, 2020 which is his birthday. 