Nigeria Info 99.3FM Lagos, has become the first broadcast station to be fined N5m under the controversial 6th edition of Nigeria Broadcasting Code. It was fined by the Nigerian Broadcasting Commission (NBC), for allegedly making its platform available to promote what the commission called unverifiable and inciting views capable of causing public disorder. A former presidential aspirant, and former deputy governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Obadiah Mailafia, had alleged in a programme aired by the station that a northern state governor is a commandant of Boko Haram. According to the NBC, “The station provided its platform for the guest, Dr. Mailafia Obadiah, to promote unverifiable and inciting views that could encourage or incite to crime and lead to public disorder”. The commission said Dr. Mailafia’s comments on the “Southern Kaduna crisis” were devoid of facts and, ipso facto, Nigeria Info 99.3FM, was in violation of certain sections of the Nigeria Broadcasting Code. It therefore slammed the N5m fine on it to serve as deterrence to other broadcast stations. We agree with the commission that broadcast stations hold their licences in trust for the people and should therefore not do anything at the expense of the people, or use the power irresponsibly. But then, even if any station commits  an offence, as it is bound to happen once in a while since no one is infallible, there are enough laws in the statute books to punish such an erring station. We do not need this new code, which lends itself to abuse, especially in view of the difficulty in defining what ‘hate speech’ that it seems to curtail, is. Hate, like its very opposite, love, is a nebulous concept. If beauty can be said to be in the eye of the beholder, it is apposite that hate too depends on who is defining it. So, what is hate speech to Citizen A can be sweet music in the ears of Citizen B. We are glad though that stakeholders and other concerned Nigerians are not only condemning this new regulation, some have approached the courts to determine its legality. One of these is Charles Uwagbai, a filmmaker, who has sued the NBC at the Federal High Court in Lagos, seeking an order setting aside the code. Uwagbai’s contention is that the code cannot stand as it is because it did not come about through the due process. In the same vein, a human rights lawyer, Inibehe Effiong, has also challenged the imposition of the N5m fine on the radio station at a Federal High Court in Lagos, as well as the threat by the NBC to sanction any other erring station for hate speech. According to Effiong, “abusing” or “insulting the government cannot be criminalised in a democracy and that public officials must be ready for criticisms” adding that “Those who are paid with taxpayers’ money cannot be insulated or shielded from insults and abuse by those who pay them (the citizens)”. A Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Mr Femi Falana, says the N5m fine was illegal and that only a court can impose such punishment. “Only a competent court of law is empowered to try, convict and impose a fine on a criminal suspect after a trial has been conducted before a competent court”, Falana said. The SAN added that “In view of the fact that the imposition of the N5 million fine was anchored on a purported amendment of the code and since the NBC lacks the legal competence to impose a fine on any broadcasting station without a finding of guilt by a properly constituted criminal court, the NBC should suo muto quash the illegal fine.” We agree with all these submissions. Indeed, this is the logical thing to do, especially in a democracy. When people are in doubt about the legality of an issue, they should approach the courts for adjudication. It is not something over which people should just resign to fate. This does not in any way help democracy. Due process is an integral part of the democratic process. We cannot take the fact that the president signed a particular code as the only criterion needed to legalise such a code. It is only the courts that have the final say on a matter like this and we look forward to an enduring closure to it through that process.