Former Inter and Roma defender Nicolas Burdisso doesn’t agree that Italian football lacks appeal. ‘After the lockdown, Serie A was the best League’. The Boca Juniors sporting director spent nine years in Serie A and defended the image of Italian football, but admitted the infrastructure would help the League develop further. “I disagree. After the lockdown, Serie A was undoubtedly the best League, different types of football have been seen,” he told Il Corriere dello Sport. “There’s a path that Italian football must face quickly and that’s to improve the infrastructure. Once, completed, they won’t just be able to afford one [Cristiano] Ronaldo, but two, three, four Ronaldos.” Meanwhile, Lazio coach Simone Inzaghi said the managers ‘have promised me several signings to ensure we have a fantastic season’. The Biancocelesti finished fourth in Serie A 2019-20 but challenged Juventus until the forced break. Inzaghi pointed out Lazio must learn from playing every three days and has been promised the required depth to compete on all fronts in the upcoming season. “I haven’t spoken since the end of last season, when we had a fantastic campaign,” Inzaghi said at a press conference. “We won the Supercoppa Italiana, we returned to the Champions League after 13 years. “At that time it was even easier without Juventus and with the penalty of other challengers like Milan. We know much it penalised us playing every three days after the lockdown. There were injuries that made it difficult. “We have to learn from that. We know it will be a difficult season. In fact, I have been promised several signings to ensure we have a fantastic season.” In a related development, Parma have officially announced the reopening of Stadio Ennio Tardini for the friendly match against Empoli, allowing 1,000 people to attend the match.  The Gialloblu announced the decision on the club’s official website: “The Tardini Stadium in Parma will be the first Serie A facility to open its doors to fans after the COVID-19 emergency.  “Since the last time, the day of Parma-Lazio on February 9, 2020, it has been almost seven months.