Awareness is crucial to winning the fight against the coronavirus pandemic.  The song, Stand Together, released by 10 prominent African musicians in July, is a useful contribution to the battle. The artistes, from seven countries, boosted public awareness of COVID-19 with their soulful voices. The collaboration involved 2Baba (Nigeria), Ahmed Soultan (Morocco), Ben Pol (Tanzania), Teni (Nigeria), Yemi Alade (Nigeria), Amanda Black (South Africa), Stanley Enow (Cameroon), Gigi La Mayne (South Africa), Prodigio (Angola), and Betty G (Ethiopia). Interestingly, Stand Together, described as “An African anthem of solidarity against COVID-19,”  was produced by Cobhams Asuquo, a talented visually challenged Nigerian musician, who also released a song against COVID-19, We go win (Corona), in April, sponsored by the UN in Nigeria. “No shaking of hands with your neighbour; blow them a kiss from afar, use soap and water to wage war…” Asuquo sang. His lyrics highlighted how to contain the spread of COVID-19.  Beyond his local effort, his involvement in the continental project is a further testimony to his musical brilliance. By turning to the Nigerian media and entertainment industry, and using Nigerian stars to produce content with potent messages to counter misinformation about the coronavirus, the UN showed that it recognised the power of the arts to enlighten, inspire, and mobilise people. Stand Together, which was launched by “African Artists Unite,” in partnership with ONE, the Nelson Mandela Foundation and MTV Base, on Nelson Mandela International Day, an annual celebration of the life of the departed South African political legend, is an African weapon in the world-wide fight against COVID-19.  It demonstrates a sense of social responsibility as well as a sense of collective capacity. ONE’s Africa Executive Director Edwin Ikhuoria described it as a “message to all Africans that we will overcome COVID-19 with a spirit of unity, resolve and shared responsibility.” Indeed, the song is a timely call to action to check the spread of the disease. Its refrain, “nobody is safe until everybody is safe,” underlines the need for a collective response to the pandemic. “In Africa, curbing COVID-19 is a marathon and not a sprint,” World Health Organisation (WHO) Regional Director for Africa Dr Matshidiso Moeti remarked as Africa, on August 14, marked six months since COVID-19 was first detected on the continent. It is noteworthy that Nigeria’s first case of the infection was detected in Lagos on February 27. More than 50, 000 cases and more than 1, 000 deaths have been recorded in the country since then.  “We are observing multiple local outbreaks each with their own infection patterns and peaks. It is by bolstering the response at the community level that we will win this race. The COVID-19 response must be integrated into the fabric of every health district,” Moeti added. Figures from WHO Regional Office for Africa on August 30, at 8am, indicated that 47 countries were affected in Africa with “1,039,656 cumulative cases” and “21,679 deaths.” The coronavirus crisis calls for interventions in various forms. The musical intervention by these African musicians is commendable, particularly concerning the wide-spread denial of the reality of the disease. Through the medium of music, the message can be effectively spread that COVID-19 is real but the fight against it can be won. Stand Together should be publicised to achieve an extensive penetration of communities across the continent. Importantly, the effort to promote the message should go beyond the use of English, and include local languages. Apart from music, other art forms can be used in the fight against COVID-19, to achieve a mix of mediums for maximum reach. Every creative possibility should be explored to check the transmission of the coronavirus.