 The eventual re-arrest of Oyo State suspected serial killer, Sunday Shodipe, was momentous. Residents of Akinyele Local Government Area of the state, who had been at the receiving end of the reign of terror, foisted by the menacing killer gang who had seized the council, heaved in relief. Oyo State  Police Command  gloated over it; even the Inspector- General of Police (IGP) Muhammed Adamu, was impressed enough to laud the state commissioner of police (CP), Nwachukwu Enwonwu, and his team for the feat, through a statement issued by the Force Public Relations Officer, Frank Mba. It was not as if the re-arrest was an extraordinary accomplishment. The police had nailed far tougher and more notorious criminal suspects in the past. What the police seemed to be celebrating was an image redeemer, which the re-arrest represented to them. Shodipe’s escape from police custody on August 11 after he had been arrested, arraigned and remanded was highly embarrassing. It did much damage to the image of the police in the state. The escape had expectedly generated national uproar. Stakeholders took an umbrage over what looked like a questionable escape. It was a pervasive outrage. The popular impression was that the police simply cut a deal with the syndicate suspected to be behind the ritual killings, which had for months thrown Akinyele residents into panic and hysteria, and deliberately aided the notorious suspect’s escape. So, the police were taken to task to redeem their image by immediately re-arresting Shodipe. The image crisis was not lost on the police. They immediately launched a manhunt for the escapee. The state command let loose its tactical squads to hunt him down by all means possible. The commissioner of police went further by placing a N500, 000 bounty on the suspect. The IGP despatched a crack team of detectives, including the operatives of the Intelligence Response Team (IRT) to Oyo State to strengthen the manhunt. The manhunt paid off and the suspect was re-arrested on August 23. However, as the police were giving themselves the thumbs up for the re-arrest, a group of locals, called Soludero Hunters, was claiming credit for the feat. The leader of the group, Nurein Ajijolanabi, said his men actually led a team of policemen to the suspect’s grandmother’s residence at Bodija, Ibadan, where he was re-arrested. Nobody has controverted the hunters’ claim. But the police never publicly acknowledged their role. And if it is true that the hunters actually located the suspect’s hideout and led the police there, then it is rather unflattering of the police to have solely taken the credit. The nearest they came to acknowledging being aided in the re-arrest of Shodipe was the Oyo CP’s vague reference to what he described as “human intelligence strategy,” through which he said the suspect was recaptured. The police boss made that allusion at a press conference he addressed three days after the suspect was re-arrested. “Sequel to this development (Shodipe’s escape),” the CP had told newsmen at the press briefing,  ”the special anti-robbery squad and other tactical squads within Oyo State Police Command embarked on a manhunt for the escapee serial killer; using human intelligence strategy, the escapee and serial killer was re-arrested on 23rd August, 2020 at about 1030 hours at Bodija area, Ibadan.” Other than that, the CP never specifically acknowledged those hunters’ role in the whole re-arrest saga. If the hunters’ claim is true, then it is grossly unfair of the Oyo State Police Command to have failed to publicly recognise the hunters’ sacrifice and sense of patriotism in this matter. What is more, the hunters claimed that the N500,000 bounty was not their motivation for what they did, even though they would not reject it if they were given, but their desire to rid the society of undesirable elements. This error of omission or commission on the part of the police, we dare say,  is rather cynical and condescending. It is  costly as it could boomerang. The police are not magicians. The people are the ‘ears’ and ‘eyes’ of a police force that works. Security agencies rely on the people who are the engine that drives intelligence, which is the kernel of crime fighting. However, in a situation where the police fail to give due credit to the locals whenever they assist one way or the other, they (police), risk losing their (locals’) confidence, patronage and cooperation when it matters. It is axiomatic that acknowledging a good deed is a morale booster to get more. Many of these locals, like hunters, are folk heroes in their respective communities. They wield a lot of influence. They are closer to the people; they know the terrain and local politics better. And, in crime fighting, the terrain, the local knowledge and the local politics, all matter. That is why the police and other security agencies should not toy with them. The role of the hunters also remind us that local policing cannot work with diktat from Abuja. It has to leverage local input and personnel or it is doomed. he eventual re-arrest of Oyo State suspected serial killer, Sunday Shodipe, was momentous. Residents of Akinyele Local Government Area of the state, who had been at the receiving end of the reign of terror, foisted by the menacing killer gang who had seized the council, heaved in relief. Oyo State  Police Command  gloated over it; even the Inspector- General of Police (IGP) Muhammed Adamu, was impressed enough to laud the state commissioner of police (CP), Nwachukwu Enwonwu, and his team for the feat, through a statement issued by the Force Public Relations Officer, Frank Mba. It was not as if the re-arrest was an extraordinary accomplishment. The police had nailed far tougher and more notorious criminal suspects in the past. What the police seemed to be celebrating was an image redeemer, which the re-arrest represented to them. Shodipe’s escape from police custody on August 11 after he had been arrested, arraigned and remanded was highly embarrassing. It did much damage to the image of the police in the state. The escape had expectedly generated national uproar. Stakeholders took an umbrage over what looked like a questionable escape. It was a pervasive outrage. The popular impression was that the police simply cut a deal with the syndicate suspected to be behind the ritual killings, which had for months thrown Akinyele residents into panic and hysteria, and deliberately aided the notorious suspect’s escape. So, the police were taken to task to redeem their image by immediately re-arresting Shodipe. The image crisis was not lost on the police. They immediately launched a manhunt for the escapee. The state command let loose its tactical squads to hunt him down by all means possible. The commissioner of police went further by placing a N500, 000 bounty on the suspect. The IGP despatched a crack team of detectives, including the operatives of the Intelligence Response Team (IRT) to Oyo State to strengthen the manhunt. The manhunt paid off and the suspect was re-arrested on August 23. However, as the police were giving themselves the thumbs up for the re-arrest, a group of locals, called Soludero Hunters, was claiming credit for the feat. The leader of the group, Nurein Ajijolanabi, said his men actually led a team of policemen to the suspect’s grandmother’s residence at Bodija, Ibadan, where he was re-arrested. Nobody has controverted the hunters’ claim. But the police never publicly acknowledged their role. And if it is true that the hunters actually located the suspect’s hideout and led the police there, then it is rather unflattering of the police to have solely taken the credit. The nearest they came to acknowledging being aided in the re-arrest of Shodipe was the Oyo CP’s vague reference to what he described as “human intelligence strategy,” through which he said the suspect was recaptured. The police boss made that allusion at a press conference he addressed three days after the suspect was re-arrested. “Sequel to this development (Shodipe’s escape),” the CP had told newsmen at the press briefing,  ”the special anti-robbery squad and other tactical squads within Oyo State Police Command embarked on a manhunt for the escapee serial killer; using human intelligence strategy, the escapee and serial killer was re-arrested on 23rd August, 2020 at about 1030 hours at Bodija area, Ibadan.” Other than that, the CP never specifically acknowledged those hunters’ role in the whole re-arrest saga. If the hunters’ claim is true, then it is grossly unfair of the Oyo State Police Command to have failed to publicly recognise the hunters’ sacrifice and sense of patriotism in this matter. What is more, the hunters claimed that the N500,000 bounty was not their motivation for what they did, even though they would not reject it if they were given, but their desire to rid the society of undesirable elements. This error of omission or commission on the part of the police, we dare say,  is rather cynical and condescending. It is  costly as it could boomerang. The police are not magicians. The people are the ‘ears’ and ‘eyes’ of a police force that works. Security agencies rely on the people who are the engine that drives intelligence, which is the kernel of crime fighting. However, in a situation where the police fail to give due credit to the locals whenever they assist one way or the other, they (police), risk losing their (locals’) confidence, patronage and cooperation when it matters. It is axiomatic that acknowledging a good deed is a morale booster to get more. Many of these locals, like hunters, are folk heroes in their respective communities. They wield a lot of influence. They are closer to the people; they know the terrain and local politics better. And, in crime fighting, the terrain, the local knowledge and the local politics, all matter. That is why the police and other security agencies should not toy with them. The role of the hunters also remind us that local policing cannot work with diktat from Abuja. It has to leverage local input and personnel or it is doomed.