There is an urgent need for governments at all levels as well as philanthropic organisations in the country to intensify efforts towards helping the poor and vulnerable Nigerians, especially the rural dwellers, to have access to basic healthcare because doing so will help to take care of common health challenges. This was the admonition of Reverend Samuel Adeyemo, Kano State chairman of the Christian Association of Nigerian (CAN), when officials of PreDiagnosis International paid a visit to the leadership of CAN in the state. Reverend Adeyemo, who is also the General Overseer of the Believers World Baptist Fellowship in Kano, appealed that the poor should be given special attention in initiatives that can deepen access to quality and affordable healthcare in the country. While lauding the extension of PreDiagnosis International’s grassroots telehealthcare initiative coverage to Kano, the CAN leader noted that lack of compassionate interventions by people of means as well as poverty and ignorance among the citizens have worsened the standard of living among grassroots communities across the country. “The suffering brought to majority of the citizens by lack of access to basic healthcare is really huge. The CAN Leadership in this state is therefore excited by this initiative of PreDiagnosis International to help the masses get basic access to healthcare. This is because access to qualified doctors from the comfort of wherever one can use technology is something every citizen needs in order for many health challenges to be resolved at an early stage,” he stated. Earlier in his remarks, the leader of the PDI team, Dr. John Iguve, explained that the coming of the company to Kano and adjoining states in the northern parts of the country was a step further in PDI’s commitment to making affordable healthcare services available at the doorsteps of the people, especially the poor and the vulnerable across Nigeria. According to him, PDI’s operational focus was based on the determination to meet the target of delivering efficient and affordable modern healthcare to at least 20 million poor and vulnerable Nigerians between 2020 and 2030. Dr. Iguve appealed to the CAN leadership and other cadres of leadership across the state to help in spreading the news among the citizens in order for the benefits of the initiative to be fully enjoyed by the people. “We are happy to announce that we are moving a step further in our campaign to make affordable healthcare services available at the doorstep of the people, especially the poor and the vulnerable across Nigeria. We need the community leaders at all levels to help us spread the news among our people so that everyone can benefit,” he said.