Premium Breadmakers Association of Nigeria (PBAN) and Association of Master Bakers & Caterers of Nigeria (AMBCN) have called for a review of the national wheat development scheme initiated eight years ago. They said the associations were yet to see any benefit of the programme to the local wheat supply chain despite the 15 per cent levy on wheat development. PBAN President, Tosan Jemide, said the group is worried that after many years of driving the wheat development programme, it is getting difficult for the government to justify the additional levy imposed, saying it is advisable that the government scraps the national wheat development programme if it becomes non -viable and give the 15 per cent back to wheat millers, a development, he said will cascade to the flour industry. Jemide said in the last six months, the prices of flour, sugar and other baking ingredients have skyrocketed without a corresponding increase in the price of bread. He said: “Most of us got loans with double digit interest rates from banks and other financial institutions to fund our bakery projects and are finding it extremely difficult to meet our loan repayment obligations.” Jemide berated the incessant and unannounced increase in the prices of baking ingredients which he said has become a monthly routine without recourse to the challenges bakers face as end users. “We are calling on the government to prevail on millers, sugar refiners and other ingredient manufacturers/suppliers to desist from blatant increase in the prices as the associations shall react with equal price increase or stiff resistance. “We are appealing to government to do everything within its means to see how it can support millers, sugar refiners and baking ingredient manufacturers / suppliers to ameliorate whatever challenges that make them increase their prices so often. This is a matter that requires urgent attention as we can no longer breathe,” he said, adding that if the government intends to have a success of its food security initiative, it must rein on the millers by supporting them in whatever way, especially through granting them access foreign exchange through the official window. “Considering that bread has become the most popular staple in Nigeria, we suggest that the government revisits its foreign exchange policy, by giving wheat importers priority for accessing foreign exchange since our local wheat production cannot meet up with the growing demand for flour,” he charged.