Lagos is promoting cage culture to improve the productivity of fisheries, DANIEL ESSIET reports. Aquaculture is helping to jump-start Badagry’s struggling economy, thanks in part to Lagos Agro-processing, Productivity Enhancement and Livelihood Improvement Support (APPEALS) assisted by the World Bank in the area. The programme located at Afowo is joint effort as the government works with the community to supply a more-sustainable source of protein and income. Lagos Acting Commissioner for Agriculture, Ms Ruth Bisola Olusanya, said APPEALS Project sponsored by Lagos State Government, in conjunction with the Federal Government and the World Bank, was aimed at supporting farmers’ productivity and their linkage to markets. She said Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu had interest in agriculture and that was why he supported the project to empower the people of the state, especially women and youths in the three value chains of the project — aquaculture, rice and poultry. She said the APPEALS project had empowered farmers on tilapia production, using the cage culture rearing method as part of efforts develop aquaculture and also improve residents’ nutrition. She said the state was determined to promote the development of large-scale cage farming in other parts of Lagos. Mrs. Olusanya explained that the cage culture system was a cheaper method of fish rearing which allowed for fish to be reared in their natural habitat. She added that fish farmers in sea caging culture system in Afowo Community were empowered with cages. She added that the cage culture system of fish farming was one of the ways being championed by the state government to maximise the benefits of the abundant water resources which account for about 22 per cent of the state’s landmass. She described the system as an environmentally-friendly way of increasing fish supply as well as conserving foreign exchange spent on fish importation, adding that the cage culture would create employment directly and indirectly. Mrs. Olusanya said also that the caging project was continuous with farming sites in the riverine areas of the state. She said beneficiaries of APPEALS aquaculture training were exposed to lessons on use of high quality feeds; and best management practices for success, profitability, and sustainable and long-term marine fish cage farming. She noted that there was a need to improve food and nutrition security and economic opportunities through aquaculture and the creation of job opportunities for the youth via better management of fishery resources. She added that value addition to lower-market-valued fish, introduced by the APPEALS project has  created new opportunities for youth and women entrepreneurs, adding that it was  a positive model for food security and income generation. According to her, beneficiaries will play a dominant role in supplying fish products to consumers in urban and  rural areas. The Coordinator, Lagos APPEALS, Mrs. Oluranti Sagoe-Oviebo, said efforts were being channelled to helping women and youths meet standards in exporting seafood products. Mrs. Sagoe-Oviebo said Tilapia Cage Culture in Afowo was for growing fish naturally  in open water but confined in a cage. She said APPEALS project was focused on enhancing the contribution of small-scale fisheries to food security and sustainable livelihoods through better policies, strategies and initiatives. The project, according to her, implements activities to support women and youth actors in the small-scale fisheries sector, including building capacity of individuals and family enterprises; strengthening cooperatives; and empowering women based on their needs. According to her, the project supports the creation of job opportunities for youths and women through the development of aquaculture and fisheries’ management practices, as well as improved post-harvest handling, and fish processing practice.