The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has urged monarchs in Ondo State to promote peace and ensure the electorate complied with COVID-19 protocols during the October 10 governorship election. INEC Chairman Prof. Mahmood Yakubu made the appeal when he met with traditional rulers on the governorship election in Akure. He said the meeting was to solicit monarchs’ support to impress on their subjects the need to maintain peace and shun violence through the process leading to the election and after. “Basically, we seek your support in three ways. First, to continue to appeal to parties’ candidates and their supporters for peace, as you have always done in your domains. “Secondly, to call on your people to observe the rules of personal and public safety. “This is an election conducted in the context of a global health emergency -the COVID-19 pandemic. It is important for voters to vote and go home in safety. “Thirdly, we seek your prayers for peace in Ondo State. We also seek your prayers for INEC that the election to be held on October 10 will be peaceful free, fair, transparent and credible. “Edo governorship poll was a good election. We are determined that Ondo 2020 is going to be better. We did so in 2016. This commission conducted the last election despite the tension before the poll. “It was one of the best elections conducted by INEC such that it remains the only governorship election in the history of Ondo State since 1999 whose outcome was not challenged in court.” Yakubu said while the election was taking place in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic, INEC was working to ensure safety, based on advice from the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, and the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control. “INEC is making available face masks, face shields, mentholated spirit and cotton wood to clean the smart card readers after each voter has been accredited to vote, while also providing hand sanitiser. “The Presidential Task Force has also helped us with infrared thermometers to be used in each polling unit. “However, where voters, INEC officials, or security agents show symptoms, we have arranged with PTF and the Ondo State COVID-19 response team to evacuate such persons to their isolation centres for treatment. “Learning from my experience in Edo State, social distancing at the polling unit level was not properly observed. “We believe that your royal majesties will help us by adding your powerful voices to call for compliance with this important safety requirement. “This will strengthen our message that no voter will be allowed to vote, unless he or she wears the face mask. No face mask, no voting,” Yakubu said. He assured the royal fathers that the commission was ready for the election, stressing that INEC would be neutral and professional in the conduct of the election. “Only the voters in Ondo State will determine who becomes the next governor on Saturday October 10.” Oba Frederick Akinruntan, the Olugbo of Ugbo and Chairman, Ondo State Council of Obas, speaking earlier at the meeting, hailed the INEC chairman and the commission’s performance at the Edo governorship election. He urged INEC to do same in Ondo State by ensuring that the election was free, fair and credible.