The Federal University of Technology, (FUT) Minna has solicited the support of the former Military Administrator of Kano State, Colonel Sani Bello (rtd), to fund the construction of its research farm. Its Vice Chancellor, Prof. Abdullahi Bala, said the research farm would help to curtail the incessant clashes between herders and farmers. Bala  stated this when he led a delegation of the  management team to Kontagora to visit the former military administrator. Col. Bello is the father of Niger State Governor Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello. Speaking at the conference room of the Sani Bello Foundation office, Bala said the university’s laws also permitted it to establish a School of Medical Sciences. He however said the establishment of a School of Medical Sciences was capital-intensive, adding that it would require the construction of a new complex, recruitment of staff in medical-related fields, as well as the building of a teaching hospital. According to Bala, FUTMinna had concluded arrangements with the management of the Federal Medical Centre in Bida to use its facilities as teaching hospital for clinical practice. He said the university already had some support departments needed for a medical school. Bala, while decrying the inability of Niger State to fill its allotted admission quota yearly, urged the former military governor to look into the construction of a female hostel at FUTMinna for Niger State students to boost the enrolment from the state. He added that FUTMinna was ready to partner the foundation in entrepreneurial and Information Technology training. Col. Bello thanked the VC for the visit. He informed his guests that his foundation had commenced the construction of a university in Kontagora to complement FUTMinna and other universities’ efforts in providing qualitative education. He advised the institution to commence medical programmes so that more students from the state would be given opportunities to pursue their dreams of becoming doctors. Bello urged the university to look at the possibility of spreading some of its faculties across the state to bring education closer to the people. He assured the school of his decision to engage one of his companies, Mainstream Energy Solutions Limited, to liaise with the institution to undertake the funding of a project in the institution as part of its corporate social responsibility.  