Ondo State Governor Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN) has directed the management of Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko to reduce tuition fee. This is a palliative measure to cushion the economic effect of coronavirus(COVID-19) on the students. In a  circular signed by the Acting Registrar, Mr. Opeoluwa Akinfenwa, on August 26, the conclusion was reached after the management and student leaders met with the governor. It further stated that the slash is only applicable to the returning students and it will take effect from the ongoing 2019/2020 academic session. The slash, which excluded Faculty of Law, fresh students and final year students,will enable Faculty of Science along with Social and Management Sciences to pay 120,000 as compared to the previous fee of N150,000. Faculty of Agriculture  will part with N100,000 instead of N150,000. Faculty of Arts  and Education are to pay N80,000 as against N100, 000. The circular further enjoined students to complete their registration without much ado. However, CAMPUSLIFE gathered  that some students are displeased with the news as it failed to meet their expectations. Ibigbami Ebenezer from the Department of Pure and Applied Science, said that he can’t call it reduction. He believed that this action won’t have any effect on the perception which students of AAUA have on his administration. He said: ”I can’t even call it a reduction. Seeing how it was increased in the first instance, this reduction is unbelievable. The worst of it is the fact that it did not apply to everyone.” Corroborating this, a 300-Level student of Mass Communication who pleaded for anonymity said that the change was occasioned by a political intent. She said: “I have come to realise that behind every decision and action, there is a force. The funniest part of this whole story is the partial reduction of  the school fees as the governorship elections draw near. It is so evident that he took the action to lure the people of Ondo State to vote him in for the second term. He has the power to reduce the fee all this while but didn’t  until now. He only reduced it by 20 percent, all in the name of capturing the people’s heart.” Meanwhile,  President of Law Students Society, through the Media Aide, Fowowe Adetomiwa, has released a press statement to inform the public that the faculty was not properly represented at the meeting. He assured the students of his  commitment towards  addressing the situation. “It is  shocking that only the tuition of the students of the Faculty of Law was not reduced. This, in turn, begs  for diverse questions that, unfortunately, the President is currently unable to answer. However, this undeserved action might be due to the fact that Mr. Governor omitted the review of the tuition fee of the Faculty of Law.” “It is on this note that the President makes a commitment that this matter would be looked into vehemently, and by assurance, resolved in our favour in no time. Calls would be put across to all relevant stakeholders relating to the students’ affairs of the state. And most importantly, the executives on behalf of the students of the Faculty of Law would address a letter to Mr. Governor to bring his attention to this omission,” the statement said. The Chairman of National Association of Nigerian Students, JCC Ondo axis, Akintewe Babatunde told  the students that the action was devoid of political intent. He also appreciated the state governor for the reduction and pleaded that a review should be done to facilitate reduction of fees paid by students of other institutions in the state. In a  statement, the Public Relations Officer of the AAUA Students Union, Adegbeyeni Oluwafemi,  lauded the governor for heeding their plea to make education affordable, but bemoaned how the reduction was done. “Sequel to this reduction, we appreciate  the governor for yielding to our request regarding  affordable and accessible education for  the students. “However, the reduction is still not suitable to the student populace and we’ll make sure we don’t relent in our agitations till we achieve further reduction as we assure you that this present administration will be very much committed to advocating her students’ plight and ensuring the better sustainability of its welfare.”