As Vision 20:2020 and the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) terminates in December, President Muhammadu Buhari has authorised the preparation of new development plans for the country. With the approval, the Federal Government will engage states “to ensure that planned discipline is entrenched in the system, if the country is to make the desired changes in the economy”. Following from this, the 2021 Budget will be derived from the Medium-term National Development Plans (MTNDP) 2021-2025. Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, Clem Agba, on Thursday disclosed that the MTNDP 2021-2025 will be launched in December by President  Buhari. Agba also revealed that “the macroeconomic indices used for the development of the Economic Sustainability Plan of N2.3 trillion stimulus package to hedge the economy from sliding into deep and prolonged recession due to the impact of COVID-19 had been integrated into the MTNDP.” According to him, the preparation of MTNDP 2021-2025 will be fast-tracked to meet the 2021 appropriation deadline. Giving journalists update  on the development plans which are currently being drafted by relevant stakeholders, the minister disclosed that “the second MTNDP (2026 – 2030) report would be ready February 2021 while final development blueprint for the Nigeria Agenda 2050 will be ready in July  same year.” He explained that the desire to synchronise these was to ensure that “annual budgets are derived from national development plans, to foster plan discipline in successive years.” Agba added  that the macroeconomic framework and growth diagnostic Technical Working Group (TWG) has “produced a macroeconomic framework report, which has been shared with the central working group and presented to the remaining 25 TWGs to guide the ongoing work on their thematic areas”. Already, the finalisation of the long term models have reached advanced stage and the models “will be used for projections for macroeconomic and development blocks of the Agenda 2050.” The minister said the government was committed to producing truly national development plans and not just federal government plans. He pointed out that six governors, one from each of the six geopolitical zones and representatives of major political parties were involved at the steering committee level for the development of the plans.