Lack of farm data support system has created challenges for agro entrepreneurs across agricultural and food value chain. Stakeholders say to nurture farm businesses that can transform into effective enterprises, the data system has to be strengthenened, writes DANIEL ESSIET. Fledgling farm businesses need access to data to take decisions to grow and thrive. For agro entrepreneurs, bridging the dearth of data gap is critical for sustainable agricultural growth. To improve food security and increase income through integrated agriculture, the Chief Executive, Brote Urban Vegetable Farm & Processing Limited, Innocent Mokidi, said farmers should confront many challenges that require data use. Bridging this gap has proven to be a bigger challenge. He said the sector was limited by a lack of access to information, with knock-on effects for productivity and livelihoods. On the efficacy of data, Mokidi said it is useful at every stage, including soil testing, logistics and weather forecasting. Sometimes, he looks for a functional base on weather information to help him on land preparation and can’t find it. He said with agric specific weather data, farmers would be pre-informed when to expect rain or dry spells. This, according to him, will help farmers adjust their crop schedules in preparation for the coming weather. He said the ability of farmers to find out the best time for sowing and harvesting which results in précised projecting of farm production was important. According to him, it is difficult for farmers to succeed in Nigeria without data to address multiple challenges. For the sector to grow, Mokidi said the industry needed a farm data mechanism that increases linkages in the value chain for a stronger market system, apart from information on weather forecasts, news, and disaster preparedness. He added that there were lots of benefits for farming communities exploring data to improve their productivity and livelihoods. With Nigeria supporting the food needs of 120 million people and a growing population, he maintained that farmers needed accurate data to make informed decisions and to sustain agricultural growth. Recognising this challenge, the Chief Executive, Farmcrowdy, Onyeka Akumah, said his organisation had to create a database to enable it work with farmers. He said agritech start-up employed a wide range of data, including regular farmers’  information and drone imagery to support many farmers. This, he noted, gives them the capacity to fit well, with agriculture needs and serve as many farmers as possible One of the organisations on the forefront of data-driven agriculture is DigitalGreen. It is a technology-centric grassroots campaign focused on increasing the effectiveness of smallholder farmers in the developing world, to improve their farming methods and their lives. DigitalGreen facilitates the production and dissemination of videos made by the community, for the community, allowing farmers to share knowledge with one another. It works with more than 125,000 farmers. DigitalGreen began as a research project backed by Microsoft (MSFT). Its latest project is building a database of farmers called FarmStack for other start-ups to use. Partnering extension providers, the social enterprise provides real-time data collation and analysis that farmers can use. At the Building Resilience Through Data and Digital Platforms session, at the just-concluded African Green Revolution Forum (AGRF) virtual summit, the Vice-President of Strategy and Partnerships at Digital Green, Ms. Alesha Miller, urged industry players to consider building relationships that encourage the sharing of data among innovators. “There has been a tendency for replication of interventions and it is now clear that in order to get localised, highly-customised solutions for farmers we must figure out how to collaborate,” she said. The session agreed that strong data management and collaboration would give rise to sturdier data-driven decision structures that keep the African agriculture industry stable in the midst of emerging challenges.