 FIFTEEN suspected kidnappers have been taken into police custody in Delta and Anambra states. Eleven suspects were arrested in Delta while four were apprehended in Anambra. A firearm, ammunition and 11 mobile phones were reportedly recovered from the suspects who were arrested at different locations in Delta. Delta Commissioner of Police Hafiz Inuwa said two of the suspects who “kidnapped somebody and dispossessed him of his Sport Utility Vehicle”, led policemen to nine other suspects in Oghara, Mosogar, Jesse and Sapele communities of the state. Fifty-five-year-old Nkechi Odinye, one of the four suspects arrested in Anambra, was alleged to be involved in child trafficking. Odinye was said to have evaded arrest for over three years by frequently changing locations. The Nation gathered that she was arrested following her alleged accomplices’ confession that they sold children to her for between N200,000 and N400,000 depending on their age and gender. Police spokesman Haruna Mohammed confirmed the incident, saying the three accomplices were in custody. He said the police rescued 12 children comprising eight boys and four girls suspected to have been stolen from different parts of the country. Mohammed said “investigation revealed that the children were stolen from Gombe State by one Hauwa Musa ‘f” on the 20/10/2019 and brought to Odinye’s  accomplices in Anambra State.” He said “the suspects voluntarily confessed that they usually steal children and bring to their sponsor one Mrs Nkechi Odinye who buys the children here in Anambra State.” In Abuja, some activists have urged Inspector-General of Police Mohammed Adamu to intervene in the crisis that engulfed Evwreni community in Ughelli North Local Government Area of Delta State leading to the gruesome killings and maiming of their youths. Speaking to reporters on Tuesday on behalf of other activists, Ugochukwu Ezekiel said a traditional ruler was behind the killings, adding that the local police have been unable to resolve the killings and bring the culprits to book.    