 Leaders of the African Democratic Congress (ADC) in Ondo West and East federal constituencies have collapsed the party’s structure into the All Progressives Congress (APC) ahead of the October 10, governorship election. The move coincided with the resignation of Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu’s Senior Special Assistant on Political Matters for Ondo South, Mr. Andrew Ogunsakin. The defecting ADC leaders, led by Wale Akinlosotu, include all the 22 ward chairmen and 54 local government executive members in Ondo West and East. They collapsed the ADC structure at an APC campaign rally held in Ondo town. Speaking at the rally, Akinlosotu said they decided to collapse the ADC structure into that of the APC to ensure a smooth re-election of Governor Akeredolu. Akinlosotu, who described Akeredolu as a performer, said Ondo East and Ondo West would give him more than 85 per cent votes. Ondo APC chairman, Engr. Ade Adetimehin, who received the defectors, noted that two of the three political parties in Ondo town had joined forces with the ruling party. “There are three political parties in Ondo town, the APC, ADC and ZLP. But today, ADC is declaring support for the APC. We are one. This shows that no one can beat the APC in Ondo town,” he said. On his part, Governor Akeredolu said the continuous support of the people for the APC was an assurance of victory.  Members of the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP) led by Boro and a retired Permanent Secretary, Adeyemi Adelakun, also joined the APC at the event. Akeredolu’s aide resigns Governor Akeredolu’s Senior Special Assistant on Political Matters for Ondo South, Mr. Andrew Ogunsakin, has also resigned his appointment. Ogunsakin was said to be an ally of the Deputy Governor of the State, Agboola Ajayi, who is the candidate of the Zenith Labour Party. He was said to be among the many political appointees whose appointments were influenced by Agboola. In his resignation letter dated September 18, 2020, Ogunsakin said: “The call of my constituents on me to join the train to actualize a common aspiration different from what is offered by your government and your party stands at the root of my decision to quit at this point “Being an appointee, this will necessarily conflict with the performance of my duty to you, hence my resignation. “I thank your Excellency for the opportunity afforded me to serve the good people of Ondo State as SSA, for the period I was in office.”