 Experts who spoke at the fourth Olorogun Michael Ibru memorial lecture organised by the Michael and Cecilia Ibru University (MCIU have called for the initiation of education policies that are entrepreneurship-focused to equip students with the right skills and mindset before graduation. Speaking during a panel discussion of the virtual lecture last Sunday, the panelists – Prof. Ibiyinka Fuwape, Dr. Muda Yusuf, Olayemi Anyanechi, Prof. Anthony Kila, Bismarck Rewane and Mr. Obaro Osah were of the view that the Nigerian educational policies should be woven around entrepreneurial skills to create jobs for our teeming young undergraduates at the end of their educational careers. In his keynote speech entitled: “Innovation In Entrepreneurship: Changes The Rules of The Game”, pioneer Director of the Enterprise Development Centre (EDC) Pan-Atlantic University, Lagos, Mr. Peter Bamkole, underscored the importance of innovation in entrepreneurship and the vital roles entrepreneurs pay. “Wherever problems exist, entrepreneurs will scramble to provide multiple solutions leading to the creation of products, services and ultimately, ventures. Irrespective of the resources within their control, entrepreneurs will pursue such opportunity with a single-minded passion to deliver value to their target market. As long as the customer’s pain point is being relieved, the customer will continue to pay for such value until a superior value is being proposed either by the entrepreneur or a competitor,” he said. Earlier, in his opening address, chairman of the event, Olorogun Moses Taiga who is also the president-general of the Urhobo Progress Union (UPU) worldwide thanked the co-founder of the University, Dr. Cecilia Ibru for sustaining her late husband’s legacies through the annual lecture. Also, brother to the deceased and experienced hotelier Mr. Goodie Ibru, praised his fine virtues and qualities, which, according to the, endeared his late brother to the business world. He thanked his widow for running with the vision even in a time of the global crisis.  The event featured the inauguration of the university’s Entrepreneurship and Innovation Centre established to teach trainees about self-reliance and financial independence. The event was attended by dignitaries from across the globe, including Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo Agege, Air Chief Marshal Sadiq Abubakar, Chief of Air Staff of the Nigerian Airforce, Mr Paul Jite Okoloko, CEO, Notore Chemical Industries Plc, Prof G. G. Darah, among others. The event was moderated by international management expert, Dr. Benson Uwheru, a partner with Ernst and Young’s Banking and Capital Markets Sector and leader for West Africa. xperts who spoke at the fourth Olorogun Michael Ibru memorial lecture organised by the Michael and Cecilia Ibru University (MCIU have called for the initiation of education policies that are entrepreneurship-focused to equip students with the right skills and mindset before graduation. Speaking during a panel discussion of the virtual lecture last Sunday, the panelists – Prof. Ibiyinka Fuwape, Dr. Muda Yusuf, Olayemi Anyanechi, Prof. Anthony Kila, Bismarck Rewane and Mr. Obaro Osah were of the view that the Nigerian educational policies should be woven around entrepreneurial skills to create jobs for our teeming young undergraduates at the end of their educational careers. In his keynote speech entitled: “Innovation In Entrepreneurship: Changes The Rules of The Game”, pioneer Director of the Enterprise Development Centre (EDC) Pan-Atlantic University, Lagos, Mr. Peter Bamkole, underscored the importance of innovation in entrepreneurship and the vital roles entrepreneurs pay. “Wherever problems exist, entrepreneurs will scramble to provide multiple solutions leading to the creation of products, services and ultimately, ventures. Irrespective of the resources within their control, entrepreneurs will pursue such opportunity with a single-minded passion to deliver value to their target market. As long as the customer’s pain point is being relieved, the customer will continue to pay for such value until a superior value is being proposed either by the entrepreneur or a competitor,” he said. Earlier, in his opening address, chairman of the event, Olorogun Moses Taiga who is also the president-general of the Urhobo Progress Union (UPU) worldwide thanked the co-founder of the University, Dr. Cecilia Ibru for sustaining her late husband’s legacies through the annual lecture. Also, brother to the deceased and experienced hotelier Mr. Goodie Ibru, praised his fine virtues and qualities, which, according to the, endeared his late brother to the business world. He thanked his widow for running with the vision even in a time of the global crisis. The event featured the inauguration of the university’s Entrepreneurship and Innovation Centre established to teach trainees about self-reliance and financial independence. The event was attended by dignitaries from across the globe, including Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo Agege, Air Chief Marshal Sadiq Abubakar, Chief of Air Staff of the Nigerian Airforce, Mr Paul Jite Okoloko, CEO, Notore Chemical Industries Plc, Prof G. G. Darah, among others. The event was moderated by international management expert, Dr. Benson Uwheru, a partner with Ernst and Young’s Banking and Capital Markets Sector and leader for West Africa. 