Retired General Evangelist of the Christ Apostolic Church (CAC), Agbala Itura, Prophet Samuel Kayode Abiara, has cautioned the government and fellow Nigerians to watch their utterances on the Companies and Allied Matters Act (CAMA). He said religious bodies play vital roles in national stability, adding that those in positions of power should carry religious leaders along in state matters. The popular cleric expressed support for the position Christian bodies, such as the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) on the matter. He said: “We want to thank the Federal Government, the President, the Senate and all arms of government for their efforts to bring unity to this country. “With what is going on now in this country concerning the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) via Companies and Allied Matters Acts (CAMA), we support what the leadership of CAN and PFN on CAMA. “I want to advise all citizens and all those in power to be watchful of their utterances in politics, religious matters or any issue concerning the nation because everything you say will be on record, either good or hate speech. “All those in power must bear in mind that no position is permanent. What you say concerning any issue in government, particularly about the current CAMA amendment on religious organisations, shall be noted.” “Leaders should not forget that during any crisis in the country, it is the religious bodies that pray for the country day and night, and there would be peace. “They should be mindful and not to forget that the citizens brought them to power. “The country is going through kidnapping, Boko Haram (insurgency), hunger, famine, herdsmen, ritual killings, raping and communal clashes, etc. We should not add more crises to these issues. “The above should be paramount on their minds, not the issue of monitoring religious bodies. What we need in Nigeria now is peace and tight security. “They have to be very careful in handling spiritual matters. When it comes to spiritual matters, they need to seek advice from Muslim and Christian leaders in the country. Anything that is not acceptable to the religious organisations, the government should withdraw from it immediately.”