The Abia State Government has handed over a missing six-year-old boy, Master Marvelous Heness, who was rescued from a child trafficking and kidnapping syndicate to his parents. Speaking while handing the boy over to his parents in Umuahia, the state capital, the Commissioner for Women Affairs and Social Development, Chief Mrs. Ukachi Amala, described the rescue of the child as miraculous and charged parents/guardians to always be conscious of their children/wards and their whereabouts. She informed that the six-year-old was abducted from his parents’ residence in Port Harcourt for over two months confirming that the child has been properly identified by his parents who are set to take him home having conducted all necessary checks. The Commissioner who noted with dismay the increase in cases of child abduction and trafficking also frowned at the activities of baby factory operators, child traffickers, and kidnappers, assuring that the long arm of the law will soon catch up with those still carrying out the illicit activities. She used the opportunity to advise people who may want to adopt or give up the welfare of their child(ren) with mental or physical health disorders to charity homes, to ensure they go through already laid down procedures. Mrs. Amala urged the boy’s parents, Mr. and Mrs. Heness, and Amarachi Ondutimi, to ensure they take proper care of their son and make sure he goes to school as Abia State Government will be checking up on the family from time to time. Chief Mrs. Amala thanked the Governor of Abia State, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu, and his wife, Mrs. Nkechi Ikpeazu, for their commitment to promoting humanitarian ventures in the State which she described as a call to serve the nation and humanity. Earlier, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development, Lady Chinenye Onyinyechi Nwachukwu, recalled how Master Marvelous was abandoned at Desert Spring Home two weeks ago alongside a lady from Akwa Ibom State who was also a victim of human trafficking. She stated that the Ministry was set to unite Marvelous with his family had carried out necessary scrutiny to ensure that he is handed over to his biological parents. Receiving their son, the parents of the rescued boy, Mr. and Mrs. Heness and Amarachi Ondutimi, expressed their happiness amid tears of joy for the reunion. They narrated that Master Marvelous was abducted from their home in Rumuokoro, Port Harcourt by unknown persons for over 2months. While thanking the government and people of Abia State for their assistance, they prayed for God’s protection and blessings in their humanitarian services to the State and humanity.