The leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Abia State chapter has warned the Chairman of Abia State Independent Electoral Commission (ABSIEC), Prof Mkpa Agu Mkpa against engaging in any act capable of jeopardizing the December Local Government Polls. The Publicity Secretary of the APC, Comrade Benedict Godson in a chat with our reporter said that the party was ready to participate in the December 19, Local Government Chairman and Councillorship polls that will hold across the 17 Local Government areas of the state. Godson who boasted that the party has credible and qualified persons to be fielded for the elections expressed confidence in the party’s victory at the polls. Mkpa who spoke at the Michael Okpara Auditorium, Umuahia, charged the parties to ensure that they screen the certificates of all aspirants to ensure they meet the minimum qualification of a secondary school certificate before submitting their names to the Commission. The ABSIEC chairman announced that the election for the Councillor will equally hold in all the 292 Political Wards of the state on the same day. According to him, political parties that are interested in participating in the poll should visit the office of the Commission to obtain a detailed time table for the election. He said that the date of collection of forms for candidates would be communicated to the parties later. He also advised the party leaders to ensure that the prevailing relevant COVID-19 protocols are observed throughout the period leading to the polls and assured that the commission on its part will ensure that the polls would comply with COVID-19 safety protocols. The State Chairman of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Rt Hon. Asiforo Okere speaking at the event thanked ABSIEC for coming up with a time table for the election and assured that his party will mobilize her members to participate in the polls as well as abide by all the guidelines issued by the Commission. Also Speaking, the state Chairmen of All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA), Rev Augustine Ehiemere, implored ABSIEC to ensure a free and fair election with all the parties given a level playing ground.