In a bid to clarify the misconception around remarks reportedly made by the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo at last Sunday’s Interdenominational Church Service to mark Nigeria’s 60th Independence, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr Boss Mustapha, has taken full responsibility for the remarks, noting that he and not the Vice President, made the remarks at the church service. The clarification is contained in a statement personally signed by the SGF and released on Tuesday in Abuja. While the SGF stood in for the VP, his statement last night claimed ownership of the controversial comments. According to him, “I have observed with concern, the apparent sensationalization of the remarks I made at the 60th Independence Anniversary Church Service, where I stood in for His Excellency, the Vice President.” Absolving the Vice President and emphasizing both of their positions about Nigeria’s unity, Mustapha said “for the avoidance of doubt, I want to affirm that His Excellency, the Vice President and I remain very firmly and irrevocably, committed to the ideal of one indivisible Nigerian nation.” Continuing, the SGF acknowledged both President Muhammadu Buhari and the Prof. Osinbajo’s consistent efforts to strengthen the unity of the Nigerian nation, noting that “any suggestion to the contrary is a clear misrepresentation of our common position as a Government.” Osinbajo is indeed well-known for his stand on Nigeria’s unity and has, in the past few years, led the campaign for a united Nigeria through strong comments at forums and advocacy visits to communities across the country including in the North, Southeast and South-South. Below is the full text of the SGF’s Press Statement: OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY TO THE GOVERNMENT OF THE FEDERATION PRESS STATEMENT I have observed with concern the apparent sensationalization of the remarks I made at the 60th Independence Anniversary Church Service, where I stood in for His Excellency, the Vice President. (Signed) Boss Mustapha Secretary to the Government of the Federation