YOUTHS in Akwa Ibom State are to sharpen their skills in modern agricultural techniques, the National Directorate of Employment (NDE) has said. The agency spoke at the launch of an intensive training programme for 100 youths on various aspects of agriculture. The training, under the Sustainable Agricultural Development Training Scheme (SADTS) of the NDE, is to equip the participants with the right skills and techniques. Addressing participants in Uyo, the Director-General of NDE, Nadir Ladan Moh’d Argungu said the training programme covers areas such as crop production and processing, livestock farming others. Argungu, who was represented by the NDE state coordinator, Mr. Promise. B. Ekah, disclosed that the participants will undergo one-month theoretical class on modern techniques of agriculture and two months industrial attachment in reputable farms across the state. He noted that the drop in crude oil prices and its adverse effects on the economy has proven that Nigeria can no longer depend on earnings from oil. The directly-general restated the President Muhammadu Buhari administration commitment to tackling youth/graduate unemployment, hunger and poverty through huge investments in agriculture. ”In a bid to awaken the interest of the unemployed youths in agriculture to exploit the tremendous opportunities for employment and wealth creation in the sector and consequently stem the rural-urban drift of the youths, the NDE designed a special training programme for youths in agriculture”, he said. Argungu enjoined beneficiaries to take the training seriously as well as avail themselves of the opportunity to be free from unemployment and lack. Speaking also, a director in the federal ministry of agriculture, Dr. Uyiobong Uko maintained that agriculture was the solution to the country’s economic challenges. He urged participants to take to agriculture as it is profitable, adding that dependence on crude oil revenue was no longer in vogue. Ifreke Aniefiok Jeremiah, who spoke on behalf of other beneficiaries, thanked the NDE for the programme and promised to ensure that the knowledge and skills garnered from the training would be put to judicious use.