 We seek, in these desperate times, a proper first lady for the people of Edo State, for you only have to look at a man’s wife and his relationship with her to know the type of man he is. A man, who is joined to an intemperate wife and is disposed to accede to all her wishes, will very likely possess a flexible morality and no mind of his own. A strong man with good character married to a strong wife with compassion will be a formidable pair. While the people of Edo state do not say any man is joined to an intemperate wife, we say that we are all fired up to gain a strong couple with unwavering compassion, humility and strength in character. Already, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu is a powerful philanthropist with a history of displaying compassion. He lives and breathes a better life for Edo people. The best marital decision he therefore made was entering into conjugal bliss with the inimitable and remarkable Prof Idia Ize-Iyamu, nee Omoregie. Without needing to mention the evident love between couple, it is clear that her calmness matches his assuredness, so there is no danger that he may stutter and hesitate in a manner that will put her off her game, as has been known to be the norm in in Edo state these days. If anything, she is strong enough to inspire her husband, something that anyone who watched the Obamas during their stint in the White House would have observed. Osadebey Avenue desperately begs for that nobility and regal conduct from its first family. To determine who would be a proper first lady for the people of Edo, a few things must be brought to mind. The first is indigeneity. Accounts are sparse, few and far between where a woman not indigenous to a people went ahead to become a good queen or matriarch for them. It simply is difficult. Many successful queens are usually indigenous to the kingdoms that they find themselves. While in issues of business and industry, the current first lady may be experienced enough to motivate her husband, governing the people of Edo State is not the same thing. She needs an understanding of the people, the culture and the voices of the people. This is something that Prof Mrs Ize-Iyamu has in abundance, her father having drilled into her through his life’s example, the principles of empathy and philanthropy towards humans in general and Edo people in particular. To put things in perspective, we have a governor on the one hand, who, even though he was part of an administration that built a hospital that should have moved Edo healthcare to the next level, he preferred to spitefully and with misguided vindictiveness close down the hospital and hound the governor who built it. On the other hand, we have an incoming governor whose wife is a Professor of medicine and who will ensure her husband does everything possible to move healthcare from the disastrous level it currently is to the next level. Who would you choose? It’s a no-brainer. It was because the PDP knew of her ability to be a tour de force in the APC campaign that they decided to attack her person by conjuring up imbecilic stories about her family, warning her to stay away from her husband’s campaign. Of course, they failed. The Omoregies came out in their numbers to declare their support for the Ize-Iyamu candidacy. The Obasekis joined suit and declared their support for Ize-Iyamu, taking time to denounce their son. Already, the people of Edo suspect that the wife of the PDPcandidate is only contractually joined to him for an advantage. While individually, there are reports she is a great person, it is unfair comparison to juxtapose her with the significantly more empathetic and philanthropic Professor Mrs Ize-Iyamu, who has spent more time in Edo and is in tune with her people.Professor Idia has been able to display remarkable understanding of the POI SIMPLE agenda because her family, her children and her entire life and father’s legacies are tied to the development of Edo State. She would not side even her husband if he treads the path of evil and she supports what she believes to be good. There is no clear indication that the current first lady understands the MEGA (failure?) agenda of her husband, which seeks among other things to divide Edo State along religious, political, ethnic and social lines. What has she done for the people of Edo State apart from, at one time, distributing chickens to the widows in the state? Her husband’s poverty-inducing policies have no doubt made the widows kill and eat the chickens, for we no longer hear anything about them. No happy clack clacking in the poultries. No eggs sizzling in the pans. Just the growl of hungry stomachs and the glare of red angry eyes. While the Professor, a daughter of Edo, has not shied away from going into the markets and speaking to the women she will soon enough serve as first lady, the industrialist has not been able to muster in her heart that same level of commitment. We cannot blame her. She simply does not have it in her. She was forced away from her comfort zone by her husband and dragged to be the first lady in Edo state where she did not grow up, can barely speak the language and cannot empathise well enough to be the first lady we want her to be. She, with her husband, needs to go. The current first lady showed immense promise, but that was the end of the matter – a show. Professor Idia has not only shown promise, she has been living the life of a first lady for a long time and would be a fitting role model for any women interested in going into leadership. We have chosen who we want in power, and it is the Ize-Iyamu family. Prof. Idia Ize-Iyamu, the wife of the APC Governorship candidate in the Edo Governorship election, has said her husband, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, has plans to establish a special victims unit to combat sexual assault and care for survivors of rape and other gender-based violence if elected as governor on the 19th of September. She sopke while featuring on a popular morning show, Your View, on Television Continental. The professor of Orthodontist who recently flagged off a free medical outreach across the three senatorial districts of Edo State to provide access to quality healthcare to residents of communities lacking health centers and personnel, says her husband’s administration will prioritize the care and empowerment of vulnerable groups in the state. Describing herself as an empowered woman, Prof. Idia praised her husband as a compassionate man who is a strong believer in the capacity of women to inspire change in the society and contribute to growth and development when provided with an enabling environment and offered the right support. She recounted Pastor Ize-Iyamu’s continuous support and encouragement in her journey to being a Professor following their marriage in 1992 when she had just completed her university education. “I am an empowered woman because my husband, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, supported me all the way. I had just completed my university education when we got married and he told me not to rest on my oars. He actively supported me in my academic journey to becoming a Professor.” “At a time in my career, I had to go for posting for two years, and my husband not only allowed it, but also made sure I had all that I needed. There were times when the cost of research became a challenge, as you know funding for research in this part of the world is almost non-existent, and my husband would ask how much I needed to complete my research and provide the funds.” “Even when I grew tired, he encouraged me and gave me the moral support to continue publishing. He always reminded me of the mantra ‘publish or perish’ and encouraged me to keep going.” Prof. Idia expressed confidence that Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu has plans to offer similar support and empowerment to all Edo women in their chosen endeavors, if he emerges as the Governor. When quizzed on her husband’s involvement in politics as a clergy, she stressed the importance of having righteous and honest leaders in political office, quoting the Bible book of Proverbs which says ‘when the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice: but when the wicked beareth rule, the people mourn.’ She however clarified that her husband’s spirituality and proven integrity are not his only strong suits, but also his wealth of experience in public service as a former Chief of Staff and Secretary to the State Government, as well as his credentials as a homegrown politician who knows the true problems of the people and the right solutions to them. Prof. Idia Ize-Iyamu attended Corona Nursery School, Apapa  from 1971-1973, Corona Primary School, Apapa Lagos, from 1974-1978, Holy child College, Obalende Lagos, 1979-1985, Queens College, Yaba Lagos, 1985-1986, College of Medicine, University of Lagos, 1986-1992, West African College of surgeons 1997- 2004. She is a Fellow of the West African College of Surgeons. She also attended Oxford University United Kingdom on a  Commonwealth Medical Fellowship in 2016. She worked with the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, 1992-1993, She did her National Youth Service Corp at the Military Hospital Bonny Camp Lagos from 1993-1994 , Smile Well Dental Clinic from 1994-1995, University of Benin Teaching Hospital (UBTH) 1997- date.  Lecturer at the University of Benin since 2003 till date. She became a Professor – of Orthodontics in 2018. She is the current  Head of Department, Department of Preventive Dentistry UBTH, and Head of Department, Department of Preventive Dentistry Uniben. She is also a Pastor at Redeemed Christian Church of God ( RCCG) Soul Winners Assembly and was the former Pastor in Charge of the teenage church Trinity Sanctuary, Region 13, HeadQuarter Parish from 2009 to 2018. 