The advocacy focus of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) has shifted, in response to the dislocation forced on the manufacturing sector by the Covid-19 outbreak. From its usual focus on issues around infrastructure deficiencies, patronage of made-in-Nigeria products, regulatory and trade facilitation, the emphasis is on what the government, working with industry operators and stakeholders should do to help manufacturers weather the storm. Assistant Editor CHIKODI OKEREOCHA examines some of the measures and policy responses put forward by manufacturers.  No one saw it coming. And if anybody did, it is highly improbable that he anticipated the global scale and ferociousness of the Covid-19 outbreak. Like wildfire, the deadly virus, which was first identified last December, in Wuhan, Central China, has since spread across continents from mainland China, its root, to Asia, Europe, America and Africa. The pandemic eventually found its way into Nigeria on February 27, through an Italian who travelled from Milan to Lagos, in a Turkish Airline. Since then, it’s been a tale of woes for Africa’s largest and most populous economy, particularly the manufacturing sector. For instance, as the Director-General of Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), Mr. Muda Yusuf, put it, the global supply chain has been deeply disrupted as China, which is the second largest economy in the world, is a major supplier of input for manufacturing companies around the world, Nigeria inclusive. According to him, “Many manufacturers and service providers in the country are already experiencing acute shortage of raw materials and intermediate input. This has implications for capacity utilisation, employment generation (and retention) and adequacy of products’ supply to the domestic market. There is also an implication for inflation and the pressures are already mounting.” This is so because China represents Nigeria’s biggest trading partner, with about 19 per cent of its imports sourced from the Asian giant. In all, over 70 per cent of manufactured goods in Nigeria are imported. And with the unprecedented spread of the killer virus across the globe, the implications are not lost on local manufacturers. This is why manufacturers have shifted the focus of their advocacy to underscore the imperativeness of appropriate policy responses to mitigate the impacts of the rampaging coronavirus on their operations and by extension, the  economy. For instance, even before the decision by various state governments to lock down business, economic and financial activities and the eventual national declaration by President Muhammadu Buhari, manufacturers had, as one of the coping measures, requested the Federal Government to ensure reasonable access to industrial supplies and input. i.e. gas, electricity supply, fuel and other essential infrastructure needs. In a statement made available to The Nation, MAN President Mansur Ahmed also said as part of the Federal Government’s efforts to mitigate the impacts of the Covid-19 pandemic on the economy, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) should extend its financial support to the supply of Foreign Exchange (Forex) to the manufacturing sector at pre-Covid-19 rates, and also consider directing commercial banks to freeze interest charges in the event of a lock down Ahmed also wants the government to consider the introduction of fiscal measures such as waivers on import duties on Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs), and other essential products; extend tax holiday to companies on corporate tax, and waive the Value Added Tax (VAT); reduce the burden of personal income tax as a way of increasing the disposable income of an average Nigerian worker. That is not all. MAN said as the voice of manufacturers’ interest in Nigeria, it will gladden the hearts of its members if government ensures that all regulatory agencies, such as Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Nigeria Ports Authority (NPA), Standards Organisations of Nigeria (SON), and National Agency for Food, Drugs Administration & Control (NAFDAC), will treat all requests from manufacturers expeditiously and with the required sensitivity to the prevailing situation. The MAN president further urged the government to prevail on relevant agencies to  comply with the provisions of Executive Orders 001, 003 and 005; ensure its agencies do not act contrary to its directive of permitting essential manufacturing sectors to operate; and also take into consideration the inclusion of the logistics and distribution arm of manufacturing to make possible delivery of manufactured items to the final consumers. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, then Acting President, signed the Executive Order 001 on May 18, 2017. It was expected to help change the ways the government’s business and operations are conducted in the country. This is by entrenching measures and strategies to promote transparency and efficiency in the business environment. The Executive Order 003 requires Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDA) of government to grant preference to local manufacturers of goods and service providers in their procurement of goods and services. It was a shot in the arm of manufacturers who have long been clamouring for local content in public procurement by the Federal Government, particularly increased patronage of made-in-Nigerian goods and services. On the other hand, Buhari signed into law the Executive Order 005 on Monday, February 5, 2018, to demonstrate the Federal Government’s efforts at promoting the application of science, technology and innovation within Nigeria. The Order recognised the role of science, technology and innovation in national economic development and to increase the quantum of value created in the Nigerian economy via local content in public procurement. But, as potentially game-changing and promising as the executive orders were, perceived shoddy implementation has continued to limit their capacity to help entrench a regime of efficiency and transparency in the way businesses are conducted in the country. There have been concerns over the level of compliance with the orders, as agencies charged with implementation the orders allegedly fail to do so. That manufacturers are urging the government to prevail on all relevant agencies to strictly comply with the provisions of Executive Orders is seen as confirmation that government needed to walk the talk on the implementation of the executive orders. This is so particularly now that their full implementation is needed as wedge for a manufacturing sector severely hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. Experts have also weighed in on the need for government to take urgent steps to mitigate the shocks associated with the Covid-19 lockdown on the nation’s manufacturing sector and the economy. This is so considering that the dislocation of business, economic and financial activities caused by the Covid-19, coupled with tumbling oil prices causing significant havoc on the 2020 budget has triggered fears that the economy may slip into another recession. For instance, Partner, KPMG, Mr. Ajibola Olomola, said some of the imperatives for the Nigerian Government and corporates to mitigate the obvious impacts of the lockdown include intensifying efforts towards building domestic capacity across critical sectors such as manufacturing, increasing investment in technology that would optimise existing business processes (e.g. digital and online presence). The KPMG tax expert also advised the government to ensure that tax enforcement practices do not stifle business growth. Olomola, who spoke at a recent forum organised by the LCCI in Lagos, also said there was the need to increase investment in public health infrastructure while experimenting on the possibility of large-scale remote working for employees and its impact on productivity. For Yusuf, appropriate policy choices are needed to attract equity domestic and foreign private sector capital for infrastructure financing. According to him, the government needs to look beyond tax credit in its quest for complimentary funding sources for infrastructure. “We should be looking more in the direction of equity financing.  But for this to happen the policy and regulatory environment must be right,” he said. The LCCI DG also said it had become critical to review the spending structure of government and the cost of governance. “The ballooning recurrent expenditure in the face of declining revenue is a cause for concern,” he said, adding that Public-Private Partnership and Public-Private Dialogue should be deepened to harness quality ideas on how to manage “This rather scary situation.”  Ray of light on the horizon Interestingly, some of the manufacturers’ suggested policy responses to help weather the storm triggered by the Covid-19 lockdown may have hit the right chord in the ears of the authorities. The Nation learnt, for instance, that the state governors, under the aegis of Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF), have given manufacturers of essential products and services easy movement during the 14-day lockdown to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. The MAN president confirmed this much. Noting that the food, beverage, pharmaceutical and other complementing sectors that make the value chain of essential products available are very critical, he said the association was glad that government recognised this critical role in its directive for 14 days lockdown, adding that its members have testified to unhindered operations in the face of the lockdown. However, this was as a result MAN’s advocacy refocus on putting in place measures to help manufacturers adjust and cope with the coronavirus pandemic. Ahmed stated that since the decision to lock down economic activities as a way of containing the spread of the virus, MAN has maintained consistent talks with relevant government stakeholders on the survival and sustenance of livelihood of Nigerians via the operation of critical manufacturing sectors. According to him, such talks indeed, yielded positive results, one of which was a letter addressed to him by the Chairman of the NGF and Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, for manufacturers. “I am deeply impressed by the move of the NGF for taking heed to the call of manufacturers of essential products at a time like this,” Ahmed said. The NGF, had in a letter to MAN, dated March 30 and titled: “Covid-19 Emergency Response-Special Clearance for Producers, Suppliers and Distributors of Essential Goods and Services”, conveyed its support to manufacturers to ensure that their operations are unhindered with continued effective and efficient movement of essential items. The letter, which was signed by Fayemi and made available to The Nation, read in part: “Considering the crucial role you (Manufacturers) play in ensuring the production of essential items such as nutritious foods (including beverages), medical and pharmaceutical products considered critical for the sustenance and well-being of individuals and families especially in these times. “Following careful and deliberate consideration by the 36 governors of the Federation, we are pleased to convey to you our full support to ensure that your operations are unhindered with continued effective and efficient movement of such essential items.” Accordingly, the NGF said parastatals and agencies of the 36 state governments have been advised that the operations and activities of food, medical and pharmaceutical product companies and their suppliers of raw materials and packaging materials, service providers (logistic companies, etc), transporters, distributors, sales team and retailers should not be hindered by officials or agents of the state governments. The NGF, however, said food, beverage, pharmaceutical and medical companies are required to issue all suppliers and transporters a letter of authority confirming that they are authorised by them; that all their staff ensure they carry their identity cards at all time for all movements, with a copy of the letter of authority. The Forum also said it will soon provide manufacturers with toll-free numbers they can call in case they have any problems or bottlenecks with their letter of authority. “We are working assiduously to ensure unhindered flow of essential goods and services,” the NGF said. But, Ahmed observed that some security operatives in some states are not yielding particularly, the rank and file officers on the field. He, however, said that to address this setback, “We are in talks with the NGF to give the necessary directives for adequate sensitization of officers who are unyielding to giving manufacturers of essential products easy movement hampering the chain of distribution.” The MAN president added that while MAN continues to play its role as an advocacy body committed to creating a friendly business environment for manufacturers, “the Association can only rely on the government to reciprocate by implementing the suggestions of MAN on the support for the sector during this era of Coronavirus pandemic.” He said on its part, in a bid to address the potential impact of the virus on the Nigerian economy, MAN has advised members to ensure they sensitize and educate their workers on compliance with the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) guidelines, and provide requisite facilities and supplies for the prevention of COVID-19 in line with extant guidelines of the NCDC. Ahmed stated that given the fundamental role manufacturers will be playing at a time like this, they have been encouraged to sustain ongoing operations to avoid reduction or shut down of production activities; and scale up their production especially of essential commodities such as pharmaceuticals, consumables, sanitary and hygiene products needed to curtail the spread of the virus.