Business School Netherlands (BSN) has been ranked among the top 11 in the global ranking by the CEO Magazine. The 2020 ranking places BSN far ahead of several business schools, eclipsing notable institutions running MBA Programme and many others. In a report titled “CEO Magazine Global MBA Rankings,” the editors of CEO Magazine stated specific criteria considered in assessing business schools are based upon key performance indicators considered to be of interest and value to potential students. He said these indicators include: Quality of Faculty (weighted 34.95%), International Diversity (9.71%), Class Size (9.71%), Accreditation (8.74%), Faculty to Student Ratio (7.76%), Price (5.83%), International Exposure (4.85%), Work Experience (4.85%), Professional Development (4.85%), Gender Parity (4.85%) and Delivery Methods (3.8%). According to him: “Business School Netherlands now ranks among the best eleven business schools to study MBA programmes globally. “It ranked no.11 out of over 150 MBA programmes that were thoroughly examined from all over the world. “Thus, BSN outpaced over 138 excellent programmes from different continents of the world in terms of the quality of Faculty, learning environment, class sizes, tuition fees, faculty, delivery methods, international diversity, gender make-up and more.” Business School Netherlands has study centres in different locations across the globe, including Lagos, Abuja and Port-Harcourt. Commenting on the new ranking, Prof Lere Baale, said: “Achieving 11th position out of a group of 85 Tier-One global universities and business schools is an immense source of pride for us and reaffirms our commitment to the innovative Action Learning and students-first approach. “We are honoured to be recognized by the CEO Magazine for the fifth consecutive year.” When asked why Business School Netherlands is rated so highly, Baale explained: “In the last six years, international observers including CEO Magazine have taken note of our innovative curriculum and world-class faculty who are not mere professors but gladiators in the global business marketplace. “Also noteworthy is the impressive career outcomes of our alumni. Many of them are securing investments from global venture capitalists, getting appointments and gaining fast promotions in Fortune 500 organizations and public sector appointments.”