 Nigerian Conservation Foundation (NCF) in collaboration with other national governments has continued to confront the challenges of illegal wildlife trade in Africa. Director-General of the Foundation Dr. Muhtari Aminu-Kano expressed the  need to raise awareness among the public about the negative impact of the trade. He noted that initially illegal wildlife trade was criticised almost purely in terms of conservation of the species, but other considerations have arisen in the recent past including biosecurity and public health. According to him, ‘The main challenge is to change attitudes and beliefs, which are major drivers of wildlife trade in Africa. This will be critical in tackling this trade especially at this period. Africa needs to be proactive, as we tackle current health challenge of the COVID 19 – pandemic, we need to forestall possible outburst of any other animal infected disease by keeping our wildlife in the wild through strong enforcement of wildlife laws and legislation. “In Africa, it involves trade and trafficking of elephant tusks and rhino horn, pangolin scales, bush meat, tropical timber and endangered birds, including vultures. Wildlife trade is increasingly driving species to extinction, and destroying biodiversity. Moreover, wildlife trade threatens rural community livelihoods, hampers development efforts, and puts ecosystems at risk. Perhaps one of the frightening realities of this trade is the threat that it poses to the health of human beings, through spread of zoonotic diseases – diseases that jump from animals to human beings. In recent past, the world has seen the emergence of animal-borne infectious diseases such as Sars, Nipah, Ebola and Lassa Fever,” he said. He noted that the on-going COVID-19 pandemic that has wreaked havoc globally is suspected to have originated from a wildlife market in Wuhan, China. “China has taken commendable steps and banned the trade and consumption of wild animals, pending formalisation of this ban into law later this year. Vietnam also followed suit, banning the trade,” he added. EV New LIFE Project Manager/BSPB Stoyan Nikolov said wildlife trade is reaching unprecedented levels and that while efforts are being made to combat this trade, government should enact effective laws that will clamp down on the trade. This, according to him, will go a long way in ensuring protection and conservation of species and perhaps help reduce occurrences of zoonotic diseases in the future. The Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Flora and Fauna (CITES) provides a legal framework to regulate trade in wild animals and plants. African countries party to the convention should consider mainstreaming various aspects of combating wildlife crimes, in line with CITES, into their national laws and drive strong enforcement of this legislations. “Banning wildlife trade in addition to more public awareness on the impact of this trade on biodiversity and the risks that this trade poses to human health is important. As a result, decisive action to stop the trade should be taken,” Project Manager SCF, Cloé Pourchier said.  