Banks have started deploying and strengthening technology to serve more customers as the lockdown for the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic continues. Many lenders are developing new products and adopting remote working plans to to serve customers, writes COLLINS NWEZE. Gone are the days when banking was boring and simple transactions took almost a day to complete. Today, with digital banking, commercial banks are finding new ways to ensure they provide efficient services to their customers as the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown continues in Abuja, Lagos and Ogun states. Banks are developing new products and services that rely heavily on technology to serve customers. Hence, banks with eyes on the future are taking strategic steps to ensure they take advantage of the new information technology that is defining the sector’s successes and reach. This is because the competitive business environment requires intense focus and resources to remain efficient and invest for the future. Banks are, therefore, committed to taking customer experiences to new heights, using tested technology and informed work-force that remain the hallmark of every thriving institution. Deposit Money Banks (DMBs) are advising their customers to use alternative digital channels for their transactions. Zenith Bank, First Bank,  Access Bank, Wema Bank, Unity Bank among others, have reiterated the gains of going cash-less. Speaking at a webinar organization organized by Financial Institutions Training Centre (FITC) in Lagos, Group Executive, Tech & Services, FirstBank, Callistus Obetta, gave insight on what leaders could do with technology, the fourth industrial revolution, and how FirstBank is responding to COVID-19 pandemic, using technology to connect with its customers and workforce. He said organisations needed to build resilient business operations beyond the lockdown period, and technology would continue to play a dominant role in achieving this. Obetta said the boundaries among the physical, biological and technological walls were blurring, the convergence between robotics, artificial intelligence and Internet of Things is imminent. The combination of these, he added, would create massive disruption. Also, Zenith Bank Plc introduced an automated voice banking service, an interactive voice response (IVR) solution, which enables customers to perform basic banking by dialing a dedicated phone line through their registered phone numbers and following the prompts. By simply dialing approved number linked to their accounts and following the prompts, customers can pay DSTV/GOTV bills, restrict their accounts or block their cards, request account statement via email, view the last five transactions, transfer funds, buy airtime, and do more. The Group Managing Director / Chief Executive Officer, Ebenezer Onyeagwu said the “Zenith automated voice banking service is designed to ensure a truly amazing experience that will offer convenience for our teeming customers”. He urged the bank’s customers to take advantage of this unique service, particularly at this critical time when the physical interface with the bank has been impacted due to social distancing and the restriction of movement in some states due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Zenith Bank has distinguished itself in the financial services industry through superior service quality, unique customer experience and sound financial indices. The bank remains a leader in the digital space with several firsts in the deployment of innovative products, solutions and alternative channels that ensure convenience, speed and safety of transactions. Wema Ban Plc also launched a self-service banking platform for customers. The new Self-Service banking feature, which is hosted on the bank’s digital platform, ALAT, uses an Interactive Voice Response (IVR) to generate information for customers and help them perform other banking needs. Customers can confirm account balance, resolve account security issues and check their financial statements in varying period stretches. Issues around failed, delayed or non-reflecting transactions, app sign-up and login issues and other account-related matters can also be resolved using the platform. Managing Director/CEO, Wema Bank, Ademola Adebise, explained: “This in no way should impale on customer’s ability to carry out their banking transactions. “With the launch of ALAT in 2017 being a solution to a problem of the future, it seems that that future is now. Wema Bank customers, who have signed up on ALAT can resolve their regularly encountered issues with the novel and incredibly easy self-service feature.” The launch of ALAT self-service comes at a time responses to customers’ call might be delayed as some of the bank’s staff in COVID-19 affected states have been forced to work from home. With the new solution, customers can handle minor personal banking issues without contacting Purple Connect, the bank’s Call Centre, as well as save themselves from the stress of visiting the banking halls. First Bank of Nigeria Limited has reassured its customers that it would remain steadfast and ready to show up for them at these “unprecedented times”. The bank, in a statement signed by its Chief Executive Officer, Adesola Adeduntan, hailed  its customers for their resilience, especially in the last two weeks despite the pandemic. “As I reflect on the last two weeks, I am comforted by the resilience of our people,” he said. On FirstBank’s strides in the last one week, Adeduntan disclosed that the lender has over 53,000 agents across the country who have processed over five million transactions with various values in the last week alone. “We’ve recorded approximately 2.5 million withdrawals, which amounts to N35 billion across our Automated Teller Machines (ATMs)  last week. ‘’Our larger corporate customers have done over 1,700 successful transactions worth N6.8 billion on our e-bills platform during this challenging period. Nigerians with FirstBank cards have used them 21 million times to make payments or withdrawals worth N268 million as they rely on us to settle their banking needs,” he said. While the banks are innovating and customers are increasing their reliance on digital platforms, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has also alerted the  the public that cyber-criminals are taking advantage of the “COVID-19” pandemic to defraud citizens, steal sensitive information, or gain unauthorised access to computers or mobile devices using various techniques. In a statement, CBN Director, Corporate Communications, Isaac Okorafor, said the trend was not peculiar to Nigeria as there had been a rise in COVID-19-related cyber-criminal activities. “Our priority is to ensure that Nigerian banking customers are aware of the ongoing trend to prevent them from falling victim to such cyber- crimes,” he said in the statement entitled: ‘Alert! Beware of COVID-19 Cyber-attacks, Fraud’. He listed some of the cyber-criminal activities using the pandemic as Phishing campaigns where cyber-criminals send out emails claiming to be from health organisations, such as the Nigerian Center for Disease Control (NCDC) or the World Health Organisation (WHO). The email may contain a link which, if clicked, steals login credentials or other confidential information from the victim’s computer or mobile device. Okorafor said cyber-criminals have also been sending messages via social media or emails asking people to click on links to register  to get their COVID-19 relief packages from the government or other organisations. They use this to get confidential information from unwary victims. Relief package scams also come in the form of phone calls asking people to provide their banking details to receive relief packages. “Cyber-criminals place calls to individuals claiming to be staff of their banks and asking them to get mobile apps that would help them get through this pandemic period. Such mobile apps are however used to steal information from the victims’ mobile phones among other things. Criminals have also produced COVID-19 maps, which steal information in the background,” he said. 