 A big Whale has been washed ashore the Bonny Island, Bonny Local Government Area, Rivers State, amidst suspicions of massive aquatic pollution in the Niger Delta region. It was gathered from sources that the Whale, whose tail and other parts of its body, were already decaying, was discovered by residents of Finima. It was found at the shore at the time oil and gas sector regulators said they had launched an investigation into the cause of death of thousands of croaker fish known as broke marriage in rivers, across Ijaw communities. A delegation of youths led by the interim President of the Ijaw Youths Council (IYC), Worldwide, Kennedy Olorogun, recently toured the affected areas and have issued a report. The report, signed by Olorogun and Secretary of Council, Frank Akiefa, said they found thousands of fish killed by suspected pollutants and washed ashore with some already decomposing and emitting foul smell. Olorogun said: “If you go to Bonny now and see for yourself; you will be amazed at the extent of destruction that had taken place. You will see dead fishes floating on top of the river. Fishermen in the area can longer go to fishing and you know the times we are in; in this season of Coronavirus, you can better imagine what the people in these areas are going through,” he said. An aspiring Spokesman of IYC and blogger, Bodmas Kemepadei, lamented that people were already harvesting the animal without considering its health implication.  He warned the people of Finima against eating any part of the dead Whale, adding that it could have died from the same pollutant that killed the croaker fish. But the National Oil Spills Detection and Response Agency (NOSDRA) said it found no oil leaks linked to the massive death of fishes along the Atlantic coastline across the region. Director-General of NOSDRA, Mr. Idris Musa,  said in a statement that investigation was already ongoing despite the COVID-19 lockdown. He said: “The National Oil Spills Detection and Response Agency (NOSDRA) carried out a reconnaissance of the area in Delta where we first got the report through a member of a Non- Governmental Organisation. “There was no incident of oil spill within the area of reported dead fishes, notwithstanding that a few dead fishes were seen along the shoreline,” he said, adding, “The event of recent days where the death of fishes in large numbers make it expedient to look beyond oil spillage as the likely cause of death of fishes in such large numbers.” He said the result of ongoing laboratory analysis would be compared with results from the participating agencies to proffer an effective solution and ensure more stringent regulations in future.