Sunny Nwankwo, Umuahia  Abia State Environmental Health Officers (EHO) led by the Honorable Commissioner for Environment, Dr Solomon Ogunji on Tuesday started the fumigation of public places in Aba, the commercial nerve of the state. The exercise which was launched in Umuahia on Monday saw the team fumigating major areas in the business city including markets, LGA secretariats of Aba North and South, streets and various motor park loading bays. The exercise which is expected to last for three days is a precautionary measure by Governor Okezie Ikpeazu’s concerted efforts to prevent the spread of coronavirus in the state. The state Commissioner for Environment, Dr. Solomon Ogunji told newsmen that the exercise will benefit the state a lot, as its effect will go beyond curbing the spread of the COVID-19. He assured that the fumigation process from henceforth will become a routine practice in Abia even after COVID-19, as it has too, benefits that cannot be overlooked. He said, “This is the second phase. The first phase was in Umuahia on Monday. From Wednesday, we’ll fumigate the entire Local Government Areas remaining. “We have the capacity, equipment and personnel to touch the whole state. We’re using the state fire service trucks completely powered with over 70,000 litres of chemicals. “This will help to prevent COVID-19 and other diseases like malaria and keep our environment safe after COVID-19. We shall sustain this because we have the equipment. “I want our people to know that COVID-19 is real and let everyone stay safe by obeying the necessary directives.” Executive Secretary, Abia State Primary Healthcare Development Agency, Dr Chinagozi Adindu described the fumigation process as a double-barrel activity because it is for disinfection and disinfestations. In his words, “disinfection will help us to ensure that we get rid of viruses and some other pathogenic microorganisms in the environment. And then disinfestations will help us get rid of some other vectors. “So we are doing this in the entire state. We have here, a combined team of ministry of environment, ministry of health, Abia State Primary Healthcare development Agency, local government health officers and the Fire Department. “We are working assiduously to ensure that we do this fumigation in public places, markets, schools, banks, churches and even on the streets to make sure that we get rid of this virus.” He said that the exercise is expected to last for three days, adding that they have about 200 trained environmental health officers that are handling the assignment together with three water tankers from the State Fire Service which will help in speeding up the process. Speaking further on the targeted areas and strategies adopted, Adindu said, “We started by 7.00am today. We have seven groups. The first group went to the Timber Market, from there to the Flyover market (ie the spare parts market) they came back refilled and went to Ariaria International Market. “Another group is working on Aba-Owerri Road, all the churches there, the markets. We also have another group that is taking care of the main motor park, right side of Asa road to Port Harcourt Road, while another group is working on the left side of Asa road and adjoining streets. “We have another group that is working on Umuoba road from Waterside, while another group is working on Ogbo-Hill through Ikot Ekpene road and its environs. “Then we have another group that is at Ngwa road, Nkwo-Ngwa axis, another one at Umule and other parts of that axis. So, all the groups are working. “And as you can see, some of them came back to refill and they will still go back to make sure that they cover their areas. We are also lucky today that we have two institutions that are assisting us in this exercise. “We have our friends from Gregory University, Uturu about 10 of them. They also worked with us yesterday. We also have 12 staff of School of Health Technology, Aba to add to the group.” Mr. Victor Gbaruko, the Head of Abia State Fire Service said that the exercise was very smooth and gave kudos to the government for such a wonderful and well organized exercise. He told newsmen that the exercise did not witness any challenge as the lockdown introduced by government helped to keep traders at home and prevents anyone from interfering with the fumigation exercise. He assured that the agency will keep collaborating with the necessary Ministries and other government agencies to keep Abia safe.