AMIDST the global despondency over the socio-economic gloom due to the devastating effects of the Covid-19 pandemic, a glimmer of hope seems to be coming from one of the most educationally disadvantaged states in Nigeria, Jigawa State. It was an excited former Inspector General of Police, Suleiman Abba, who announced a chain of scholarships, worth N145 million, to about 130 students of his senatorial district, to study Information and Communication Technology (ICT), in Nigerian tertiary institutions. The former IG also told reporters he had spent about N35 million in scholarships at Hi-tech IT technology schools in Lagos, Kano and Abuja. His announcements seem to have been generating very mixed reactions, in a country where skepticism and cynicism tend to trail government and individual gestures of such magnitude. Having  become a politician, after his days in the public service, some skeptics are assuming he is giving out the scholarships for the political expediencies.   As usual with Nigerian politicians, the moment Mr. Abba gets his political pie, such cynics insist, the scholarships might just dry up, if at all they ever took off. Still, we believe Mr. Abba ought to be given every encouragement. Discouraging him is like aborting a pregnancy because there is an assumption that the baby to be born might turn out deliquent. Let the baby be born first. Jigawa State, one of the northern states with the highest illiteracy rates, would appear better off with this huge scholarship initiative, especially in an age where technology and ideas rule global economies. The focus of the scheme is commendable.  If made a success, it would probably inspire other rich and charitable private citizens, in more states of the North, to follow the same route. The urgency of the need for education, and quality one at that, cannot be glossed over. Mass illiteracy can be eradicated if rich individuals from that region, team up with governments at all levels, as this former IG is doing, to fund education and sponsor scholarships, in diverse fields.  With such multi-layered approach to the education of the youth, the positive chain effect is development and progress. The idea of persons of means, investing in the lives of less fortunate citizens, doing so only when there is a crisis, is counter-productive. It is almost like the proverbial striking the ground when the snake had slithered off. But aside from charity, the state governments must massively invest in quality education in the real sense, and in allied infrastructure, for functional economies. That, in the not-so-long run, would make the poverty level to tumble. There is a reason the United Nations insists on the 26% budgetary threshold to the education sector. Health and education are the two pillars of development.  Therefore, governments in that region (indeed, though out the country), as a matter of urgency, should invest more in youth education. Along the thinking of the Abba scholarships, investment in ICT education should be top priority.  The world has gone beyond the analogue.  To be part of the future, therefore, every government must key into their youths’ ICT development.  That would equip these youths to compete, with other youths worldwide, in the global economy. While commending  Mr. Abba’s gesture, we urge him to ensure his scheme works well, if only to silence the naysayers and disappoint the cynics.  The success of his project would stand in his name.  Besides, it might equally be a model for others to to replicate, in their own areas of influence. If that happens, the Abba initiative would not only be a boon for Jigawa, but also a boom for the rest of the country.