 Three persons have been  killed by suspected herdsmen in Arimogija community in Ose Local Government Area of Ondo State. Some residents were said to have fled for fear of further attacks. The residents said the three persons were killed on their farms during the week. They also alleged that they saw a helicopter dropping arms and ammunition for the herdsmen inside the forest but the police did nothing after they made a formal report at the police station. One of the resident who simply gave his name as Adeola said they are now living in fear. According to him, ” The herdsmen have killed three people in this community, in just one week. They killed a rice farmer, Jacob Odushe and his son, Adura this week. They killed another boy, Victor Ejeh. The boy’s corpse was found in the bush  a week after t he was declared missing. They machete cuts on his body showed that he was killed by the bandits . “Again, a few days ago, a helicopter was sighted in our community and we later found out that the helicopter brought some arms and ammunition into the bush for the herdsmen to continue in their attack against us. ” We want to appeal to the state government to come to our aid. We need serious presence of security agents in this community and we don’t want to be taking laws into our hands.”  Special Adviser to the state governor on Security Matters, Alhaji Jimoh Dojumo, who confirmed the killings said Governor Rotimi Akeredolu had sent some security agents to the area to maintain law and order. He said, ” I have been there with some people.  The people were so embittered about the man and his son who were killed. When  they saw us,  they started protesting but I was able to calm them down. “They were apprehensive because they said they saw a particular helicopter that came to the bush and they were suspecting that the helicopter brought some herdsmen  to the place to attack them probably at night . “But Mr.Governor has sent some solders there. As I am talking to you soldiers are patrolling the community.” Contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer, Mr Tee-Leo Ikoro, declined comment on the matter, as he said he was in a meeting. He was yet to  respond to a  text message sent to him as at the time of filing this report.  