 The National President, Independent Petroleum Association of Nigeria (IPMAN), Elder Chinedu Okoronkwo, has directed  the association’s members to open their filling stations for service,  assuring effective distribution of petrol during the shutdown due to Covid-19 pandemic. This was contained in a statement signed by the National Operations Controller of IPMAN, Mr Mike Osatuyi, informing marketers that restriction on Covid-19 “Stay-at-Home” did not apply to food processing, distribution, retail companies and petroleum distribution and retailing. Osatuyi stated that President Muhammadu Buhari, in his broadcast on Sunday, empahsised that petroleum distribution and retailers were not included. According to Osatuyi, “Members of the association should work with other stakeholders in the downstream sector in ensuring seamless operation in loading in both private depots and NNPC depots nationwide. “The Federal Government has assured security for our staff and members who are serving the country at this trying moment. Osatuyi enjoined all IPMAN staff and members to wear there identification cards either IPMAN identity card or our filling stations’ company identification cards in case of screening on the road and highway.  “The National Executive Committee of IPMAN commended members nationwide and advised them to sell petrol at N125 approved price.  IPMAN also stands with all Nigerians and the Federal Government in this trying period. “We commend the efforts of the Ministry of Health, Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), all state governments and Federal Government and wish to reassure them of our commitment towards effective distribution of petroleum product across the nooks and cranny of the country will not be compromised. “We appeal to Nigerians to adhere to government directives and maintain regular hygienic, sanitary practices as well as social distancing,” he said. Osatuyi praised the management of NNPC under the leadership of Mallam Mele Kyari, the Group Managing Director, for assuring marketers of sufficient and prompt petroleum distribution. Kyari had urged Nigerians not to engage in panic buying of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) as the country has adequate stock of the products to last for over 60-days. Kyari assured that the NNPC had the support of all stakeholders to ensure adequate supply of petroleum products in the country. He said: “There is absolutely no scarcity anywhere; our supply is robust, we have fuel that will last this country even for 60-days if assuming we do not import any. Of course people because of the pandemic’s stay at home order, may try to conserve fuel. There is no need to do this. Maintain your normal life, we have secured all assurances that trucks will be moving freely across the country throughout this period of difficulty and supply will be sustained.” 