Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State on Thursday launched the distribution of palliatives to 50, 000 poor and vulnerable households in the state.‎ The governor, who launched the exercise at the Government warehouse at Maganda road, directed that the food items must be shared to only the poor and vulnerable in the state. He said that the exercise began in eight local government areas of Kano Emirate to cushion the effect of the stay-at-home order among vulnerable people.‎ He said that the committees initial target was 300,000 people but that 50,000 households would benefit for now due to shortage of funds and other logistic. According to him, the state has 484 wards with over 9,000 polling units ‎and in each polling unit four poorest of poor households will receive the food items. “Each household will receive 25 kilograms bag of rice or semovita or Dawavita; one carton of spaghetti or macaroni or Indomie; one four-litre gallon of vegetable oil; and N2,000 cash. “We selected some reputable people who will be able to distribute the food items to the appropriate set of people at the grassroots,” Ganduje said. The governor called on the people of the state to wash their hands frequently with soap or sanitiser, maintain physical distancing and practice personal hygiene‎.
‎
‎‎‎He declared that anyone found culpable of breaking any of the rules handed down to prevent the spread of coronavirus in the state would be prosecuted. Earlier, the chairman of the fund raising committee, Prof. Yahuza Bello, said that the Committee had put up a mechanism that would ensure the distribution of the food items to the right people. Bello commended the governor for his foresight and also for complementing donation received by the committee with additional N115 million. Speaking on the modalities for selection, ‎t‎he Commissioner for Local Government, Alhaji Murtala Garo, ‎said the selection was done by district heads, village and ward heads. He said that N50,000 would be given to each local government area for transporting and loading the items and N10,000 for ‎each ward for the same purpose. (NAN)