Africa’s wealthiest man, Aliko Dangote, the founding President (1981) and CEO of the Dangote Group conglomerate, clocks 63, today. Dangote is known for his simple and modest lifestyle. Many see him as a model of success and inspiration due to his giant strides achieved over the years. Here are few things you may know about the Africa’s richest man: 1. Aliko Dangote was born on April 10, 1957. He was raised by Mohammed Dangote and Mariya Sanusi Dantata. 2. He was raised as a Muslim and lived an Upper-Class life. Dangote’s grandfather, Sanusi Dantata, was once named one of the wealthiest people living in Kano. 3. Dantata became Dangote’s guardian in 1965 after the death of his father. 4. At age 21, Dangote graduated from Egypt’s Al-Azhar University, one of Islam’s prestigious universities. He furthered his education in business and bagged Bachelor of Arts/Science degree in Business Studies 5. For the eighth year in a row, Dangote was named the richest man in Africa. Similarly, He is the only Nigerian on the list of the top 100 billionaires. 6. In 2020, Aliko Dangote significantly moved up in the world billionaires’ list as he emerged 96th richest person in the world, with an estimated worth of $14.8 billion,as against his previous ranking of 103rd in the world. 7. Dangote Group is one of the largest private-sector employers in Nigeria as well as the most valuable conglomerate in West Africa. Over the years, Dangote has expanded into business segments, including telecommunications, real estate and steel manufacturing. He owns sub-Saharan Africa’s biggest cement producer, Dangote Cement. The Dangote group is also into production of sugar, salt, flour, fertiliser and packaged food. 8. Aliko Dangote was also recently named as the sixth most charitable man in the World by Richtopia, a digital periodical that covers business, economics, and financial news, based in the United Kingdom. This recognition came after he endowed his foundation, the Aliko Dangote Foundation (ADF). 9. Aliko Dangote started his Foundation in 1981 with a mission to enhance opportunities for social change through strategic investments that improve health and wellbeing, promote quality education, and broaden economic empowerment opportunities. Aliko Dangote’s journey to fortune was a smooth adventure, unlike many wealthy Nigerians who made their fortune in oil, Dangote initially chose to go through a different path.