By Adebisi Onanuga  The Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ogun State, Engr. Bayo Dayo has said that the former Senator representing Ogun East, Buruji Kashamu should either flow with the wind of reconciliation blowing across the party in the state or be left in the cold. Engr. Dayo told journalists in Abeokuta on Thursday that Sen. Buruji Kashamu should know that the era of acting as the ‘sole proprietor’ or ‘defacto owner’ of Ogun PDP has gone for good. He said they were already charting a new course of action where “the party will be owned and controlled by the people and not just an individual.” Engr Dayo who was reacting to reports of his suspension as the Chairman of the party in the state by some members of the state executive said “these people were only doing paid job for their master, Sen. Buruji Kashamu”. He described his purported removal as height of illegality, null and void. Engr. Dayo said that as the party Chairman, he is a member of National Executive Committee (NEC) of the party adding that no organ of the party except the national leadership can discipline him. The Ijebu Igbo born politician said that he remained Ogun PDP Chairman disclosing that he was being attacked by Sen. Buruji’s loyalists because the Senator had told him to back off from his ongoing reconciliation with Ladi Adebutu group in a bid to unite Ogun PDP and end the ten-year-old needless crisis in the state. According to him: “what actually happened was that I wrote a letter to the lawyer representing the party debriefing him, I told him that we will no longer need his service because the other group under Hon Ladi Adebutu had reached out to us for reconciliation and the negotiations is ongoing.
“We have agreed to share the positions of the party between the two groups in the coming congress. “However, when Sen. Buruji heard from the party’s lawyer that I have debriefed him based on the ongoing reconciliation, he called me to back off but I told him that time has come to reason with ourselves and unite the party.
“I said it is only a fool that will continue to do same thing same way and expect different result. I told him that our losses in 2011,2015 and 2019 were because of this division and needless in fightings which we must bury once and for all. ” I told him that a good leader who cares for his followers can not continue to run one man show but Sen. Kashamu will want none of this. He even sent some emissaries to me to sign a document for Independent National Electoral Commission ( INEC) that we have conducted the state congress but I refused.
“Who could have done anything of such during this lockdown?”, he asked. The Chairman explained further: ”it was because I insisted that it is about time peace reigned in Ogun PDP that Sen. Buruji ordered his boys to be writing all manners of falsehood against me. “God knows that I never collected a dime from anyone, I just wanted what is best for this party that I have been in since it was founded. “Sen Buruji should however note that it is either he embraces the reconciliation moves or be left in the cold. PDP is greater than an individual”, he added.