Medical equipment and supplies worth N2,101,400, 000 have been donated to the Nigerian Army, Police and Federal Medical Center Yola, Adamawa State by Sir Emeka Offor Foundation (SEOF). The equipment, comprising of fourteen 40 feet containers of medical equipment and supplies, were meant to be distributed to 14 medical institutions in Nigeria, spread across the six geopolitical zones of the country, including the federal capital territory. Eleven medical institutions, including Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu University Teaching Hospital, Awka, National Orthopedic Hospital Enugu, Federal Medical Center Yenegua Bayelsa State, University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital Maiduguri, Gonbe State Specialist Hospital Gombe, Federal Medical Center Kalgo and Leko Abdurrahman Hospital Daura had already received their consignments. Handing over the consignment to the beneficiaries in Oraifite, Ekwusigo Local Government Area of Anambra State the Coordinator of SEOF, Sir Tony Obi, said the Nigerian Army and the Nigerian Police Force deserved the equipment being the first responders whose primary responsibility was that of protection of lives of the citizenry. He also said Adamawa as one of the states in the North East Region deserved humanitarian assistance to contain the increasing health challenge posed by the insurgency. Regretting the disruption of the distribution of the equipment by the lockdown in the country occasioned by the scourge of COVID-19, Obi said the foundation however had to reopen the warehouse to ensure the delivery of the equipment to the beneficiaries in view of their importance in the fight against the scourge. He said: “The Foundation in obedience to best practices and government guidelines closed its warehouse as a precautionary and preventive measure to avoid creating a condition that would favour spread. “It however became desirable for us to reopen to ensure the medical consignments were delivered to the beneficiaries as it contained some of the personal protective equipment needed in the fight against Coronavirus and the beneficiaries desired same most than ever before.” The Coordinator further warned against sale of the equipment, just as he called for concerted effort to assist the government in fighting the pandemic. Responding, the Chief of Army Staff, Lt Gen. Tukur Burutai, who was represented by Lt. Col. Oloche Adole, expressed appreciation for the gesture. The Inspector General of Police, Abubakar Idris, represented by the Anambra State Commissioner of Police, Mr. John Abang, thanked the foundation for extending the gesture to the force, assuring their judicious utilization. On his part, Secretary to the State Government of Adamawa State, Bashiru Ahmed, who received the equipment for Federal Medical Centre Yola, on behalf of the State Government, described the gesture as timely. “The equipment and supplies would be handed over to Chief Medical Director of the hospital in a reception the state government would organize to show how important it attached to the SEOF donation and how judiciously it would be used,” he added.