President Muhammadu Buhari has briefed Nigerians on efforts of his administration towards fighting coronavirus pandemic, relaxing the one-month lockdown in Abuja, the country’s capital, Lagos and Ogun states. In the over 15- minute live broadcast, the President touched on a number of issues going forward as the recorded COVID-19 cases stand at 1,273, including 40 deaths as at Monday morning across 32 states and the FCT. Top on the issues he addressed are: President Buhari relaxed the existing lockdown in FCT, Lagos and Ogun to be followed with curfew. He said: “Based on the above and in line with the recommendations of the Presidential Task Force on COVID nineteen, the various Federal Government committees that have reviewed socio-economic matters and the Nigeria Governors Forum, I have approved for a phased and gradual easing of lockdown measures in FCT, Lagos and Ogun States effective from Saturday, 2nd May, 2020 at 9am. “However, this will be followed strictly with aggressive reinforcement of testing and contact tracing measures while allowing the restoration of some economic and business activities in certain sectors. The highlights of the new nationwide measures are as follow: The easing of lockdown will be followed by compulsory use of face masks, not just for the nation’s capital, Lagos and Ogun but also across other states of the country. “We will strictly ensure the mandatory use of face masks or coverings in public in addition to maintaining physical distancing and personal hygiene. Furthermore, the restrictions on social and religious gatherings shall remain in place. State Governments, corporate organisations and philanthropists are encouraged to support the production of cloth masks for citizens”, the president noted. In spite of the growing concerns over the yet-to-be-confirmed deaths in Kano, the President reacted over the increasing deaths. He said: “I am concerned about the unfortunate developments in Kano in recent days. Although an in-depth investigation is still ongoing, we have decided to deploy additional Federal Government human, material and technical resources to strengthen and support the State Government’s efforts. We will commence implementation immediately”, he said He therefore declared an immediate lockdown of the northern state for two weeks. As against predictions that Nigeria would record an estimated two thousand confirmed cases in the first month after the index case, the president noted that the proportion of cases imported from other countries has reduced to only 19% of new cases, showing that our border closures yielded positive results. “This means that despite the drastic increase in the number of confirmed cases recorded in the past two weeks, the measures we have put in place thus far have yielded positive outcomes against the projections”, he added. Consequent to this reality, Nigeria will now have to deal with community transmissions across the states of the country. The National Centre for Disease  Control, NCDC’s Director-General, Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu had also expressed concern against community spread. President Buhari also placed restrictions on the movements of Nigerians from one state to state except for essential services. The declaration also came at the heels of agreements of all Nigerian governors for such move in order to halt inter-state spread, especially across states with border proximities. The president said: “There will be a ban on non-essential inter-state passenger travels until further notice. “There will be partial and controlled interstate movement of goods and services will be allowed to allow for the movement of goods and services from producers to consumers.” While health workers are frontliners in the fight against COVID-19 nationwide, Buhari noted that over ten thousand healthcare workers have been trained. He also stated that additional provisions for personal protective equipment have been made. “Additional personal protective equipment have been distributed to all the states. Although we have experienced logistical challenges, we remain committed to establish a solid supply chain process to ensure these heroic professionals are can work safely and are properly equipped. In keeping with our Government’s promise to improve the welfare of healthcare workers, we have signed a memorandum of understanding on the provision of hazard allowances and other incentives with key health sector professional associations. We have also procured insurance cover for five thousand frontline health workers.”  