 The young Edward Olusola Sanu won one of the Nwafor Orizu scholarships to study Economics at Howard University in the United States.  But only after a few months, the programme collapsed; and the high hope and excitement vanished.  The young man had to see himself through university.   But the experience was so harrowing he contemplated suicide. When Ambassador Sanu turned 90 on March 24, an elaborate reception was planned to mark that personal epoch.  It was to be a galaxy of Nigeria’s foreign policy best, among other twinkling stars in Nigeria’s polite society, gathering under one roof, to celebrate one of their very best. But then came COVID-19 containment efforts and the event had to be postponed. So, as a brilliant but callow youth and as a wise, experienced-suffused elder citizen, he is no stranger to the crucible of life, from which he emerged one of Nigeria’s brightest and most polished minds in foreign policy. But the sweet-sour that has been the seasoned ambassador’s life, in his engagement with his sweet-and-sour country, ensured he got retired, from the Foreign Service in 1984, at only 54!  Still, like the troubadour, sworn willy-nilly to the service of his lady, that didn’t mark the end of his qualitative service to his country. Born in Ibadan, on 24 March 1930, his railway stationmaster father, who obviously valued education, sent him to Ibadan Grammar School.  After that, his brilliance fetched him the Orizu scholarship.  But after its collapse, his resilience saw him through Howard, with high honours. That brilliance earned him another scholarship, into the Ivy League Harvard University, from where he again earned an MA and MPA, the MPA — Masters in Public Administration — preparing him for a stint, as District Officer (DO) in the closing years of British colonialism in Nigeria.  He joined the Western Region service in 1956. But he would leave that service in 1958, to join the Nigerian Foreign Service, which was established in 1957.  At the Foreign Service, he would find his niche and fully come into his own.  As one of the pioneers, he joined others in setting the highest professional standards that has stood Nigeria’s foreign bureaucracy in good stead. But beyond the generic, as Nigeria’s Ambassador to Brussels, Belgium, he recorded personal excellence by successfully negotiating a European Union (EU)-African, Commonwealth and Pacific (ACP) trade agreement that facilitated ACP exports into the EU.  A new star had dawned Nigerian diplomacy, and his subsequent postings — to Washington, Addis Ababa (OAU, and later AU headquarters), China and finally, Australia — underscored that risen profile.  But again, it ended all too sudden — the military government of Major Gen. Muhammadu Buhari suddenly retired Sanu from the Foreign Service in 1984.  But the loss of that service was the gain of the Nigerian Academy.  The Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife, snapped him up, making him a senior research fellow in International Relations.  There, he also made his mark, co-authoring two major studies on Nigeria’s economic relations. While at Ife, however, national duty called again — a gold fish has no hiding place!  The succeeding Gen. Ibrahim Babangida regime recalled Ambassador Sanu and virtually threw him into the Sudan fray, where the Sudan-South Sudan crisis had hit a climax.  Southern Sudan wanted out. The Sudan, which tried to hold it back, had got its muscles considerably weakened. A seasoned diplomat was needed to help separate the two and iron out a mutually beneficial divorce agreement.  Sanu was the man, that met the moment, and the mission was brilliantly accomplished.  The result was independence for South Sudan, and the end of one of the longest civil wars in Africa (1955-1972; 1983-2005). When he turned 85 in 2015, Ambassador Sanu released his memoirs, Audacity on the Bound, to great acclaim, at least among the foreign policy wonks who should know.  Ambassador Dapo Fafowora, one of his mentees, former back page columnist of this newspaper and another foreign policy acute mind reviewed the book, at its public presentation. At 90, Ambassador Sanu has served his country with acute devotion and great panache.  For that meritorious service, his country has awarded him the OFR.  But Nigeria should count itself blessed, for still having the ambassador’s wisdom and experience to tap.  We wish the seasoned ambassador good health, as he gingerly steps into his centenary decade.