Osagie Otabor, Benin  A governorship aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party in Ondo State, Dr. Bode Ayorinde, has declared that he would serve only one term in office if elected governor. This, he explained, was because he would be completing the tenure of Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, as both of them hail from Owo, Ondo North senatorial district. Dr. Ayorinde said he opted to work closely with Governor Akeredolu to move the state forward but all his intentions were repelled. Ayorinde stated that he was chased out of the All Progressives Congress by Akeredolu despite his several pleas to him to be magnanimous in victory and tolerant of all of them that contested against him at the party primaries. He said all efforts to make Akeredolu realised he is the Governor of all in Ondo State rather than Governor of Aketi Team failed. The PDP governorship hopeful noted that the present realities in the state and emerging facts have rekindled his genuine concern that achieving a great and prosperous Ondo State is a task that must be accomplished. According to him, “People had equally asked me whether an Owo man can succeed Aketi as Governor. My answer has been emphatic no but that it is only fair and just for an Owo man to complete the expected tenure of office. “Therefore, my honest intention is to complete the term due to Owo through the mandate of the good people of Ondo State and I am prepared to give our Leaders in PDP, a written undertaking to that effect. “Ondo State, the 5th amongst the nine oil producing States in the Federation deserves better leadership. Given the opportunity to serve, my mission is to industrialise Ondo State, create wealth and provide gainful employment for our teeming citizens. “That has been my concern, my consistent sermon and my mission in government. So, 1st on my priority list is Industrialisation, 2nd is Industrialisation, and the 3rd is Industrialisation. “I must acknowledge the fact that many of the aspirants from Ondo Central and Ondo South are eminently qualified to govern the state. However, they must be appealed to, to allow us finish our two terms in Ondo North. It is expected, reasonably too, that when power shifts to their districts, they would be allowed to complete their terms. Very logical and desirable to so think and act. “This decision was reached after a very wide consultation coupled with strong conviction that I can make a positive difference. After 44 years of its creation, Ondo State must stop crawling. It must stand right and be counted amongst self sufficient states in Nigeria. “As I present myself for genuine service with the fear of God, I appeal to all indigenes and residents of Ondo State to stand by me towards rebuilding our dear sunshine state.”