 The Kebbi State Government and an Agricultural Firm, Machine and Equipment Corporation Africa (MECA), have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), for the management of one hundred Tractors under a Tractor Hiring Scheme. The Commissioner for Agriculture and Natural Resources, Barrister Attahiru Maccido, signed on behalf of State Government, while the Company’s Group Country Director, Iliya Gashinbaki signed on behalf of the firm. Speaking at the occasion Maccido said Governor Atiku Bagudu has approved the submission of the Ministry of Agriculture, recommending the adoption of the scheme by MECA, for management of one hundred tractors bought by the state government. He explained that, the State Government had selected a reputable and competent company in order to ensure the success of the scheme. The commissioner however explained that 50 of the tractors will be deployed to the four (4) agricultural zones under the Kebbi Agricultural and Rural Development Agency    (KARDA), in Argungu, Bunza, Zuru and Yauri in the state by the company and shall be available for hire to small scale farmers. He said the remaining fifty tractors will be given to large scale farmers upon payment of a deposit, which are also going to be managed by the company. Earlier, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry for Agriculture and Natural Resources, Mr. Joel Aiki, also described the signing of the agreement as a welcome development. He said that, the MoU underscored the zeal and commitment of the state government in moving the state forward in respect of agricultural mechanisation. Adding that, part of the agreement includes the security, maintenance and the servicing of 100 units of tractors procured by the state government, in addition to the number of agro processing equipment to support agricultural mechanisation which had already been distributed.” He assured that, the Kebbi State Government was committed in lifting agriculture in the state,  for the betterment of the entire country. Aiki also pointed out that, agricultural mechanisation will improve production, reduce drudgery and hard labour. The Permanent Secretary reassured that, the service provider, MECA, was selected from among many bidders, because they have met all the required qualifications , both technically and financially, to emerge worthy for the contract. Responding, the Group Country Director of MECA, Iliya Gashinbaki, expressed his happiness over the development, describing it as a milestone achievement by the Governor of Kebbi in his quest to keep the state as the leading agricultural hub in Nigeria, especially in rice farming. He averred that, the use of the 100 tractors will contribute to the cultivation of a minimum of 200,000 hectares annually, explaining further that   “if that is translated into the 4 agricultural zones in the state, it will produce tremendous output of food in the state.” Gashinbaki also said the youths in the state stood the chance to be trained as Mechanics, Assistant Tractor Operators and Technicians. He described the efforts of Kebbi Governor in approving the agreement as not only a timely response to COVID- 19 pandemic, but a robust attempt to tackle the menace of unemployment in Kebbi State. “I want to assure the governor and people of Kebbi State that MECA has done it in several states, we have implemented similar schemes on Fadamas across 14 states in Nigeria, we were in Kano, Niger states and now in Kebbi State. “What is more interesting is that, since the COVID -19 pandemic started, this is the first most articulate response to tackle food security in Nigeria.” He therefore called on other Governors to emulate kebbi Governor.