Nollywood actress Etinosa Idemudia has launched an online acting talent show on Instagram. The actress launched the talent show to give opportunities to aspiring actors that can spar with her and get cash prizes. The competition, according to the actress, is inspired by the zeal to give back to society and enabled by the lockdown caused by the coronavirus pandemic. “During the lockdown, I saw a lot of online shows coming up- so much opportunity to do things I love so much. The fact that I am not in a movie production doesn’t mean I cannot still act so I thought of Instagram live Acting Talent Show and ran it by many of my colleagues who liked the idea. It was also a great way to connect with fans. I was excited to use social media to reach out to the society and show gratitude for the platform that I too had been given while growing in the industry”, she said. “I thought, the small platform that I have, let me dedicate it to upcoming actors. They will not just be showing their talent, they will act with me. I will give them the role, take another role and we will act together. The lockdown inspired the fact that I cannot go to work as I should, hence, it challenged me to be creative and use social media positively. Also owing to the fact that in the past I have had some wrong use of social media challenges so this is also a great way of making amends.” Speaking further on what to expect from the live show, she said “I have not seen any other person doing it. My male and female fans should expect creativity, excitement, and fun. Another thing that will make it different and unique is that the contestants in the acting talent show will be starring with me so it will be like an artistic duel or battle, they are battling with me. I won’t just abandon them to be doing a monologue and talking to themselves. I will be replying to them and interacting with them face to face online.” The Lead actor of  ‘Blood of Enogie’ drama stressed that the audience watching – mostly her followers on Instagram – would pick their winner after every contestant’s performance. “I will ask them what they think and based on the reaction and opinion of the audience, I will pick who will go home with a N10,000 cash prize or rather send it to them because it’s not a real-life show, it’s an online show and there is a cash price involved. Normally, it should be one winner but at times it will be like 5 very good talented actors, viewers may be divided among contestants like contestant numbers 3, 2, or 5 then we can say let’s have 2 winners, one male, and one female. We will also have additional winners because few people come online to sponsor and they may be like I want to give this person a cash price myself. That person may not be among the selected winners so he or she will be an additional winner. We have been on the show for a while and most of the time we always have 4 or 3 winners in total,” Etinosa said.