Governor Hope Uzodimma of Imo State has lamented his inability to celebrate this year’s Easter Church service in a congregation due to the resumed sit at home order in the state over wide spreading Coronavirus pandemic. The governor who made the lamentations in his Easter message to Imo people during a statewide broadcast to the people on Saturday, noted that he was mindful of the hardship the measures his administration had put in place to prevent and control the Coronavirus but insisted that they were inevitable sacrifices that must be made to stay alive and healthy. His words: “As a Christian, I feel pained that I will not be able to celebrate Easter church service in a congregation. But I also understand that it is a sacrifice I must make to prevent COVID-19 from having a veritable space to strike in our state. Let us all bear this painful sacrifice together as one people with one motive; to save ourselves and our children from the COVID-19 pandemic.” Uzodimma urged the people to use the auspicious occasion of Easter to pray fervently to God for an end to the Coronavirus pandemic. He said that with absolute trust in God and faith in the risen Jesus Christ, Christians and indeed Imo people would overcome the coronavirus pandemic. The governor urged the citizens to bear the hardships induced by the need to prevent COVID-19 pandemic with the same uncommon patience and perseverance that Christ bore his passion and tribulations before his cruxifiction, noting that “Christ’s resurrection is a sign of assurance that after the Coronavirus pandemic comes the joy of triumph.” He therefore urged all Imo Christians to join in the sacrifice and worship on Easter day through Online and Electronic channels. Uzodimma assured that before the end of Saturday, delivery of foodstuffs and other food condiments would have been taken to every community in the state to make Easter merrier for the people as part of government’s efforts to alleviate their hardships. But he also used the opportunity to remind them to remain safely conscious by regularly washing their hands in running water, continue to avoid crowds, observe social distancing, sanitize their hands regularly and refrain from shaking other peoples’ hands.