The All Progressives Congress (APC) Kumo East Ward Chapter of Akko Local Government, Gombe State has expelled Rep Usman Bello Kumo of the Akko Federal Constituency over alleged anti-party activities. The chapter, in the letter to the Chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, said the expulsion followed a petition against the federal lawmaker. The letter signed by Musa Barade, chairman of the APC in Kumo East and 20 others, said upon receipt of the petition, the ward executive committee constituted and inaugurated a seven man facts-finding committee to investigate the allegations leveled against the lawmaker. The letter further states: “ That the anti-party activities of Hon Usman Bello Kumo against the election of Alhaji Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya at the 2019 general elections as governor of Gombe state is an infamous conduct, cannot be tolerated and its contrary to the provisions of the party’s constitution as enshrined in article 21, paragraph A(1) and (2) 2014 as amended. “ That the car donation by Hon Usman Bello Kumo to an interloper, one Garba Inuwa Gona, who is not even a constituent of Akko Federal Constituency, simply because he insulted our party leader, Senator Muhammad Danjuma Goje on Progress Radio, Gombe clearly demonstrated his indiscipline, immorality and a total disrespect to the leadership of the party, the Governor of Gombe State and would certainly have an adverse effect on the progress, peace and stability of our great party. “ That Hon Usman Bello Kumo is hereby dismissed/ expelled from the All Progressives Congress with immediate effect from today 30th day of March,2020,” it read. The party urged local and state executives to adopt their resolutions that the All Progressives Congress (APC), Kumo East Ward Chapter of Akko Local Government, constituency dismissed the lawmaker over alleged anti-party activities. But Kumo, in a reaction, said he remains a loyal APC member adding that all the signatures in the letter were fake. He vowed to challenge the suspension notice issued to him by the APC Kumo East Ward ExecutIive Committtee in Akko Local Government in Gombe. The lawmaker blamed Senator Mohammed Danjuma Goje as the mastermind of the suspension. Kumo, in a statement in Abuja on Thursday, said: “No amount of mud slinging and deliberate attempt to frustrate my laudable efforts to better my constituents will prevail. “To this end I am going to court to challenge the suspension because all the allegations are spurious and none can stand the test of time. “Can you imagine that one of the allegations is that I bought a car for my constituent, how could this be described as anti-party,” Kumo asked. He further said: “I have never done anything against my party’s principles or carried out any act of violence against my party as alleged in the purported suspension notice cooked by Senator Goje and his hatchet men. “I have concrete information that the mastermind behind this plot to rubbish me is my former Governor, Senator Goje, a man I have remained loyal to in all my political sojourn. “The committee also alleged that I exhibited acts of indiscipline against who I don’t know because all the allegations were concorted and script written by my former principal. “Procedurally, the ward failed as it has no right to write straight to the national chairman of the party, it ought to have gone through the local government and zonal office instead, it chose to violate all procedures. ‘A careful look at the signatures they were all faked in a bid to malign my person. This development is a sad commentary for our democracy which we all fought to bring to bear in Nigeria. “The court is the final arbiter of justice and there I am heading to clear all the unfounded allegations against my person.”