Five inmates of Enugu custodial centre have successfully completed their first degree in various fields of study. The five inmates earned their Bachelor of Science (B.Sc) degrees at the Special Study Centre of National Open University of Nigeria (NOUN), Enugu Custodial Centre. Mr Monday Chukwuemeka, Public Relation Officer of Nigeria Correctional Service (NCoS), Enugu State Command, said this in a statement made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Enugu on Thursday. Chukwuemeka said that the five graduates include Godlove Obinna, a native of Uburu in Ohaozara of Ebonyi State who majored in Peace Study with a Cumulative Grade Point of 4.17 and overall best for Special Study Centres in Correctional Centres nationwide. “Others are Chekwube Cletus, a native of Umuariaga in Ikwu-ano of Abia, who studied Entrepreneurship and Business Management with a second class honour; Okeke Emeka with a Second Class lower B.Sc in Peace and Conflict Resolution and hails from Agwu of Enugu State. Also, Abonyi Obinna who majored in Mathematics and Computer Science; and Nkama Dickson who studied Peace and Conflict Resolution, both bagged Second Class lower division and hail from Ebonyi State,” he said. Chukwuemeka said that Enugu Custodial Centre had previously produced graduates in different fields of study including Theophilus Adeniyi, who was the best graduating student in 2014. According to him, Adeniyi is presently pursuing his Doctorate degree at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka. “The Service under the amiable leadership of the Controller-General of NCoS, Mr Ahmed Ja’afaru, has witnessed significant increase in the number of inmates enrolling for educational programmes while in custody. “This development is fast tracked through the Controller-General’s policy of replacing cells with classrooms in a bid to reintegrate back into the society, reformed individuals who will contribute meaningfully to the development of the nation. “Controller of NCoS, Enugu State Command, Mr Joseph Emelue, thanked NOUN governing council, non governmental bodies, members of staff and good spirited individuals for their immense contribution and positive impact to the inmates’ education. “He urged other inmates to emulate the graduates and encourage the society to accept them as reformed persons upon discharge,’’ he said.  (NAN)