 NIGERIA and other countries in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) region have held a brainstorming session to discuss recent macroeconomic and financial market developments, especially the financial stability implications in view of the ravaging COVID-19 pandemic. The online brainstorming session was held under the auspices of Financial Stability Board (FSB) Regional Consultative Group (RCG) for Sub-Saharan Africa. Members of the FSB RCG for SSA include financial authorities from Nigeria, Angola, Botswana, Ghana, Kenya, Mauritius, Namibia, South Africa, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia as well as the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) and the Bank of Central African States (BEAC). The FSB RCG for SSA is co-chaired by Lesetja Kganyago, Governor, South African Reserve Bank and Ernest Addison, Governor, Bank of Ghana. Permanent observers include the Committee of Central Bank Governors of the Southern African Development Community, and the East African Community. Members discussed global and regional financial vulnerabilities including the sharp contraction in economic growth reflecting a combination of demand and supply shocks caused by the pandemic. In particular, they discussed the impact of existing high debt levels in the region, significant capital outflows and access to US dollar funding. The group also considered the effectiveness of policy responses to address the financial stability implications of COVID-19. Members noted the importance of FSB and non-FSB members continuing to coordinate action, including financial policy responses in their jurisdictions, to maintain global and regional financial stability, keep markets open and functioning, and preserve the financial system’s capacity to finance growth. The group also received an update on FSB’s work programme which has been reprioritised to focus on measures to tackle the impact of COVID-19 on the financial system. Members welcomed the FSB policy work in several areas to promote a global financial system that supports a strong recovery after the pandemic.   