 The All Progressives Congress (APC)President Muhammadu Buhari, and National Leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu  have  hailed the National Chairman of the ruling party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, as a courageous and resilient mobiliser. They gave the eulogy, yesterday in separate statements  to commemorate Oshiomhole’s 68th birthday anniversary, affirming  that  the party chairman’s skill had galvanized the party. The APC  in a congratulatory message signed by its National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, said Oshiomhole  has been living a life of service to mankind. The statement read in part: “On this special day, we salute our Comrade Chairman, who in his entire public service to this great country, has demonstrated doggedness, steadfastness and pro-masses disposition in his actions and utterances. “As the National President of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole fought for and defended the interests of Nigerian workers and the masses with an uncommon commitment. “In his services to the people of Edo State as governor, Comrade Oshiomhole, once again  demonstrated that public service can only be meaningful if it is deployed for the benefit of the people. “It is on record how the National Chairman effectively mobilised leaders, members and apparatus of our great party to ensure the emergence of the current leadership of the National Assembly, a development which, in no small measures, has smoothened the engagement between the executive and legislative arms and enhance governance processes. In a statement issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, President Buhari, prayed for a longer and healthier  life for Oshiomhole. “President Muhammadu Buhari sends warm greetings to the Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole on his 68th birthday, wishing him more wisdom and strength as he continues to pilot affairs of the governing party.  “The President joins family, friends, APC members and supporters across the country, and abroad, in saluting the party chairman for his courage, diligence and resilience in consistently rallying everyone around the onerous task of taking Nigeria to next level. “President Buhari affirms that Comrade Oshiomhole’s skill in mobilising people and resources has truly galvanized the party, with leaders at various levels regularly setting and realising targets that will leave lasting legacies, especially in providing security, ensuring an inclusive economy that works for all and promoting transparency and accountability. “As the party chairman turns 68, the President urges more steadfastness and focus in carrying all members and supporters along in realising the larger goal of making life better for all Nigerians.” Asiwaju to Oshiomhole: you still have a lot to contribute to Nigeria   All Progressives Congress National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has congratulated the party’s National Chairman, Comrade Adams Aliu Oshiomhole, as he turns 68 today. He said Oshiomhole still has a lot to contribute to the party and Nigeria. In a special congratulatory message to the APC chairman released by his Media Office and signed by Tunde Rahman, Asiwaju Tinubu said Oshiomhole had contributed immensely to the country. He said; “As a veteran labour leader, two-time governor of Edo State, progressive ally and politician of remarkable acumen, you have come a long way and contributed immensely to our party and our country. “A tireless campaigner and adept mobilizer, you steered our party through the landslide re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari and victory for APC candidates in the 2019 national and states elections. ”You still have much to contribute to our party and country. My prayer is that God grant you more years, robust health and continued energy as you serve our party and our nation in the pursuit and development of progressive good governance for all people.”