 SOME residents of Oke Odo Local Council Development Area (LCDA) on Monday stormed the chairman’s office and helped themselves to COVID-19 palliative materials. The residents, filmed taking away the relief items, were said to have been frustrated by alleged diversion of the first batch of the items released by the state government. The Nation gathered that trouble started after some LCDA officials came to the office to evacuate the relief items, and told the residents that the items were for Communiity Development Association (CDA) officials and leaders. The government had announced  that such materials were meant for the poor and vulnerable members of the population. Angered that politicians and local leaders hoarded foodstuff meant for the poor, the residents in large numbers stormed the office and stopped officials from taking the items to the CDAs. As people collected their share, it was gathered that they also notified others to come for theirs. Panicked officials contacted police for assistance. Policemen from Oke Oko Division raced to the location, restored calm and also retrieved some of the food items from residents who took more than one packs. The police, it was learnt, also warned the officials to ensure that those in need of the relief items got them because that is the only way peace and orderliness can be ensured. Meanwhile, residents of Ikorodu and Gbagada have continued to flout the lockdown directive. Despite advice to maintain social distancing and avoid congregating in numbers above 20, some on Monday converted the Gbagada end of the Apapa-Oworonshoki Expressway to makeshift gyms. Their action attracted public outcry. A police monitoring team yesterday dispersed the fitness addicts, but another batch soon converged on Ikorodu Road stretching from Haruna to Agric Bus Stop. There was a traffic buildup around Lekki, Ajah inwards Ibeju-Lekki on Monday, leaving many wondering where the motorists were headed in spite of the lockdown. Police Commissioner Hakeem Odumosu refuted earlier reports that Oke Odo residents broke into the chairman’s office, clarifying that the people became agitated when they saw the officials moving the relief materials. “It is not as though people burgled the office to steal. That was not what happened. It did not also happen in the night. Yes, some of them took away relief items when they saw the officials moving them away. The police were invited and calm was restored. Some of the items were retrieved from those who were arrested,” he said.   