As the lockdown continues to paralyse activities, veteran Nollywood actress, Gloria Young on Monday said though the industry was hit by ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, the only option was internet. Young told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos that the only option for the Nigerian entertainment industry to be sustained during the lockdown was productions through internet. NAN reports that President Muhammadu Buhari had imposed a lockdown order on Lagos and Ogun States as well as Abuja, while some other states complied to control the spread of the pandemic. The lockdown had, however, put all activities on hold including the entertainment industry whereby association coordinators directed that all productions be put on hold. Young said these cancellations had caused several losses to producers and entire industry. She said several entertainment activities had as an alternative, however, switched to the use of internet to engage and entertain their audience. The veteran actress, also a Master of Ceremonies (MC), said only the usage of online platforms could replace the stage and further sustain the entertainment industry. Young said that the entertainment industry being the highest employer of labour had been highly affected and needed the internet to limit further damages. “Most people in the industry would go hungry if we sit down and do not find an alternative within the confines of our homes to get the industry going. “This is the best time entertainment is highly desired because it is the alternative medicine for stress and frustration,” she said. According to her, when people stay at home, they need to relax with their phones and television and we are the ones to provide the desired entertainment. She added that meetings had also been holding through the internet as there had to be discussions on way forward after the Coronavirus pandemic. “The Coronavirus pandemic has affected all forms of the economy, including the entertainment sector which is one of the greatest employers of labour that had been greatly affected. “Though all productions of films and radio had been put on hold, however, we still hold internet meetings to plan the way forward for sustenance. “It is a known fact that after this pandemic is over, we know that our lives will never be the same again. “We hope to use the internet to a greater degree in subsequent productions, following the current experiences we are passing through,” Young said. She noted that in spite of the ongoing challenges, Nigerians should faithfully abide by the lockdown order to support the government in ensuring a safe society. (NAN)