 The National Association of Government General Medical & Dental Practitioners (NAGGMDP), Ogun State chapter, has urged Governor Dapo Abiodun to assist its members in the fight against COVID-19 pandemic. NAGGMDP, at a media briefing held at Ijaye General Hospital, Abeokuta, under the auspices of the association’s Chairman, Dr. Durojaiye Oluwatosin and Secretary, Dr. Ajayi Abiodun, expressed dismay about the neglect of its members. The association, which is a body of doctors working under the hospital management board and Ministry of Health covering 35 hospitals across the state, distanced itself from the claim of Health Commissioner Dr. Tomi Coker on Channels Television that frontline health workers comprising health workers working at hospitals, including the isolation centres, have been given Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). It said: “This is far from the truth.” NAGGMDP said the record has it that health workers who have been infected with COVID-19 are the ones working at the hospital and not isolation centres. The association, with a view to adequately continue its fight against COVID-19 is demanding provision of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) for all health facility in the State; appropriate remuneration of all health workers in accordance with what is approved by the Federal government; hazard allowance to be reviewed to N100,000.00 monthly; “Implementation of tax holiday for a period of three months to start from March 1, 2020 for all health workers in the State; implementation of Scarce Skill and Hardship allowance for all doctors in the State employment, to be regarded as COVID-19 allowance and approval of life insurance cover for all doctors and all other health workers facing the fight of COVID-19”, it’s stated. The association made commitment to continue in the battle to end COVID-19 as the governor meets its demand. In the same vein, Association of Resident Doctors, Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital (OOUTH), Sagamu, Ogun State also on Thursday during its parley with the media at Abeokuta, Ogun State appealed to Ogun State government under the leadership of Abiodun to protect and appreciate doctors who are putting up their lives on the line to rescue the victims of pandemic COVID-19 and remunerate all doctors working in OOUTH with 50 per cent of their consolidated basic as hazard allowance.  At the press briefing led by its President, Dr. Mutiu Abiodun Popoola and attended by its Acting General Secretary, Dr. T.A. Osundara, the association is also demanding that all doctors working directly in isolation/treatment center be given additional 20 per cent of the initial 50 per cent as special risk allowance as well as immediate adjustment of Appropriate Remuneration to avoid more exit of Resident Doctors and Medical Officers who are the Frontline in the management particularly during this pandemic period that more hands are needed The association is also demanding payment of Group Life Insurance by the State government to all Resident Doctors, Medical Officers and House Officers in OOUTH to cover for up to 300 per cent of annual take home in case of infirmity, permanent disability or death. Other demands include reactivation of employees compensation act provision of 2010, adding that in the event of death in the course of duty, the four children of the deceased up to the age of 21 should be trained to tertiary level. In addition, the association is demanding a waiver on tax on professional allowances, adding that the State government should ensure that all Resident Doctors, Medical Officers and House Officers in OOUTH are paid Personal Protective Equipment allowance proportional to their requirements. The association believes that as Ogun State government accedes to its demand, it would be partnering with the Federal government in the fight against COVID-19. 