A-yet-to be identified seven-member gunmen, suspected to be kidnappers, on Wednesday reportedly kidnapped a medical doctor, identified as Dr. Adewumi in Emure-Ekiti, the headquarters of Emure Council Area of Ekiti State. It was gathered that Adewumi, who owns a private hospital in Orun-Ekiti, was abducted in his palm tree plantation at Oke-feri area of Emure Ekiti. Multiple sources told The Nation that the doctor who has been residing in the agrarian community for over 25-years was busy working in his farm when the gunmen invaded the farm with guns and whisked him away. The Public Relations Officer, Ekiti State Police Command Sunday Abutu who confirmed the incident in telephone interview with our correspondent in Ado-Ekiti. He said the kidnappers invaded the palm tree plantation farm doctor while preparing to go home and started shooting sporadically before he was abducted to unknown destination. “A medical doctor was abducted by a group of about seven men while working in his farm. We mobilised to the place, but the abductors had absconded with the doctor. “Our men have been combing the bush to ensure the perpetrators are arrested. We are still working on it and we will get to the root,” the police spokesman said. The Chairman, Nigeria Medical Association, Ekiti State Branch, Dr Tunji Omotayo, who condemned the abduction of the doctor, which he described as unfortunate, said, “the NMA will engage the police and other security agencies”. Omotayo, who said the doctor and five others were in the farm, explained, “They had finished working in the farm, they were about to board their vehicle when the bandits appeared and asked them to lie face down. It was only the doctor that they took away leaving others. “When you look at it, it was not like the typical herdsmen operation. The herdsmen would have taken all of them to maximise profit. “It is very unfortunate at this time when everybody is at home and doctors are at the forefront of providing healthcare. This is not the best time for any group of people to threaten us and our family. It is rather unfortunate,” the NMA chairman said. 