 Celebrated broadcaster and life coach, Adesuwa Onyenokwe graced the screen across Africa when she played the role of ‘Aunty’ in the recently concluded reality television show, Ultimate Love. The TV show host explains how hard it was convincing love guests that she had no favourites as well how her experience as a wife and mother helped her during the show. You helped the love guests through their journey of self-discovery and the desire to find love. How did you prepare for these one-on-one sessions with the love guests? I have spent over three decades as a reporter/interviewer, been a wife for thirty-three years, and a mother for thirty-two, I would say I came prepared for this. (Smile). And then of course coupled with the fact that I have life coaching skills, I was able to listen in on and to the youngsters while guiding them to a better understanding of themselves. I led them to explore their background, emotions, and motives, to assist them in the process of coupling. A listening non-judgmental ear got them relaxed and ready to open up, enough to take advice too when it came. What would you say was your biggest challenge during the show? Convincing the Love Guests that I had no favourites was quite a challenge, especially when I had to save a nominated couple weekly. Though there were set criteria, every couple saved always felt I did them a favour, which implied to the rest that favouritism could have set in. I get that from my kids all the time so I could handle it. What would you refer to as your biggest win as the Aunty? The biggest win was the fact that some true relationships were formed. Even though there was obvious chemistry, the Love Guests stayed focused on the emotional rather than the physical. I didn’t think they could. It says a lot about what the human can do to gain a prize it considers worthwhile. What do you think of the Sunday nominations and the drama it caused among the Love Guests? That was a big deal and some! The Love Guests spent the first couple of weeks in the Love Pad cavorting happily, as they picked their partners and began the process of getting to know each other, so the first nominations took them by surprise! It was a shocking reminder that they were not in the pad to ‘play’. Eventually, the drama of the Sunday live shows, elicited a tension that hung in the air for a couple of days till they relaxed and then bam, once another week ended, the cycle continued.  Though with time couples fashioned individual strategies to go about their nominations, those eviction nights remained tension soaked keeping them on tenterhooks, each not knowing who would go or stay. Roksie became the first Ultimate couple of the show. What are your thoughts on their journey? Interestingly Roksie was the only couple that stayed the entire eight weeks in the Love Pad! They never got to go out on a mission or win a spot in the love nest. Their coupling was incidental, (they were not each other’s first choice), then hesitant, but when it picked up it just raced on to the end. Kachi’s patience paid off and Rosie’s honesty won her the viewer’s hearts, and their votes propelled Roksie to the end. The icing on the cake was the proposal and acceptance! Even the best of producers couldn’t have written a better script. This is what reality is all about. Just like with food, when love unfolds naturally and organically, it is strong, rich and enduring. I believe that will be Roksie’s story even out of the Love Pad.  Do you honestly think the show should get a second season with the responses you got? Going by the feedback I get from enthusiastic viewers across Africa, most of who are ‘panting’ for more, this is a good testimonial for a show that surpassed everyone’s expectations in just its first season. My phone hasn’t stopped ringing even after the conclusion of the show. Kudos to the show owners!   