Sir: Most technological breakthroughs in mobile telephony have always been accompanied by fear that has little or no proof in any scientific theory. The introduction of 5G (fifth generation) wireless communications technology and its wide adoption, has drawn the attention of health professionals globally to its possible health risk, and there has been immense call for its immediate suspension from some quarters. Just as it was with 4G and older generations of mobile communication, there has been many conspiracy theories around 5G. Conspiracy theorists believe the 5G network is packed with radiations of higher energy that can deliver damaging effects on human health, such as premature ageing and disruption of the DNA (Deoxyribonucleic Acid) structure, leading to cancer. Simply put, this is a hoax! While radiofrequency radiations (RFR) are inherently not dangerous, it is important we understand the circumstances they might be. All radio waves, FM waves, Wi-Fi, infra-red, visible light as well as 5G radiations, are in the non-ionizing category and are incapable of causing any major damage to our bodies. For over two decades that the word ‘radiation’ has been instilling fear in people (partly because it sounds like radioactivity, an entirely different phenomenon). There has not been a clear-cut scientific study that explains any known method by which a non-ionizing radiation can cause an effect that is biological, such as being ferried baselessly around. 5G utilizes a range of frequencies (3.5GHz and up to a few tens of GHz) in the non-ionizing portion of the electromagnetic spectrum with wavelength extending into the millimeter range. In very basic terms, this means that the amount of data accessible on a 5G network is in multiples of tens to hundreds of those available on a 4G network. Very large images, videos and documents are downloadable at very fast rate of about 10 to 20Gbps due to the increased amount of data now accessible per time. Video game streaming, watching videos online without buffering are a few of the benefits 5G offers. What might be of worry about this, is the utilization of a denser cluster of cell-sites than already exist. According to the chairman of the International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection (ICNIRP), Eric Van Rogen, after a thorough review of all relevant scientific literatures, scientific workshops and an extensive public consultation process, the body has concluded that there are no specific undue health risks posed by 5G communication technology. But there are standards recommended which include the addition of restriction for exposure to the whole body; the addition of a restriction for brief (less than six minutes) exposures to small regions of the body; and the reduction of the maximum exposure permitted over a small region of the body. These standards are simply for the sake of it as exposure to RFR is a function of location of the users and their usage. Although, the World Health Organization (WHO) has placed RFRs in the low-risk category of carcinogens, this classification is flawed because it appears the body was focused on hazards and not real-world risk. “A loaded pistol is a hazard because theoretically, it can cause damage. But if you lock it in a safe, the risk is negligible” explains Dr Steve Novella, the editor of Science-based Medicine and an associate professor of neurology at Yale University. The world should understand that ICNIRP must have put the real-world health risk in consideration before coming up with those guidelines stated earlier, and being the regulatory body on non-ionizing radiations, we can run to town with their conclusion that 5G poses no major health risk. Manufacturers and users of this technology only need adhere to recommended guidelines for its deployment and use respectively. We should immediately stop the spread of those conspiracy theories going on around the world concerning 5G. This is a time when we should be harnessing its benefits especially to strengthen e-health, remote surveillance and tele-surgery in this COVID-19 era of social distancing. Should humanity rather not be brazing for 6G?