The Acting Chairman of theEconomic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mr. Ibrahim Magu, has declared internet scammers are using COVID-19 pandemic to swindle Nigerians. He said the anti-graft has received complaints from victims of internet fraudsters in the past few days. He said it is a “Do-It-Yourself” Covid-19 test was being used to defraud Nigerians.” Magu said he raised the alarm because some scammers have been using the pandemic to defraud unsuspecting targets. A statement by its Acting Head of Media and Publicity, Mr. Tony Orilade, quoted Magu as warning Nigerians against the new fraudulent pattern. The statement said: “The EFCC, has cautioned members of the public against emerging online fraudulent tactics, being explored by internet fraudsters in the wake of the donations arising from the dreaded COVID- 19 pandemic. “In the last couple of  days, home-bond  internet users have complained of  receiving several e-mails, sms, Whatsapp messages offering free services such as “Do-It-Yourself” Covid-19 tests;   subscription to either Netflix, hulu, DSTV, Government Intervention/Grant of N30, 000) and other tricky offers. “Some of the fraudulent schemes are coming in the form of links that offer free data or request for the Bank Verification Number, BVN and account details of their victims, assuring that such victims will be credited with money, as part of the federal government’s palliatives to cushion the effects of the running Stay At Home order. “According to Magu, many of the fraudulent online messages require recipients to click and fill out an online survey and forward same to ten (10) Whatsapp users.” The EFCC chairman said those subscribing to the fraudulent online messages might have their electronic devices infected with ransom ware. The statement added: “The messages are embedded with malwares and other malicious codes which when clicked, trigger a program that steals and compromises mails, banking logins passwords, credit- related information and other critical data contained on the recipient’s devices. “Victims stand the risk of losing both confidential information and monies,   since unauthorised access may have been granted to cybercriminals. They are also in danger of being infected with a ransomware which will automatically lock their electronics device.” Magu advised the public to immediately take the following steps in protecting their data from theft and compromises: “Do not divulge to anyone via telephone, e-mail, any personal information such as Passwords, PIN numbers, ATM Cards numbers etc “Do not open unsolicited e-mails and click only on those that are from known and trusted sources. “Do not click on any links or attachment with e-mails from unknown source. “Take a closer look at URLs for spelling errors before clicking. “If you need any information, go to the official website of the organisation. “Turn on personal Firewall on your devices. “In case of on-line financial transactions, you must cross-verify with the recipient before making the payment. “Install and update Anti-virus on your devices. This is key.” According to Magu, “there is no online testing for COVID-19; such online link requesting for personal information to test for the corona virus, or provide a Do-It-Yourself (DIY) method, is part of these fraudulent new methods aimed at defrauding Nigerians of their hard-earned money, please beware“. The EFCC’s boss also cautioned against   offers of bitcoin and any offer to advertise a business and get paid. He said: “Be wary of suspicious recommendations from friends on Facebook and Whatsapp claiming to offer investment opportunities they have benefited from.”  