We’re all spending a lot more time at home at the moment which means we’re having to come up with new ways to keep the kids entertained. While most schools are sending out work and we’re inundated with lists of home education apps, there have never been more resources on hand to keep our children learning. Carol Vorderman is offering free maths lessons, David Walliams has released 30 free audio stories and Joe Wicks has become the nation’s PE teacher with his daily YouTube fitness class – for those that have stuck at it anyway. But there’s so much more that kids can benefit from too. From arts and crafts to nature trails and a whole load of Easter fun, we’ve got all sorts of ideas to keep kids of all ages entertained. Some of the ideas have been shared on the popular Family Lockdown Tips & Ideas Facebook page, which has proved massively popular since launching just a few weeks ago. Set up by mum Claire Balkind, it has already amassed more than a million members and is growing by the day. You can’t walk anywhere at the moment without seeing a rainbow in someone’s window. That’s because families have been busy painting and drawing them as a display of togetherness and to give children something to spot while out on their walks. But you don’t have to stop at paint or crayons. Cara Ghiglieri’s children Scarlett and Leo made an amazing rainbow using cardboard and scrunched up crepe paper. Most parents can remember building a den as a child, usually with nothing more than a table, some cushions and a sheet. Let your child’s imagination run wild as they pretend to go camping or try to keep warm inside their very own igloo. You could always be the scary animal on the outside of the tent. And if you’ve got a torch don’t forget to make some animal shadows too. Children can make all sorts of designs with Hama Beads. Whether it’s a Minion, an animal, or Harry Potter, there are all kinds of patterns they can copy off the internet. Once they’ve created it on a plastic peg board, it’s your job to iron it and make it stick together. You can easily make them into keyrings or magnets too. Pebble art has been quite a thing over recent years, with people decorating rocks and leaving them in parks and other places for people to find. Given the current climate, people aren’t sharing them at the moment, but that isn’t stopping families having lots of fun decorating them. Something as simple as felt tips does the trick on lighter rocks, with children decorating them however they want – some making funny faces out of them. If you want them to last longer outside then you’d be better using acrylic paint coated with varnish to give an extra layer of protection. Play-Doh is another old favourite and can keep them entertained for hours. Whether they want to make their own dinosaur, elephant, car or castle, the possibilities are endless. If you can manage not to stress about the colours being mixed together it can be a whole lot of fun. And if you haven’t got any Play-Doh it’s pretty simple to make your own. All you need is: Mix the flour and salt then add the water, oil and food colouring. Knead the mixture well, adding a little more flour if the consistency is too wet.