• Lagos, Kano record fresh deaths
• Borno gets 18 new cases, Osun 12 
• Ondo, Kaduna, Zamfara admit new patients
• Taraba quarantines 199 travellers     CORONAVIRUS infections rose by 87 new cases in Nigeria on Saturday bringing the total number to 1,182, according to the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). The pandemic claimed one more life  each in Lagos and Kano States. Thirty three new cases were recorded in Lagos State, 18 in Borno, 12 in Osun, nine in Katsina and four in Kano. The rest are four in Ekiti, three each in Edo and Bauchi while Imo has one. The NCDC said 222 cases have been discharged so far while and 35 deaths have been recorded.One hundred and ninety-nine travellers were intercepted and quarantined in Taraba State by the State government to safeguard residents against the spread of the deadly virus. The Lagos State Ministry of Health confirmed the fresh death in the state, saying on its Twitter handle: “One COVID 19 death was recorded, bringing the total number of COVID 19 related deaths in Lagos to 19.” It gave no details. Kano victim identified as bank manager The Kano victim was identified as Abdullahi Lawal, regional manager of a first generation bank. He died after he was taken ill on Friday. He was first put on admission at a private clinic in Kano from where he was referred to the Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital in the city. At the private hospital, he was placed on oxygen as soon as he was placed on admission only for his treatment to be suspended when he showed no signs of stability. It was gathered that efforts to reach the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) in Kano proved futile. The Abuja headquarters which was eventually contacted promised that help would soon come from the Kano office. It never did until Lawal died. 12 new cases in Osun, total now 13 active Twelve new cases were confirmed in Osun State yesterday to bring the total there to 13. Health Commissioner Rafiu Isamotu said: “the state has carried out 167 tests and 12 returned positive. This brings the number of active COVID-19 cases in Osun to 13.” He said the fresh tests were carried out in the last two weeks of the lockdown, adding that the lockdown has proven effective in containing the spread of the virus. The Commissioner urged residents of the State not to panic but should continue to comply with the stay-at-home directive of the State government, keep social distancing and observe all precautionary measures to curb the spread of the disease. He also reiterated that the ban on public gatherings remains in force, just as he urged residents to take the wearing of face mask seriously as it is now compulsory across the state. Ondo admits policeman who tested positive in Lagos Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State said on his Twitter handle yesterday that a policeman who had tested positive for COVID-19 in Lagos was now receiving treatment in Akure. The unnamed policeman, according to the governor, did not wait to receive the result of his test in Lagos before dashing to Ondo State. When he eventually returned to Lagos the result of the test read positive and once more he headed to Akure to receive treatment. The governor expressed disappointment at the behavior of the policeman. His words: “Earlier today, I got news of another positive case of #COVID19 admitted to our facility in Akure. The case of this individual who is a police officer is unique. “He was tested in Lagos but came to Ondo State while awaiting his results. Upon receiving a positive result, he claimed to have returned back to Lagos. “According to him, he waited a few days in Lagos to be picked up. When this failed, he panicked and rushed back to Akure for treatment. “While we appreciate the confidence reposed in our facilities, we do find it most reckless on the part of the officer of the Law to risk the lives of others. I am most disappointed in the level of porosity of the entry points to the state. “The police officer should know better. I have contacted the commissioner of police to double up on securing our entry points.” Zamfara confirms two COVID-19 cases Governor Bello Mohammed Matawalle of Zamfara State yesterday announced the confirmation of two COVID-19 infected persons in the State. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) had, on Friday, announced two cases of COVID-19. The governor said the results of the tests were made available to him late Friday. He said that the result justified the measures taken by his administration to protect the citizens from the spread of the disease despite the fact that at that time, no case was recorded in the state. He urged the citizens in the state to be more responsive to all the international good practices of observing social distancing, use of face masks, hand sanitisers and keeping away from crowds as much as possible. Taraba intercepts, quarantines 199 travellers The Taraba State Government intercepted and quarantined 199 passengers travelling through the state in breach of the lockdown order. One hundred and thirty four of were travelling  from Bauchi and Yobe states  to Tella, Gassol local government area of Taraba State while the remaining 65 were on their way from Ogun State. Some 134 persons traveling from Bauchi and Yobe States, to Tella, Gassol local government area of Taraba State were quarantined at the NYSC Orientation Camp, Jalingo at the weekend. The intercepted travellers were mostly women and children. Health Commissioner Innocent Vakkai who doubles as chairman of the state’s Technical Committee on Covid-19 said the travellers were intercepted by security operatives at different entry points of the state. He said the intercepted people must undergo test because Bauchi is one of the states in the north with index cases of Coronavirus. The three buses conveying the travellers were impounded. One of the drivers, Abubakar  Ahmad, an indigene of Taraba, said he loaded the passengers from Azare in Bauchi to Mutum Biyu. The 65 from Ogun State claimed to have been sacked by their employers, a Chinese firm The driver of the heavy-duty vehicle conveying them had deceived security personnel up to the point of arrest that he was conveying food items. The Deputy Commissioner of Police, Faleye Olaleye, said that upon reaching Jalingo, the driver dumped the passengers and ran away. The Taraba State government provided a vehicle which conveyed and handed them over to the Adamawa State government to be quarantined. Meanwhile, the state government is working hard to maintain its zero coronavirus status. Deputy Governor Haruna Manu said in a broadcast that the state “must not be complacent.” Manu said a  total lockdown was necessary because of the increasing number of confirmed cases of Covid-19 in Taraba’s neighbouring states. The deputy governor, standing for Governor Darius Ishaku, ordered the closure of all shops and malls, including markets. Worship centres such as Mosques and Churches have been closed. Streets and Mosques in the state capital, Jalingo, were seen deserted, even as Ramadan was observed. All wedding and naming ceremonies and parties remain suspended, until further notice. Six COVID-19 patients discharged in Kaduna Kaduna State Health Commissioner Amina Mohammed Baloni said six patients who received treatment for COVID-19 in Kaduna State have been discharged. She also said the state recorded a new case of the disease. As at Saturday the state had four active cases of COVID-19. She said contact tracing was ongoing to identify people the new case had interacted with so that they could be monitored and tested. Fayemi confirms four new cases The Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi yesterday announced four new cases of Coronavirus in the state, bringing to eight the number of confirmed cases. In a statement yesterday evening in Ado-Ekiti, Fayemi disclosed that the victims contracted the disease from the state’s fourth case, a 45-year-old medical doctor working with a private clinic in the state. He added that the new positive cases are stable and show no symptoms of the deadly disease, saying they have been transferred to the Ekiti isolation centre for treatment. “Ekiti State Government has received notice from NCDC of four new COVID-19 positive cases, in the State. “The new cases are primary contacts of the fourth recorded case, a male doctor, aged 45 years old, who carried out a surgery on the recently deceased third positive case, during childbirth. “The newly confirmed cases are currently stable and asymptomatic and they have been transferred to the State’s Isolation Center, Ado-Ekiti while our contact tracing team have commenced the process of contact identification and tracing of their immediate contacts for isolation”, he said. 