Ebuka Obi-Uchendu has gotten himself a new gig as a counselor. This time, Ebuka takes on the role of ‘the counselor’ in a new reality tv show, Judging Matters. Ebuka brings to fore his experience as a compere, TV host and trained lawyer. With his understanding of the finer points of the law and how to deal with some of the issues at stake, Ebuka will be witty yet firm and his job is to bring out the emotional, entertaining and local elements of the show based on the cases presented. Judging Matters is a reality TV show that is aimed at addressing small claims and minor cases in Lagos which present a huge challenge for the established courts to deal with, often resulting in cases being in courts for long periods without an amicable resolution. Judging Matters is a recorded reality TV show of real people getting justice from minor claims court in partnership with the Lagos State Ministry of Justice. While the show promises to be entertaining, it will also be a source of education and information on the Lagos State Justice system.  There will be no lawyers’ fees, no filing costs, no long delays or adjournments. A forum for cases to be heard without fear of it being insignificant and with immediate judgment. An actual Judge and a counselor will work together to ensure that justice is dispensed accordingly, without favour or rancour. The Judge who will be tasked with handling these cases is Justice Olusola Williams: a retired Judge in Lagos State. Her role is to listen and probe where required while the counsellor brings out the finer points of the case to enable her to make a final decision. An excited Ebuka said, “Meet your General Counsel and the Hon. Justice Olusola Williams. We’re about to be your favorite duo on television, get ready for some of the most real courtroom drama you’ve ever seen!” Speaking on the launch of the new show, Channel Director, Africa Magic, Wangi Mba-Uzoukwu said Judging Matters was created to solve problems that have not received sufficient attention in court. These cases can be easily deliberated on and resolved by Lagos State Justice. Judging Matters will air Mondays at 6:00 PM from April 27, 2020. 