Toba Adedeji, Osogbo  An Osun State Magistrates’ Court, sitting in Osogbo has remanded a 32-year-old man, Akinloye Saheed, for allegedly posting false information on the Facebook page against Osun State Government. Saheed a leader of People’s Democratic Party was arraigned on four-count charges bothering on defamation, false information, instill fear and an inciteful statement against the government. The prosecution team lead by Acting Solicitor General, Mr. Dapo Adeniji, appeared with Moses Faremi, Biodun Badiora, Kemi Bello and Oyedele Akintayo. According to the charge sheet presented to the court by the prosecutor, Acting Solicitor General, Mr. Dapo Adeniji stated that Saheed committed the offense on April 11th, 2020 in Osogbo. The charge read, “That you Akinloye Saheed ‘m’ on 11 days of April 2020 at 11:05 pm at Osogbo did interfere with an executive order of the Osun State Government when you published on your Facebook page that “When I accused Osun Government of importing COVID-19 patients into the state just to access fund from the FG many didn’t believe. The said imported patients are now Negative. APC, You Are Not Doing Well.” The information you know to be false and intent to incite members of the public against the Osun State Government”. Dapo stressed that offence committed by Saheed contravened section 61, 374, 59(1) of the Criminal code Cap 34 Vol. II Laws of Osun State of Nigeria, 2002 and section 24 of the (Cyber Crime Prohibition Prevention, etc) Act, 2015. Saheed pleaded not guilty the four-count charge preferred against him. The counsel to the defendant, Mr. Bamidele Ajibade made an oral bail application for his client assuring the court that he won’t jump bail if granted. He said, “Saheed was arrested by police and had been granted administrative bail in Police State. He had been going police station ever since then. This is an attestation that if he is granted bail, he won’t jump bail. “I urge the court to admit my client to bail on the most liberal term. He has reliable sureties to stand for him and he won’t jump bail. The prosecutor, Dapo Adeniji opposed the oral bail application moved by the defence counsel; he prayed the court to remand the accused person in Correctional Centre. He said, “I urged the court to remand the accused person in prison custody for 30 days. The Chief Magistrate, Mr. Olusegun Ayilara, ordered that the accused person be remanded in Correctional Facility pending the time that the defence counsel will file the formal bail application of his client. He adjourned the case to 13th May 2020.