By Praise Olowe  With the closedown of schools due to the coronavirus pandemic, it is important for parents and guardians to continually educate and entertain their children. From crafts to online learning resources, parents will need a variety of tricks to ensure that kids are engaged. The list below would help to keep them entertained and learning: Make a schedule The first thing to do is to draw out a plan for the kids. Stick to the usual school hours of 8am to 3 pm. Insist on a daily outdoor recess routine that mirrors school. Homeschooling The importance of homeschooling cannot be overemphasised. Parents should go through their children’s book and Give them worksheet or assignments to do. Minimise the screen time Parents will be strongly tempted to stick their kids in front of screens for multiple hours a day, just to get busy with their personal things. This is not healthy or is it fair to kids. It will be reasonable to allow them have an hour a day but only after everything else has been completed such as chores, schoolwork, reading assignments, music practices, exercises etc. Encourage story telling Children enjoy listening to stories. They are so natural at this. You can create elaborate fantasies figures to tell a story or read stories out loud for them. Also, encourage them to use their toy collection or animal figure toys to create their own stories. Game Game Game For a child to learn effectively, the process has to be entertaining. You can introduce games such as creation of Pebble arts, paintings, decoration, handprints, cardboard designs, Game of alphabets, shadow drawing etc. DIYs Make them create things out of handy items. Give them old CDs, match sticks, unwanted woollen threads, coloured papers, glues, balloons, ice-cream sticks, etc and encourage them to make some creative things out of it. Online learning Online learning and tools can be an effective measure. You can check out tools such as Show me wonders (This helps to learn about different cultures and traditions), Translate me (Helps to learn about languages), Play games (Provides varieties of games for children), Ask me anything (just like children like to ask questions, this tool is available to answer most of their questions), Read it to me (Serves as a personalized reading tutor for kids).