The lockdown by the Federal Government is now in its third week.  Like many in the society, KOFOWOROLA BELO-OSAGIE reports that low income teachers are facing the heat and appealing for support.  On Monday, the Federal Government extended the lockdown in Lagos, Ogun states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) to check the spread of the COVID-19 for two more weeks. Many of the 20 states with reported cases have also suspended business for non-essential services. With schools, government agencies and other non-essential businesses shut since March 31, the effect of the lockdown is beginning to tell on the economy. President Muhammadu Buhari said in Monday’s address that the government’s N5,000 cash transfer for the poor on its social register would get to 3.6 million people nationwide.He also announced that the government would open the grains reserve for distribution of grains to households across the county. Various state governments have also announced palliatives for the poor and the elderly in their states. Lagos State announced it would provide staples to 200,000 vulnerable people in the state. These interventions notwithstanding, millions of Nigerians are complaining of hardship.  Many of those hard hit are teachers. Teachers, particularly those in private employment, do not earn up to the minimum wage of N30,000. While public school teachers earn between N70,000 (at entry level) and N400,000 (Level 17) in Lagos State, teachers in low cost private schools in the same state earn as low as N5,000 – N25,000 monthly. The situation is not much better in other states. Teachers have also complained about private school proprietors owing salaries; and paying only half salaries during holidays.  The COVID-19 pandemic has forced schools into holidays with no fixed resumption dates putting many of these low-earning teachers in a precarious situation. When Mrs. Yinka Ogunde, founder of the Concerned Parents and Educators’ (CPE) network, a Facebook group made up of about 150,000 teachers, school owners, education service providers, public servants, parents and others decided to help needy members prepare for the lockdown, she did not know the extent of the problem. The CPE Food Basket initiative which provided amounts ranging from N5,000 to N10,000 for members to stock up on food and medicine to alleviate their difficulties during the lockdown. Apart from the amount CPE officially distributed to those in need, some members of group also reached out to people personally. Speaking on the experience, Mrs. Ogunde told The Nation: “It was quite overwhelming. I will put it conservatively that we got over 5,000 requests.  My inbox is filled.  We were able to do nearly 200 directly and over 250 indirectly.  We raised about N1.2 million today alone.  We also had direct foodstuff delivery based on location.  We simply cannot cope,” she said. However, the effort was not enough.   Since March 25, the CPE Food Basket initiative has reached over 600 families of teachers, widows with young children, and those with special needs children.  The group launched the third phase of the Food Basket initiative on Tuesday, requesting for teachers, to indicate their need. Mrs. Ogunde said the group decided to give again because the lockdown was extended.  In the notice she put out she said: “This is the only thread for the PHASE 3 of our FOOD BASKET programme.  The selection team will put a note if you have been shortlisted and they will contact you. We received nearly 6,000 requests the last time and we were unable to serve less than 12 per cent. Please note that we are not government and we cannot meet the needs of everyone.  Our selection will be based on the level of perceived need. – pregnant/nursing mothers; poorly paid teachers; indigent families with several children; families with special needs children; (and) people who may need inexpensive drugs.”  About four hours after the post was made, over 2,000 members had asked for support. Many of the teachers among them lamented they had not been paid since February or March; some noted their poor salaries. Sunday Benedict said he had not been paid for two months. “Please I am in need of foodstuff. I have been surviving by God’s grace. Salary hasn’t been paid since February due to the delay from the students to pay school fees and I am also a student schooling. God bless you as you help.” Another teacher, Amos Adaeze Blessing, also did not get paid before the lockdown started March 30. “I am a private school teacher; no salary before the shutdown and during the shutdown; means of surviving is very tough. I can’t say it all but I need help,” she said. Though not earning up to N15,000, Kehinde Fajana said he also had not been paid since February. “Please ma, I need money to get foodstuff for my family. I work in a school and my pay is not up to N15,000. Salary has not been paid since February. I would be very grateful if am chosen,” he said. Mother of three, Ibikunle Olubukola, also sought help having not been paid. The single parent, who said she teaches at Confidence Mind Academy, in Atan-Ota, a remote environment in Ota, Ogun State, told The Nation that she earns N25,000. “My salary is N25,000. March salary has not been paid. You cannot blame the proprietor/proprietress; it is the money they collect they will use and pay teachers.  In our own environment, they owe school fees like something else. If you send their children home to collect school fees, they will get angry and change their children’s school.   So because the schools are afraid to lose pupils/students they wouldn’t send them home – hence accumulation of school fees, sometime (for) two terms,” she said. She urged the government to employ more graduates. “What I think is that government should provide job for the graduates.  I am a graduate,” she said. Despite about 2,000 people requesting for help, the third phase of the CPE Food Basket initiative will be able to benefit about only 140 families. Mrs. Ogunde said recipients would have their accounts credited by today. “We have started crediting their accounts manually tonight (Tuesday).  You know banks are not opened.  The last time it was Sterling Bank that helped with bulk transfers.  But we have to do this ourselves,” she said. Speaking on the impact on the lockdown on teachers, particularly those in over 5,000 low-cost private schools in Lagos, President of the Association for Formidable Educational Development (AFED) Mr. Emmanuel Orji, said it was like a death sentence. He said: “I must tell you, it is now that we are seeing the disadvantage of serving the poor.  People are crying. This extension is like a death sentence for some of these teachers.  We did not plan for the sudden shutdown of schools; most of our money is still with these parents.  It is towards examination period that we target parents – if you don’t pay school fees, your child won’t do exam.  But when schools closed, there was this rush; we couldn’t collect anything. The teachers went home without being paid. I suggested to members to buy foodstuff and distribute to teachers and tell them it is not their salaries they are collecting.” Mrs. Ogunde said the poverty level of teachers has to be address once the COVID-19 battle is over. “The situation is terrible.  We have to think in terms of teachers’ welfare and survival after the lockdown,” she said.