 FoodCo Nigeria Limited, a diversified consumer goods company with interests in retail, quick service restaurants, manufacturing and entertainment, has announced the introduction of its same-day home delivery service in Lagos. FoodCo same-day home delivery service offers an alternative shopping channel for customers who would rather shop from home, particularly as a precautionary safety measure in the face of the ongoing coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. Deliveries are guaranteed typically with two hours of customers placing their orders, which is the fastest of any available delivery service in Lagos. Ade Sun-Basorun, Chief Executive Officer, FoodCo Nigeria Limited, said the same-day home delivery service is conceived as part of the brand’s civic responsibility in ensuring that Nigerians have seamless access to essential supplies even as they obey regulatory guidance to stay at home to contain the spread of disease. This is in addition to other COVID-19 response measures taken by FoodCo including hourly cleaning of common areas and frequently used shopping items as well as maintaining social distancing in-store. He stated: “The FoodCo same-day home delivery service is an easy-to-use, fast and convenient service for customers who would rather shop from the comfort of their homes. The service offering has been in development for some time but we made the decision to roll out quickly in response to customer anxiety over running out of supplies in view of the regulatory advice for people to stay home to stem the spread of the virus. “As a retail company, FoodCo falls within the category of essential services allowed to operate during this period to ensure that people have access to basic supplies. We would like to assure our customers that our outlets will remain open and that they can continue to depend on us for the affordable prices they have come to trust. “Additionally, customers in Lagos can now send their orders for hygienically prepared foods, groceries or household items to the dedicated WhatsApp number on our website and we will deliver their shopping right to their homes on the same-day, usually within two hours. Plans are also in top gear to roll out the same-day home delivery service in Ibadan.” FoodCo recently donated medical equipment to the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan, as part of its intervention towards promoting effective care for patients with the coronavirus. Items donated include a patient monitoring machine, oxygen concentrator and suction machine. 