 Capital markets across the world have launched a week-long investor’s education programme aimed at enlightening investors on basics of investing and the emerging trends in the global securities market. The International Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) on Monday launched its third annual World Investor Week (WIW), after successful organisation of the week-long event in 2017 and last year. IOSCO is global body of securities regulators and its members regulate more than 95 per cent of the world’s securities markets in more than 115 jurisdictions. Nigeria is a member of IOSCO. The WIW is a week-long, global campaign, which aims to promote investor education and investor protection, highlighting the various initiatives of securities regulators in these two critical areas. The WIW started on September 30, and will run through October 6, 2019. IOSCO members will provide, in their jurisdictions, a wide variety of activities, such as launching publications or services, promoting contests and organizsing workshops, conferences and other events. Many members leverage the event to organize further investor education activities throughout the year. According to IOSCO, given the digital environment, the WIW 2019 includes key messages regarding online investing, digital assets and initial coin offerings, as well as re-emphasizing the basics of investing. IOSCO noted that in last year’s WIW, IOSCO members and stakeholders from some 90 jurisdictions on six continents undertook a range of activities, such as offering investor-focused information and services, promoting contests to increase awareness of investor education initiatives, organizing workshops and conferences and launching local and national campaigns in their jurisdictions. Chairman, International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) and Chief Executive Officer, Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission, Ashley Alder, said the third edition of the World Investor Week evidences IOSCO’s continuous efforts and commitment to investor education and protection. Ashley said IOSCO has been encouraging new initiatives among its members and preparing them for dealing with the challenges of increasingly interconnected and digitalised capital markets.