Justice Monica Dongban-Mensem and 68 others have been recommended by the National Judicial Council (NJC) to President Muhammadu Buhari and governors for appointments. The NJC recommended Justice Dongban-Mensem as the substantive President of the Court of Appeal. Justice Dongban-Mensem is the Acting President of the court. She was sworn-in by Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) Justice Ibrahim Muhammad on March 7, a day after President Buhari appointed her in that capacity. NJC’s spokesman, Soji Oye, said in a statement that the request formed part of the decisions taken at the virtual meeting of members of the council on April 22 and 23. The statement listed 69 others whose appointment as judges, the NJC recommended at the meeting. The NJC recommended the appointment of 33 judges for the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), eight for Lagos State High Court, five each for Delta and Kwara states’ High Courts and four for Kaduna State High Court. It also recommended two each for Abia State High Court, Adamawa State High Court, Jigawa State High Court, Katsina State Sharia Court of Appeal and Katsina State High Court. The NJC equally recommended the appointment of presidents for the Customary Courts of Appeal in Abia and Oyo states, and, Grand Kadis for the Sharia Court of Appeal in Jigawa and Sokoto states. Those recommended for the High Court of the FCT are: Muhammad Mustapha Adamu, Madugu Mohammed Alhaji, Josephine Obanor Enobie, Kayode Agunloye, Enenche Eleojo, Nwabulu Ngozika Chineze, Abubakar Babashani, Aminu Muhammad Abdullahi, Nwecheonwu Chinyere Elewe and   Ibrahim Mohammed. Others Sadia Mu’azu Mayana, Mimi Anne Katsina Alu-Apena, Kanyip Rosemary Indinya, Aliyu Yunusa Shafa,  Mohammed Zubairu, Binta Dogonyaro, Christopher Opeyemi Oba, Adeyemi Ajayi Jadesola, Abubakar Husseini Musa,  Adelaja Oluyemisi Ikeolupo, and  Mohammed Idris Sani. Also recommended are: Frances Erhuvwu Messiri, Fatima Abubakar Aliyu, Jude Ogor Onwuegbuzie, Hamza Mu’azu, Edward Ajenu E. Okpe, Agashieze Cyprian Odinaka, Fashola Akeem Adebowale, Aliyu Halilu Ahmed, Hassan Maryam Aliyu. Hafsat Lawan Abba-Aliyu, Olufola Olufolashade Oshin and Njideka K. Nwosu-Iheme. For the Lagos State High Court are: Olatokun Dorcas Taiwo, Oshoala Yhaqub Gbadebo, Olukolu Rasul, Oguntade Omotola Ibironke, Olaitan Sharafa Abioye, Pokanu Adeniyi, Ashade Ezekiel Oluwole and Sule Amzat Olufunke. Those recommended for Delta State High Court are: Aaron Ighoverio, Emmanuel Zimi Dolo, Onome Marshal Umukoro, Agboje Veronica Oka and Enenmo Onyeawuli Ferdinard. Olanipekun Sherifat Bola, Funsho Dada Lawal, Hussein Toyin Kawu,  Nureni Kuranga and Umar Zikki Jibril were recommended for Kwara State High Court and Amina Ahmad Bello, Ambo Yakubu John, Andow Edward and Rabi Salisu Oladoja, for Kaduna State High Court. Adam Salihu Yarima and Muhammed Adam Makiyu were recommended for appointment as Kadis of Sharia Court of Appeal, Katsina State, while Muhammad Ashiru Sani and Safiya Umar Badamasi were recommended as judges of the state’s High Court. For Adamawa State High Court, Musa Usman and Kyanson Samuel Lawson were recommended for appointment as judges, while Musa Ubale and Hussaina Adamu Aliyu for Jigawa State High Court. The NJC recommended Chiemezie Chido Nwakanma and Philomena Onyeje Nweka for appointment as judges for Abia State High Court; Hon. Kadi Muhammad Sani Salihu as Grand Kadi Sharia Court of appeal, Jigawa; Hon. Kadi Muhammad Tambari UsmanSharia Court of Appeal, Sokoto; Phoebe Eva Alvan Okoronkwo as President, Customary Court of Appeal, Abia State and Hon. Justice Aderonke Adekemi Aderemi as President, Customary Court of Appeal, Oyo State.