The Director-General, International Labour Organisation (ILO), Guy Ryder, has called on G20 countries to protect people, jobs, income and enterprises from the COVID-19 pandemic. He welcomed the commitment of the G20 leaders as an important first step in constructing a truly global response to the  challenges of the pandemic. Ryder made the submission during the G20’s extraordinary virtual summit on the pandemic,  hosted by Saudi Arabia. “The G20’s strong and clear commitment to do whatever it takes to overcome the intertwined health, social and economic impacts of the pandemic is a very welcome first step. Their decision to spare no efforts to protect people, jobs, incomes and enterprises is extremely important. “This is the time for global solidarity, especially with the most vulnerable people in societies, and with the emerging and developing world. We must also offer our full support to the health workers who are in the front lines of the medical response,” he added. The ILO chief emphasised that the COVID-19 pandemic has quickly turned into a global economic crisis that could easily become a global recession. He, therefore, called for specific measures to support workers. These measures, according to him, should include extending social protection, supporting employment retention (i.e. short-time work, paid leave, other subsidies), and financial and tax relief, including for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. “In the 2008/9 financial crisis, the world came together and the worst was averted. We have the chance to do the same now, and to do it better. But we must act now so that the 2020s are not a rerun of the 1930s,” he said. Ryder also called for the use of social dialogue – engaging with workers and employers and their representatives – as a vital way for building public trust and support for the type of measures that work to overcome a crisis. He declared that COVID-19 has exposed the fragility of the world economies and exposed the deep fault lines in the labour markets. Ryder said the human dimensions of the COVID-19 pandemic reach far beyond the critical health response. He said: “All aspects of our future will be affected – economic, social and developmental. Our response must be urgent, coordinated and on a global scale, and should immediately deliver help to those most in need. “From workplaces, to enterprises, to national and global economies, getting this right is predicated on social dialogue between governments and those on the front line – the employers and workers –so that the 2020s don’t become a re-run of the 1930s.”