President Muhammadu Buhari has enjoined Nigerians to use this year’s Easter celebration in intensifying prayers against the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and other challenges facing the country. The president, who made the call in his 2020 Easter message to Nigerians, urged the citizens to remain faithful and hopeful as the nation would pull through the difficulties. He said: ”There is no better opportunity than now for all Christians in particular, and Nigerians in general, to remain faithful and hopeful that with intensified prayers backed by personal and collective responsibility, the nation shall pull through this most difficult trial. ”I have no doubt that if all stakeholders – individuals and groups – play their part to the fullest as advised by our scientists and medical experts in confronting COVID-19, the inherent resilience and determination of our people will enable us to pull through.” Buhari also reminded Nigerians that no vaccine had been discovered against the virus, said “the best and most efficient way to avoid getting infected is through regular hygiene and sanitary practices as well as social distancing”. The president acknowledged the personal and collective inconveniences suffered by the citizens due to measures such as restriction of movements and closure of business premises to curtail the spread of the virus. He described the current situation as “a matter of life and death”, saying ”these sacrifices are in everybody’s interest to save our country from calamity”. Buhari, who commended the encouraging containment and ameliorating strategies put in place by members of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, reassured that efforts would be made to address the hardships being faced by the people. ”The welfare of our people is paramount. Accordingly, the most economically vulnerable in our communities will continue to be uppermost in our plans, and efforts will be made to supply them with basic means of survival,” he added. On threat posed by terrorists and insurgents, Buhari assured that the armed forces and other security and intelligence services would remain vigilant and continue to contain these threats and consolidate efforts to eradicate them completely. ”While we see the COVID-19 pandemic as a global challenge, this administration is not oblivious of the constant threat posed to our national security by terrorists and insurgents. They may take this opportunity to perpetrate attacks. ”But our armed forces and other security and intelligence services will remain vigilant and continue to contain these threats and consolidate efforts to eradicate them completely. ”As we mark this year’s Easter, whatever the circumstances, I encourage you to make the most of the situation, and to keep safe. ”I wish you all a Happy Easter,” he said. (NAN)