•NMA says 40 health workers contracted virus from patients who lied about symptoms •Urges FG to supply protective equipment to hospitals  The Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) on Friday raised the alarm over the danger posed to the lives of their members by patients who conceal the symptoms of coronavirus in them. The Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, had said during the media briefing by the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 in Abuja on Thursday that no fewer than 40 health workers in the country had tested positive for coronavirus. The minister urged health workers to be vigilant and use their personal protective equipment (PPE) to guard against infections. But speaking in Abuja yesterday, the President of the NMA, Dr. Francis Faduyile, said that none of the more than 40 doctors and other healthcare workers who have tested positive to the virus or died contracted the disease at isolation or treatment centres. Rather, he said, the health workers, including deceased three doctors and a nurse, contracted the virus in general public and private health facilities while treating patients without access to personal protective equipment. He admonished members to consider everybody presented at the hospital for any ailment as potential COVID-19 patient until proved otherwise, saying: “Our lives also matter!” He also urged the Federal Government to expedite action in supplying public and private hospitals with PPE as more health workers are coming down with the coronavirus (COVID-19) disease in the line of duty. Faduyile said: “At the end of today, given the trend of reports of positive COVID-19 cases by the NCDC, the country will definitely hit the 1000th figure. “So far, over 40 doctors and other healthcare workers have tested positive with three doctors and one nurse paying the ultimate price. “This very disturbing and unsettling development comes against the unfolding scenario as reported in the media that some VIPs in the society are refusing to report to and be admitted at isolation and treatment centres for treatment (and) rather prefer to stay at other non-accredited facilities. “The association perceives that by continued refusal to adhere to instructions, some citizens have vowed to make healthcare workers very vulnerable to contracting the disease. “NMA wishes to reiterate that none of the infected healthcare workers or those that died contracted the disease at an isolation and treatment centre but in general public and private health facilities while treating patients many of whom refused to disclose important medical/travel information that would have increased suspicion and facilitate early diagnosis of COVID-19 infection. “NMA therefore appeals once again to government to expedite action on distributing PPEs to public and private hospitals without delay. “We also remind our members all over the federation to consider everybody presented at the hospital for any ailment as potential COVID-19 patient until proved otherwise. Our lives also matter!”