In line with the new realities of the lockdown and social distancing regulations put in place to curtail the spread of COVID-19, the Lagos State Government is partnering with Echostone Housing for a virtual showcase of  its first green and eco-friendly estate located in Idale, Badagry as well as an online enlightenment programme on mortgage financing. According to the Housing Commissioner, Lagos State, Moruf Akinderu-Fatai, the virtual showcasing became imperative as the State Government is desirous of moving ahead, in spite of all challenges, with its mandate of providing decent and affordable homes for its citizenry. Speaking in a phone interview, Akinderu-Fatai disclosed that the virtual showcasing of the Peridot Parkland Estate is necessary because the joint venture Housing project is completed and now available for delivery to the public. “Peridot Parkland Estate Idale is a joint venture Housing project which is ready for habitation, we want to move ahead to other projects hence the need to present this scheme to the public to generate an awareness of its uniqueness.” policy is affordability hence arrangement has been made for panelists from various organizations of the Housing sector to enlighten participants on convenient  mortgage facilities that could bring people on the home ownership ladder with ease.” He furthermore reiterated the commitment of the administration of Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu to increasing available home units and enhancing  access to decent homes for as many people as possible in Lagos State .” We  absolutely committed  to reducing housing deficit and removing barriers to home ownership in the state.  All hands are on deck to complete all ongoing projects as soon as the lockdown is lifted”. The CEO of Echostone Housing, Mr Sammy Adigun, speaking on the forthcoming webinar said “it will be a good opportunity for intending homeowners to gain expert financial tips and tools on mortgage financing.” The virtual event which is scheduled for Thursday, 23rd of April 2020 will hold at 2pm with panelists including the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Housing, Mr Wasiu Akewusola, CEO, Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria, Ahmed Musa Dangiwa, CEO, of Nigeria Mortgage Refinancing Company, Mr Kehinde Ogundimu and others. Participants are to register online at bit.ly/peridotvirtual.