There is a palpable sense of outrage at the paradoxical situation that has been created by the Nigerian security agencies since the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic lockdown. Ironically, more Nigerians have been killed by bullets from security agencies than have been killed by the dreaded coronavirus. Human rights agencies and the global community are questioning the kind of work that these agencies are paid to perform. Since the announcement of the lockdown in some states, some police officers and soldiers have displayed a high degree of recklessness with the arms the same tax payers being killed paid for. To have killed more people than the number of those killed by the virus in an attempt to enforce the stay-at-home order does not just reconfirm the accusation of official impunity and brutality but negates the social mantra that ‘police is your friend’. A few days ago, there was mayhem in Abia State as the mob took the laws into their hands and set courts, police station and vehicles ablaze in protest against the killing of a young man in Ebem-Ohafia in Ohafia local government of the state. The people were enraged as that was the fourth killing by the police in Abia State since government announced the lockdown. We are equally disappointed at the number of killings of unarmed citizens by the police in the country prior to this time. The fact that these ones are in the news is probably because of the lockdown and does not mean  they are just isolated cases. Hundreds of extra-judicial killings have been recorded over time and we would have thought that serious reforms would have been carried out in the force. There seems to be a lacuna in the training or operational methods of the police that makes killing of citizens a recurring decimal. In this particular Abia State case, four people have been killed in less than three weeks. Let us even assume that the killings were noted by the authorities, what measures have the police hierarchy taken to pacify the citizens, comfort the bereaved and seek justice for the dead? We believe that if the right actions had been taken in the past, the mob that razed the buildings in anger might not have taken such a drastic action. The reaction of the people even though condemnable because two wrongs can never make a right, is a display of lack of confidence on both the police and the judicial system. If there had been a history of a speedy route to justice, the people might have acted differently. The people must be made to have confidence in the system through actions that earn their trust in government and their institutions and agencies. Human life must be treated with dignity and that must start with the agency vested with the duty of serving and protecting the people. To be in the law enforcement unit and fail the people only signals the societal descent to anarchy. Given that the suspects fingered in the killing were reported to  have been off-duty policemen that went on a drinking spree raises a red flag. How could policemen bearing firearms have gone on a drinking spree? Are there no operational guidelines for policemen?  We ask these questions because we feel there are deeper strategic flaws to the operations of the Nigerian police and this killing is just one too many. The police authorities have promised to investigate the case; we wait to see how well this would be handled for the people to see that justice has been done.