From: Rosemary Nwisi, Port Harcourt  The new Commissioner of Police(CP), to Rivers state, Joseph Gobum Mukan has officially assumed duty in the state on Monday. Mukan who hails from Plateau state has promised to reposition the police in the state for true professionalism, effectiveness and efficiency in the art of policing. He called on the people to trust and have confidence in the Police as they support the police by divulging useful information that will lead to security of the state. The CP took over from Mustapha Dandaura, who was redeployed to the Force Headquarters in Abuja, last week. Until his deployment to the state last Thursday, Mukan was the CP Airport Command in Lagos state. He had earlier served in the state as Ahoada Divisional Police Officer between 2007 and 2008 and as CP Bayelsa state command. A statement from the Police Public Relation Officer(PPRO), in the state, Nnamdi Omoni, a Deputy Superintendent of Police(DSP),
said, “The Rivers State Police Command is pleased to inform the general public and indeed residents of the State, that a new Commissioner of Police has been deployed to the State. “CP Joseph Gobum Mukan psc (+) today assumed Duties and Responsibilities of the Command, as the 41st Commissioner of Police. He succeeds CP Mustapha Dandaura who has been redeployed to the Force Headquarters, as CP Provost. “The new Commissioner of Police was appointed on the 15th day of March, 1988 as a Cadet Assistant Superintendent of Police. “He hails from Kanke Local Government Area of Plateau State and holds a Bachelor of Arts Degree (B.A HONS) in History, from the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria.
CP Joseph G. Mukan psc (+) has attended various Professional Courses both home and abroad. “He is an Alumnus of the American International Law Enforcement Academy, Washington DC USA, with a Certificate in Diplomatic Protection and has served the Force in various capacities, among which include: “Divisional Crime Officer, B Division Bukuru, Plateau State, OFficer in-charge (O/C )Patrol and Guard, B Division Bukuru, Plateau State,
Investigating Detective INTERPOL, (FORCID), 2i/C Area Commander, Kontogora, Niger State,
DPO Mokwa, Niger State, 2i/C CID, Minna, Niger State, Directing Staff, Police Staff College, Jos.
DPO Ahoada Division Rivers State Command—2007-2008, AC Admin. Railway Police Command, Lagos and AC CID, Airport Police Command, Lagos.” Other areas are, “Assistant Commissioner of police, (AC) X Squad Zone 4, Makurdi.
AC Admin Ondo State Command, AC CID Kwara State Command, Deputy communities of police(DC) DFA FHQS, DC ‘A’ Bayelsa State Command, Dc Ops Zone 3, Yola, then CP Border Patrol FHQS, CP Special Fraud Unit FORCID.
CP Bayelsa State Command and CP Airport Command Lagos, before being deployed to the stste recently.” He was described as a versatile Police Officer with impeccable track records in crime fighting. He assured all residents in the State of his commitments in delivering quality service to the state and her people, with sense of humility, integrity and professionalism. The state security Boss equally promised to rekindle the people’s confidence in the Police and reposition the Command for efficiency and productivity, with special attention on the respect for citizens’ fundamental Human Rights. He urged the people to continue to see the Police as their own, for the desired results.