 A United States of American-based philantropic organisation- Five Points Youth Foundation (FPYF), has set up a 12-member committee to further promote the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals in Nigeria. The committee will also be saddled with encouraging and promoting effective public, public-private and civil society partnerships in accordance with the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact such as addressing human right, labour, environment and anti-corruption, through its local network. According to the President of FPYF Andrew Williams Jr, the committee would work with Mr Shola Agboola who was last month appointed FPYF goodwill ambassador in Nigeria, Nigerians in the Diaspora, as well as African communities worldwide, all in a bid to ensure the aforementioned task is successful. Five Points Youth Foundation is dedicated to enhancing global partnerships for sustainable development as stipulated by the United Nations to build safe and sustainable communities and cities for all.  Until his recent appointment, Agboola is the incumbent President of Nigerian Association for Young Adults of Canada Inc. (NAYA), an ethno-cultural\non-profit organisation registered and incorporated with the Government of Canada. It is the largest Nigerian association in Canada and the first to have national affiliations and membership across all regions and provinces of Canada. Agboola who is serving his second term as NAYA President, would give updates on the activities of the committee to Williams Jr,. who is also Chairperson of its Ad Hoc International Advisory Board of Goodwill Ambassadors (AHIABGA). In addition, members of the committee would assist Agboola to identify, aggregate, screen, recommend and assist in registering qualified local Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs), including qualified churches and charities organisation whose philosophies tally with the United Nations Global Compact Network, the world’s largest corporate social responsibility organisation, founded by then-Secretary General of the United Nations, the late Kofi Annan in 2000 alongside the Millennium Development Goals 2015 which is now referred to as the Sustainable Development Goals 2030. 