Access Bank Plc has introduced a dual transaction service (DTS), an enhanced debit card service that provides access to credit at the same time. The bank stated that the service was part of his supports to alleviate challenges created by the Covid-19 pandemic. The DTS is a bundled service designed to allow pre-approved customers access a credit line through their existing debit card. Executive Director, Retail Banking, Access Bank Plc, Victor Etuokwu said the bank blazed the trails as the first bank in Nigeria to provide this kind of combined essential service to its customers. “We have been encouraging our customers to stay safe and connected by going cashless while using our various digital channels. We know these are trying times and our customers may need an extra boost during this period so rather than have them go through the rigorous process of applying for a credit card, we will give them access to more funds using their existing debit cards,” Etuokwu said. According to him, the service is available to all Access Bank customers who earn from N20,000 and above.  Customers can also access three times the value of their salary during this period of restricted movement. “This is a remarkable feat and we will continue to promote digital transactions and discourage branch banking until we are completely come out of the pandemic times,” Etuokwu said. He explained that in order to activate the service, all the customers need to do is dial *901*14# from the comfort of their homes, choose credit as account type on any POS or ATM terminal during any transaction to access the credit line through their debit card. “The dual card service from Access Bank Plc is the first-of-its-kind on the continent. The features of the dual transaction service represents another milestone in our mission to transform banking and demonstrates how far we have come in such a short time,” Etuokwu said. Access Bank recently donated N1 billion as part of its contribution to fight Coronavirus in Nigeria. The bank has also reached out to its customers via several communications to go cashless by using the Access Bank’s electronic and digital platforms during this period of the pandemic to remain safe.