 The Ekiti State government on Monday said it has deployed medical expert to the tracing of all contacts with the new four index case in the state. The Commissioner for Health, Dr. Mojisola Yaya-Kolade, made this known in Ado Ekiti, while members of the Ekiti State Task Force on COVID-19 were briefing the newsmen on the situation report on the pandemic in the state. Yaya-Kolade stated the state task force on COVID-19 have 58 contacts to trace, adding that samples are being collected from high risk contacts for reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction analysis. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, on Saturday discovered four new index cases in Ekiti, who had contacts with the 45- year old medical doctor, who contracted the disease through the only deceased patient in the state. “Our medical team have deployed to commence tracing of four new contacts in the state to avert community transmission. We have 58 contacts to trace and we have started doing that. Blood samples have been taken and results are being awaited while the contacts tracing also continue”. The Commissioner who revealed that two children under the age of 10, were among the four newly discovered coronavirus patients. She allayed the fear of community transmission of the pandemic, saying the the state’s contact identification techniques are well-strengthened. “In the four new cases, there were two children of ages 10 and nine who must have contacted it through the 45-year old doctor and only active case before the new cases. “They are all in isolation centre. They are responding, doing well, stable and in high spirit. Meanwhile, the government debunked rumour frothing that it had returned the 1,800 bags of rice donated to Ekiti by the government, which were alleged to have been adulterated. The Coordinator of the COVID-19 Task Force and Director General, Office of Strategic Transformation and Delivery, Prof. Bolaji Aluko, said the rice would be sorted to be able to separate the expired from consumable ones. “We have not rejected or returned any rice to FG. The state will do sorting and separate the bad ones out of the consignment”, he clarified.  