 Nigeria is to rake in at least $5 million (N1.9billion) foreign direct investment from the latest film production agreement between the Society of Nigeria Theatre Artists (SONTA) and a firm, Plume and Partners Limited, a creative content development company and parent company of campus prowler, it was learnt. The MoU, which was signed in Abuja on project Hostage, is aimed at improving contents for the creative industry. SONTA comprises theatre arts departments from more than 45 universities and 20 colleges of fducation. SONTA President, Prof. Alex Osigbo and Samuel Bob-Manuel, Chief Executive Officer, Plume and Partners said the MoU will change the face of entertainment in the country. The agreement, they said, is expected to produce over 35,000 hours of audio-visual programming spanning from 90 epic and contemporary movies of about 120  minutes, 45 minutes advocacy documentaries on various subjects and 45 campus series of 25 minutes. Over 88 professors, a 120 doctorate degree holders of theatre arts and over 10,000 theatre arts undergraduate students are expected to participate in the project that will last for initial five years. The theatre art students are also expected to participate in the auditioning in various set roles. The project, the duo said, will be aired on a soon to be launched student Lifestyle television channel. Plume and Partners CEO, Bob-Manuel said the project is expected to attract foreign direct investment for the country, saying Nigeria is expected to rake in at least $5 million Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) annually at the initial stage with right partnership. This Foreign Direct Investment is expected to grow astronomically over time given the country’s large viewing audience. He said: “Conservatively, the country is expected to rake at least $5 million annually at the initial stage with right partnership. This, he said, has the possibility to grow beyond the $5 million.” He said the firm is ready and willing to work on all the scripts from the schools as it is going to provide competition for the various tertiary institutions. Consequently, each tertiary institution will provide one nominee while the firm will provide five nominees to form a strong academy of judges to rate performance. Besides, he said the selection process will be thorough and transparent with each school providing proper checks. He also noted that the firm is set to go as it concerns the projects, adding that scripts are already been developed. Prof. Osigbo said beyond providing mentoring for the students, the project will create thousands of employment opportunities for theatre art graduates. “This would allow students to learn a kind of practical experience and generate employment opportunities for art graduates and other various classes of people,” he said. The partnership, according to him, is going to generate a lot of content for student viewers and the entire country in general. “The partnership is going to produce entertainment for campus and Nigerians at large. It is going to generate a lot of content,” he added. 