From Sanni Onogu, Abuja  Senate President Ahmad Lawan in Friday felicitated with Nigerians especially the Christian faithful as they celebrate Easter. In a statement he personally signed, Lawan, however, urged Nigerians to use the Easter period to pray for divine intervention against the ravages of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) in the country. Lawan said: “I heartily felicitate with Nigerians, particularly of the Christian faith, as we and the rest of the world celebrate Easter, a very important event in the calendar of the followers of Jesus Christ. “Easter marks the triumph of Jesus Christ over sin, adversity and death. “This occasion is relevant today more than ever before as mankind passes through one of the darkest clouds in history. “However, if we draw the right lessons from the death of Jesus on the cross at Calvary and his resurrection, we become more confident as we fight coronavirus and all other trials that today test our faith. “My belief is that this is a passing phase for Nigeria and the entire world and that our faith is a potent spiritual weapon for the pursuit of victory. “Therefore, let us be fervent in our prayer for Divine intervention to vanquish the pandemic, heal the sick and renew the world and Nigeria. “We should not allow the frightening reports from other parts of the world on the pandemic to discourage us or weaken our hope. “Rather, such reports should remind us of the Divine mercy under which we live in this clime, and strengthen our determination to rout this virus and others. “I salute the resilience of Nigerians and urge us all to continue to cooperate with the Government as it leads us in the fight against Coronavirus and its deleterious effects on the economy and life in general. “The National Assembly will continue to provide legislative intervention to support and improve the efforts of Government in this trying period and beyond. “I commend our health personnel and other stakeholders at the frontline of the battle against the pandemic. “I also applaud the public-spirited individuals, corporate bodies, institutions and others who have risen in sacrifice and support for our nation in this battle. “As I again wish us a Happy Easter, I urge us to strictly observe the public health protocols of social distancing, regular washing of hands and the rules of hygiene in our homes as we mark the joyous occasion.”