 National Association of Niger State Students (NANISS), has been alleged of misappropriations in the last three administrations. CAMPUSLIFE gathered that the Students’ Representative Assembly (SRA) of NANISS, through the Clark of the union, Senator Salihu Mohammed Chado of Fati Lami Abubakar Institute for Legal and Administrative Studies (FLAILAS), received a petition against its National President Sallah Muhammad Abdullahi, an undergraduate of Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida University (IBBUL). The said petition, signed by Nafisat Tukur, and Muhammed Isah Idris, both Vice President and Assistant General Secretary respectively, among other executive members of NANISS,  challenged Sallah’s integrity and lack of openness in fund management. “The petition, as quoted by Senate President, Al-Mustapha Suleiman of Federal University, Gusau, alleged Sallah of ‘misappropriation of fund as well as hijacking the power of other executive offices’. The SRA is asking Sallah to account for N750,000 monthly allowance from the state government, as well as scholarship scheme for Niger State students in tertiary institutions. The petitioners had indicated that Sallah has so far collected the said allocation three times without being able to account for it. Abdullahi has since been suspended by SRC for six weeks pending the time the allegations are proven otherwise. Defending his action however, Sallah said SRC has no power to challenge him because it is already suspended by NANISS owing to polarisation. Al-Mustapha said the suspension came as a result of ‘vote of no confidence’ passed on the President by the two-third members of the executive arm of NANISS. “We didn’t act outside the provision of the constitution. We acted in line with the provisions of section 9(1)(F) and section 9(4)(E) of NANISS national constitution which stated thus: ‘The students’ Representative Assembly (SRA) has the power to moderate the activities of the executive government of the association,” said Al-Mustapha. Similarly, SRA has the power to serve as an avenue to receive petition or query on any member of the association,” he added. However, he said for the benefit of the doubt, a disciplinary committee has been constituted to investigate the matter and report back their findings. Al-Mustapha said in the interim, NANISS National Vice President Comrade Nafisat Ibrahim Tukura also of IBBUL would act as the National President of the union during the suspension of her boss.  Interestingly, Sallah who has since been directed to submit all the association’s property in his custody to Nafisat, denied the allegations against him. He stated this while responding to a phone call by these campus reporters. Sallah also made available a letter signed by him in which he had earlier suspended SRC due to factionalisation. The letter was titled: ‘Suspension of all SRA leadership factions to avert impending unrest’. The letter read thus: “I write to bring to your notice, the decision of the leadership of National Association of Niger State Students (NANISS) on the above caption. “Two factions of Students Representative Assembly (SRA) leadership emerged since SRA elections. All efforts to allow the factions reconcile were not successful; hence NANISS’ intervention. Similarly, the two splinter groups had, at different capacities, written to NANIS threatening breakdown of law and order in the event of ant group holding sitting in the name of SRA. “The national headquarters, in its wisdom, took this bold step to prevent a recurrence of crises where members sustained injuries of different degree. “A committee has been set up to include two former National Presidents, comrades Aliyu Ibrahim Evuti and Abubakar Mohammed Gambo, among other distinguished members. “By this letter, sittings by any faction whatsoever is suspended and will be declared an attempt to breach public order. The security institutions should therefore take note”.