Commuters in Anambra State are not finding funny the stay-at-home order so they are deploying strategies to beat it, writes EMMA ELEKWA. As commuters continue to groan at various interstate borders across the country following their closures by federal and state governments caused by the Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic, many have devised other strategies and routes to getting to their destinations. Undoubtedly, the boarder closure directives and its enforcement, particularly by “overzealous” government functionaries have subjected hundreds of travellers in and out of the states to untold hardship and misery. Among the closed borders in the Southeast and Southsouth regions of the country included Awka and Ebenebe leading to Enugu, Niger Bridge leading to Delta, Amorka in Uli leading to Imo, Ogbaru leading Rivers, Aguleri leading to Kogi and Owerri-Ezukala leading to Abia. At the Asaba end of the Niger Bridge, for example, the situation has resulted to long queues of trucks, buses and cars on the Onitsha-Benin highway as security agents mount road blocks at the border points to ensure enforcement of the border closure. Travellers, some of who claimed ignorance of the directive, had continuously been subjected to varying degrees of suffering as they expressed sadness over their inability to continue their journeys onward or backward. But investigation revealed that at the River Niger bridge, travellers coming into Anambra from Delta state and vice versa have resorted to boat transportation as an alternative. Our correspondent observed that passengers now ferry boat to beat the boarders through the River Niger. While those coming into Anambra from Delta State board the boat from Cable point in Asaba, those from Onitsha join the boat from the marine, near prison. One of the passengers, a pretty trader who preferred anonymity said she could not afford to sit at home and watch her children die of hunger as a result of the boarder closure. She said: “I live in Asaba but do business in Onitsha. It’s from the business I transact here in Onitsha daily that I feed my family. Wonder how they want me to take care of my husband and five children.” She said although the fare was exorbitant, especially when compared with that of road transportation, she was ready to bear the cost. “We pay as much as N500 to get to our destination, but I don’t mind as long as I carry on with my business unhindered,” she added. A media consultant, who simply identified himself as Davis, said he had no option to join the boat as he must come to Anambra to cover the activities in the state. “As one working in an organization categorised as one of the essential services, my profession demanded that I must come to Anambra every day to cover the state. Unless they want my office to relieve me of my job,” he said. The story is not different at the Anambra-Enugu boarders as the enforcement compliance order continues to take tolls on interstate commuters. The closure is being enforced by officials of Anambra Ministry Transport in collaboration with Police, Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) and other relevant agencies. At the Amansea/Oji River borders along the Enugu-Onitsha old road, and Amansea border with Enugu on the Enugu-Onitsha expressway, travellers were stranded due to strict enforcement. However, petrol tankers, articulated trucks and other vehicles conveying food items and medical supplies were allowed to pass, but not without a thorough check on them. Investigation revealed that some of the travellers coming from Awka would disembark at a distance and walk through the border with the claim that they were going to the next village, just to join another vehicle to continue their journey. It was also observed that some motorists were allowed passage after greasing the palms of the enforcement officers. A truck driver, who claimed to have loaded his vehicle with banana bunches, was later discovered to be conveying metal scraps upon scrutiny and was later allowed to continue his journey. Some of the travellers who spoke to The Nation lamented their plight as they said they had been pleading all day to no avail. They said though they were aware of the order, they needed to go back to their families and unite with them. One of the travellers who identified himself simply as Dominic said he was taking his brother to a nearby hospital close to the border. “It is true that we live in Enugu, but our border is very close to Anambra, and we use the hospital at Amansea,” he said. A medical personnel, who spoke on condition of anonymity, accused security operatives at Amansea point of taking bribes to let vehicles drive into the state from Enugu or to drive into Enugu from Anambra. He said he was not allowed passage despite his explanations to the security agents that he was an essential worker. He said he would have received a gun shot from a military officer if not for the quick intervention of another high ranking officer who explained to them that persons on essential duties were to be granted passage. “Even when I identified myself as a medical doctor, the overzealous security officer refused to allow me to pass. “One of them, a soldier, even threatened to shoot me if I complained further. If not for the intervention of a high-ranking policeman who came to the scene minutes later, I don’t know what would have been my fate.” The Mobile Police Commander of MOPOL 29, Victor Erivwode told reporters during the inspection that his team has had a hectic time checking the entry and exit of vehicles into the state. He said effort was to achieve maximum compliance with minimal or no harassment and intimidation of the populace including those on essential duties. “We have less pressure now, I must confess. When we started this operation on Monday, all the borders were full of stranded passengers, but we had to explain to them that we are not doing this to punish them, but to protect them. “We must all comply and observe the 14 days stay at home to see if we can beat the disease,” he said. Commissioner for Transport in Anambra Dr Christian Madubuko refuted allegations of extortion by some of his staff as revealed by some motorists. He vowed to withdraw corrupt officials who were indicted adding that he could not afford to have anybody tarnish the image of government. He said: “I did not send anybody to collect money from travellers but to ensure strict compliance.”