An integrated technology solutions provider, Inlaks Limited, has said the availability of information technology (IT) equipment  and constant power supply are critical elements to defeat the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Its Managing Director/CEO, African Operations, Femi Adeoti, spoke during the presentation of power and information technological IT equipment worth  N12 million  to support the battle against coronavirus in the country in Lagos. The two units of 30KVA Uninterruptible Power Systems (UPS) as well as a multimedia digital screen the firm donated were delivered and installed at the Onikan Isolation Centre, Lagos. In addition, it provided a multimedia digital screen to further aid public awareness. The gadget is a channel best suited for dissemination of authentic news, updates and information related to COVID-19 and measures to curb the spread. Adeoti said: “From global indications, it is clear that curbing the spread of coronavirus outbreak is a responsibility for all. As cases rapidly increase in Nigeria, government, non-government institutions, and individuals need to work together to bring an end to this pandemic.  “Containing the spread of the virus requires aggressive and collective contribution in terms of time, energy, and resources from every sector. Knowing the importance of power supply in managing isolation centres, relying on resources from our sub brands – Inlaks Power and Inlaks Energy, we can channel our support majorly towards ensuring regular power supply to isolation centres. “We commend the efforts of governments, health workers and international bodies in the face of the situation. We are keen to contribute our resources to the collective effort that will ensure swift and effective response to the pandemic.” He said in recognition of its long-standing relationship with GTBank as a trusted business partner, Inlaks joined hands with the bank to provide clean and uninterrupted power for medical equipment at the isolation centre. The power system  at the Onikan Isolation Centre is expected to deliver continuous and conditioned power that can  provide life support for patients; aid accuracy in testing and data collection; ensure constant illumination of the centre; improve the life span of medical equipment as well as the productivity of health care workers. With the growing concerns around the spread of COVID-19 in Lagos and Nigeria, Inlaks is imploring members to observe social distancing and other safety regulations put in place by relevant government agencies across the country. 