Rivers State Government has declared Carveton Helicopters persona non grata, saying the airline would only operate in the state at its own risk. In a state broadcast on Wednesday,  Rivers Governor,  Nyesom Wike, directed local government council chairmen to close the offices of Carveton Helicopters across the state. Carverton flew in expatriate oil workers to Port-Harcourt on Tuesday but the pilots were arrested and charged by the State Government, which accused them of flouting the lockdown order. But the Federal Government, on Wednesday, said it approved operation of the flights in the interest of national economy. Wike however said: “We appreciate the need to protect business interests and operations in the State and we will do whatever that is required to ensure that no business is unduly affected by the measures we have taken to combat the Coronavirus. “However, we shall not welcome businesses or companies that value their business activities or profit more than or in clear disregard of the lives and health of our people. “By its actions Carverton  Helicopters have  clearly  shown that Rivers lives do not matter to it. It is an enemy of Rivers people and is hereby declared  persona non grata  in Rivers State. “With this declaration Carverton Helicopters can only chose to operate in any part of Rivers State at its own risk as Local Government Chairmen have been directed to close their offices and prevent their operations.” Wike said that it was highly   insensitive   and   provocative actions of Carverton Helicopters   took   place   in   the   midst   of   credible intelligence  reports   about   plans   by   enemies of the state  to   traffic carriers of the dreaded Coronavirus into the State. He said: “Their morbid intention is to create panic by pushing up the infection rate and rubbish the robust measures we have since put in place to cut off the spread of the virus and keep our State and our citizens safe and secure from the ravaging pandemic. ” As expected, and required by our laws, the crew and the passengers   on board   that   ill-fated   helicopter   were   promptly arrested   by   the   law   enforcement   personnel   and   are   being prosecuted   before   our   courts   in   line   with   our   COVID-19 Declarations and Containment Orders. “Carverton Helicopters claimed to have gotten permits from some   federal   agencies   to   fly   passengers   into   the   State , which never bordered to take the State Government into confidence in issuing such permits in violation of our laws and containment orders. “While  federal agencies reserve the   right   to issue flight permits to airline operators to fly into Rivers State, we insist that the State Government must equally be informed and taken into confidence in the process. “This the only way to avoid suspicion, conflicts of interests and   unnecessary   bickering   between   the   State   and  Federal Governments in our collective efforts to combat the spread of COVID 19 in the country. “Let me reiterate that for us, COVID 19 in Rivers State is a matter of life and  death,   and  we  will   never succumb   to any blackmail   from   any   person,   institution   or   authority   in   our determination   to   protect   our citizens   and   our   State  from   the spread of this deadly virus. “Since we triggered the law on Carverton Helicopters, we have   seen   and   read   all   sorts   of   hilarious   and   frivolous comments,   particularly   on   social   media,   questioning   the propriety of our actions against the carrier and its passengers “At   this   time   and   under   the   present   situation,   nothing;   I repeat; nothing, is more important to us than to safeguard the lives and well-being of our citizens no matter the cost, and we shall spare no efforts to achieve this singular most fundamental objective of our Government.”