When President Muhammadu  Buhari named  Sunday Dare as Youths and Sports Development  Minister six months ago, he was applauded for making the right choice. The excitement generated by Dare’s appointment was hinged on his pedigree as an accomplished international journalist coupled with administrative exposure and experience in public service. Prior to dare’s appointment, the belief was that sports was usually the last in the pecking order of merit. Some ex-ministers had laid credence to this with seemingly poor performances and lack of vision that has kept Nigerian sports in the archives of past glory and youth development at a crossroads. Six months down the line, Dare is reinventing the wheels. The long years of systemic destruction, failed dreams, poor planning, disillusionment and frustrations have left the terrain comatose. Decaying infrastructure, poorly motivated athletes, disgruntled work force, poorly trained coaches, archaic policy and angrily resentful public make  the assignment not only Herculean but one that needs ruffling of feathers. Gradually, in the last six months, the work ethic has changed. With a Permanent Secretary in Gabriel Aduda who is desirous of breaking away from old tradition, Dare has moved in leaps and bounds. He has restored confidence in the ministry as evidenced in the partnership with the private sector, agencies and international bodies. His first breakthrough was moving away from the narrow scope of being called ‘Football Minister’. Under Dare, Youth and Sports Development have been given a new vista. He hit the ground running with his ‘Adopt-a-Talent’ initiative which has seen corporate organisations, governors and individuals adopting athletes, signing MoUs and paying money directly into their accounts to prepare for the Tokyo Olympics. This is against the convention where Olympics-bound athletes never had funds to prepare. The ripple effect is that it takes away the burden off the athletes, administrators and the coaches. This ensures transparency and accountability of funds. The Adopt-a-Talent’ has also led to infrastructural developments with the rehabilitation of stadiums in Abuja, Kaduna Ibadan through partnerships. Sponsors, Individuals and others now feel comfortable investing in sports in the believe that there is proper accountability and due process. The ‘Adopt –a-Stadium’ initiative is also paying off with the MKO Abiola Stadium in Abuja to be renovated by Alhaji Aliko Dangote, Daura  Township Stadium , Katsina  by Chief Kensington Adebutu, Ahmadu Bello Stadium by  Kaduna State Governor Mallam Nasir El Rufai. The entire sports spectrum is being revived despite the paucity of funds. His interventions are already yielding results with the discovery of  the young swimmer nicknamed the Fish, the young girl boxing sensation Shekina , the tennis sisters Oiza and Nene Yakubu. No wonder he has earned himself the sobriquet:talent hunter, reformist among others. The revival of the National Sports Festival , Youth Games  , NUGA , back-to-school, Principal Cup , Headmaster Cup  among others are geared towards enduring  sports development. Welfare of athletes occupies a front burner in Dare’s agenda with athletes getting their entitlements promptly. Since the ministry is  limited by funds, Dare is thinking outside the box by partnering with the private sector , wealthy individuals, state governments , agencies and international organizations to actualize what he calls a huge , unfunded mandate. Six months in the saddle, Dare appears to be on the right track of re-rewriting Nigeria Youth and Sports Development history.