It is over two weeks now that the Minister of Education Mallam Adamu Adamu, directed managements of tertiary institutions nationwide to restart the session by transiting to virtual learning in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. As weeks roll by, that statement appears to be purely ‘political’. Findings by CAMPUSLIFE reveal that most tertiary institutions, including first generation universities, are yet to commence the exercise. A handful that have started seem to be merely on skeletal operation, a pointer that the country may not yet be prepared for what it started. Reports by: OKERINMODUN FAITH OLUSEGUN (OAU); IBRAHIM ABAGA (IBBUL); PHILLIP ANJORIN (AAUA); IFUNNAYA OSAKWE (UNIBEN); FASILAT OLUWUYI (MAPOLY); ABDULRASHEED HAMMAD (UDUS) and NAOMI AGHA (DSPZ). From Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU) Ile-Ife to Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida University, Lapai (IBBUL) Niger State, and coursing Southward to Delta State Polytechnic, Ozoro, and many more…the story is the same. The virtual learning initiative by the Federal Government amid the Coronavirus pandemic seems to be a mirage, though seen by many as a laudable step to keep the students in tertiary institutions learning on the go as COVID-19 continues to claim more victims globally. Institutions visited by CAMPUSLIFE coupled with reactions from lecturers and students simply show that the government might have acted before thinking. Many students and teachers who spoke to CAMPUSLIFE felt the government has failed to consider key factors like uninterrupted power supply, enough data for both students and lecturers, acquisition of tech equipment/training; and provision of tabs or laptop computers for students, among others, which are a prerequisite for an unfettered virtual learning. For universities, their woes appeared to be more complicated as their lecturers under the aegis of Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) are on industrial action. Following a two-week warning strike earlier, ASUU began an industrial action on Monday, March 23, alleging coercion on the part of the government to enrol its members on Integrated Payroll and Personal Information System (IPPIS).  Federal Govt directs virtual learning A fortnight ago, the Minister of Education Mallam Adamu Adamu, held a teleconference with 237 vice chancellors, provosts and rectors of tertiary institutions nationwide for nearly five hours, instructing them to activate their virtual learning environment to ensure students continue learning, while at home. Adamu had also assured vice chancellors that the government was putting things in place towards ensuring ASUU was back to classes. Although private universities expressed their desires to key into virtual learning, and boasting of a top grade virtual learning platforms, same cannot be said of their counterparts in the public institutions. Interstingly, CAMPUSLIFE learnt that a some private universities and a few public universities, such as First Technical University, Ibadan, Federal Polytechnic, Ilaro, Lagos State University, Kwara State University, and Al-hikmah University,  the preponderance of public institutions were still in the dark on the next line of action. Besides, most of the aforementioned institutions are only deploying the WhatsApp platfom rather than the more sophisticated virtual learning environment, to teach. Meanwhile, National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), has lambasted the Minister of Education for not being fully in charge of his constituency. Speaking with CAMPUSLIFE, National President, NANS, Comrade Danielson Bamidele Akpan, said students were embarrassed and disappointed that Adamu’s utterances portrayed him as a man who didn’t  understand the enormity of the challenges of education ministry he superintends. “We are categorically saying our Minister of Education does not fully understand that sector he leads,” Danielson said. He continued: “How can the minister direct all tertiary institutions to transcend to virtual learning when the necessary infrastructure that will facilitate that are not in place? “How many students own laptops and can afford enough data for online lectures? Even the first generation universities are still struggling. This is a man that has not been visiting public schools often since his appointment. Perhaps this would have afforded him an opportunity to appraise the ugly scenarios of our education system. You can’t just sit down in your office in Abuja and ask vice chancellors, rectors and provosts to migrate to online teaching. “And for him to give that directive in the midst of industrial strike by ASUU is another thing that beats our imagination. “We know ASUU’s demands are mostly for their members’ interest, while as students we will also protect the interest of our members. We appeal to the Federal Government to do the needful as far as ASUU agitations are concerned. “Be that as it may, I believe staying safe is the most important thing for our members now. Other institutions globally have also shut down with only their research centres open for skeletal services. “Up till now, I can tell you that since that directive was given, only a handful of institutions have begun. “Even if we had the facilities (for virtual learning) what of some science-oriented courses that require laboratory practical? Will those ones also do virtual learning? It is sad and unfortunate that government has not improved our tertiary institutions to a point where they can successfully compete with their counterparts elsewhere. So what the minister has said is  a mere political statement.” Head of Department of Mass Communication, Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida University, Lapai (IBBUL), Niger State, Dr Ternenge Ende, said government seemed to have omitted some key issues involved in the online teaching which include, availability of ICT facilities, competence of the lecturer, students and constant power supply, among other things. “Adopting online teaching without due preparation and appropriate support infrastructure for use by instructors, students and other critical stakeholders may be an invitation to disaster,” Ende noted. A final year student from Business Administration of IBBUL Micheal Omotayo, said the school doesn’t have the facilities to embark on such services. “The kind of school we are in, it will be hard. Most students are yet to understand the physical teaching and you are talking about online,” said a third year Mass Communication undergraduate Ruth Okomiso. Jerry Jonathan, a 200-Level student of Psychology, told CAMPUSLIFE that IBBUL should not consider the online teaching because poor network and power supply will be a huge hindrance to the system.  We are still uncertain-OAU For the time being, Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU)Ile-Ife, has expressed its uncertainty to commence virtual learning. This was confirmed by the university’s Public Relations Officer, Mr Olanrewaju Abiodun. “For now, we can’t ascertain anything like that but when we get to the bridge we will cross it,” Olanrewaju said. “As at now, we are also considering the situation but when the time comes we would put everything in place,” he added. However, Olasunkanmi Ajao, a final year student of Health Education in OAU, also thinks virtual learning might be a herculean task. “I don’t think that (virtual learning) can be enhanced or possible because to a certain level, there are no measures in place to foster that,” Ajao said. He added: “To me, Nigeria isn’t ready and by extension our university system isn’t ready for that” he added. “Nigeria has to be improved before they can do things like this,” said a 300-Level Adeniji Iyanuoluwa of the Department of History and International Relations. “Power and some other things would militate against this. I don’t think it can work out even if management of universities decide to commence.”  E-learning not feasible-ASUU The Branch Chairman of ASUU-OAU, Dr Niyi Egbedokun, the virtual initiative would merely remain a daydream since ASUU members who he said were the human infrastructure that would prosecute it were still on strike. “E-learning during ASUU strike? Egbedokun asked rhetorically. “University lecturers all over the country are on strike and you also think e-learning will take place! Is someone planning to bring expatriates here to achieve that? My simple mind tells me that no ASUU member will break this current strike because of any lie from any quarters. “I have expertise in pedagogy and technology of e-learning. I know e-learning is not a process that can just be jumped into. It requires enormous preparations in terms of technology, architecture, human development/training. In fact, the training aspect could take as long as it requires to prepare the facilitators. In the current circumstances, universities are not prepared for e-learning.”  Mixed reactions at DSPZ At the Delta State Polytechnic Ozoro, lecturers and students are still expressing missed reactions over the possibility or otherwise of virtual learning in the school. A lecturer in Computer Graphics Department of Mass Communication Mr Oshai Steve, said virtual learning is not yet attainable in the school. He said: “I don’t think we have the facilities and resources to drive it now. “To facilitate virtual learning requires a high level of ICT infrastructure. Lecturers must have also undergone an on-the-job training on effective use of digital tools.’’ On the contrary, Oshai’s colleague Mr Bright Okoro, a former Head of Department of Mass Communication, said virtual learning in the institution is possible, though it could begin gradually. “If Coronavirus persists, we will begin to see a situation where students can attend lectures from their homes, having received necessary information from their schools’ websites. All we just need is some finance and willingness on our part.  We can put all the facilities in place such that within the school premises you can access information and even check your result without coming to the department, but there was no sustainability.’’  We are uncertain-AAUA At the Adekunle Ajasin University Akungba-Akoko (AAUA), the lockdown order came after students resumed from a two-week mid semester break to write their first semester examination. Students in the school told CAMPUSLIFE that the development may have resulted in the school not considering virtual learning option. A 200-Level student of Sociology of AAUA, Akinbuwa Akinwale, believed there is no way all schools would not adopt virtual learning if the lockdown persists. She noted that it will be further advantage for students many who are now addicted to social media. “Virtual and distance learning will definitely be of much benefit at this particular period of time because majority of students now spend their time with their gadgets and on internet. I think it will be fun and of much pleasure receiving lectures both on and offline. My worry is: How will continuous assessment and other marks be awarded? Negatively, this will go a long way to affect some students who do not have access to internet and phones that can browse. This is coupled with poor level of assimilation since lecturers will not be physically there to explain some grey areas to students,” he said. Corroborating Akinwale, a lecturer in the Department of Mass Communication, Dr Ishola Lamidi, lamented that the perennial underfunding of public institutions nationwide would continue to be a clog in the wheel of ICT development in Nigerian universities. He said: “When you go round the institutions today, how many universities have the (ICT) resources? It may interest you to know that some private institutions are better equipped than public universities and this remains one of the reasons why ASUU go on strike. “Most of the infrastructure we have in our institutions today are funded by TETFUND (Tertiary Education Trust Fund). Go to another environment and you’ll discover that virtual learning is a norm because institutions are well catered for and they have the facilities to back it up. ‘’No virtual learning has yet taken off at the Moshood Abiola Polytechnic, Abeoukata Ogun State.’’ However, CAMPUSLIFE learned that some of the lecturers have personally started engaging the students via the WhatsApp platform by sending them recorded audio messages and text at least twice a week. Anuoluwapo Oyedokun, an ND1 Hospitality Management undergraduate, who have been taking part in the General Studies course on WhatsApp, expressed her frustrations. Unlike face-to-face classes, Oyedokun described the WhatsApp exercise as ‘uninteresting and not interactive’. She stressed that the lecturer in question is only sending in audio messages which many of them could hardly understand.  UNIBEN still improving ICT deployment At the University of Benin (UNIBEN) checks by CAMPUSLIFE revealed that before now, the institution had facilities for distance learning which were not adapted for usage by regular students. Also unlike before, since the refurbishing of the school generating sets, the power situation has improved under the present administration which came on board in December. Meanwhile, a senior lecturer in the Department of Mass Communication, Dr Daniel Ekhareafo, has identified some methods which could be applied to make virtual learning in UNIBEN learning a reality. He said: “There is what we call Google hangout which is a software. For instance, if you go online and send a code to all your students, they can easily log on provided they all have a 4G phones or laptops. This will enable the lecturer to engage up to 250 students at a go, and in an environment pretty virtual that both parties can see each other. Ekhareafo said constant power supply is an indispensable factor behind the option he identified, noting that thankfully UNIBEN could now join other ICT-compliant institutions because of now constant power. Also, another student from the Department of English and Literature, Osakwe Ogechi, sees a possibility in virtual learning. “I believe online lectures will help us to meet up with our academic calendar. This directive is the only solution to our studies as Coronavirus is still a threat to all activities in the country. KWASU/Al-hikma varsities embrace whatssup Students of Al-hikma University and Kwara State University have been receiving their lectures via the WhatsApp platform. On how it is done, sources told CAMPUSLIFE that a lecturer would drop a voice note or by typing mode for the students. “We will thereafter drop our questions in the group and the lecturer will answer it. After the lecture, we will now write the attendance online which will comprise students who attended the lecture on that day,” said Habeebullah Abdulrauf, a 300-Level student of Arabic in KWASU. Unlike others, Abdulrauf said he and some of his contemporaries do not have smart phones or tabs to log on. “Well, I don’t have smart phone to receive the lecture through online classes. I used to go to my friend’s place to listen to the lecture. However, Yusuf Abdulrasaq, a 200-Level Islamic Studies undergraduate, said he did not have a smartphone and had never bothered himself since the whatssup session began. “I don’t have smartphone, and that’s the reason I haven’t listened to any lecture since the beginning of this e-learning platform. Even my friend who used to receive lecture on his phone has stopped now because there’s no money to subscribe.” he revealed. Incidentally, Sulyman Halimat Opeyemi, a second year English Language undergraduate of  KWASU, explained how this e-learning is being executed in his school. She said: “e-learning is just like a normal class whereby students will firstly write attendance for about 10 minutes before the lecturer delivers his lecture by dropping the information on the WhatsApp group. Thereafter, students will then be given the opportunity to ask questions. “This e-learning is a lot easier platform for asking questions. It also affords students who are naturally shy or timid to ask questions during session,” she said. AbdulAzeez Atere, a 300-Level Agric student at Al-hikma, said he initially supported e-learning but lost interest after the first experience. “I don’t even like the way it’s done, financial problem, unstable power. Some may even forget they have lecture because they are at home.” 