Fresh facts have emerged over the insistence of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) to henceforth settle the salary of coach Gernot Rohr in local currency as per the new contract being proposed to the German. Rohr, who is on reported $55,000 monthly salary sans other emoluments, has enjoyed his wages in foreign exchange since 2016 when he took the reins of the Super Eagles but NFF President Amaju Pinnick only last week reiterated that it would no longer be business as usual. However , the NFF 2nd Vice President Shehu Dikko has now shed light on the development, saying the federation want to comply to the fiscal regulations on handling and management of foreign exchange as issued by Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). “There is absolutely no issue whatsoever (about the new contract for Rohr)  and everything is going through it normal due process and all required levels within the NFF,” explained Dikko in an interview with NationSport. “What the NFF President said in his TV interview with regards to some key terms NFF want to deepen in the new contact being worked on was nothing new as he has said the same things several times this year.” Dikko further clear the air on the vexed issue of  Rohr’s salary to be paid in Naira in the nearest future: “Recall there  was an even a ban on transaction with foreign currency within Nigeria and even recently CBN have issued another further regulations which further banned transfer of dollars that is paid to any account in cash. “So you can only transfer Dollars that come into your account through transfer or something like that; paying Rohr in Naira actually made things easy for both parties as he will simply take what he wants to spend here and spend; then formally go through CBN official channels to transfer what he wants to transfer abroad. “This is how CBN regulates it so everything will be documented. So it doesn’t hurt anybody to pay him in Naira but make it all easier and clear to monitor within the CBN regulatory framework,” added Dikko. Though NationSport was unable to confirm the veracity of Dikko’s claim through the CBN as its Director of Corporate communication Isaac Okorafor  did not respond to enquiries, Dikko affirmed that there was no cause for worry insisting both Rohr and NFF will reach a conclusive agreement. “ I assure you there is no acrimony and this is not the first time Rohr contract is being extended as the same was done in 2018 seamlessly,” he noted.