  NO fewer than 32 COVID-19 patients were discharged on Wednesday in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Lagos, Osun and Kaduna states after making a full recovery. Sixteen were discharged in Lagos, including three foreigners; nine in the FCT, six in Osun and one in Kaduna. Twenty-seven persons ended isolation in Niger after testing negative to the virus. Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, in a tweet, said the patients were 14 males and two females, including a British, one Chinese and aPolish citizen. According to him, 14 of the discharged patients were from the Mainland Infectious Disease Hospital, Yaba, and two from the Onikan Isolation Centre. He said the patients recovered fully and tested negative twice for COVID-19. “This brings the number of patients successfully managed and discharged from our facilities to 85,” he said. Mr Ismail Omipidan, Chief Press Secretary to Osun State Governor Gboyega Oyetola, said the six patients were among the Ivory Coast returnees. He said: “In line with the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) protocol, the patients tested negative twice and have been discharged to join their families. “A total of 17 out of the 127 returnees had tested positive for the virus. Ten of the 17 were discharged on April 11 after testing negative twice. “The release of another six patients today (yesterday) brings to 17, the number of Coronavirus patients that have been managed and discharged in Osun.” Kaduna State Commissioner for Health, Dr Amina Mohammed Baloni, said the patient was discharged following two consecutive negative results. “The state is looking forward to the recovery and discharge of the other five COVID-19 patients,” she said. The nine patients in the FCT brought to 20 the total number of those discharged so far. The FCT COVID-19 media team said: “We are happy to announce that nine patients were discharged from the University of Abuja Teaching Hospital (UATH) Isolation Center, Gwagwalada today (yesterday). “The remaining ones are clinically stable and responding well to treatment. To God be the glory.” In Niger, 27 persons who were in isolation having come in contact with a positive case were discharged after they tested negative. Commissioner for Health, Dr Muhammad Maikusidi said 26 of the cases had contact with the index case, who had arrived from Lagos sick. He boarded a truck and at Makers market to Wushishi in his bid to evade health officials but was eventually caught. The Commissioner said seven persons were still in isolation at Social Rehabilitation Center in Minna, the state capital; the others are on self-isolation at their homes. Makusidi said the index case is stable and receiving treatment. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) confirmed 34 new cases of COVID-19 last night. It also announced the death of another patient bringing the figure to 12. So far, 128 patients have been discharged The cases were recorded in five states – Lagos (18); Kano (12); Katsina (two) and one each in Delta and Niger states. The new cases brought the national tally to 407.