CRIME Victims Foundation of Nigeria (CRIVIFON) has restated its commitment to training the police such that respect for the rights of the people will be foremost in their minds in the conduct of their duties. Its Executive Director, Dr. Gloria Egbuji, stated this in her address at the inauguration of the ASPAMDA Unit of CRIVIFON at the Trade Fair Complex, Ojo, Lagos. The CRIVIFON Director, who was represented by Mrs. Beatrice Ojukwu, disclosed that over 30,000 officers and men of the Lagos Command of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) have been trained so far in human rights in furtherance of this commitment. She said the organisation chose to train the Police as they are often guilty of trampling on the rights of members of the public. She said CRIVIFON is one nongovernmental organisation (NGO) that is passionate about respect for the rights of members of the public and encourages those in ASPAMDA market to take advantage of the awareness programme to become a member. Its National Coordinator who was the chairman of the event,Titus Offurum, said the inauguration of the ASPAMDA unit of the organisation was to stop people’s victimisation and encroachment on their rights in the market. “You don’t have to be a lawyer before you know what your rights NGO trains policemen By Adebisi Onanuga are. It is important for all to be aware of their rights as enshrined in the constitution. Once you become knowledgeable of your rights, nobody will be able to victimise you, again,” he said. Offurum said the inauguration of the organisation at ASPAMDA market unit CRIVIFON was welcome because of the negative incidences they face daily. He said: “Here, we witness a lot of robbery cases taking place, pick pocketing and counterfeiting. Who are the victims of crime? They are people trading and working in the market” adding that anyone in the market can fall victim of crime. Offurum, however, advised them against taking the law into their hands while fighting for their rights, He told them to desist from transferring shops to their brothers without first seeking the consent of their landlords, or owing rent in arreas, adding that such attitude violates the right of their landlord. Offurum said CRIVIFON was pushing for a bill on Victims’ Rights which will enable victims of crime receive some compensation for what they went through. He said it was CRIVIFON that pushed for the Gun Shot Bill that was signed into law and the establishment of human rights desk at all police stations in Lagos, to mitigate right violations at such places. He said the organisation was also involved in prison visits and had been instrumental to the release of some awaiting trial inmates from prisons. Mrs. Esther Akaa, a lawyer and CRIVIFON member, urged them to join the organisation, explaining that a number of issues for which they involve the police would be resolved at the level of the organisation. She said membership of the organisation would enable them to become knowledgeable on which matter is criminal or civil in nature and which should be referred for the attention of police. Director, State Services Academy (SSA), who was represented by Tunde Adeyinka, encouraged the traders to join, saying that membership of the organisation will make life worth living for them. “Membership of CRIVIFON is what we need now as we often fall victim of violation of our rights by the overlords because we lack knowledge of our rights,” he said. Major Benjamin Umeanyiechie urged his colleagues in the market to join the organisation, saying, “you are supposed to know your rights, if you don’t, you will end up being oppressed and intimidated wherever you go and our intimidation will stop. “In the present day, it is important to belong to such organization to stop our rights from being trampled on by others,” he said.