 THE medics and those in ancillary jobs around the world are being applauded for their dedication and selfless sacrifices in their efforts to save lives even as many of them are losing theirs. Their bravery in the face of the deadly pandemic has been commended and many companies and institutions around the world have been offering products and services to assist them through this period. Nigeria, the most populous black nation on earth, is under global scrutiny as the world battles this pandemic. However, besides Lagos, Abuja, Ekiti, Ogun and a few other states, the preparedness of state governments to handle a more pervasive impact of the pandemic seems very opaque. Even though some states have imposed the lockdown directives, the fear around is that crimes might just be on the increase, thereby exacerbating the problems of citizens who are already suffering the socio-economic impact. The youth, the most productive sector of the population, are in the news. There is expectedly increase in small crimes; there are increased cases of victim/perpetrator of sexual crimes amongst the youth and most of the new couples starting off post-wedding lives are experiencing not a honeymoon but very tense economic times. A majority of the youth given the Nigerian education curriculum have little or no skills beyond theoretical knowledge. This period seems very precarious for this group of youths who have no practical skills that they can fall back on as the lockdown is extended. A country with very few vocational schools and epileptic power supply gives birth to too many unskilled youths that depend very much on other services. The army of commercial motorcycle and tricycle operators and other services depends on open businesses and a running economy to ferry people around. They are all idle today given the lockdown. The popular saying that ‘an idle hand is the devil’s workshop’ seems to be very evident during this lockdown. Some have made it a duty to churn out fake news around the pandemic. The social media seems to be replete with unverified and unprofessional information about coronavirus, the disease, its ways of transmission and suggested remedies. Some of the purveyors of these fake news items seem not to care the damage their efforts are causing the less informed and the impact it has on making the pandemic much more difficult to be brought under control. There have been reports of a spike in small crimes as allegations are raised about the fact that both the federal and state governments are not sharing the palliatives to the youth who are unable to feed themselves, as many of them are workers who depend on daily income to survive from day to day. However, an actress and youth mobiliser and founder of Dorothy Njemanze Foundation, Dorothy Njemanze, observed that the lockdown really has a very huge effect on the youth population. According to the statistics gathered by her organization, there has been a rise in domestic conflict arising from economic issues and sexually predatory behaviour involving the youth population. Most of the reports her organization has received are mainly around financial capacity. Most of the reports her organization has received are mainly around financial capacity. However, she says that there is still some silver lining in sight as there has been a huge rise in online businesses for some youths who are interested. There is increased Free Online courses, including from reputable schools like the Harvard University in the United States. She said that her organisation has observed an increased expression of creativity with some youths. Artistic talents are booming as many are maximising the use their time, artistic expressions like painting, designs, sculpturing, carvings etc. are getting more patronage. Dorothy equally believes there are some youths putting value to the intangibles from the lockdown. Some say they now put more value on freedom and health beyond material possessions. Some are bonding better with families in ways that the daily work engagements have never made possible. They are in a better position to be more integrative in their communities and go from self to community bonding. She, however, believes that given that the youth are the productive sector of the economy and the future of any nation, governments at all levels must be deliberate in mapping out clear and valuable strategies to keep the energy of the youth in check. On his part, the Commissioner for Information, Lagos state, Gbenga Omotosho, says that Lagos State more than any other state in Nigeria has shown a deep commitment to containing the virus and assuaging the effects of the lockdown on all residents. The rumours making the rounds about the increased acts of criminality by some youth in the state due to the lockdown must not be thrown into the panic basket as the people of the state already have the scare of the pandemic to contend with. He said that in the area of security, the state governor had a very productive meeting with the heads of the Police, Navy, Air Force, DSS and the state Attorney General with a view to scaling up security in the state under the supervision of a Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG). Residents, according to him, must trust the government as their security is paramount at all times. The attempts made by some errant youths to cross over from the boundary of a neighboring state to Lagos was quickly aborted and the suspects were arrested and already being prosecuted in courts. While he believes that no state or nation has a crime free environment, the target of the government in Lagos has always been to reduce criminal activities to the barest minimum, more so at this lockdown period. He advises all residents to get the telephone numbers of the various security agencies in the state to call in any emergency situation. The agencies are on high alert for responses and arrests. The commissioner said that the distribution of palliatives in the state has been organised in ways that the disabled, the old and vulnerable youths whose means of livelihood have been badly affected by the lockdown are taken care of. He said the state is working with statistics from the State Revenue Service (LRS) and a number of NGOs, community leaders and the state disabled office to make sure all the segments in need of assistance are reached. For the youth that can’t work to feed, he says a number of food vendors have been arranged by the state to feed them given that even if they are given raw food, they cannot cook. For the very indigent families, raw food items have been provided for distribution. The youth must be calm and find out from the right quarters what the government has for them instead of getting into trouble with the very alert security agencies. This lockdown must be a period of deep introspection for governments in Nigeria. Statistics are important for governance. The different demographics must be accounted for as that eases citizen-government interactions. The rest of the states in Nigeria should not feel a sense of security from a global pandemic. The rate of information dissemination and readiness is still very poor as many citizens in the rural and urban areas still leave in denial. The states must as a matter of urgency arrange for well co-ordinated palliatives for the youth without viable means of livelihood because being the most vibrant and productive sector, the future belongs to them. Covid-19 demands a multi-faceted action from all segments of the nation. There are no short cuts. We keep the dialogue going…