 Abba Kyari passed on in the midst of one of the deadliest plagues in world history, and he was a victim – the first-high profile personage to fall to Covid-19. Encomiums have poured out from the hearts of many Nigerians all over the country. Since he was laid to mother earth in modest Muslim rites, quite a few have tried to put his life and career in context. His big task was as chief of staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, in both his first and second terms. This shows the level of trust that the president reposed in him. It even generated controversy when President Buhari announced that all memos to his office must be directed through Kyari, a directive that cast the former chief of staff as a shadow president, although is a routine protocol of office. This inspired resentment and envy, while quite a few thought that given his pedigree, it was clear he had performed well enough to merit that responsibility. It implied that as a man devoted to details, he would focus on the minutiae of duties since President Buhari zeroed in on the big picture. Given his profile, it was hard not to agree that Kyari was qualified for the job. Born 67 years ago in today’s Borno State, he attended St Paul Secondary School in Wusassa  and that was his first exposure to a multi-ethnic, and multi-religious environment, a far cry from the monolithic Muslim and Hausa setting of his upbringing. He earned a bachelor’s degree in sociology from the University of Warwick, and another bachelor’s degree, this time in law, from the University of Cambridge. He was called to bar in the Nigerian law School in 1983. His thirst for knowledge led him to obtain a master’s degree in law also from Cambridge, and pursue courses later in management at the International Institute of Management Development at Lausanne, Switzerland, in 1992. He also attended a programme for management development at Harvard University. He was thus exposed to some of the best of education modern civilisation could offer, in Nigeria, Europe and the United States. His work experience was also stellar. He practiced law at the Fani-Kayode and Sowemimo Chambers. He also moved from law to journalism when he became editor of well-known New Africa Holdings Ltd in Kaduna. He also served as a commissioner in his home state of Borno.  He moved into the corporate Nigeria first as secretary to the board of Africa International Bank Limited, a subsidiary of the then behemoth Bank of Credit and Commerce International. He also rose to become the chief executive officer of the United Bank for Africa (UBA) after serving as executive director. He became director of the Unilever Group as well as Exxon Mobil. He was obviously a man of wide experience with interaction with different races, tribes and creed. He also travelled professional and industry gamut, from law, to finance, to manufacturing, to journalism to oil. Yet the irony is that Kyari went to the grave with questions about his metropolitan fidelities. He was accused of being central to the lopsided profile of the Buhari administration’s appointments that have favoured the north over the rest of the country. He appointed himself into the board of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), which many have seen as a conflict of interest. He was supposed to be a staff of the presidency, so a board appointment raised eyebrows. He was attacked for reinstating Abdulrasheed Maina, former chairman of Pensions Reform in spite of entanglement in corruption charges. He drew flak for going to Germany to cut a power deal for the country when we had a power minister and ministry. He returned from a Covid-19 Europe without isolating himself while asking travelling lawmakers to do so. He also was principally accused by the first lady of cartelising power, a thing his critics see as antithetical to a democratic setting. He goes to the grave a patrician who lost an opportunity to afford his country the gift of his metropolitan experience. 