The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) has stated that its guidance on virtual board, committee, and management meetings for stakeholders was designed in order to ensure that companies comply with best practices while adopting virtual meeting to foster their business interests. The Exchange stated that the guidance was in response to the shift from conventional physical meetings to virtual meetings due to the Coronavirus pandemic and the critical need to protect investors’ interests. According to the Exchange, it is one of its thought leadership initiatives designed to provide direction to market and other stakeholders on carrying out successful, productive, and rewarding virtual meetings at this time and other times when in-person meetings are unfeasible. Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), Mr. Oscar Onyema, said the Exchange provided the guidance to assist stakeholders with identifying and adopting best practices and procedures and complying with applicable corporate governance standards whilst conducting their virtual meetings. “The goal is to ensure that when companies opt for virtual participation in meetings, they are accessible, transparent, efficient, and cost-effectively managed, while meeting the important business and corporate governance needs of all relevant stakeholders,” Onyema said. Executive Director, Regulation, Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), Ms. Tinuade Awe, said the Exchange recognised the legal and regulatory uncertainties that Nigerian businesses may face regarding convening virtual meetings in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. She noted that the Companies and Allied Matters Act, Cap. C20 LFN 2004 (CAMA) is silent on the issue of virtual meetings, although CAMA does not expressly prohibit virtual meetings. “It is, therefore, expedient that the Articles of Association of a company or its Board, Committee, and Management Charters or Terms of Reference should provide for and authorize virtual meetings,” Awe said. Matters addressed in the guidance relate to statutory and regulatory considerations, availability of technological infrastructure, inclusion and management of external attendees, information security, protocols and participants’ responsibilities among others. The Exchange has continued to provide an enabling regulatory environment to stakeholders since the activation of its business continuity plan on Monday, 23 March 2020 which saw the transition to remote working and remote trading on March 24 and March 25 respectively. Since then, the Exchange has published notices to companies on the conduct of 2020 Annual General Meetings (AGMs); the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC)’s guidelines on AGM’s through proxies; and on the extension of the deadline for filing returns; as well as notices to dealing member firms on the extension of time to complete the 2020 self-assessment form; and notices to the general public on the activation of the Exchange’s business continuity plan which saw NSE transitioned to carrying out business and trading activities remotely; all, in order to effectively cushion the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on affected stakeholders.