 AXA Mansard Health Limited is set to donate N100 million worth of life insurance cover for 100 medical professionals across Lagos, Abuja and Ibadan. It has donated personal protective  equipment (PPE) worth millions of naira to the Lagos State Government, University College Hospital, Ibadan (UCH) and Nigeria Centre for Disease Control at the Federal Capital Territory (FCT).  The PPE included splash resistant suits and coveralls, 95 masks and goggles. This is to show its commitment towards eradicating  COVID-19 pandemic in the country. AXA Mansard Health Limited Chief Executive Officer,  Mr Tope Adeniyi, saluted the sacrifices and professionalism of courageous medical care services personnel, who are putting themselves on the line by caring for the infected people and helping curb the spread of this virus. He said: “We commend the deliberate efforts made by the doctors and other healthcare workers in Nigeria and around the world to combat the outbreak and curtail its spread. We share the view that the world needs to come together to provide a stronger support for these men and women who have chosen to risk their lives to serve their countries.  “Through this donation and commitment, AXA Mansard has meaningfully responded to the rising need for medical supplies at healthcare facilities in Lagos and Oyo states and FCT, three of the major hubs designated to fight the disease, ensuring swift responses are given to COVID-19 or any other health related cases.” The Chief Operating Officer, AXA Mansard Insurance Plc, Mr Kunle Ahmed, noted that it would require efforts at individual and corporate levels, spearheaded by key leaders in the society to defeat this outbreak. “As a responsible member of the society, AXA is extremely responsive to the situation and we will continue to lend our voice by sensitising the public through the media even as we also throw our weight strongly behind the government in the fight against the epidemic.’’ Provost, College of Medicine, University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Prof Oluwabunmi Olapade-Olaopa, said: “This intervention by AXA Mansard is very timely and addresses the core of what is needed at this time to keep the fight going and enable care for the sick and research on the disease. We are extremely grateful to AXA Mansard for its impactful support and its commitment towards better healthcare in Nigeria.”