“Whatever we have been doing in Lagos is working. The data we have at the moment shows that we have 145 confirmed cases; we have discharged 32 patients who have completely recovered. We are discharging seven more patients, which will be 39 in total. We have had two deaths in Lagos but not in the state-owned facilities. So far, we have had 100 percent recovery. By next week, we will be scaling up the isolation centres at Landmark Event Centre and Gbagada General Hospital. We have also built more bed spaces for isolation in conjunction with the Federal Government and GTBank”. That was the Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Professor Akin Abayomi, giving an update at an inter-ministerial briefing on Thursday on the state’s efforts to contain and overcome the raging Coronavirus pandemic. The very well publicized initiatives and strategies of the state in response to the crisis are too well known to detain us here. The cerebral, industrious and focused health commissioner has been a critical factor in the successes recorded thus far by the state government in its anti-Coronavirus onslaught. Of course, Professor Abayomi and other members of the Lagos State Executive Council as well as Heads of extra ministerial agencies, who have all risen admirably to the challenge of the occasion, have taken their cues from the designated Chief-Incident-Commander, the governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who has demonstrated calm, composed, steady, assured and confident leadership in steering the ship of the state through the turbulent waters of the moment. I have little to add to ace columnist, Sam Omatseye’s glowing assessment in this newspaper on Monday of the governor’s sterling performance so far in offering competent and inspirational leadership in truly troubling times. But then, should we be surprised? Should we have expected anything less from a man who after a rich experience in the private sector spanning over a decade has spent the last decade and a half serving with proven excellence and record of performance in various key ministerial and extra-ministerial portfolios in Lagos starting from the Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu through the Messrs Babatunde Raji Fashola and Akinwumi Ambode administrations? Incidentally, Sanwo-Olu and his deputy, Dr Obafemi Hamzat, were key members of the Fashola administration that responded so effectively and competently to the 2014 Ebola virus epidemic, which was effectively contained in Lagos State to widespread acclaim within and outside the country. The lessons learnt and experiences gained from the handling of the Ebola epidemic have no doubt served Sanwo-Olu and his team well in their handling of the current pandemic. It is obvious that the infrastructure and expertise emplaced to combat Ebola have been considerably built upon to enable the state’s effective response to the far more deadly and insidious coronavirus pandemic today. Lagos demonstrates that there is virtue in productive leadership and policy continuity. The Tinubu administration laid the foundation for the long term development of the state through its 25-year comprehensive master plan. Fashola and Ambode, both key actors in that administration, continued, to varying degrees, the implementation of the master plan. This continuity enabled incumbent administrations to build on the attainments of preceding ones thus enabling the state to achieve incremental and continuing transformation in diverse spheres, particularly the health sector. It is in the last 20 years of developmental democracy in Lagos State, for instance, that the foundation was laid, policies fashioned and massive investment made that has transformed and elevated the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH) virtually from scratch into one of the best tertiary health institutions in Nigeria and even West Africa. Nothing illustrates the beauty of positive policy continuity in Lagos State than the steady, systematic and ongoing transformation of the environment of the megacity, its greatest albatross in the past, into that befitting its new image as an emergent smart city. It is so easy to forget now that back in 1999, the defining feature of Lagos was the mountains of refuse that defaced the state’s landscape from Alakuko to Okokomaiko and from the rustic Ikorodu and Epe to the highbrow Ikeja, Ikoyi and Victoria Island. Heaps of refuse was the lowest common denominator of both urban and rural Lagos.   This combined with the chaotic traffic and crater-ridden roads; the corpses that dotted the roads for long periods daily without being evacuated; the sheer number of lunatics that roamed the streets obviously caused Obasanjo as President to dismiss Lagos as an urban jungle while seeing no compelling need to come to the aid of the beleaguered state. By 2003, however, the Tinubu administration’s efforts to combat the refuse menace began to bear fruits particularly with the appointment of journalist and lawyer, Mr. Tunji Bello, as Commissioner for the Environment and the consequent stabilization and institutionalization of the Private Sector Participation (PSP) in waste management as well as the revitalization of the Lagos State Waste Management Authority (LAWMA), which was practically grounded at the inception of this political dispensation in 1999. At the expiration of Tinubu’s tenure in 2007, the ugly sight of heaps of refuse on the highways and public spaces across Lagos had been eliminated. Refuse that had been a liability to the state was turned through creative and thoughtful governance into an asset – a source of job creation and wealth generation. The Fashola administration strengthened the PSP structure while also pursuing the aggressive beautification and greening of open spaces throughout the state. It was under Fashola that the urban chaos that was Oshodi was radically upgraded and transformed. While Ambode invested impressively in improving the state’s road infrastructure as well as enhancing her emergency response capacity, his administration’s attempt to re-engineer the established waste management system miscarried badly and refuse returned with a vengeance to the communities, streets and highways of Lagos. It is to the credit of the Sanwo-Olu administration that within a very short time frame, under the tested hands of Tunji Bello as Commissioner for Environment and Water Resources, the environmental degeneration has been arrested. The destabilized PSP structure has been restored to operational efficacy and the backlog of accumulated refuse eliminated across the state. No less noteworthy in this regard has been the speedy resuscitation and rejuvenation of LAWMA, which was virtually comatose at the inception of the Sanwo-Olu administration. Under the leadership of its new Managing Director, Dr. Muyiwa Gbadegesin, fresh vigour has been infused into the agency and it is playing a critical role in helping to maintain a high standard of public hygiene in the state. This week, Dr Gbadegesin paid one of the agency’s street sweepers, Raimat Fasasi, a surprise visit at her duty post and presented her a cash gift in appreciation of her commitment, industry and dedication to duty. Gadegesin was responding to a video posted by the former President, Dolphin Estate, in Ikoyi, Mr. Adebisi Awoniyi, which had gone viral on social media. The video showed Raimat, who had finished her work for the day, going the extra mile to clear a blocked drainage on Osborne Road to facilitate smooth passage of water. One can, therefore, understand the passion with which many of the street sweepers can be seen carrying out their difficult assignment in these challenging times. But for the diligent, persistent and dedicated efforts to rid Lagos of Waste and elevate the standard of public hygiene in the state over the last two decades, can we imagine how much more greater danger ferocious viruses and infectious diseases like Ebola, Lassa fever and now Coronavirus would have posed to lives in Lagos and consequently Nigeria? One area of the Sanwo-Olu Admimnistration’s Coronavirus response that has attracted widespread criticism, particularly on social media, is the handling of the food palliatives meant for 200, 000 most vulnerable families in the first tranche. While some have complained that the food packs did not reach majority of the people, others have lampooned the content of the packs, which they describe as insufficient to feed a family of six for two weeks. It appears to me that these criticisms underestimate the huge logistical challenges of reaching 200, 000 vulnerable families in an emergency situation where the Coronavirus did not give anyone advanced notice that it was coming. Again, there seems to have been the mistaken notion that the food packs were meant for all 20 million residents of Lagos. There is no way government can surely achieve that. Even thinking of reaching 200,000 families was an audacious idea in itself deserving of commendation. Again, many people may not be impressed with the contents of the pack – 5kg of rice, 5kg of gari, 4kg of beans and loafs of bread. However, they will certainly mean much to the target audience of vulnerable and poor residents. However, going forward the Commissioner for Agriculture, Prince Gbolahan Lawal, must take steps to check possible sabotage of the programme such as the alleged diversion of the food items by political and community leaders as well as pilfering of the contents by the middle men involved in the distribution. Despite the accolades heaped on the Sanwo-Olu administration for its efforts so far in containing the coronavirus spread, it is heartwarming that the government is not resting on its oars as it is set to commence a house-to-house case identification exercise to detect possible cases of the infection in communities. This is as it should be. There is no room for complacency. It is certainly not yet Uhuru as far as this pandemic is concerned.