 Some FCT residents on Monday complained over fake hand sanitizers and the adverse effects after using them. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) correspondent, who interviewed the residents around Jikowoyi area in the FCT, gathered that some of the sanitizers the residents bought from different shops were fake. Mr Richard Ike, a civil servant said that he bought two sanitizers from a particular shop but could not use them because they were peeling his palms. “I bought two sanitizers in a particular shop costly but I just discovered that the first one I opened no peeling my hands. “I decided to use the second one, it was also peeling my hands, I threw them in my waste bin,” he said. Mr James Odia, a trader also in Jikwoyi said that he experienced the same, adding that after using it, his palms started to itch him for some time before they started peeling. Odia said that he regretted buying the sanitizer from the shop, adding that some Nigerians were taking advantage of the situation to dupe unsuspecting people. “I don’t know why we Nigerians don’t have human feelings, some of us are enjoying this tough time we are experiencing. “Everything now is very expensive because we are fighting coronavirus. “They will manufacture fake sanitizer to sell to people not minding the implications, this is not fair, may God have mercy upon his children.” Another resident, Mrs Juliana Olamide, a school teacher said that the sanitizer and alcohol she bought to sanitise her house were all fake. “A friend told me that when you boil water and mixed it with alcohol, it can help to protect the environment. “So I decided to buy the sanitizer and a bottle of gin, not knowing that what I bought was another sickness. ” Since I used the sanitizer my hands have been scratching me and the gin/alcohol is also mixed with water. “Imagine how I used my money to buy disease and sickness all in the name of fighting coronavirus, may God save us from this hard time,” she said. Mr Joseph Effiong, an environmentalist warned Nigerians to be careful with places they went for their sanitizers and face masks. “Avoid buying things from road side traders because when you buy fake things from them, you cannot see them to return such items. “But when you go to shops to buy things, you can as well return them when you discover that they are not good,’’ he said. Effiong, however, urged the government to provide sanitizers to residents, adding that the effort would reduce the danger of buying fake from road side traders. (NAN)