Lagos State Commissioner for Education, Mrs. Folasade Adefisayo, says the state government is currently engaged in talks with First Bank of Nigeria Limited  and private sector organisations to provide one million digital devices to aid the teaching of students in the state. Speaking at the interactive media briefing held at JJT Park, Alausa on Thursday, Mrs. Adefisayo, said the state government is also exploring the option of online classes for pupils across schools in Lagos to prevent a disruption of the on-going academic session. According to the commissioner, discussions are on-going with the bank as well as private education consultancy firms to teach students who are currently at home and prepare them for various examinations, including the West African Senior School Certificate Examinations (WASSCE). The commissioner averred that “We have been exploring the option of moving our students to e-learning and we are cognisant of the fact that our pupils may have or may not have access to digital devices to go on the e-learning platform. Therefore, we’ve entered into a very exciting collaboration with First Bank to provide a million devices for students”. She explained further that the government is “working with a technology firm that will provide devices, which has Nigerian curriculum, tests and quizzes on them. I am also glad to announce that MTN has given us airtime on these devices. The First Bank has set the ball rolling with 20,000 pieces. EdFin Microfinace Bank has also given us devices for our teachers and we are open to other private firms that may want to support this initiative. Lagos Government will be funding part of the project.” The Commissioner said the government leveraged on mass media to deliver lessons to students at home since the pandemic, disclosing that the method commenced two weeks ago with Senior Secondary pupils who will be taking the West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE). Disclosing that nine general subjects were being taught at the moment through interaction between teachers and their pupils via live programmes on television and radio, Adefisayo explained that each week’s lessons usually end with a panel session where the pupils ask questions. “Last Friday, we received a thousand responses on a WhatsApp number dedicated to our panel of discussion. Apart from this, we have started classes for our pupils in Junior Secondary classes. This is being taken on Naija FM 102.7, and we are working in conjunction with South Saharan Social Development Organisation. They have given us their materials and our teachers have streamlined the materials with our own curriculum,” Mrs. Adefisayo explained. She also mentioned that Eko FM 107.5 also airs local language programmes such as “Kokoka” and “Labe Igi Orombo” for primary school students. Giving an account of his Ministry’s activities, the Commissioner for Youth and Social Development, Mr. Segun Dawodu, said all youth development activities had been postponed indefinitely, following Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s directive on social distancing.  