 Posing as the child’s ‘friend’ against the other parent’s move to discipline a child is … not only most unwise, it will be ultimately counterproductive for the child and the parents  TODAY, again, dear reader, we trip the light fantastic. I’m determined that the coronavirus will not keep making me so sour, especially as it keeps bringing up at every turn the failures of governance in Nigeria’s history since independence. I mean, right now, it is easy for the western countries to make palliatives available to the people they govern because they know where everyone is and what they need. Not so in Nigeria; inherent and racially genetic dishonesty keeps us from having dependable statistics, planning and the ability to account for everybody, and even know what everyone needs! I ask you! Anyway, that is not what we want to talk about today. Today, our topic is parental blues. You know what that is, don’t you? It’s the feeling parents get when they wake up one day and realise that they come from planet Saturn, but their children come from planet Utope. It not only makes the said charges wiser than their parents, it is responsible for the lack of mutual understanding. One, they are not speaking the same language and two, Utope is not even in the Solar System. That is what makes the parents go around muttering to themselves, ‘how do I pluck this boy’s head out of a planet that does not exist?’ Anyway, there is this video, which I hear is trending, in which a man is ‘slapping’ his son for failing his exams. The father, who resides in Africa, according to the story, had paid the equivalent of about eight million Naira to enable the fourteen-year-old child go to attend a school in the United States of America. The boy had proceeded to attend the school but had come back home with an excellent grade in Music only and fail grades in all other subjects. That is what made the father to see red, and the mother is said to have got it all on tape. There have been many calling for the head of the father. Indeed, I understand that there have been social retributions coming his way. His crime? It’s actually no more than for deigning to use the corporal punishment to make his son see the error of his ways. There have also been those calling for the head of the mother of the child for making public the recording of a private moment between a father and his son. Either way, there is something very wrong here which people are not seeing yet, and this is the disturbing fact that many parents have tended to replace good sense with good money. Otherwise, I think some sane voice should have helped these parents see that a fourteen-year-old still needed his parents around him, rather than being sent across the world just because there was money to sponsor the trip. No money can replace the voice of parents daily correcting, cajoling, reprimanding, calling, playing with, showing love or deciding that perhaps the child needs to be evaluated by experts to allay or confirm their fears. Then, every parent that is active in the life of a child must cooperate to raise that child. It is absolutely inconceivable that a fourteen-year-old cannot be disciplined by the father and the mother must report him to the world! That is sacrilege indeed. In doing that, the mother of the child took something that is sacred, the chastisement of a child, and made it sinful. The wrongness of it all is on her. That said, the question should still be examined. What is the place of corporal punishment in today’s world? It is no longer used officially in the western countries, but it is still alive and well in Africa because most African governments are mute on the subject. The argument is, however, contentious and we need to look at it together. The Holy Book says we should not spare the rod so that the child does not become spoilt. Now, listen to these two stories, will you? Once, in my childhood, I remember making an unauthorised visit of a few minutes to a friend who lived across the road from where we lived. Unfortunately, my dad returned home before I did and not finding me where he had asked me to sit, had waited for me to return, fuming. As soon as I did, I was not allowed to make two sentences in my defence before the slaps rained down. The moral of the slaps? I should sit down and read my books. Well, I sat down and nursed my aching cheeks and also read my books. On the day I reached the nadir of my career, I held the paper of success in my hand, and remembered that slap. Unfortunately, this time, my dad was not around to look at it with me. So I did the next best thing. I held it up for him to see from where he now resides and said, ‘here’s to the slap, Dad’. VIVA LA SLAP! To this day, though, I remember THE SLAP. Listen, you will notice in that little story that there are arguments for both sides. Come on, most children are apt to play away their lives unless pushed, prodded and motivated in the right direction by someone. Unfortunately, there are some parents who tend to be confused about their role in that wise. One parent begins to think that posing as the child’s ‘friend’ against the other parent’s discipline moves is a wise thing. This is not only most unwise, it will be ultimately counterproductive for the child and the parents, because when that happens, parents are not able to stand together in raising their family The thing is that most children are more intelligent than they are given credit for. They are especially adept at seeing between and through their parents, watching out for the weaknesses and strengths of both of them, studying them and writing everything down up there in their brains to use to manipulate the offending parent on a day to be decided by the child. So, the parent who thinks his or her child is too young to notice anything is really deceiving himself or herself. Before we decide whether or not corporal punishment is wrong, listen to the second story. In the western countries, corporeal punishment is no longer entertained and a child can easily call the police and report his parent for beating him. Those societies are dealing with some kind of youth disconnect as a result now. A policeman in a western society once answered a call from a little boy who complained that his mother had beaten him with her belt. When asked why, the single mother explained that she had only lightly swiped him for cutting school. The policeman turned an incredulous face to the child and asked if that was true. The child was now speechless. Then the man turned to the mother and asked her to do everything in her power to make sure he stayed in school. If the boy did not, she should call him and he would be ready to apply the belt on the child himself. The child sat up. No one answer fits all in this situation. It is the duty of every parent to make sure they get the attention of their children for the necessary lessons to prepare them for a good life. In doing that, parents should know that children must be loved, nurtured, cared for and taught that great privileges go hand-in-hand with great responsibilities. This means teaching them that there are consequences for all actions. If we remove the rod in doing these, then we must be ready to replace it with something else such as firmness, control and a disciplined life which serves as a good example, because nature hates a vacuum. Many great men of history never understood that lesson. 