By Nwanosike Onu, Awka  Anambra Governor, Chief Willie Obiano, has reappeared after 14 -day self quarantine over coronavirus pandemic. He used the opportunity to address the people of the state, while thanking them for their understanding and maturity during the trial period. The Governor, in his broadcast to the State Thursday, announced that three more samples had been sent to Irua, Edo State for testing while the State was still awaiting the results of other two samples. There was panic in the state when some of his officials announced earlier in the week that Obiano had self- isolated after the National Executive Council (NEC) meeting where he sat next to the Bauchi Governor, who tested positive for coronavirus. Obiano further announced that he would Commission the 250- bed isolation centre in Mbaukwu on Friday among others. His last broadcast to the state was on the 19th of March, 2020 when he announced the suspension of schools, nightclubs and bars, weddings, funerals, Ofala ceremonies and other social events that could bring people together in one place. He also announced on Thursday that two Banks in the state, Fidelity and Access, had promised to equip two surge centres at Ekwulobia and Umueri respectively According to Obiano: “My Commissioner for Health, Dr Vincent Okpala has reliably informed me that at this moment in time, our dear state does not have a single recorded case of Coronavirus. “Six samples have so far been sent for testing and four of the samples were declared negative. “The results of the other two have not been released yet. We have sent three new samples today for testing. “Please note that samples are usually taken from what the experts call CASE DESCRIPTION. “Case Description is a situation where an individual who has just returned from any of the countries and cities that have serious Covid-19 cases begins to show symptoms of Coronavirus ” Or a situation where someone who has come in contact with people suffering from Coronavirus begins to show symptoms of the pandemic. “We have successfully set up a 250-bed Isolation Center at the NYSC Orientation Camp in Mbaukwu/Umuawulu and another 16-bed Isolation Centre at the General Hospital Onitsha. “By the Grace of God, I shall commission both centers tomorrow. The Onitsha Isolation Centre has been described as one of the best in the country today. ” At the same time, the Isolation Center at Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu University Teaching Hospital, Amaku-Awka is being fitted out to standard just in case we have an outbreak. “Meanwhile, we have two Surge Centers at Ekwulobia General Hospital and Umueri General Hospital. Ndi Anambra, I am happy to announce the Management of Fidelity Bank and the Management of Access Bank have both volunteered to equip the Surge Centers at Ekwulobia General Hospital and Umueri General Hospital with a 60-bed facility each that meets the World Health Organization standards on Coronavirus” Obiano said As part of his Economic Stimulus package, he said 200 bags of rice were already secured to share the elderly in the Communities in the state.