Ernest Nwokolo, Abeokuta  The Ooni of Ife, Oba Enitan Adeyeye Ogunwusi on Wednesday said a local cure would be proffered soon to end coronavirus. The Ooni spoke at Oke – Mosan Governor’s Office, Abeokuta, Ogun State, while handing over two motorised modular fumigators to Governor Dapo Abiodun as his donation to the Ogun State Government in support of its battle against the spread of the COVID – 19 in the state. He said: “We are going to proffer the local cure for coronavirus very soon, I have gone very far in advanced stage with the traditional medicine practitioners in Nigeria because before this pandemic came out, I have actually announced even before it came and broke out to the entire world. “From what we inherited from our ancestors; it came out very clear and the cure, the immune booster, and the solution to a large extent was presented to us and we did what we are supposed to do, but the people probably didn’t hear us. “I am very happy that the same thing that we are talking about in Nigeria, another sister country Madagascar has taken it upon themselves and even US government has even reach out to them for funding. “It is another unfortunate thing that the international countries are reaching out to us on this our solution but even our local people are not reaching out to us and we have testimonials of a lot of people that have this ailment that we have used it for to heal them. “It is a natural herbal and it is very effective, so, we decided to keep quiet and move to a stage of motorised fumigation and make it very mechanical. “Our ancestors started fumigation, started sanitisation; they used to call it ‘ero’ wherever you have ‘igbono ‘ in the olden days, our ancestors will say ‘e je ki a lo won ero.’ We are here to fumigate, so, what is the different. “People will say why I will not sharing palliative, how many palliatives do you want to share, you can keep sharing and the thing keep on dropping on your body; we are killing more people. “We are so worried, it is a sleepless night for me; what I have just come to present today, it is a very very huge sleepless nights because we were fully prepared in a traditional way, it is not like we are not prepared and that is why it didn’t actually catch us unaware. So, the result will soon come out and we will announce it to the world. “We are looking at the whole state in Nigeria. The issue is logistics, so, we are trying to cover the one we can cover within our ambit, but the major challenge is logistics. “When I get to the point of hitting brick wall, I will shout to the whole world again that, please help us we have a solution, how can we reach to other longer places. “For me, I am ready, I am willing to move, people are worried and afraid that I should be worried and afraid, but I said No, we have to do legacy for ourselves and rise up to the occasion to face this pandemic.”