The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has warned hoodlums and vigilantee groups engaing in coronavirus pandemic lockdown- induced opportunistic crimes in Lagos and Ogun States of hard times. The party, in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Malam Lanre Issa-Onilu in Abuja on Wednesday, said the unlawful and extra-judical activities of the groups will be resisted by the government as measures are being put in place to checkmate the development. Residents of boundary communities between Lagos and Ogun States, in the last one week, have been under seige of gang violence and invasion at nights while vigliantee groups were alleged to be involved in unlawful and extra-judicial activities in the some communities. The party alleged that since the imposition of the lockdown, some groups have resorted to unlawful and extra-judicial actions in the name of protecting communities by attacking innocent citizens at night and dispossessing them of their valuables. According to the party: “There are already disturbing reports of vigilantes terrorising innocent citizens. What we all need now is to offer ourselves support and ensure we provide as much comfort as possible for one another. “While the government and private concerns are doing their best to provide relief, we all have a responsibility to join our security services in protecting ourselves and communities from miscreants. “In line with the directives of President Muhammadu Buhari during his broadcast on Monday, a major and coordinated offensive by the Police, Army, Navy, Airforce and Directorate of State Services (DSS) is underway against the miscreants”. Admitting the key responsibility of government remains ensuring the safety and security of lives and property of citizens, the governing party assured: “from the renewed and intensified Boko Haram counter-insurgency to the enhanced offensive against emerging crimes in other parts of the country, the government would continue to take bold steps to secure the country and the citizenry”. The party empathised with the masses over the hardships being faced as a result of the unavoidable lockdown and assured that the APC- led administration was committed to resisting criminal elements trying to exploit the situation and in the process inflicting further hardships on already stressed fellow Nigerians.