Frank Ikpefan, Abuja  The gradual reopening of the economy will be done in phases, spanning a total of six weeks broken into three tranches of two weeks each, the Presidential Task Force on COVID -19, has said. The PTF noted that this phased strategy is designed to reduce the pains of socio-economic disruptions. The PTF also said the period would enable for strengthening of our public health response, which would reduce the recovery of the economy and provide succour to the poor and vulnerable. Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, stated these during the daily briefing on COVID-19 on Wednesday. Mustapha, who is the Chairman of the PTF, said that state governments have been encouraged to provide leadership in engaging relevant associations responsible for various sectors. The SGF urged security agencies to strictly enforce the new measures that have been put in place by the government. He said: “In line with Mr. President’s directive in paragraphs 38-41 of his broadcast, the PTF has developed sector specific guidelines. The gradual reopening of the economy will span a total of six weeks broken into three tranches of two weeks each. ”This phased strategy is designed to reduce the pains of socio-economic disruptions while strengthening our public health response, which would ultimately reduce the recovery of our economy and provide succour to the poor and vulnerable. “To underscore the collaborative efforts with Sub-National levels of Government, they are encouraged to provide leadership in engaging relevant associations responsible for various sectors e.g market associations and transport unions for orderly and effective implementation. Similarly, I want to emphasise the need for the security agencies to strictly enforce these new measures that have been put in place.” The SGF said that the technical team of public health experts sent by the PTF to Kano has commenced evaluation of the situation in the state. He also said that fifty trucks of assorted grains have been sent to Kano and that the grains were due for delivery within the next 48 hours. “In furtherance of tackling the situation in Kano, the technical team of public health experts sent by the PTF has begun the evaluation of the situation in the State, working in collaboration with the State’s Team. I am pleased to also inform you that the operationalization of the laboratories in Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital and Bayero University Kano, will considerably improve our response to the pandemic in Kano State. “Additionally, fifty trucks of assorted grains have been sent to Kano and due for delivery within the next 48 hours. The PTF appreciates the cooperation of the Governor and the medical team in Kano State,” he said. Mustapha explained that the overnight curfew is applicable nationwide from 8.00pm to 06.00am daily, effective Monday, 4th of May, 2020.