 IMO State Governor Hope Uzodinma on Tuesday said the stimulus package by President Muhammadu Buhari would help steady the economy post-COVID-19. He urged the National Assembly, the political class and economic drivers to support the package aimed at overcoming the economic challenges posed by the coronavirus pandemic. He said the package has vindicated his position that only a homegrown initiative will steer the country away from a post-COVID-19 recession. According to him, the package which includes interest rate cuts on all applicable Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) intervention funds, as well as the creation of 1,000 jobs in each of the 774 LGAs, would assist Nigeria with the post-pandemic era. Uzodinma hailed the one-year moratorium on loan servicing and the N50billion targeted credit facilities for households, small and medium enterprises. He said they were measures that would change the economic face of Nigeria as soon as the crisis was over. Describing the Finance Minister, Zainab Ahmed, and her team as resourceful and creative, the governor said they were realistic in pegging the budget at $30 per barrel and cutting wastes in the system to ensure that Nigerians are given a new lease of life. “What is left is for the National Assembly and all political actors to key into the President’s vision and see that it is implemented for the benefit of every Nigerian,” he said. The governor, at a briefing, praised the corporate world in Nigeria was already responding positively not only to the measure introduced by the Federal Government to curb the spread of the disease through sizeable donations but to the recently released stimulus package. According to him, since the initiative was homegrown and powered by Nigeria and her people, there would be no foreign interference to impede its success. Uzodinma noted that the private sector as the greatest beneficiary of the stimulus package has acted well in embracing the initiative. He, therefore, urged his former colleagues in the National Assembly to give expeditious attention to any matter pertaining to the stimulus package that would be sent to them by President Buhari.