The Kano state Road Traffic Agency (KAROTA), said on Monday that no fewer than 350 persons were arrested for violating the recent order given to commercial drivers in the state. The order was for them to reduce their passenger load from four to two persons per seat. The Public Relations Officer of the agency, Mr Nabilusi Abubakar, gave the information to News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Monday in Kano saying that 35 vehicles were also intercepted. NAN reports that recently Kano state government ordered all commercial vehicle drivers to reduce the number of passengers they usually carried and tricycle riders should carry only two passengers. NAN also reports that the order is aimed at reducing the spread of Coronavirus pandemic in the state. According to Abubakar, the people arrested were forced to go back to where they came from, while the vehicle owners will be taken to court after the lockdown. He further explained that since the commencement of the lockdown, no tricycle operator was arrested for violating the instruction. Similarly, the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Kano Sector Command, also told NAN that the Corps had intercepted 59 commercial vehicles for violating the government self-distancing order to reduce overloading. Mr Zubairu Mato, the Sector Commander of the FRSC, Kano Sector Command, said this on Monday in Kano. Mato explained that the command after intercepting the vehicles charged each of them to pay N50,000 for violating the order. According to him, since after the arrests, the issue of violating the order has reduced, and we have not recorded any arrest again. “I can tell you that we have recorded 99 per cent-free overloading. “So far, during the lockdown, the command has not recorded any case of violating the order, because we have deployed officers to enforce the order. “We deployed eight officers, on shift bases, to each of the 17 borders we have in Kano and within the town we have 238 officers working tirelessly to enforce the lockdown order. According to him, during the lockdown, the command recorded an accident on Kano-Wudil road, which led to the death of 18 persons.  (NAN)