The Ondo State Government said it has recruited and trained 25 teachers for the purpose of keeping students in the state busy during the forced holiday occasioned by outbreak of corona virus. Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology, Dr. Femi Agagu, who disclosed this in a chat with journalists in Akure said the programme was being done in collaboration with the management of the Ondo State Radiovision Corporation (OSRC), Orange FM and Alalaye FM. Dr. Agagu said the programme was designed to cover 10 subjects in the arts, science and social sciences for students preparing for external examinations like WASSCE, NECO and others. Agagu explained that an e-learning platform has been developed for all secondary school student with a view to accessing past questions, computer-based test, junior and senior secondary school curricular and text books. According to him, “We are aware of the fact that some of our students will be taking external examination and hoping that this virus will go away very soon. “The only way to make them learn is through the television, radio and online platform. We have selected 10 core subjects and they will be running on a daily basis. We are using the very best teachers we have. There will be a system of remunerating those that are to participate in the programme.” Chairman of OSRC, Mr. Kunle Adebayor, said they needed to do something to support school children at this critical time of the attack of COVID-19. Adebayor notes that there was need to engage the students constructively in terms of their education. He urged parents to support the initiative by ensuring their children or wards watch or listen to the programmes His words, “Since all the schools were locked, we needed to engage the children in a way they will not lose the time they were supposed to be in school. We decided to embrace broadcast of educational programme. We decided to erect special studio that will ensure continuous education. “The difference is that there will not be any physical contact. We establish the education broadcast studio. We worked with the Ministry of Education. We put together 25 teachers of 10 different subjects that cut across the arts, sciences and social sciences. “These are the subjects’ key to the students. We trained our teachers on how to conduct education broadcast. We want to take classrooms to the children in their homes. We are also conscious of the fact is that we have children in the rural communities. We are planning to set up big screens where children in the community can gather and watch the broadcast.”