Ernest Nwokolo, Abeokuta  The General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye, has advised that while the battle to stamp out Coronavirus pandemic in the country is intensified, the people should not be left hungry. Adeboye added that “people must be fed” notwithstanding what is happening, even as he urged Nigerians not to lose hope because of the dreadful Coronavirus pandemic, saying Nigeria would come out it stronger soon. The RCCG General Overseer spoke through the Pastor in Charge of the RCCG, Region 12, Sagamu, Pastor Julius Olalekan while making presentation of relief items on behalf of Adeboye in Sagamu for distribution to Ogun communities. The various food items like cartons of noodles, bags of rice, gari among other food items running into millions of naira to communities across the state were donated by RCCG Region 12, Sagamu, on behalf of Adeboye, on Tuesday. Olalekan recalled that in the book of Second Kings chapter 7, the City of Samaria had issue and Samaria was lockdown, expressing the confidence that Nigerians would come out of this present moment into abundance like the people in Samaria experienced after their trying period. He said that the kind gesture was in line with the directive of the General Overseer of the RCCG, Past Adeboye who has also been playing very prominent roles both physically and spiritually to ensure Nigerians and the government are supported amidst the fight against Coronavirus pandemic. He said: “Our Father-in-the Lord and General Overseer of RCCG, Daddy Adeboye has directed that it doesn’t matter what is happening, the people must be fed, we must not allow our people to go hungry due to the lockdown order to combat COVID-19. “This is even coming at a time we are celebrating our Lord Jesus who gave himself for mankind on the cross of Calvary. So, there is nothing too big to give in support of one another this period. This is really our third outing and we will still do more to ensure that our people do not go hungry. “Nigerians must also not lose hope because of this ravaging disease because very soon, just as it happened in Samaria when there was lockdown in the book of Second Kings Chapter 7, we are also coming out of this present moment into abundance.” He also explained that just as he was handing over the food items to be distributed in all the communities in Remo land to the leadership of two provinces of RCCG Ogun Five, Sagamu and RCCG Ogun Eleven, Ikenne Remo, similar gesture was ongoing at other designated zones at Abeokuta, Ijebu Ode, Ota and Mowe to ensure that many people benefited from this humanitarian act. He charged the Pastors-in-Charge of the 23 provinces of RCCG across Ogun state to ensure that the palliatives were only giving to the people that really needed it in their various communities so as not to defeat the purpose of the humanitarian exercise. The man of God appealed to Nigerians to continue to maintain personal hygiene, social distancing, wash their hands with soap and water and abide by all the rules and regulations as laid down by the government and health workers to flatten the curve of the virus as this trying time would soon become history by the mercy of the Lord. Earlier, a water producing company in Ogun State, Macfeley Enterprises, also donated relief materials to the state government to support the fight against the pandemic disease, COVID-19. The water producing company donated 9,000 bottles of table water to the Ogun state government and were received on behalf of the government by the Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Oke – Mosan, Abeokuta. The General Manager of the company, Temitope Ogunjobi, said water is life and since regular rehydration is crucial to the management of COVID – 19, the gesture formed part of the company’s Corporate Social Responsibility to the state in its battle to stamp out the disease. Ogunjobi urged corporate organisations to take special cognizance of these trying times and put the life and public health first before every other consideration, urging support for social distancing, hands washing and respiratory hygiene in all dealings within and outside their areas of operations. Also, help came the way of hundreds of families, yesterday, in Ayetoro town, the Headquarters of Yewa North Local Government Area of Ogun State, as Gbenga Akinwande Foundation fetes them with raw food items to cushion the effects of the total lockdown of the State on the directive of the State and Federal Governments. The Gbenga Akinwande Foundation floated by a United Kingdom based indigene of the town, Gbenga Akinwande, had in his resolve to make the crusade against Coronavirus, a success, established a food bank in Ayetoro ahead of the lockdown to help the residents have access to basic food items. On the first day of the distribution, hundreds of the residents who thronged to the Food bank, went home smiling with raw foods items shared to them by the Foundation. The philanthropist commended the beneficiaries for their orderly conduct and reminded them to keep observing social distancing rule, maintain regular hands and respiratory hygienes in order to stamp out COVID-19 pandemic in Ogun State. He also lauded Governor Dapo Abiodun for the stimulus package initiative to cushion the effects of the lockdown on the poor, aged and vulnerable people of the State. Akinwande, however, advised the Governor to ensure that the relief items were not highjacked or the process of distribution scuttled by those who would want to make gains out of the people’s sufferings.