  Hundreds of music lovers have asked Mavin’s new golden boy, Rema to do remix of his latest single “Beamer” with US-based music duo, Roze after the duo did a cover of the single and posted on Instagram. The duo of Row and Zuwa of the group known as Roze got a lot of accolade for the cover of “Beamer” and many music lovers who watched the video couldn’t contain their emotions as they ask for a remix with the original owner of the song, Rema. Upon seeing the video, @tribemanglobal purred, “ Hey @heisrema abeg feature these guys on your album.” @awopepe said, “Just listen to what you did with Rema’s song on Instablog9ja. I think you are underrated. Had to search for your page. Well done, the sky is your starting point.” At a point some commented that Don Jazzy should wade in to have Rema do a remix of his song with the brothers. The video garnered almost 200 thousand views when posted on Instablog9ja. Even popular comedian, Lasisi Elenu could not keep his excitement to himself. He said, “Okay, don’t lie guys, see the video I saw of this duo @rz.roze and I really think they did great with Rema’s new hit single. “See how they made another person song sweeter. Na this kain people go borrow your cloth and e go fit them pass you,” says @soberdrunk  @hoviso also concurred, saying, “Sounds better than the original song itself. Rema was just rhyming…Godzila, Shina Peter, Semovita, Blah blah blah. This one right here has got content.” The music duo, born Eghosa Rodney Agbonayinma (ROW) and Osazuwa Michael Agbonayinma (ZUWA) popularly known as ROZE are children of politician and music lover, Hon Ehiozuwa Johnson Agbonayinma. They were born in Houston, Texas, January 11, 1998 and July 30, 1999 respectively. They were formally introduced to the Nigerian press in January of 2018 where they officially released their debut hit single ‘A Whole Night’ to the Nigerian audience. And riding on the success of the lyrical single, ROZE released their first single of 2019 on February 4, 2019 titled ‘Stranded’. After Stranded they released another banger titled “Patience” with the video. Their discography includes songs like Too Much, All These Things, The Whole Night, Good things, Impressions, Stranded and Patience. Although they are based in Houston, US they have been able to grace some A-list events in Nigeria. Last December they really made their presence in the country felt by performing at most shows and concerts. They performed at Zlatan show, Burna Boy show, 2Baba, Naira Marley, Soundcity concert with Olamide, Kizz Daniel concert, Warri Again concert as well as Alibaba’s January 1st concert. While in Nigeria last December they also made media tour of Beat 99.9FM, Cool FM, WAZOBIA FM, Nigeria Info, STV, AIT, Channels TV, NTA, Hip TV, MTV Base, Soundcity among others. They also performed at Quilox Nightclub during their 6th year anniversary.