 The became the first female permanent secretary in the Federal Civil Service in 1975, thus setting a striking record in a period regarded as the golden era of Nigeria’s public service. It was a reward for her dedicated service and outstanding performance. She played a pioneering role in the post-colonial civil service, and by the time she retired voluntarily in 1988, there was no doubt that an exemplary administrator had traversed the civil service. She received the Retirement Award for Brilliant Performances and Outstanding Achievement by the Federal Directors-General (Permanent Secretaries). Last year, the Centre for Values in Leadership (CVL) celebrated Mrs Francesca Yetunde Emmanuel (nee Pereira) under its “Leaders without title” series, highlighting her leadership qualities, and her place as a sterling pioneer public administrator. It is noteworthy that Prof. Tunji Olaopa, a retired federal permanent secretary, observed in his account of the event, “like the rest of the pioneers… she took the service as a special calling, a vocation that demanded from them integrity as the sole defining feature of a leader.”  She died on April 8, at the age of 86. Born in Lagos, she studied Geography at the then University College, Ibadan, and the University College, London. She started work as assistant secretary, Federal Ministry of Works and Housing, 1959-1960, which made her the first indigenous female administrative officer in the Federal Civil Service. During her career, she worked at the Federal Ministry of Establishment (1960-1961), and the Police Affairs Division in the Cabinet Office (1961-1964). She was appointed senior assistant secretary, Secretariat of the Morgan Commission on Nigerian Workers, in 1964; under-secretary, Federal Ministry of Commerce and Industry (1964-1969); deputy-secretary, Federal Ministry of Works and Housing (1969-1973); principal secretary, Cabinet Office (1973-1974); and secretary, Federal Public Service Commission (1975). Her appointment as permanent secretary in the Public Service Department of the Cabinet Office, in July 1975, marked the start of a 13-year role as permanent secretary, during which she worked in “a range of strategic and sensitive ministries, departments and agencies.” Beyond her glorious bureaucracy years, there was more to Emmanuel. She was a well-rounded person, possibly a modern-day renaissance woman. An arts enthusiast, she was a founding member as well as member of the Board of Trustees of the Musical Society of Nigeria (MUSON). Her musical inclination had manifested early in her life. While in secondary school, she won first prize as Soprano Solo at the first Nigerian Festival of the Arts in Lagos in 1950. She was a member of the pioneer musical group known as the Steve Rhodes Voices, which reflected her quality as a singer. As an actress, Emmanuel was among the cast that performed Wole Soyinka’s first major play, A Dance of the Forests, presented at the Nigerian Independence celebrations in 1960.  She was a member of Soyinka’s professional theatre company, called the 1960 Masks. As an extension of her cultural interests, she also promoted Nigerian fashion. In recognition of her cultural aspects, she was honoured with the Glover Memorial Centennial Award for Services to Arts and Culture in Lagos State in 2000. Her leadership positions in several public and private bodies testified to her enriching presence. In particular, her role as a member of the Governing Board of the Federal Society for the Blind, since 1992, Board of the Special Olympic Nigeria, from 1989, Fund Raising Committee of the Nigerian Sickle Cell Foundation, since 1977, and Governing Council of the Nigerian Conservation Foundation, from 1990, showed her humane side. Her national honour, Commander of the Order of the Niger (CON) (2000), and her induction into the Hall of Fame, National Centre for Women Development (2004), underlined her contributions to the country. 