Nigerian Youth Task Force on Covid-19, in conjunction with Federation Media (FEDMEDIA), a digital media and production company, has launched a movement- Safety First Awareness Campaign on Covid19. Nigerian Youth Task Force on Covid19 is a youth body at the vanguard of ensuring the citizenry comply with the stay-at-home order of the government and adhere to other health tips against Covid-19. The Chief Executive of FEDMEDIA, Grema Sulaiman, described the movement as an advocacy to further create awareness amongst Nigerians on the Covid-19 pandemic vis-a-vis its safety precautions. According to Sulaiman, the advocacy which has already started since last month, aims to promote necessary safety tips and measures to all Nigerians, and correct the widespread misconceptions that the virus which though began in Wuhan China, was not created by the Asian country; but rather a pandemic that threatens humanity. Sulaiman said the movement has already activated the hashtag: #StayAtHomeStaySafe on its twitter handle to further throw its weight behind the lockdown measure introduced by the Federal Government to contain its spread. Sulaiman said: “This is indeed a trying time for all of us. We must all  take up  the call and share the stay-at-home and safety tips to everyone around us be it in Nigeria or across the globe in order to be safe by every means necessary. “It is our collective responsibility to be supportive to each other and adhere to safety measures while we stay at home during this Covid-19 outbreak which currently battles the world. “We must wash our hands regularly; maintain social distance; practise proper hygiene; stay informed and follow government and healthcare guidelines, among others. “Please stay safe because everyone matters as the healthcare providers and the government continue to do their best’’. The movement comprise youths and young adults, including the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Youths and Students Affairs Mr Nasir Adhama; a member of the House of Representatives, Shamsudeen Bello Dambazau; Photographer to the President of Nigeria, Mr Bayo Omoboriowo; popular poet and entrepreneur Mr Jamilu Ahmed Sadauki; and Senior Special Adviser to the President on Youths Nasir Adhama, among others.