 All Progressives Congress (APC) Chieftain, Uche Nwosu, has called on President Muhammadu Buhari, to expand the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs and Disaster Management by creating additional office for a Minister of State to compliment the current Minister, Sadiya Farouk. He said that though the Minister has done creditably well, the Ministry can better accomplish its mandate at this time by having additional hand to support the Minister. Nwosu maintained that the creation of the additional office will speed up the delivery of the Federal Government palliatives to cushion the effect of the corronavirus pandemic. According to him, the need to have the office of Minister of State in the Humanitarian and Disaster Management Ministry became imperative to meet the growing humanitarian needs occasioned by the outbreak of the COVID-19 and avert possible humanitarian crisis. He said: “I want to commend President Muhammadu Buhari for rising up to the occasion which no doubt has mitigated the spread of the virus and the country. But the Coronavirus pandemic has thrown up humanitarian issues that need to be tackled with equal zest and commitment. “Naturally, the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs comes handy at this time and the Minister, Sadiya Farouk has done very well in managing the humanitarian challenges but the Ministry will deliver better if she is assisted, so there is urgent and compelling need to have a junior Minister that will facilitate what the substantive Minister is
doing. The task is enormous and can be best handled when another competent hand is engaged”. Nwosu however lauded the Buhari-led Federal Government for rising up to the occasion in the management of the Coronavirus pandemic. He observed that the President has provided leadership at a very trying period, which helped in galvanising Nigerians to stave off the pandemic to the amazement of many who thought that the country will be overwhelmed, adding “many countries didn’t expect that Nigeria will stand strong against this virus giving the status of our healthcare system but the country has been stirred by astute leadership to rise up to the needs of the time”. According to Nwosu, Buhari has shown that he can pilot the country out of this crisis and should be supported and not distracted by the few that would want to politicize the situation. The APC stalwart however cautioned against hate speeches and enjoined Nigerians to eschew all forms of hatred and bitterness and come together to combat the pandemic. Nwosu also commended Imo Governor, Hope Uzodinma for taking proactive measures to protect the state from the Coronavirus. According to him, the governor has done well by transforming one of the health facilities built and equipped by wife of the former governor, Nneoma Okorcha, the Wellness Centre into an isolation and treatment centre with states of the art equipments. He stated: “I am optimistic that Imo State is equipped for any eventuality in the issue of the Coronavirus pandemic. Government is a continuum and he has done well by continuing from where his predecessor stopped.”