The Edo State Commissioner for Science and Technology, Emmanuel Agbale, has been kidnapped and his police orderly killed on his way from Benin, the state capital, to Ekpoma, the seat of Ambrose Alli University (AAU). It was gathered yesterday in Benin that the kidnap and murder took place by Oilpalm Estate on the ever-busy Benin-Auchi Road on Friday evening. Our reporter also learnt that the gunmen, who were brandishing dangerous weapons, suddenly emerged from the forest and they shot directly into Agbale’s car, thereby forcing the driver to stop, with the police orderly killed on the spot. The commissioner was immediately moved into the kidnappers’ den amid sporadic gunshots, with the injured driver managing to escape from the spot. As at press time yesterday, the kidnappers were yet to contact Edo State Government or his family for ransom. Prior to his appointment by Governor Godwin Obaseki, Agbale was a lecturer in the Faculty of Law of AAU, Ekpoma. Edo Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Chidi Nwabuzor, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), who confirmed the incident, stated that investigation was ongoing. Meanwhile, the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), AAU chapter, has condemned the kidnap of its member and murder of the innocent policeman. The AAU chapter of ASUU, yesterday through its Chairman, Dr. Monday Igbafen, noted that it received with rude shock, the sad news of the kidnap of Agbale. It declared that more painful was the killing of the commissioner’s police orderly during the kidnap. In a related development, a former Deputy Governor of Edo State, Dr. Pius Odubu, who is a governorship aspirant on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC), bemoaned the increase in criminal activities across the 18 local government areas of the state. Meanwhile, the Edo State Police Command has explained how the commissioner was kidnapped. Spokesman for the command, Chidi Nwabuzor, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Benin that the commissioner was abducted close to Ogbemudia Farm on the Benin-Auchi road. “It was the driver who now contacted and reported the development to the police,” Nwabuzor said. “However, we have swung into action and investigation and search has commenced, so that the official is not only released but to also ensure that the abductors are apprehended.”