A coalition of President Buhari Supporters (PBS) has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to appoint Engineer Kailani Muhammad as his new Chief of Staff. The group comprising of various associations under the auspices of ‘A Kasa A Tsare’, the popular group that championed the goals and ideals of President Buhari since 2003, said that with the demise of Malam Abba Kyari, the Chief of Staff to President Muhammad Buhari a week ago as a result of COVID-19 pandemic, the nation is currently at a state of mourning. With the unfortunate development, the PSB said the nation requires a versatile administrator, a technocrat and a political juggernaut to replace the late COS. While Nigeria is no doubt at cross road of who will competently fill in the wide vacuum following the sudden exit of the versatile administrator, appointing Dr. Kailani, the group said will ease the tensed situation. PSB said Kailani has been the National Coordinator of Buhari Votes Guard A Kasa A Tsare, Director, Media and Publicity, Presidential Support Committee (PSC) and Coordinator of various support groups that rooted for the President in the last General Election. A statement issued in Abuja by the Administrative Head of PSC, Suleiman Yola, said: “Although Kyari’s sudden death has indeed caused the country so many set backs, a competent replacement in the person of Dr. Kailani will no doubt bridge the gap. “Like Kyari who was a very loyal staff of the President, a well read person with tremendous experience as technocrat and administrator, who had defended and worked for the actualisation of the President’s ideals and remained loyal till his last breathe, Kailani will equally fit in and serve the country well. “Abba Kyari’s death was sudden. His exit has profoundly touched the President emotionally, and the country will suffer in so many ways, to the extent that only a loyal political associate, with versed experience as administrator, like Engineer Kailani can competently fill the vacuum. “It is on this premise, this coalition of long time political support to President Muhammadu Buhari since 2003 decided to come together and request the President to think deep and think wide by appointing, Engineer Kailani Muhammad PhD to fill the yawning gap. “Kailani is a trained engineer with profound experience. He is a prolific politician, a skewed administrator, a technocrat and a community oriented person per excellence that has been loyal to the President and can as well help him actualise his goals of making Nigeria a better place for all. “Members of this coalition and indeed Nigerians believe that appointing Engineer Kailani to this important position will help the president address so many challenges, of carrying his supporters along and practicalising his policies and good intentions for the country. “It is our candid view that with Engineer Kailani as new Chief of Staff, the nation will record great achievements and the President will work with a loyal person, like his immediate past COS”.