Borno State Governor Babagana Umara Zulum has demonstrated his empathy to the parents of the missing girls in Chibok abducted by Boko Haram six years ago. Today marks exactly six years when the girls were forcefully abducted from their hostel by Boko Haram, who later claimed responsibility and released some of the girls. On their 6th anniversary in captivity, Governor Zulum yesterday sent a delegation of commissioners and a lawmaker to visit Chibok and give emotional support to the parents of the 112 missing girls. The delegation, which comprised the commissioners for Education, Women Affairs, Poverty Alleviation and a House of Assembly member representing Chibok, delivered Zulum’s message of empathy, hope and assurance to the parents. The delegation presented relief materials consisting of 500 bags of rice (25kg), 250 gallons of cooking oil and N5.6million as social support for parents of the 112 girls still held by Boko Haram. The Commissioner for Education, Alhaji Bello Ayuba, in his message to the parents and the Chibok community, said President Muhammadu Buhari and Governor Zulum would never give up on rescuing the remaining girls, while expressing their pains as fathers as well. He said: “Governor Zulum has asked us to inform you that in all his meetings with President Buhari, the President has consistently showed concern and commitment to rescue the missing girls. The president and the governor are fathers, with daughters. They know how you feel and they share your pains. “They will never give up on the rescue of our daughters. No sane parent will give up on a missing child. They are committed and by the grace of God, these girls will be rescued alive. The governor sends his empathy, and as you all have seen in his activities and visits to Chibok, the governor holds Chibok very dear to his heart. Let us remain hopeful and prayerful, while our leaders sustain their concerted efforts.” The Commissioner for Women Affairs, Zuwaira Gambo and that of Poverty alleviation, Nuhu Clark, both indigenes of Chibok, delivered messages of hope and raised the spirits of the parents. The representative of the parents, Yakubu Keke, thanked Governor Zulum for his demonstration of empathy to the parents. He said the governor has shown that he has the development of Chibok and the entire Borno State in his heart. He said the parents are grateful to the governor for his show of concern, urging him and the President to remain determined in trying to rescue the missing girls. The Nation recalled that Boko Haram insurgents on April 14, 2014, attacked Government Secondary School in Chibok and took away over 200 schoolgirls in hostels close to the school. Two hundred and nineteen of them were held by the insurgents. Following negotiations between the Buhari administration and the insurgents, 107 girls in batches of 1 in May 2016; 21 in October 2016 and 82 in January 2017 were released, leaving 112 still missing.