The fear of Coronavirus currently ravaging nations of the world is unprecedented in the history of epidemics or pandemics. The rate of prevention education and preventive measures by governments, organisations, families and individuals is also astronomical. How I wish the same level of commitment to prevention can also be extended to road traffic crashes in Nigeria as in other countries. Road accident is a more devastating virus. Unemployment is another very ravenous virus that needs to be among the emergencies in Nigeria. Otherwise, the consequences will be unbearable. It is unfortunate that road accident that is killing far more than what  coronavirus has killed is not being given the right and comprehensive attention in Nigeria. More on this later. My article today is focused on seven  deadly viruses bedevilling driving in Nigeria. They are: Unsafe Speed: Over-speeding or unsafe speed is responsible for a very high percentage of the number of road traffic crashes in Nigeria. When we talk about over speeding, what comes to the minds of many people is the speed above 100km per hour. No! There are some road conditions or road environment where a speed of 40km per hour amounts to over speeding or unsafe speed. It is not the condition of the vehicle that should dictate the speed but the condition of the road. The commonsense speed limit therefore is to adjust speed according to the condition of the road or the road environment. Distraction: This is a very deadly and common virus in driving which has sent so many people to early graves while many more have been bedridden by this notorious driving virus. Driving is the most complex task which requires full concentration on the path of travel and the traffic environment. Whatever takes the eyes, ears, nose, brain, hands and legs of the driver away from the driving tasks for more than one second is a distraction which can kill or maim the driver and others. Distraction could be visual, auditory, manual, nasal and cognitive). Alcoholism: Alcoholism, substance use and drug abuse are deadly viruses responsible for thousands of road accidents in Nigeria. It is, however, worrisome that a very high percentage of drivers (commercial and private) have made these viruses their companion. The effects of drunk driving is virtually the same with drowsy driving. The campaign that alcohol and other psychoactive drugs should not be sold at motor parks cannot have the desired effects because most of these  alcoholic drinks are available in sachets which they can pocket even from home. Breathalysers should be frequently used by FRSC and other traffic management officers with strict penalties meted to apprehended offenders. Vehicle Condition: A vehicle that is not road worthy is a dangerous virus on the roads.  Any vehicle moving without good brakes, tyres, mirrors and other essential components is a deadly virus and moving casket. FRSC and VIOs need to wake up to their responsibilities to ensure only road worthy vehicles move on Nigerian roads no matter who owns them. A VIO in Abuja stopped a vehicle to ascertain its road worthiness but to my amazement, the driver brought out an ID card to show the VIO. I interjected by asking the reason for the ID card. Caps, belts, and other materials of men and women of the Armed Forces, paramilitary and even lawyers are frequently been displayed by vehicle owners to avoid being checked by FRSC officers and VIOs. The right things must be done without intimidation. Fatigue: This is a terrible virus threatening the lives of drivers and other innocent road users. A driver must have between six and eight hours of uninterrupted pre – driving sleep. Unfortunately, so many drivers don’t have the required hours of sleep before embarking on driving. The immediate resultant effect is micro sleep that often leads to accident. The virus of stress and fatigue should be effectively addressed by drivers and their employers where applicable to prevent loss of lives on the roads. It is a silent killer. Anger: Anger is a very deadly and fast – spreading virus which has caused lots of deaths on Nigerian roads. An angry driver is a blind driver. Anger or road rage is a major cause of aggressive driving, error and accidents. It must be avoided at all cost. Lane Weaaving: The attitude of frequently changing of lanes particularly when the traffic is slow is referred to as lane weaving. It is very common and dangerous. Lane weavers are usually guilty of not following the MSM/PSL routine thereby making them susceptible to errors and accidents. Drivers must learn not to be in a hurry when driving. The habit of journey planning should be wholeheartedly imbibed by all categories of drivers. In conclusion, I hereby implore the governments and all Nigerians to be proactive and take result-oriented actions to effectively address the challenges of the viruses of road accident, unemployment and poverty in Nigeria. A stitch in time saves nine.