ENL Consortium, operators of Terminals C and D at the Lagos Port Complex Apapa, has donated nose masks and other protective items to the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) in support of government’s efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic in the country. The items donated by the firm include 3,000 units of nose masks; 1,000 units of hand gloves; 1,000 hand sanitizers and infrared thermometers. The Executive Vice Chairman/CEO, ENL Consortium, Princess Vicky Haastrup, who was represented by the company’s Executive Director, Mark Walsh, during the presentation of the items in Lagos, said the gesture is in line with the company’s Cooperate Social Responsibility initiative and in support of the efforts of the Federal Government to contain the spread of the deadly virus in Nigeria. Princess Haastrup said the safety of port workers and port users remains a key priority for ENL Consortium. “COVID-19 is a problem all over the world. What we are doing with this donation is to back NPA with what we have because we know that NPA is working on behalf of the Federal Government. So this is to support NPA and the Federal Government to make sure we get through this period. “Without the port community working, we don’t have any work either. So for us, it is very important that we support the Nigerian Ports Authority, the Federal and Lagos State Governments and do what we can to provide support to this community. We all need the items to keep everybody safe at the port,” she said. Haastrup said ENL Consortium has ensured continuity of operations at its terminals in order to ensure that the supply chain is not disrupted in line with the directive of the Federal Government. “We must commend President Muhammadu Buhari for ensuring that the ports remain open during this crisis. This is important because even if other sectors of the economy are shut down to guard against the spread of the virus, the seaports should remain open to ensure that there is no shortage of food, drugs and other essential supply to Nigerians,” she said. The Port Manager, Lagos Port Complex, Apapa, Mrs Fumilayo Olotu, who received the items on behalf of the NPA , expressed her appreciation for the donation, which she said would go a long way in supporting NPA and the Federal Government’s effort in the fight against the coronavirus disease at the nation’s seaports. “We thank you for your collaboration with us and for sharing in the Federal Government’s commitment in fighting COVID-19. The items donated are relevant to the fight against COVID-19, especially the thermometer because we keep checking people coming into the port to make sure that anybody that is above the normal temperature is isolated and presented for further protocols. “The protocol in place is such that all of us should be part of, including regular hand washing and social distancing. We hope that in the nearest few weeks, Nigeria would have a wonderful story to tell on how we managed the situation,” she said. Olotu assured that some of the items would be given to sister agencies at the port including the Port Authority Police Command and Port Health Services.