 IT pretty much goes without saying that no one really wants to fight with their partner, but the reality is that arguing from time to time in a relationship is inevitable. Even if you love your partner and are content overall in your relationship, there are some common relationship problems that all couples face. However, not only is it ok for you and your partner to fight, it’s actually essential for your growth as a couple-as long as you’re arguing in a productive way, that is. But what exactly does it mean to have a productive fight in a relationship? The  bottomline? So long as you’re able to communicate in a mature, effective way, any issues that arise during the course of your relationship will be no biggie. Of course, there’s no way to predict exactly what issues might pop up — but if you want a general idea, here are nine relationship problems that are universal to pretty much all couples that you can be on the lookout for in your own relationship. There are so many reasons a dry spell can happen — mismatched libidos, health problems, general stress, a lack of free time — that it’s almost inevitable for a long-term couple not to go through at least one. But it’s not the end of the world, and it’s also totally possible to get out of a sex rut. When you’re dating the same person for a long period of time, of course things might start to feel a little stale eventually. If you feel bored in your relationship, work together to find ways you can add some fun, spontaneity, and excitement back into the day-to-day. Some people are certainly more jealous in relationships than others, but we’re all human and have the capacity to feel insecure — and, as a result, almost every couple will experience bouts of jealousy from time to time. “It’s natural to get jealous when you’re in a relationship,” Bennett says. “All couples go through it to a degree. The key to overcome it is to communicate and build trust so that you can rationally work through what can ultimately be irrational feelings.” To make a relationship last, having good communication skills is so important. One of the biggest no-nos? Not being an active and thoughtful listener in your relationship. It might not be fun, but doing chores and errands is essential to making a household run smoothly — after all, someone has to take out the garbage. Particularly if you live with a partner whose definition of ‘clean’ is different than yours, fighting about the division of chores in your relationship is super normal. One of the things no one tells you about long-term relationships? Even if you’re happy, it’s normal to have doubts about your partner occasionally — as long as you’re able to communicate about them, that is. “Doubts in a relationship are normal. It’s human nature to question things in life. If you’re happy in a relationship, try not to dwell on the doubts. Instead, focus on the positive aspects of your relationship that make you feel that you are right for each other.” When you’re in a serious relationship, it’s typical to make each other a top priority. But everyone has their own individual commitments, too — and sometimes life gets in the way, and we spend less time with our partners than we once did. “This can be frustrating and cause resentment in a relationship, even though it’s nobody’s fault,” “Sometimes it’s worthwhile for couples to cut back on work or other commitments to devote more time to their relationship.” Unfortunately, money makes the world go ‘round, which means that arguing about money with your partner is pretty much inevitable, especially if you have or plan to combine your finances.