 PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari and  the All Progressives Congress National Leader, Asiwaju Bola   Tinubu, have congratulated the State Chief of Protocol, Ambassador Lawal Kazaure, on his 60th birthday. They described Kazuare as a meticulous and dedicated dipomat, who had served in many countries, where he rendered memorable services to  Nigeria and its citizens   in the Diaspora. The two leaders prayed Allah to grant him good health and more years to be able to continue to serve the nation. The congratulatory messages were contained in separate press statements yesterday by the Presidency and Office of the APC National Leader. Buhari, in the statement by his   Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu,   expressed belief that Kazaure’s experience and diplomatic expertise would always be useful for the country. He urged  him to continue being steadfast. The statement reads in part: “President Muhammadu Buhari warmly congratulates State Chief of Protocol Ambassador   Kazaure on his 60th birthday, April 5, 2020, felicitating with him for meritorious service to the country as a career diplomat. “The President joins family, friends and all professional colleagues of the diplomat in celebrating the milestone, which has been heralded with many years of working in Nigerian foreign missions, which includes Namibia, Islamic Republic of Iran, Turkey, Syria and Cote D’Ivoire, where he worked diligently to safeguard Nigerian citizens during the political crisis in 2010. “As Ambassador Kazaure turns 60, President Buhari believes his vast experience and wisdom in diplomacy will always remain relevant, especially as issues steadily take global dimensions, urging him to stay steadfast, dedicated and committed to nation building. “The President prays for longer life for the State Chief of Protocol, and more wisdom and strength to serve his father land.” Tinubu, whose statement was signed by Tunde Rahman, was particularly thrilled by Kazuare’s  dedication to President   Buhari and his service to the nation. He  said: ”Warm congratulations to State Chief of Protocol Ambassador Lawal Kazaure on his 60th birthday. “A fine career diplomat and an excellent human being, Ambassador Kazaure performs his responsibilities with utmost dedication, courage and commitment. “As State Chief of Protocol, he serves the country meticulously and President Buhari diligently, just as he had done in the various positions he previously held in his illustrious foreign service career that has seen him work in Nigerian missions in Namibia, Turkey, Syria and Iran among others. “Asiwaju Tinubu prays that, as Ambassador Kazaure joins the sexagenarian club, Almighty Allah imbue him with good health, renewed energy and grant him many more years to continue in the service of the country and our people.”