Hi people! Hope we are staying safe and indoors. Taking responsibility is the name of the game. Truth remains that we need to be level headed and calm in order to make it in this part of the world. Having said that, I appreciate your messages to me, concerning the column, and I am sorry, if I’ve not been able to reply all. You guys have really given me reasons to go on, especially in this lockdown era.  Even to my critics, I thank you also for your constructive criticisms. Please keep sending your views; it really keeps me on my toes. Due to space constraints, I can only publish a handful of your sent messages, not today though, but be rest assured that they have been fully read and noted. The chemistry between a man and a woman cannot be explained, understood or over emphasized. Often times, we find ourselves falling head over heels  in love with a particular individual and at that point when we do fall in love other things and even other people naturally become secondary. At a time, we cannot get enough of each other. Some people when in love will practically worship the ground that their significant other walks on. Really, it can really be fun when one is in love. But today, we are not talking on that. On the contrary, we would want to talk about when you are no more in love and each one of you have gone your separate ways. Yes, we are aware of the sweet things that we had hitherto promised each other when the going was good. We are after all human, we can renege on our words, whether intentionally or otherwise, but it sure happens to us. Call it fate or perhaps destiny, but sometimes we do run into our past lovers and it could even be accidental. So, what happens if you eventually or coincidentally run into your ex? Do you walk on by? Do you exchange pleasantries or phone numbers? Well, to a large extent it could depend on the way you parted ways in the first place. Some part ways as a result of a mutual agreement while some part ways on a very bitter note. Applying civility into whatever relationship we find ourselves depends on a number of factors. Some of those factors can be one’s academic background or better still one’s orientation. When we do run into our ex-bobo or ex-baby, it is expected of us to be civil.  Sometimes we could still be hurting, but there might be no need to show it. This will help keep what is left of our pride, especially if the case is the fact that we were dumped by the other party. If we still wear long faces when we run into our ex, it proves to that person that they still have a hold over us. No one should have that kind of hold over another. The only hitch, however, can be when one’s ex wants to pick – up where they left off. An ex – governor of Ekiti State once dated my childhood friend long before he became a governor. According to my friend, their relationship was the envy of all their friends at that time. But, as they grew in their careers, they each went their separate ways and moved on with their lives. Today, my friend is married with kids and although from time to time, the thought of her ex flashes through her mind. But being a responsibly married woman, she quickly kills the thought as soon as it comes to her. Years went by and the thoughts of her ex gradually faded. My friend called me up during the recently  and told me how she ran into her ex at a book launch in Lagos. According to her the reunion was quite interesting as they could not stop talking. Considering the fact that they did not part on an unhappy note, they spontaneously tried to play catch – up (if you like) and even lost track of time.  When they parted ways on that day they had both exchanged phone numbers. Her worry now is that since that day, her ex has not stopped calling her. Though she said that since they are both married to different people,  he has not in any way made passes at her. What she is most worried about is that she now finds herself looking forward to receiving his calls. And when he fails to call due to his busy schedules, she can’t get him off her mind. Now she is torn between telling him to stop calling her or telling her husband about meeting her ex again, years after they went their separate ways. No doubt in my mind she loves her husband and daughter dearly, but she is now blaming herself for exchanging numbers with him in the first place. Question is, should she have been rude and refused to say hello to him and throw courtesy to the wind? Or should she have been courteous but firm? Is her ex to blame for calling her ceaselessly not minding the fact that she could start having ideas? In fairness to the ex – gov, he has not given her any reason to think that he might be considering a reunion with her. Does this now mean that one should be an enemy to one’s ex in order to play safe? A colleague saw me writing this particular piece and decided to tell me her own story. Briefly, she said to me that just months ago, she ran into her ex – boyfriend, a medical doctor. Now, between that day and now, the guy has called her up like (45) times. It is not his calls that bother her, it is the fear of jumping into bed with him after he dumped her for another girl. In conclusion, a naughty friend of mine once said to me ”Vera, once knacked, always knackable” meaning that once a guy sleeps with a lady, even years after they have parted ways, they could still make love, because the chemistry can be easily rekindled. How true is that?