Ogun State has discharged three coronavirus patients after they tested negative twice to the virus. Commissioner for Health, Dr. Tomi Comer, disclosed this while briefing newsmen at the Conference Room of the State Ministry of Health in Abeokuta. She said: “I have good news. In the last 24 hours, three individuals have been given a clean bill of health in the state and discharged from one of our isolation centres to join their families and resume their normal life, thus bringing the total number of discharged individuals to 6. “We have only three active cases and they are being treated by our doctors and other healthcare workers in one of our Isolation and Treatment Centres. “In addition, so far, we have identified 210 persons who had contacts with the positive cases, out of which 110 underwent the required 14-day quarantine period. “Only two tested positive, the remaining 108 tested negatives on completion of the quarantine period”. She added:  “100 others are however are still observing the quarantine period and are being observed and monitored by our specialist doctors and other healthcare workers.” She also disclosed that the state molecular laboratory has been delivered and installed while awaiting accreditation of the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) to commence full operation. According to her, it would significantly boost the efforts of the state to test individuals with suspected symptoms. She added that the state is waiting the delivery of another molecular laboratory on Monday. Coker said: “The State has finalised the installation of Mobile Testing Booths to be deployed across the state, particularly around the vulnerable areas that include communities bordering Lagos to stem community transmission into Ogun State. “With the above measures in place, we should be able to have one-day return of test results for anyone suspected of having COVID-19 symptoms in the State. “Ogun State has been able to manage the pandemic effectively so far and surpassed the global average for tested cases and transmission. “The global average is 1 positive case to 3 new infections. In our case, it is 1 positive case to 1 new infection.”  