 If it is true that anyone entrusted with the resources earmarked to fight the scourge of coronavirus pandemic, also known as COVID 19, is stealing from it, then such a person is fearlessly corrupt. Otherwise, how else can one explain the courage to steal, when the fear of death from the ravaging pandemic has gripped every reasonable person in the world? Even those who ordinarily think of God, as a fantasy, trusting in the power of their material wealth, are beginning to have a rethink, now that money has failed to buy anyone immunity from the pandemic. So, to think that any of our public officials can tell us tales by moonlight, over how much has been released from the monies earmarked to fight the scourge, and who have benefited, confirms that such person does not fear God. Of course, only those who do not fear God, can still think of stealing at a time like this. With the virus attacking both the rich and the poor, with no known cure yet, and with thousands dying daily from the infirmity, every sane person should be reconciling with his/her maker, just in case. In our dear country, according to National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) as at April 12, there are 323 confirmed cases, 85 discharged persons, and 10 deaths resulting from COVID-19. While we hope it remains so, there is the likelihood that the number would go up, and yet our country’s capacity to test or treat the disease remains very low. So, common sense dictates that all resources available, both human and material, should be mobilized, to fight the disease and stall its spread. But instead, we are hearing tales that some persons may be stealing the resources put in their care, to fight the pandemic. If that is true, those involved should at least fear death and the judgment of God. But if they don’t, they should not cause the death of others, from the neglect that the monies they are stealing will cause. More so, with our governments owning up that the medical facilities across the country are in terrible shape, we need to put every kobo made available to fight COVID 19, to proper use to save our lives. After all, nobody knows who may need the facilities sooner than later. So, the earlier those in charge of our common resources realise that we are all in this boat together, the better for them. Who could have contemplated that a day would come when those who have stashed money abroad, would be afraid of travelling to their safe haven for medical checks? Who could have contemplated that after spending huge resources to buy summer houses in major capitals of the world for annual holidays, a day would come, when it will become impossible or even suicidal to plan a summer holiday outside Nigeria. Who could imagine that with huge balances in dollars and pounds, a season would happen on us suddenly, when getting access to foreign accounts is nigh impossible? If we are to believe our ears, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation and head of Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, Boss Mustapha, reportedly admitted that he was shocked at the state of disrepair of the medical facilities across the country.  Well, unless he is suffering from amnesia, he would remember that one of the reasons President Muhammadu Buhari, as a military officer, overthrew the government of President Shehu Shagari in 1983, was the state of the hospitals. It is also one of the reasons, President Buhari was elected in 2015, and re-elected in 2019. Whether in 1983 or 2015, it was our lot that after so much resources have been purportedly expended, the state of our social infrastructure remained desolate. So, if after six years of being in power, the hospitals are still in the same state, then Boss Mustapha must remind President Buhari, that he has not fulfilled the expectations of his ardent supporters. After a full term in power, and in the second term, our social infrastructure should begin to reflect what the present government wants, not the image of its predecessors again. While the years of the locust stretches back, there is no doubt that if incremental progress have been made, Boss Mustapha would not be lamenting as he did, after touring the medical facilities across the country. Clearly, while there are laws in our books to deal with stealing of public funds, they have not deterred our public officials from feasting on our common patrimony. Between 1958 and June 2016, Nigeria has earned about N96.212 trillion from crude oil exploitation alone, according to the Vanguard newspaper. Of course, since the civil war era, when we abandoned other sources of revenue, crude oil represents about 80 percent of the total source of income for the governments. Ninety-six trillion naira, is a huge amount by any standard. Enough to transform our country, if our leaders had been conscientious in governance. The present effort to shift away from that dangerous paradigm has then remained a pipe dream, if after six years of change, our hospitals are still mere consulting clinics, as in the past. Unfortunately, the COVID-19 pandemic has come to mock the comatose state of our health facilities. Perhaps, it is a call for Nigeria, to review her budget in favour of the health sector. In the 2020 budget, the total expected revenue stood at N10.33 trillion, out of which mere N46 billion was earmarked for health. Well, that was before the COVID 19 pandemic. Now that COVID-19 has negated all the parameters of the budget, it would be a miracle if the sector would get up to 50 percent of that budget. Of course, it is a common phenomenon of our fiscal policy, for the budget releases to be much lower that the projected. So, with a low budget, coupled with the ravaging impact of corruption, is there any chance that we would start the difficult but necessary steps to build a health infrastructure that would be robust enough to cater for all Nigerians, regardless of status? The experience of the British Prime Minister, Boris Johnson, is a pointer to the road our country should follow. Falling ill from the impact of the pandemic, the PM was treated in a hospital open to every British person. In his speech after getting well, he thanked the British National Health Service, and proudly declared it, the greatest asset of his dear country. With Nigeria’s National Hospital, Abuja, incapable of treating our president and the governors, we must hearken to the warning signals from COVID-19, and stop those who are fearlessly corrupt, by any means. 