 The management of Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC) has donated two trucks of food items to the Lagos State Government as part of its contribution to efforts being made by state government to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. The donation was received by the Commissioner for Agriculture, Gbolahan Lawal, on behalf of the Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu. The Eko DisCo team led by its Managing Director, Adeoye Fadeyibi, commended the Lagos State Government its rapid response in handling the COVID-19 situation. Lagos state’s citizens receive regular and detailed updates and Lagos State’s dedicated medical facilities and isolation centres are reassuringly equipped to cater to the health management of residents whom have tested positive to the COVID-19 virus. We all are required to be conscious of and practice social distancing as we continue maintaining high standards of hygiene, sanitary conditions and safety in order to beat and survive this COVID-19 pandemic, he added. He said: “With all the markets; grocery stores, supermarkets, pharmacies and gadget stores, among others, closed down due to Federal Government’s mandatory lockdown order to contain the pandemic and curb the spread of the virus. All we have to do is stock up and stay at home. This comes with a number of concerns which brings us on the same page with the Lagos state government – what happens to the indigent population of our state? How do we care for the low income earners and less privileged among us? The people who can’t afford three square meals on a regular basis, stocking up for the period is not really a practical option to them. “This is why our board and management has approved a budget of 150 million Naira towards assisting the government during this crisis. The approved budget will be used to provide relief items for the low income earners/less privileged and invest towards infrastructure to deliver consistent electricity to isolation centres within our coverage area. We hope this will encourage others to pitch in and assist the Government in containing and permanently eradicating this pandemic. “I utilise this opportunity to state that we are also open to welcoming back those that left our network and wish to return to our network. I urge the private sector to support the government by lending a helping hand to our communities in this hour of need. “Our communities need our support and partnership now more than ever, and we urge other corporate leaders and entities to always remember that we have to look out for our citizenry as a whole and in particular, the low income earners and less privileged amongst us. We thank the Governor and his team and urge them to keep up the good work.” The Commissioner for Agriculture, Gbolahan Lawal, thanked the management of Eko DisCo for the donation and show of love, and called on other corporate organisations to emulate the DisCo. He assured Fadeyibi that the food items will be judiciously distributed to the less privileged.       