Secretary to the Government of Nasarawa, Alhaji Aliyu Ahmed Tijjani, who is under probe by members of the Assembly for allegedly embezzling N1 billion meant for renovation of schools in the state, has draw the battle line with the lawmakers. The SSG had allegedly sponsored his media aides to instigate members of the public against the lawmakers insinuating that N11 million was given to each Assembly member as palliative for their constituents over COVID-19 pandemic. NATION gathered that most lawmakers are under pressure from their constituents to share the reported money as part of palliative measures to curtail the spread of the virus. Our correspondent gathered reliably that the said money was meant for the purchase of official vehicles for members and not to curtail spread of COVID-19 as insinuated by the agents of the SSG. At the Assembly emergency sitting on Tuesday in Lafia, the Assembly ordered for the arrest of the media aides to the SSG over alleged incitement of the public. Speaker Ibrahim Abdullahi, who was visibly angry, gave the order for the arrest of the SSG aides. Speaker Abdullahi equally called on the state government to issue a statement clearing the air on the purpose of the said funds. The arrest order was sequel to a matter of urgent public importance raise by the Chairman, House Committee on Information, Hon Mohammed Omadefu. According to the Speaker: ” I have heard you all. I want to commend all of you for your positive contributions on this matter and your sacrifices so far, show of understanding and support for leadership of the house and support for Governor Abdullahi Sule. “The reports on social media that the State Government has given us money as palliative to our constituents over COVID-19 is unfortunate and false. “Such reports are capable of creating confusion and are inciting us against our people. ” No amount of intimidations, mischiefs, insults will divert our attention and we will continue to protect the integrity of the House and I urged you to remain focused. ” It is in view of this that the House passed the following resolutions. ” One, the House debunks the story circulating on social media that the state government has given members money for palliative for their constituents to cushion the effect of COVID-19. “Secondly, the House call on the Executive arm to come out and make a statement to clear the air on the purported fund. “The House mandates the Chairmen, House Committee on Security and Information to meet with the security agencies for the arrest of those involved in such acts for prosecution to serve as detterent to others.” Efforts to get the reaction of the SSG were abortive.