Gary Neville says Harry Kane would be a perfect signing for Manchester United, while Jamie Redknapp believes Kane could “explore other avenues” if Spurs fail to progress. Sky Sports News has been told that Tottenham have no intention of selling Kane to Manchester United, with the Old Trafford club reportedly one of the front-runners for his signature. Reports have suggested Tottenham chairman Daniel Levy is willing to sanction Kane’s departure to United for a world-record fee of £200m because of financial worries during the coronavirus crisis. “Any club in the Premier League would want Harry Kane,” he told The Football Show on Sky Sports News. “There are some signings that are like gold, where you just know they are going to work. Harry Kane is unbreakable in the sense of his mentality. He’ll always score goals, will always give 100 per cent in training, and is completely reliable as a manager would want. “For Manchester United, it would be a perfect signing in terms of what they need,” he explained. “They had Bruno Fernandes come in and he’s done a great job, Harry Maguire at the back. If they can get someone like Kane up front, you’re looking at a fantastic spine.”  He added: “It fits Manchester United’s historical transfers, going back to Brian Robson, Roy Keane, trying to sign Alan Shearer, Rio Ferdinand, Wayne Rooney. “They were the best or most famous English, British or Irish players in the Premier League and Manchester United tried to sign that player so it does fit with that. Just look at what Manchester United did last summer with Harry Maguire, who was one of the best players on the mark.” “In terms of Kane, I did work with him for England. He’s a clever lad and he’s not somebody who would get caught out if he didn’t want to say something. The little opening if the door that he left in that Instagram piece with Jamie was probably something that had something in it. “I also don’t think Kane would have been that impressed with his club a couple of weeks ago with what they did [using the Government’s Job Retention Scheme and furloughing staff]. Kane is a good lad, a solid lad and he wouldn’t have taken that particularly well and he’s probably just poking them back. In my mind, I think he would have been warning them and saying ‘just be careful because I’m watching you and it’s not something that we do’.”