 The Centre for Citizens with Disabilities (CCD) has urged the government to organise a ‘stand alone’ intervention for people living with disabilities in the ongoing COVID-19 palliatives distribution. The Founder of the organisation, David Anyaele, made the call in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos on Thursday. Anyaele said that such measure would go a long way in cushioning the effects of the lockdown on people living with disabilities. According to him, the physically-challenged, who are among the most vulnerable in the society, are not getting the necessary palliatives needed to survive. “People with disability bear the greatest challenge of the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown. Even prior to this development, we were usually discriminated against, isolated and excluded from programmes that would be of benefit to us. “The lockdown has made life even more unbearable for us. Getting access to palliatives and relief materials, in particular, has been very difficult. “We want to draw the attention of the government to the need to mainstream disability into government’s response to the containment of coronavirus. “Government should conduct a ‘stand alone’ intervention for people living with disabilities. By so doing, they will be able to reach more people during this period,” he said. The CCD founder urged the federal and state governments to implement the existing disability acts, targeted at alleviating the sufferings of the physically-challenged people. “Sections 25 and 26 of the National Disability Act provide that people with disability should be given priority in situations of emergency. “We have observed that both the federal and state governments have yet to implement relevant sections of the law, which are pertinent to us,” he said. Anyaele said that the centre had provided palliatives, including food items and cash, to some of its members. He appealed to corporate organisations and well-meaning Nigerians to complement the efforts of the centre by supporting his members. (NAN)