When the Federal Government announced the lockdown of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Lagos and Ogun States for the first two weeks before it was extended last week for another two weeks, residents of these states were apprehensive of how they would survive they stay-at-home order without adequate preparation. However, the Federal Government and Ogun State evolved some palliative measures to mitigate the suffering of the people. DAMOLA KOLA-DARE reports that some communities in the state have cried out over what they called marginalisation in the distribution of the relief materials.  The former Governor of the state, Ibikunle Amosun once came to this region for electioneering purposes. In the time past, Otunba Gbenga Daniel fixed our road before it washed off completely. Leaders in Ogun State cannot claim they don’t know we exist here. We are being marginalised here. Ever since the lockdown began, we have not received any relief material here. It is sad!” Those were the words of a visibly enraged landlord who craved anonymity in Adeleye, Itele Ota area of Ogun State. Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun had, on Friday, last week, gone round major areas in Ogun State to distribute relief materials to residents. It was gathered that he was in Abeokuta South and parts of Abeokuta North Local Government Area. The Governor, who also visited places such as Isale Ake, Adatan, Ago-Oko and other parts of the metropolis, gave out food packs containing 5kg of garri, rice, beans, tomato paste, maggi and vegetable oil to residents in what he said was to “cushion the effects of the lockdown.” He further assured the residents of more palliative measures, noting that the Federal Government has expressed readiness to assist the state government in alleviating the suffering of the people. In the same manner, wife of the Governor, Mrs. Bamidele Abiodun also distributed relief materials to the vulnerable with communities such as Kuto, Amolaso, Asero, Obantoko, Adigbe, Olorunda and other suburbs benefitting. She commenced distribution in Sagamu and other areas on March 30 where a good number of widows and single mothers benefitted. However, residents of communities such as Adeleye, Onifade, Aiyetoro-Budo, Aparadija, Ejigun, Kogi-Kajola and a host of others in Ado-Odo Ota Local Government Area continue to decry how they have been marginalised through the years. They reckon that border town communities continue to suffer neglect because they are seemingly neither here nor there. Being sandwiched in-between Lagos and Ogun states is labeled as a nightmare and a “curse”. As the deadly Coronavirus pandemic continues to hang over the nation like the sword of Damocles, and with lockdown extended, residents of the aforementioned areas continue to tell tales of woe even as robbers perpetually make them sleepless and put them on a knife-edge. Expressing his angst, Segun Odeniyi, a shop owner frowned at the state government for neglecting communities in Ado-Odo Ota Local Government Area, the industrial hub of the state, which brings the majority of the Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) the state can boast of. He noted that politicians of the state only remember the region during elections and after then, they forget about the place. “The Ogun State government doesn’t remember this region in almost everything. Probably, they have concluded that this place is part of Lagos because it is largely neglected infrastructure wise. This region belongs to Ogun, yet, we are neither here nor there. Interestingly, the highest IGR comes from Ado-Odo Ota Local Government Area, the industrial nerve centre of the state, yet, we are not benefiting from anything at all. For instance, several promises have been made concerning this Lafenwa Itele Road during campaigns, yet it gets even worse, especially during rainy seasons. And now there is lockdown, no relief materials have been given to us because it seems to be in a no-man’s land so to say. It is terrible,” he stated. Another resident, Femi Collins, a phone repairer, acquiesced with what was earlier said. He berated the state government for marginalising the region. Collins, who urged the state government to expedite action and extend the palliatives to Itele Ota area, noted that the lock down has been particularly tough for him because he has not been getting patronage because of the stay-at-home order of the government. He said: “Since the lockdown commenced, we have not received anything. Now that it has been extended, what is the assurance that we will get something? It is getting unbearable already. Ogun State government can claim Itele, Lafenwa, Aparadija and other areas here are not part of the state. Although, government is doing a nice job to wipe out Coronavirus, they should try to remember those of us who cannot feed unless we do daily jobs. “For instance, I am a phone repairer; there is no way I can cope without going out to work. The little I had when the lockdown began has been exhausted. I am appealing to the state government to distribute the relief items evenly and without bias.” For Romanus Ibeh, a commercial motorcycle rider, the only relief that has come his way was from a humane pastor in his area. He noted that the pastor distributed relief materials to residents in his community in Adeleye, apart from that; nothing has come from the state government. Ibeh, who lamented that the lockdown has had damaging effects on him said: “For us here in Itele, we have not got anything like relief item or palliative. It was only a pastor in my area that distributed food stuff, detergents and other stuffs for us. Many people came out to collect; they thought it was the government. They later discovered it was a pastor who did it out of compassion for the needy.”  Jinadu Akeem, on his part believes it is time residents stormed the local government secretariat or the Government House in Abeokuta to register their grouse. According to him, the region has suffered marginalisation for long. He chided the state government for not providing adequate infrastructure for the region. “I think residents should troop to the local government secretariat or Government House in Abeokuta in a peaceful protest. This region has always been marginalised. This deplorable major road that leads to Idiroko will always be a reference for government neglect. The so-called major areas and cities in the state have received relief items, yet nobody has deemed it fit to bring a bag of rice here. It is disheartening,” he said with a frown. In his submission, Ezekiel Idemudia, a civil servant appealed to the state government to extend the relief items to the region to alleviate the suffering of the masses who have continued to bear the weight of the unexpected lockdown. He said: “I give kudos to the state government for its efforts towards containing the Coronavirus. However, the lockdown has proved to be unbearable. Many people in this area are complaining bitterly of hunger. Those who cannot endure have started terrorising the area. They have resorted to robbing fellow citizens. I am appealing to the state government to come to our aid to mitigate the effects of the lock down.”  We are suffering The monarch of Aiyetoro-Budo, HRH, Oba Adeniji Odutala, the Onibudo of Aiyetoro-Budo, noted that residents are suffering from the COVID-19 lockdown despite hearing that relief items are being distributed in other areas of the state. He said that even if the relief materials are not substantial enough, residents of Ayetoro, Itele, Lafenwa and the likes should get. The monarch revealed that ever since the lockdown started, he has been feeding people in his palace and giving out huge amount of cash to vulnerable and less privileged residents. He urged the state government not to neglect the region because it consists of border towns. He also noted that the number of less privileged people in the region is massive; hence, the state government should not limit palliatives to the central districts of the state. “It is quite unfortunate that this is happening at this time. People are really suffering here. We know the relief items may not be enough to go round; at least residents here should get, no matter how little to cushion the effects of the lock- down. It seems we are being marginalised here. “In my palace here, I feed hundreds of people daily. Since the lockdown started, I have been feeding multitudes and also giving out cash to the needy and less privileged people. Now the lockdown has been extended, how will people cope? It is quite terrible. “Now there is tension in the land, hoodlums and armed robbers are on the prowl. We have resorted to street policing, we don’t sleep anymore. We now act as security men to curb recent robbery attacks here. Everyone has to be security-conscious; no one should be careless during this period.”  No region is being marginalised The Chairman, Ado-Odo Ota Local Government Area, Alhaji Wasiu Lawal cooled talks of any form of marginalisation in the state. He noted that the relief materials will be distributed accordingly and gradually once made available. He urged residents to exercise patience, adding that it is improbable for every one of them to receive the relief items because of the population of those in the local government area. “Nobody or region is being marginalised in the state. Distributing the relief materials is a gradual process. As we receive the items, we will share. Again, nobody is being marginalised. The residents have to be patient. As soon as we get the materials, we will definitely do the needful. There is no sentiment about the distribution. “However, I am not giving any assurance whatsoever because we cannot give everyone. The quantity of materials available will determine if everyone will get,” Lawal noted. While also debunking claims of marginalisation, Ogun State Commissioner for Forestry, Mr. Tunji Akinosi said: “Whichever community we have not touched till date will be touched in the coming days. I am sure it’s not marginalisation. Our LGA is large and we are doing all within our powers to cover everywhere. The packages are only for the old and the vulnerable. It is not for members of the CDAs or CDCs.”