Eleven coronavirus (COVID-19) patients were on Thursday discharged from hospital in Lagos – a big boost to the battle against the pandemic. This brings to 18 the number of patients treated and discharged in the epicentre of the virus in Nigeria. Ekiti State on Tuesday discharged its index case after treatment.Another case was discharged in Oyo State. To be certified fir after treatment, a patient must test negative twice after treatment. The index case of the virus in Nigeria, an Italian, who travelled to Lagos from Milan, was discharged from the Infection Disease Hospital in Yaba, Lagos on March 20. However, 16 new cases surfaced on Thursday. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), confirmed 10 cases – seven in Lagos and three in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Osun State Government announced the remaining six cases in Osogbo, the state capital. The new cases in Osun had not been captured by the NCDC as at 8pm. On Wednesday, patients at the disease control centre shared a video they produced to improve awareness about the virus. The video shared on a verified twitter handle @mojidelanoblog features some of the patients displaying boards with messages of hope and thanking health workers for resuscitating their health. In a statement, Governor Babajide-Sanwo-Olu said the discharged patients had fully recovered and tested negative to COVID-19. He said: “The patients include two females and nine males, who were discharged after testing negative twice consecutively to #COVID19. “That the tests results of these patients came out negative twice is a big assurance to us that they pose no threat to the community. We are, therefore, releasing them in furtherance of our commitment for a disease-free state. “May I use this opportunity to, once again, thank our frontline health workers who took care of the patients as well as members of the Lagos State Health family and the Emergency Operation Centre for their resilience and diligence in the face of the daunting challenges confronting our State in curtailing the spread of this pandemic.” The governor expressed joy that the state has not recorded any fatality. He said: “We will not rest on our oars but continue to work assiduously for the full recovery of the other patients so that they can return home to their families and the community. “I am happy to note the excitement of the patients. They are full of gratitude to our dear state that has stood by them all the way, the health workers and all those who contributed one way or the other in the fight against this unseen but vicious enemy of mankind.  The Health commissioner and all members of the medical team got kudos.” The statement quoted one of the former patients as saying: “Initially, I found it hard to settle into the facility. In fact, the first two days I spent here were so lonely for me, but I gradually settled and found companion in my fellow ward mates. The doctors and other health workers who attended to us were amazing and we appreciate their sacrifice.” Sanwo-Olu warned that this is not the time to relax, but to maintain vigilance against Coronavirus because of possible community infection. The governor said: “We should be sober as the battle continues. I, therefore, advise Lagosians to remain steadfast as they stick to the rules of hygiene we have been told to practise.” “Let us continue to observe Social Distancing. Let us remain indoors, shunning the temptation to breach the presidential restriction that has been placed on our state so that the gains made so far in the fight against COVID-19 is not eroded. We should shun any gathering for whatever reason at this delicate period. “Reports of youths gathering for social and sporting activities – as well as those massing for religious purposes – are unfortunate. This kind of insensitivity could be a weak link in our collective effort to break the chain of transmission of the infection. “The order for law enforcement agents to ensure that residents comply with the directive to stay indoors remains. I enjoin members of the Organised Private Sector (OPS) and others to read the Federal Government’s guidelines on the restriction of movement so that the directive is not breached in any way. “Again, I assure you that at the end of it all, we will hoist a flag of victory – with your co-operation and by the grace of the Almighty.” The NCDC, through its verified Twitter account, said that as  at 8pm, there were 184 confirmed cases of COVID-19 reported in Nigeria. It said 20 had been discharged with two deaths. The 11 discharged in lagos had not been captured. The Centre, said currently, there are 92 cases in Lagos; Abuja (38); Oyo (eight); Osun (14); Ogun (four); Kaduna (four); Akwa Ibom (Five); Edo (four); Bauchi (three); Enugu and Ekiti (two cases each), while Rivers and Benue had one case, respectively. NCDC’s Director-General Chikwe Ihekweazu said the  agency had  started seeing early signs of community transmission of the virus. Dr. Ihekweazu said the lockdown in Lagos, Ogun and the FCT would be helpful as the NCDC continued to intensify efforts to detect and confirm cases of COVID-19. In Osun, the six new cases takes the number of confirmed cases to 20. The new cases are from among the 127 people who travelled from Cote d’Ivoire on Saturday. The Commissioner for Health, Dr. Rafiu Isamontu, confirmed the six new cases to The Nation on phone. It was learnt that the 18 confirmed cases have been moved to General Hospital in Ejigbo. However, a source said the government was planning to move them to the State Specialist Hospital, Osogbo. The government began the fumigation of some areas in the state to contain the spread of the virus. Among the areas fumigated were banks, market and other social places.