 THE Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) at the weekend granted quoted companies 60-day extended deadline to file their first quarter report as part of regulatory forbearance to ameliorate the disruptions caused by the Coronavirus pandemic. The Exchange also extended similar 60-day waiver that had been granted to companies with December 31, 2019 year-end on filing of their full-year audited financial statements to companies with March 31, 2020 year-end. Listing and regulatory rules at the stock market require all quoted companies to submit their annual audited report and financial statement not later than 90 days after the end of the financial year. The rules also require companies to submit quarterly unaudited interim report not later than 30 days after the end of the period. More than 85 per cent of quoted companies including all banks, insurers, major manufacturers, oil and gas companies and conglomerates use the Gregorian calendar year ending December 31, with due date for annual audited statement and interim first quarter report on March 30 and April 30, 2020.  The Exchange had extended the deadline for the audited results to May, 29, 2020. The Exchange at the weekend stated that it has also decided to extend the due date for the submission of the audited financial statements for listed companies with March 31, 2020 year-end by 60 days from previous due date of June 29, 2020 to August 28, 2020. The Exchange added that in line with its rule that states that companies must not announce their interim accounts without having first filed their last audited financial statements, it decided to grant a 60-day extension for submission of quarterly results. Companies now have till June 29, 2020 to submit their first quarter results. In a circular signed by Head, Listing Regulations Department, NSE, Godstime Iwenekhai, the Exchange also waived enforcement of the provisions of its rules governing transactions with related parties or interested persons “The Exchange hereby waives the enforcement of the above mentioned provision of the Rules Governing Transactions with Related Parties or Interested Persons, which is delineated below, until further notice. This waiver is necessary in order to ensure that the operations of listed companies are not inadvertently constrained at this time,” Iwenekhai stated. Rule 20.8: General Mandate of the NSE states that a company may seek a general mandate from securities holders for recurrent transactions of revenue or trading nature or those necessary for its day-to-day operations such as the purchase and sale of supplies and materials, but not in respect of the purchase or sale of assets, undertakings or businesses. A general mandate is subject to annual renewal. Consequently, all listed companies that choose to enter into related party transactions that are within the purview of Rule 20.8 during this period of waiver of enforcement, are required to include every resolution proposal setting forth specific details on related party transactions in the notice of board meetings; and obtain the approval of the board before entering into any related party transactions within the purview of Rule 20.8, provided that no transaction’s term shall exceed a term of longer than one financial year. Also, every company must publish an announcement via the Exchange’s Issuers’ Portal within 24 hours of the board’s approval of each transaction, and the announcement shall describe each transaction with specific relevant details as may be required by the Exchange. Companies must also disclose all such approved related party transactions as notes in their quarterly financial statements for the period in which they occur, and in the final accounts. 