Justina Asishana, Minna  Over 50 families have been rendered homeless following wind and rainstorm that occurred on Thursday night in Minna, Niger state. Areas affected by the rainstorm are; Gidan Mangoro, Gidan Kuka, Kpakungun, and some parts of Tunga. The rainstorm which lasted for about three hours destroyed houses, schools, churches, mosques, and shops. Some of the buildings had their roofs blown away, some had their fences fallen, some had parts of their buildings destructed while others had total destruction of their buildings. Electrical poles were also not left out as most of them were destroyed by the storm. A visit to Gidan Mangoro community on Friday morning showed the high level of destruction as the reporter met a number of the house owners trying to salvage their properties. There were tears from those whose houses were completely destroyed as most of them are concerned over where to get a roof over their head while others wondered where they could get the resources to rebuild their houses. “Where would we get the money to rebuild another house? I have not been going to work for over one month now since this lockdown. Where will the money come from? will my children be sleeping outside? My sister, I am confused,” one of the affected residents, Musa Ali said. Another resident said “even if I want to get roofing sheets for my house, how or where will I get it. These people are not selling. I could not get all of the roofing sheets that were blown away. But we will manage anyhow.” Garba Hamidu bemoaned how he will have to spend money that he is not planning to use to repair the house, “for now, I will leave this side that has fallen; I will only close up some areas, then do the fence. I don’t have enough to do everything at once. This is extra expenses.” The same destruction was seen in Gidan Kuka, Kpakungun, and Tunga. A resident in Gidan Kuka, Friday Mogaji told The Nation that the destruction took them by surprise as they never expected it. “As you can see that my house is not affected but when I heard people’s houses falling yesterday, all I was doing was praying that my house should not be affected.” When contacted, the Director-General of the Niger State Emergency Management Agency (NSEMA), Alhaji Ibrahim Inga said the Agency is aware of the destruction caused by the rainstorm saying that they are compiling the report which would be forwarded to the state Governor for the needful to be done. He assured that the Agency will look into it urging the affected people to remain calm.