Bolaji Ogundele, Abuja  The Chinese contribution to the Nigerian national response efforts against the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) Pandemic got boosted with another N48, 000, 000 donation by the China General Chamber of Commerce in Nigeria. Receiving the donation on behalf of the country in Abuja on Thursday, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) and Chairman of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19, Mr Boss Mustapha, noted that China had immensely contributed to Nigeria’s development. Mustapha, who was represented by the National Coordinator of the PTF, Dr Sani Aliyu, expressed appreciation over the support Nigeria had received from the Chinese Government and its companies in Nigeria. According to a statement issued by the Director of Information in the Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (OSGF), Mr Willie Bassey, Mustapha indicated that Nigeria has had strong business ties with China, particularly in the infrastructural development of the country. He said, “China has contributed immensely to the infrastructural development of our country as well as the human development sector. The current COVID-19 pandemic which started in December continues to be a major concern for the rest of the world. It has become a global pandemic; thousands have died; 2.5 million infected and our country men at risk of infection.” He stressed that COVID-19 is the most important public health emergency of our time and therefore requires all hands to be on deck to effectively combat the pandemic. Also speaking, the Chinese Ambassador to Nigeria, Dr. Zhou Pingjian, stated that China and Nigeria are allies in the fight against COVID-19 pandemic. The Chinese ambassador noted that “to defeat the virus, solidarity and cooperation are our most potent weapon. China will never forget the invaluable support it received from the government and good people of Nigeria, including those Nigeria brothers and sisters who chose to stay-put in Wuhan, or other parts of China, at the most demanding stage of its outbreak response.” He said that China would continue to partner with the Federal Republic of Nigeria and will stand as its friend, particularly, in this time of difficulties. The Ambassador pointed out that COVID-19 is a joint battle that requires countries of the world to come together to fight in the spirit of cooperation and brotherhood to overcome the pandemic. He thanked the Federal Government, the Presidential Task Force, particularly for their dedication, professionalism and tireless work in fighting COVID-19. The President of the General Chamber of Commerce in Nigeria, Mr. YE Shuijin, on behalf of the one hundred and sixty members companies and staff in Nigeria, made a donation of N48,000,000.00 (Forty-Eight Million Naira). He said that Nigeria and the Chinese governments have carried out multiple bilateral cooperation to fight the pandemic. He expressed appreciation to the rapid response of the Federal Government, the PTF, professional efforts of the medical staff, cooperation of the people which has enabled led over 197 patients to recover from the pandemic. He expressed optimism that with the effort of government in the fight against COVID-19 as well as the determination of the Nigerian people, the pandemic would be overcome.