Nissi Ogulu, professionally known as Nissi, a London-based Nigerian singer, songwriter and painter. The Port-Harcourt born singer is a younger sister to Nigerian superstar, Burna Boy. She speaks to SAMPSON UNAMKA on her career, her brother and family. What’s your kind of music? Not a big fan of genres because I don’t create in boxes but I’ve heard the term “Afro-Jazz”. What message do you hope to pass with your music? Truth, Redemption, empowerment. The goal is always to connect with people through messages about the realities of life which also sometimes includes our fantasies. How do you combine music and painting? For me, they go hand in hand and inspire each other. When I am creating music I am often visualising and when I am painting I am always listening to music and composing. Did you study Mechanical Engineering why, not music or art? Honestly, I studied them both academically till university. Since I was doing them professionally,  the real-life demands of also having to do them professionally did not allow time for me to also do those courses in school at a higher level. Academically I was always just good at maths and sciences and putting things together. How would you describe Burna Boy? Family – he’s my homie. Were you influenced by him or you both of you had been doing music since childhood? We have both been doing music in our own way for as long as I can remember. How did your grandfather’s incursion in music influence your growing up as a child? He has always played a huge part in my musical development and of course, his music was always a massive presence in his home so it definitely trickled down to me. You live in the UK, how do you intend to break into the Nigerian market? My roots are my roots which will always show itself in my music. I leave logistics and strategy to my team – thank God for flights.  Are you single? Lol Many know your mum as Mama Burna, can you share something intimate no one knows about her? She speaks 5 languages. Will your mum also be your manager? She has always been. What’s the plan for this year, EP or an album? At least 2 EPs. There aren’t that many female automobile engineers that also double as musicians. How does that make you feel and how do you juggle both? I am always trying to break barriers and accomplish everything I have the ability to successfully – that makes me feel great, I’m very much a “yes I can” person. It’s not easy to juggle. It has definitely had me sacrificing my sleep and socials. Do you have a unique way of creating your kind of music? Melodies – First thing for me is to feel the musical melodies and the words just pour out – literally. Quite often I don’t write stuff down until after I’ve said it just so I can remember and record it again. What is your dream collaboration? Uh oh, this is a loaded question. The list is probably longer than the page for questions but let me break it down from my inspirations – Alicia Keys, Lauryn hill, j.cole, jay z, Janelle monae, Beyoncé, Ed sheeran, Asa to the new age – Jess glynne, H.E.R, Masego, fireboy, Daniel Caesar, Solange … the list goes on tbh. Your biggest music inspiration(s) is/are..? Nina Simone, Fela, Miss Lauryn, Janet Jackson, B.Marley are amongst the inspirations I’ve had. Your fanbase is called “Nissi Nation”, how would you describe them? A Nation of amazing people who aren’t afraid to be themselves especially the females. What are your projections for your music in the next 5 years? Oh wow – well I’m hoping I’ll be a global household name by then. What was your first stage performance like? Funny story – My two friends and I put on a show when I was about 8/9 years old where we performed a destiny’s child cover medley of “loose my breath” and “bootylicious” for our primary school socials. All I can say is – we gave them one hell of a show with some epic moves! From your debut single, Familiar till now that we are vibing to Trouble and Tornado, how would you describe your musical journey? I would call it a discovery because not only am I further discovering ways to create my sound – the world is getting to see more sides of my music. It’s such an exciting process for me. Have you had any funny experience with a fan physically or on social media? I’ve had someone start a loud argument in the crowd with someone next to her who I guess didn’t know who I was till they saw me perform that day – it was hilarious but so nice to see. A number of musicians are currently in isolation over the coronavirus pandemic. Do you think awareness for preventing the spread was done late? Definitely and I think the messages being spread to create this awareness are lopsided because it is instilling more fear than knowledge. I definitely think it could have been handled better mais, c’est la vie.