The Federal Government on Wednesday received a 15-member medical team from China and some medical equipment as well as supplies to strengthen efforts to fight the COVID-19 pandemic. The 15-member medical team from China arrived at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, alongside the medical equipment and supplies. The China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC) is delivering about 16-tons of test kits, ventilators, disinfection machine, disposable medical masks, N95 masks, medicines, rubber gloves, protective gowns, goggles. Others includes face shields, infra-red thermometers and other critical care items, through a chartered flight operated by Air Peace. According to the Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire: “they are going to be quarantined for fourteen days. “They knew that before they came and have undergone tests before they left their country. “Nevertheless, they will be in quarantine for fourteen days. “The Nigerian Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has gone to see where they are supposed to be in quarantine. “They are free to take visits there throughout the fourteen days so that one is taken care of”. According to a Chinese official: “The value of the equipment and medical supplies is around $1.5m including the other costs like the charge of the air flight. Everything is around $2m”. Asides the medical equipment and supplies, the 15-man medical team have specialties in infectious disease, respiratory illness, intensive care, cardiology, neurology, general surgery and anesthesiology. In a statement on Tuesday, the Managing Director of CCECC Nigeria, Micheal Jiang, explained that the primary purpose of the working team was to escort the medical supply, provide guidance for their usage and distribution, and provide CCECC employees with critical and necessary healthcare assistance where necessary. He said: “They will also provide CCECC employees with critical and necessary healthcare assistance where necessary. “They are also coming with adequate PPE and medical items for the employees.”  