 UK-based non-profit,Universal Learning Solutions, has launched the  Nigerians Educate Everywhere at a Distance project (NEED) in response to the call by the Universal Basic Education Commission, (UBEC) for states to develop programmes to ensure that young learners are learning at home whilst schools are closed. Universal Learning Solutions and UBEC deliver Africa’s largest and most effective English literacy programme in Nigeria – Jolly Phonics. This usually focuses on providing face to face training and support to Nigerian government school primary school teachers using this fun and effective English literacy method, which has been proven to dramatically raise Early Grade literacy levels in Nigeria and globally. However, the organisation has rapidly changed its approach due to the COVID-19 situation and has created a range of free distance learning solutions that can be accessed in a variety of ways. As soon as school closure was announced, Universal Learning Solutions produced a 50-episode Jolly Phonics TV Lessons series to directly benefit Nigerian children; Nigerian Jolly Phonics trainers recorded a 42-part radio show for the North and South of the country and a free Jolly Phonics Apps and Africa-based Story Reading Apps have been made available on a dedicated website – www.jollphonics.ng – where all the audio, video and App content can be accessed. There are also a range of free worksheets and activities to keep children occupied in the home. For families with no electricity, Universal Learning Solutions will be sending SMS messages to as many parents as possible including a full Jolly Phonics lessons course, developed in bite-sized chunks for parents.  Already State Universal Basic Education Boards (SUBEBs) in Zamfara, Kaduna, Kano, Katsina, Abia, Anambra, Jigawa,  Niger, Lagos, Benue, Adamawa, Kebbi, Yobe, Ebonyi Nasarrawa and Ekiti states  are embracing the project through airing the radio show  or television lesson on a range of stations. The Kaduna SUBEB Chairman, Abdullahi Sani, highlighted the benefits of Jolly Phonics in his introduction to the radio broadcast saying; “Jolly Phonics is a fun and multisensory programme for teaching young learners how to read and write with confidence. It is packed with activities that children  love. They feel like they are playing, yet they are learning. As it helps to read words in English, it also helps them learn how to read Hausa words.” CEO, Universal Learning Solutions, Gary Foxcroft, said: ‘The NEED project has been developed quickly as part of our response to the Covid-19 crisis. We wish to implore all state government and wider development partners to work with us to promote this Jolly Phonics distance learning programme and enable children to access the right to literacy from home. All resources are available for free on the website – www.jollyphonics.ng – and we wish to thank UBEC, who are presiding over this project, for making this possible.”