Osun State Governor Adegboyega Oyetola has warned residents against breaching the COVID-19 lockdown order. This followed the report of 12 new confirmed cases in the state after almost a two-week lull, which brought the state close to achieving containment of the spread. Oyetola, during a news briefing yesterday, said that the state did what it needed to do in the fight against the pandemic by responding early and reacting strategically when the situation placed a demand on the government. “However, compromise and disobedience by some citizens have brought about a retrogression in the battle against the pandemic,” he said. The effect of the compromise, according to Governor Oyetola, is the 12 new confirmed cases recently reported, and two fatalities, both of whom were men with underlying health conditions. He said: “Osun State made significant progress in the fight against coronavirus in two weeks, having no new confirmed cases and discharging 19 of the 20 successfully without any death. We were on our way to containing the virus, in spite of the galloping figures in other states. “However, it is saddening that we have recorded 12 new cases, including three of our health workers, with two fatalities, both of whom were men with underlying health conditions.” On the locations of the newly confirmed cases, the governor said that the cases emerged from Ede, Irewole, Ejigbo and Ife local governments. He said: “Six of the new detected 12 cases were returnees from neighbouring West African country, Benin Republic; two recently returned to the state from Lagos; three had contact with previous confirmed cases; while the remaining one, who was suffering from tuberculosis, was hurriedly brought in from Ibadan. “The cases we have on our hands are simply the consequences of breaching the lockdown directives of the government by some citizens.” Oyetola said the government was doing everything to prevent community transmission, adding that it had begun contact tracing across the affected local governments. He appealed to residents to stop encouraging their families and friends, who are outside the state, to return home, as doing so would further endanger the lives of the residents. The governor urged the residents to comply with the lockdown directive and other precautionary measures, warning that continued breach of the directive would put the state at risk. He appealed to security agents manning the state boundaries to search vehicles coming into the state under the guise of transporting food items, noting that some of them were being used to bring people into the state in breach of the lockdown order. sun State Governor Adegboyega Oyetola has warned residents against breaching the COVID-19 lockdown order. This followed the report of 12 new confirmed cases in the state after almost a two-week lull, which brought the state close to achieving containment of the spread. Oyetola, during a news briefing yesterday, said that the state did what it needed to do in the fight against the pandemic by responding early and reacting strategically when the situation placed a demand on the government. “However, compromise and disobedience by some citizens have brought about a retrogression in the battle against the pandemic,” he said. The effect of the compromise, according to Governor Oyetola, is the 12 new confirmed cases recently reported, and two fatalities, both of whom were men with underlying health conditions. He said: “Osun State made significant progress in the fight against coronavirus in two weeks, having no new confirmed cases and discharging 19 of the 20 successfully without any death. We were on our way to containing the virus, in spite of the galloping figures in other states. “However, it is saddening that we have recorded 12 new cases, including three of our health workers, with two fatalities, both of whom were men with underlying health conditions.” On the locations of the newly confirmed cases, the governor said that the cases emerged from Ede, Irewole, Ejigbo and Ife local governments. He said: “Six of the new detected 12 cases were returnees from neighbouring West African country, Benin Republic; two recently returned to the state from Lagos; three had contact with previous confirmed cases; while the remaining one, who was suffering from tuberculosis, was hurriedly brought in from Ibadan. “The cases we have on our hands are simply the consequences of breaching the lockdown directives of the government by some citizens.” Oyetola said the government was doing everything to prevent community transmission, adding that it had begun contact tracing across the affected local governments. He appealed to residents to stop encouraging their families and friends, who are outside the state, to return home, as doing so would further endanger the lives of the residents. The governor urged the residents to comply with the lockdown directive and other precautionary measures, warning that continued breach of the directive would put the state at risk. He appealed to security agents manning the state boundaries to search vehicles coming into the state under the guise of transporting food items, noting that some of them were being used to bring people into the state in breach of the lockdown order.