Motorists across the country are finding it difficult to obey the loading advisory, which will make them carry only half of their passenger capacity per trip, as Coronavirus bites harder, forcing the government to take the hard option writes, ADEYINKA ADERIBIGBE  The message from the Lagos State government to motorists was loud and clear: You must be alive to be in business and to think of profitability. Determined to arrest the rising cases of coronavirus (COVID-19), which has risen to 45 as at the last count, the Lagos State government has sought the buy-in of transport unions leadership to impress it on their members the need to reduce crowding on public transportation. Public transport, undoubtedly, is the life blood of many cities. They are necessary to facilitate economic activities in the cities. The crowded public transport in the cities is highly vulnerable to disease outbreaks, such as the pandemic. The various public transport include airplanes, trains, taxis, Bus Rapid Transit (BRT), mini buses,  (Danfo), Keke NAPEP (tricycle), commercial motorcycle (okada), bicycle or walking, among others. The Incident Commander, who is Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu in unmistakable terms told transport union leaders that they must help the government address the emergency situation by ensuring that their members strictly comply  with directives on reducing crowding in public transit. For the commercial mini-buses, popularly called Vanwagons or danfos, the governor insisted that they must carry two per row (as against four) with one passenger in front with the driver to allow for social distancing. For a 14-passenger bus, he urged a reduction to seven, while no large capacity buses should carry more than 42 passengers, with none carrying standing as many of them usually do. These moves, according to the governor, were to prevent an outbreak of the disease and assist the government in containing its widespread that could be triggered by overcrowding of public buses. This fear is not misplaced. Though the index case of the disease was discharged last week and six other cases at the isolation centre are said to be recovering fast and on the verge of discharging the huge harvest of the disease in Lagos and a likely spread across the country is indicating that the disease has entered the country and may become a local pandemic, if not aggressively pursued. This is because though the novel Coronavirus is of a large family of Coronavirus, the novel string the world is new and have continue to defy dozens of drugs being tested across the world to combat it. In www.vox.com, Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and infectious diseases told the United States Congress last Wednesday that COVID-19 is 10 times more lethal than the seasonal flu, which he said, stems from the pathogens of the virus called SARS-CoV-2. Another physician Brian Monahan had told the American lawmakers that he expects between 70 million and 150 million people in the US to get infected with the virus. Though his assessment seem far too high, indications as at last Friday showed that the US has overtaken Italy and Spain as the highest nation outside China with the highest casualty rate. That was why the government embarked on massive enlightenment since last Monday, last week, to prevent the grim eventuality such as what is plaguing the western countries, especially as many Nigerians tested positive to the pandemic. With a rash of stay-at-home order by many state governments, Lagos State officials had stormed the roads last Thursday to begin the enforcement of commercial buses plying the roads. The social distancing even in public buses, according to epidemiologists, is to prevent passengers breathing on one another inside the buses, thereby stemming community transmission of the dreaded virus. At a press conference last week, the National President of the Road Transport Employers Association of Nigeria (RTEAN), Alhaji Mohammed Musa, called on the government to supply test kits to bus stops to complement the hand wash and sanitisers that various unions would be provided at the various motor parks to test commuters before  embarking on a journey. The Lagos State Chairman of Nigeria’s largest transport union the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) Musiliu Akinsanya M.C. Oluomo hit various motor parks to ensure they have installed a hand wash system at their parks, ensure that passengers sanitise their hands. He enforced the two passengers-per-row rule, ensuring that any driver who flouted the rule was reprimanded while their passengers  forced to disembark. Last Thursday, the Lagos State House of Assembly took the ‘war’ several notches higher, by passing a Coronavirus Containment Bill, which empowers the government to slam a fine of between N100,000 and N200,000 on any defaulter of any of the government’s directives to contain the spread of the virus.  Same steps across board Other sister states are taking similar steps to contain the virus in their domains. Kaduna has declared a curfew to drive home compliance with the stay-at-home order, Delta and Rivers states have closed their  borders to prevent inter-state migration of the virus. Same Thursday, the Federal Government hinted of plans to ban inter-state movements to prevent a national pandemic that could see other states not yet infected to be affected by the spread. Already, the government had stopped railway movements across the country. The Minister of Information, Culture and Tourism, Lai Mohammed said, such drastic steps were needed to be taken as the situation at hand became urgent. He declared that there were enough ominous signs that the country was running against time to prevent a health crisis moreso as the nation had a very fragile health system. About 4,375 persons, according to the minister, were being tracked by the government for isolation and treatment.  To further give vent With the Chief of Staff to the President Alhaji Abba Kyari and several governors testing positive to the virus, the corridors of power at the national and the various states have quaked with fear of the rampaging disease. The Federal Roads Safety Commission Corps (FRSC) Marshal Dr Oyeyemi last Thursday said the Corps has been mandated to arrest any driver not willing to comply with the transportation regulations. He said it was illegal for anyone to take more than three persons on a row in a public mini-bus in the country. Oyeyemi said the Corps is geared to ensure that drivers and fleet operators comply with traffic regulations aimed at controlling the spread of the contagious disease.  A safety expert Patrick Adenusi said Nigerians have been advised to stay at home to avoid the virus. However, for commuters who may have to be on the road during the period, Adenusi,  Founder of Safety Without Borders, advised them to avoid using handrails and surfaces,  carry hand sanitisers, wear gloves and face masks anytime they are entering a crowded place to avoid being contaminated by anyone who might have been exposed to it, or where they could afford it, use bicycle. Besides this, he said, “people should do a seat check, before sitting down. Avoid a seat that looks visibly dirty or soiled. Once inside the bus, passengers should sit at least three metres away from each other, or at least observe one empty seat in-between to avoid touching each other in the bus and ensure they wash their hands thoroughly after each trip. “More than anything, please avoid overloaded buses, and avoid crowded areas.”  Thinking of bottomline For Adenusi, this is not the right time for drivers and owners to think of the bottomline (profitability) as everyone must be driven by the urgency of the emergency situation into which the nation has been driven to assist in preventing further spread. According to him, should any sub-sector of the transportation industry complain, it should be the airlines whose operators have had to suspend  flights to prevent further transmission of the virus across the world. In Nigeria, five operators have suspended operations, with two, Aero and Dana, volunteering to assist the government to airlift relief and medical kits across the states of the federation. “I think drivers and their conductors should see this period as one of sacrifice and ensure that they leave two seats in the bus per row,” he said. He urged the governments to do a lot of advocacy at this time to drive this urgency of this demand, adding that if the government can ensure their buy in compliance would be easier. He said the earlier the drivers and  operators agree to support the government at this unusual time the better as observance of social distance as being urged by the World Health Organisation (WHO) may just be the only elixir top further transmission. “The earlier they comply, the better. It may be the only way out of this dreaded virus and the more they don’t comply, the more likely we promote the likely spread of the virus,”  he said. He urged that the government must back the FRSC in insisting that post-coronavirus, no bus in Nigeria carries more than three passengers on a row. “It is clear that if they had been observing this three passengers per row. It wouldn’t have been difficult to ask them to knock out one passenger in an emergency situation like this, but it was proving difficult because they have been allowed to be carrying four and they see taking off two passengers as a challenge.” He urged the federal as well as other state governments to back the FRSC, which has been in the forefront of this crusade and insist in giving commuters more respite by bus drivers and operators. He said coronavirus has also brought to the fore the need for personal hygiene as well as the promotion of this etiquette in public places, especially at motor parks and all bus stops in the country.     