 The late Prof Ibrahim Ayagi, who passed on at the age of 80 last week in Kano, was a prominent face during the Structural Adjustment Programme (SAP) debates of the mid-1980s. An economist, banker, administrator and educator, he was rightly described by President Muhammadu Buhari as “an accomplished economist, banker and administrator who made outstanding contributions to the development of education in northern Nigeria, promotion of entrepreneurship and small businesses.” I never met the late prof in person, but I had the opportunity of “meeting” him during the robust and intellectual debates on the SAP. He joined other scholars – especially those on the left – to advice the government of former President Ibrahim Babangida to reject the International Monetary Fund (IMF) loan because of its harsh conditionalities. As a result of his consistent opposition to the loan he was fired as Managing Director of the then Continental Merchant Bank. Born in 1940, Prof Ibrahim Ayagi attended Karaye primary School Kano from 1950 – 51; Dandago primary school Kano, 1952-52; Gwarzo Senior Primary school Kano from 1953 -56; Wudil Teachers College Kano, 1958-60; Katsina Teachers college, 1962-63; Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) Zaria, 1963 -70. He proceeded to University of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, the USA from 1970 – 74. The late Prof Ayagi maintained a regular newspaper column educating Nigerians on the evils of the Bretton Woods Institutions – World Bank and IMF – and the damage they were doing to developing countries. I still have dozens of those articles – alongside many others – tucked in a file at my family home. Despite the criticisms, the Babangida administration succumbed to international pressure, took the loan and imposed structural adjustments on Nigeria. When the fourth republic began in 1999, former President Olusegun Obasanjo appointed Prof Ayagi Chairman of the National Economic Intelligence Committee (NEIC). His appointment did not go unnoticed in the west. In a screaming headline on Tuesday 9 November 1999, Reuters wrote “IMF Critic Heads Team of Economic Monitors!” “…Ayagi is well known locally as a critic of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and he opposed attempts by former military ruler Ibrahim Babangida to accept an IMF loan…”This did not deter the Obasanjo regime the opportunity of tapping into his vast knowledge of how the Nigerian economy should operate. Ayagi’s NEIC worked diligently and silently behind the scenes to get Nigeria out of its crippling foreign debt crisis when the country took a bold step by making a $12b down-payment on its $32b debt. This move led to the cancellation of the balance payment and debt cancellation. When the time came for whom to take the credit for this feat, Ayagi did not disappoint. He and his colleagues at the NEIC stood in the shadows and allowed Obasanjo and the Okonji-Iweala to take the credit when the deal sailed through. It was quite unfortunate that rather than ride on that pedestal to grow the economy foreign borrowings started again by successive governments. Many in Kano – and perhaps the country – may remember a widely reported news story when armed robbers invaded the residence of Ayagi. According to the report, he refused to budge as the robbers literally tortured him to near-death and asking for money and valuables. Ayagi – the report stated – repeatedly said in Hausa “Ba zan ba ku ba! Ba zan ba ku ba!”  (“I will not give you! I will not give you!”). Ironically, the incident took place a stone throw from a police station. Some of attackers were later arrested by the police and charged to court while the late Ayagi spent some time in hospital. He was discharged with a pronounced limp. Events of post-SAP Nigeria clearly vindicated the late Ayagi and his colleagues who opposed the loan. I will single out just one of these that deal specifically with the education sector for lack of space. Ayagi and his colleagues vividly pointed out that one of the conditionalities of the IMF loan which focuses on the removal of agricultural and educational subsidies would impede the growth of the economy because of the critical role education and agriculture plays. They were proven right a few years ago when the World Bank revealed that its policy on African education was a failure as it stunted the production of the critical human capital necessary for economic development. In an event in September 2018, the co-founder of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Bill Gates agreed when he singled out Nigeria and Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) as countries that need “to invest more in human development as this is the only sure means to curb the rising poverty level in both counties.” According to him, there is the urgent need to channel more investment towards education, health and family planning as a means of human development as this is the only way in which poverty can be alleviated. Speaking on the Goalkeepers data report released some days to the event, Gates said Africa is a young continent so there is a need to invest in young people. The report was the second edition published by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation to discuss several aspects of work done across the globe. The first Goalkeepers data report was published in 2017. The report tracks progress on 18 key Sustainable Development Goals indicators and analyse promising approaches to achieving the goals. Citing the report, Gates said by 2050, more than 40 per cent of the extremely poor people in the world will live in Nigeria and the DRC. Currently, Nigeria has the highest number of extremely poor people as it took over from India which held the unenviable position. A Brooking Institution report in June, 2018 said the number of Nigerians in extreme poverty increases by six people every minute. Although the Nigerian economy came out of recession that year, many Nigerians slipped into extreme poverty. The introduction of SAP, and the subsequent implementation of the IMF/World Bank conditionality attached to it, came with negative consequences that affected many sectors of the economy such as agriculture and industry. In fact, SAP came at a time when Nigeria was beset by a charged political atmosphere fueled by the biting economic hardship that hit most families. Cognizant of the situation, the government still went ahead to implement the IMF conditionality that led to unpleasant consequences such as retrenchment, wage cuts and withdrawal of subsidies etc. The result was galloping inflation, currency devaluation, unemployment and other adverse economic consequences. The implementation further created problems for the economy as it worsened the socio-political woes it was supposed to address. These problems include; low capacity utilisation in manufacturing sector due to insufficient foreign exchange to purchase raw materials and spare parts, exorbitant rate of foreign currency to Naira which led to increase in cost of imports, thereby increasing the funding requirements of the industries which the government was incapable of shouldering due to its already burgeoning external debt burden. Organised labour also vigorously opposed the loan by mounting public enlightenment campaigns against its adoption. Labour educated Nigerians on the adverse implications of such measures on their well-being and those of the next generation. Just like with the intellectuals, subsequent events vindicated them as well. As Ayagi predicted in several of his articles, the introduction of SAP did not transform the economy of Nigeria or stimulate industrialisation as widely touted. Numerous economic problems remained intractable. For instance; there was apparent lack of commitment to adjustment and national development by the economic actors who had command over resources. During the course of implementation, many distortions surfaced while others defied solutions. Of particular significance were the problems of continuing depreciation of the Naira in the foreign exchange market, high and volatile interest rates, slow growth and near paralysis of the real sector, sky-rocketing inflation, unsustainable fiscal deficit profile, heavy external debt overhang, increasing unemployment, social discontent and the emergence of social movements leading to the proliferation of militia groups among others. May his soul rest in peace. 