Osagie Otabor, Akure  Ondo State Governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, has denied sponsoring the crisis currently rocking the Unity Forum of the All Progressives Congress in the State. Akeredolu said he is more focused on delivering good governance to the people and preparing for the primary rather than dissipating energy trying to create problem in the Unity Forum. Members of the Unity Forum headed by Alhaji Ali Olaniyi have vowed to unseat Akeredolu but crisis reared its head in the group last month when some of its foot soldiers accused the leadership of collecting money from a particular aspirant. About 12 members in the group have declared interest to run for the Ondo governorship race. Governor Akeredolu said there was no way any of his proxies would be sponsoring crisis in the Unity Forum without his knowledge. Akeredolu said activities of the Forum were weakening the party rather than strengthening it. He stated that he is a politician that does not undermine anybody but allowed things to take natural course. The Ondo Governor said he was prepared to go into party primaries with any of them as he had defeated all of them before. Speaking through his Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Donald Ojogo, Governor Akeredolu said the lesson from what is happening in the Unity Forum is that “there is a limit to speed of lie. Every lie has an expiry date. The limit of every lie is truth and conscience.” Akeredolu also cautioned against using the present COVID-19 pandemic as a political weapon because the APC did not manufacture it and it does not differentiate between APC and PDP member. According to him, “There is none among those governorship aspirants that the governor had not had personal encounter with in terms of conflicting relationship but they will always come together as leaders of the party and they will settle. “We have an Olusola Oke there; we have Ife Oyedele, Segun Abraham, Boroffice. Who amongst them will now make himself available to be used? In any case, they all know that the most unexpected person to strike a deal with in that manner is Akeredolu because he won’t have time for that. So, these are stories that are being concocted and sponsored by people who are already losing out at the other end so that they will have some credible safe landing amongst themselves.”