 We can call them acts of charity by well-known philanthropists. What better time for this than when the people are down on their knees. The rise of Coronavirus, with its lethal and insidious mission, took the world by storm. It has been a gradual disaster, like a clock ticking moment after moment, with sore memories in its trail. Even for Nigerians with about half a dozen dead and over 250 infections, this is still a distant pandemic. But leadership calls for vision and ability to anticipate a bad day. Once the numbers started creeping into the country, a list of wealthy citizens decided to step in with their treasures. In what seems a healthy rivalry, they started to announce the sums. Alhaji Aliko Dangote gave the fund a total of N2 billion. He is also collaborating with the Central Bank and Access Bank and has decided to lead the Private Sector Coalition for an onslaught against the pandemic. With Access Bank, he will provide treatment, testing, training and isolation in different parts of the country. Femi Otedola delved in with N1 billion, adding in a tweet that “we must all do what we can to flatten the curve,” of the spread. Abdulsamad Rabiu donated through his foundation, the BUA Foundation, the sum of N1 billion as well as  placing orders for additional equipment and medical supplies, focusing on nine states, including Lagos, Kano, Edo Kwara, Rivers, Adamawa, Sokoto, Abia and Akwa-Ibom States. He promised that “each of these nine states will receive about 100,000 protective facemasks, 1000 high-grade medical protection and isolation gear, 2000 protective goggles, 1000 gloves and 1000 testing kits among others.” Folorunsho Alakija, via FAMFA Oil Ltd, also pledged N1 billion and broke it down as follows: N250 million each to the Nigerian Centre of Disease Control and Lagos State Government, N50 million to the African Centre of Excellence for Genomics of Infectious Diseases, N100 million to medical workers on the frontline in Lagos, N100 million for medical workers on the frontline in Abuja, N245 million to procure and supply medical equipment to relevant organizations and Dr. Amayo Stella Adadevoh (DRASA) Health Trust N5 million. (Dr. Adadevoh was the brave medic that died treating Nigeria’s Ebola index case).  Businessman Tony Elumelu contributed N1 billion to support the fight while UBA, of which he is chairman, gave N5 billion with a view to a “swift and effective” cure to the pandemic. Jim Ovia, the founder of Visafone Communications Ltd taken over by MTN, also donated N1 billion. He currently chairs Zenith Bank’s board. Oba Otudeko of FBN Holdings and founder of Honeywell Group also parted with N1 billion. Others who gave N1 billion include Segun Agbaje of Guaranty Trust Bank Plc and Herbert Wigwe of Access Bank. Their donations must be appreciated in a time of crisis. All these donors have been contributing before COVID-19, in one way or another, to the progress of this society. For instance, Wigwe’s Access Bank bankrols the yearly Lagos Marathon. The Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) pitched in with a sum of N10 billion. The Minister of State for Petroleum, Timipre Sylva, also donated five ambulances. These donations are shots in the arm not only for the fight against COVID-19 but also for the health sector that has suffered tremendous neglect over the decades. With this fund, we expect that some enduring health institutions like hospitals and pharmaceuticals factories will be built. Some hospitals were built with weeks in Wuhan, the former global epicentre of the virus and they are now useful for general and specialist uses. The elites are used to travelling outside the country for physical examinations and treatments. Now, they have to stay home and hire doctors and humble themselves to the hospital wards. It is an object lesson. We also expect that the money will be managed with care and scruples. We do not want our perpetual knack for scandals to sully it. It is a relief fund, but it is also a boon.