 The videos went viral: Chinese officials maltreating Nigerians in Guangzhou, China. Not long after, some Nigerians attacked a Chinese business in Ogun State. They claimed they were retaliating against the poor treatment of Nigerians in China. These developments did not sit well with the leadership of both countries which believe in ensuring that the issues do not degenerate any further. The concerns of the two governments were not different from those of Chinese investors in Nigeria and Nigerians who have also made China their home. All want the issues to be managed in a way that indigenes of both countries will continue to live and go about their businesses without fear of undue harassment and attack. Minister of Foreign Affairs Geoffrey Onyeama, at a news conference in Abuja in company with the Chinese Ambassador to Nigeria, Dr. Zhou Pingjian, spoke about the Guangzhou development. The news conference was after a meeting between Pingjian and House of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamilia, where the envoy gave an assurance that the issue would be properly addressed. Onyeama said the government had found out that the development was caused by poor communication. He added that Chinese authorities were trying to contain an incident of a lady who tested positive for Coronavirus in the area when the mix-up occurred. He said the Federal Government and Chinese authorities were working closely to resolve the issue. Onyeama referred to a video in both Igbo and English languages, which explained that the situation was not quite what was seen in the video as maltreatment of Nigerians in China, adding that there was a flight which conveyed a group of Nigerians to Guangzhou in which some Nigerians on the flight tested positive for COVID-19. “A Nigerian restaurant frequented by Africans and Nigerians, the Chinese authorities obviously picked up on this that there was this group of people who had tested positive. And so, automatically demanded and insisted that they all be quarantined, with nobody allowed to come out in 14 days, and if anybody came out from that quarantine, that they should not be allowed back into that hotel or that residence. “So, to try to contain this outbreak, which to them at that time, clearly seemed to have been within that community, they put in place this very, very strict measures. Now, it was misinterpreted, it appeared, by some of the Nigerians and Africans who could not understand why it seemed to be selective and targeting only themselves,” the minister said. Onyeama went on: “And they confirmed that that narrative was true. That there was, in other words, this case that had been confirmed as positive that came in from an African flight and that there was this lady who owned a restaurant who was positive and the great fear that all the clients visiting that restaurant and maybe other restaurants might have been infected and might now be passing on that infection. So, after their experience in Wuhan, they were very determined to contain this in this way. “But what our officials in China made clear was that the communication could and should have been better if the authorities in Guangzhou had informed the consulates, the African consulates in Guangzhou, that this was the situation, this was the measures that they were putting in place and so far it could have been a joint effort, a team effort, and that mutual suspicion would not have been there. And of course, that was not done and that led to counter-narratives and exacerbated the situation.”  ‘We are fighting the virus, not Nigerians’ Pingjian said China respected and admired the working cooperation between China and Nigeria, and that China would never forget the invaluable support it received from Nigeria during the most challenging stage in the fight against COVID-19 in China. Pingjian added that Chinese government abhors discrimination and has consequently informed its citizens accordingly. China, he said, will not do anything intentionally to hurt Nigerians, adding: “We are fighting the virus, not Nigerians.” He said the prevalence of COVID-19 among foreigners, especially Nigerians, caused the action, pointing out that Nigerians and other Africans were found to be more vulnerable because of the number of those who have already tested positive to the virus in China. He added that the measures were meant to protect Nigerians and other Africans in the city. Nigerians, China explained in a statement, were never evicted from hotels. Its Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesman Zhao Lijian, in a statement, said: “We reject differential treatment, and we have zero tolerance for discrimination.”  Ogun Guangdong Free Trade Zone The development in China precipitated a protest at the Ogun Guangdong Free Trade Zone (OGFTZ). The company’s property were vandalised by protesters. The protesters broke through the police defence and rushed into the Zone, throwing stones, destroying the gate, sentry box and vehicles, which compromised the security and COVID19 prevention measures of the zone. Explaining the development, a report quoted a source as saying: “Many employees are from the North and could not return to their hometowns due to the lockdown; so, they stayed back in Igbesa, Ogun State. Also, the tenant enterprises made huge sacrifices by providing food, accommodation and wage for those who have remained in the zone. “Some of the employees who stayed are responsible for equipment maintenance, while the rest enjoy paid leave. Employees who chose to stay were required to stay in designated areas in the zone in order to prevent the spread of COVID-19. “However, the failure of management to clearly communicate governments policy on the lockdown and the eventual closure of the zone, made some employees believe that the zone had restricted their freedom, hence, the demonstrations. “As a way of curbing the spread of the pandemic, the Zone adopted the measure of Exit Only, No Entrance. This means that those who decided to leave the Zone must not return during the closure period for any reason until the Ogun State Government lifts the restriction or introduces other new policies. “However, some of them misunderstood the measures and demanded compensation before leaving. The Ogun State Government, Nigeria Export Processing Zones Authority (NEPZA), the Police, and Zone Management all participated in the negotiation, and settlement of the matter. But dissatisfied with the outcome, some of the employees, alongside certain people outside OGFTZ, attacked the Zone, trying to force the enterprise to accept their conditions for leaving.” The police were able to put the situation under control. Chinese Consular General Chu Maoming hailed the police and other security agencies. “I want to use this opportunity to thank the Deputy Commissioner of Police and Area Commander, Agbara Divisional Police Officer (DPO), and the Igbesa DPO for their efforts towards securing the lives and property of, not just the Chinese, but also, the local people and employees. Thank you very much. Together, China and Nigeria shall overcome this pandemic,” Maoming said.  Chinese investment in Nigeria Chinese investment in Nigeria, including the Ogun Guangdong Free Trade Zone, is huge. It is put at no less than $20 billion. Ye Shuijin, who is the Managing Director, CGC Nig. Ltd., added that his company, which was established in Nigeria in 1983, had offices in 30 states. He added that CGC, a construction firm, had faced and conquered various challenges, adding that the improved infrastructure development in the country, however, was encouraging many more Chinese businessmen and firms to invest in the economy. “We also worked with the Industrial Training Fund to train over 1,000 Nigerians last year and we have similarly trained 350 Nigerians in agriculture export. We have sponsored 30 students to China on scholarship as part of our advanced capacity building for Nigerians,” he said. The CGC boss, who said members of the Chinese General Chambers of Commerce in Nigeria were held to the strictest standards in service delivery, said: “The government still owes us for the projects in Abuja and other states. In 2015, we faced payment issues because of the recession, but what we did was to ensure the payment of our members of staff, not only CGC but all our chamber’s members. “Many Chinese companies had to bring in money from China to pay their workers. The recession almost wiped off Chinese companies in Nigeria. At the end of 2016, the government commenced payment, but we still have many challenges.”  What stakeholders want Stakeholders are of the view that this is the time to strengthen the bond between the two countries. They say Coronavirus must not put China and Nigeria asunder. They are urging the governments of both countries to hastily ensure that the issues at hand are not allowed to degenerate. They also want the nationals of both countries to desist from the destruction of lives, properties and investments. A Nigerian with investment in China said: “All parties must realise that destruction of lives, properties and/or investments would have dire effects and consequences on the citizens and nation at large.” “There is a need for continued peaceful co-existence and collaboration between both countries,” said a Chinese investor. 