 The Nasarawa State Government has distributed 1,200 bags of 25kg rice to residents, especially the poor and vulnerable, n Karu Local Government Area of the state to cushion effect of Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic lockdown. Distributing the item on Friday in Karu, the state Commissioner for Works and Transport, Mr Philip Dada, who is the Chairman, Distribution Committee, advised the committee members against diversion of the product. Dada said that the state government under the leadership of Gov. Abdullahi Sule had provided the relief materials in order to improve the standard of living of people of the state. The commissioner urged the distribution committee members to be selfless and committed as anyone caught diverting the rice would be punished. “The 1,200 bags shall be shared among the 11 electoral wards of the local government area. “And to be distributed to the residents, especially the poor people of Karu Local Government Area, hence the need for this exercise,” Dada said. According to him, every electoral ward should have 100 bags with the exception of Karu ward which would have 200 bags of rice in view of her large population. Dada appealed to the people of the area to be patient as this was just the beginning of government intervention aimed at easing thier livelihood. The commissioner reiterated the state government’s determination to guard against the spread of Coronavirus in the state. Earlier in his welcome remarks, the Chairman of Karu Local Government Council, Mr Akala Samuel, thanked the state government for the gesture. Samuel praised the distribution committee for its commitment and urged the ward sub -committees to shun any form of sentiment and ensure that the rice got to the real beneficiaries. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the committee comprises senior government officials from each ward and local government officials. Others are all elected councillors and the representatives of traditional rulers as well as the Christian Association of Nigeria and Jama’atul Nasril Islam. NAN recalls that on April 2, the Nasarawa state government imposed a curfew on Karu Local Government Area because of its proximity with the FCT-Abuja to curb the spread of COVID-19. (NAN)