The continued spread of Coronavirus globally has thrown Nigeria off balance in many respects. Beyond its tragic health hazards that could lead to the death of citizens, the continuous fall in the price of crude oil in the international market threatens the economy. Besides, the repercussions of not investing in the healthcare system over the years by successive governments are equally starring everyone in the face. Deputy Political Editor RAYMOND MORDI examines the challenges facing the Buhari administration in this regard. THE effect of the continued spread of the novel Coronavirus in Nigeria is likely to be the biggest factor that would define the Muhammadu Buhari presidency. Observers believe the way the administration will handle the epidemic will have far-reaching consequences for the country, which depends on the export of crude oil for survival. President Buhari must be in a dilemma at the moment. Beyond the problem of tackling the outbreak of the virus, the crash in the international price of crude oil as a result of the epidemic worldwide drives home the imperative of diversifying the economy; a challenge successive governments have only paid lip service. Beyond its tragic health hazards that could lead to deaths of citizens, the continuous fall in the price of crude oil in the international market threatens the economy. Experts say this could lead to a recession and the devaluation of the naira; 90 per cent of the country’s foreign exchange earnings come from the sale of crude oil. For instance, it would affect the 2020 budget, which is predicated on crude oil price benchmark of $57 per barrel and a production output estimated at 2.18 million barrels per day. Reports say the budget had projected revenue collections at N8.24 trillion; an increase of about 20 per cent from the 2019 figure. The revenue assumptions are premised on increased global oil demand and a stable market. Besides, the informal sector, which contributes about 41 per cent of the country’s economic output would be greatly hampered by the general lockdown and the work-from-home policy being advocated. Artisans who survive mainly on daily earnings would be badly hit by this development. Though the government is coming up with intervention measures to cushion its effect on the populace, particularly those categorised as “the poorest of the poor”, it is not likely to go round. The response of prominent Nigerians and corporate bodies that have donated towards containing the spread of the virus is a welcome development. If the funds are well utilised by the administration, it will go a long way in arresting the emergency created by the outbreak of the epidemic. But, some observers have decried the idea of throwing money at every problem and going to sleep afterwards, with the belief that the problem has been tackled. A humongous amount of money has been donated towards curbing the spread of the epidemic and cushioning its effects on vulnerable groups. A legal practitioner, Yinka Thomas, described the trend as the fire-fighting approach. He called for proper coordination of the emergency effort. He added: “The administration should recognise that merely throwing money at a problem would not solve it in a holistic manner. Nigerians are notorious for throwing money at every problem. Such an attitude has not helped the power sector and it is unlikely to improve the situation in the health sector in the short and the medium-term and the challenges facing the economy in general. “If care is not taken, some of the money may end up in private pockets. Identifying the problem faced by the economy and knowing which solution to apply to solve it in a more holistic manner is the best way of ensuring that the economy is put on the path of growth and development.” He said the benchmark Brent crude oil is currently selling at $34.42 per barrel in the international market and indications are that the price would further crash, as the international community grapples with the challenge of tackling the deadly virus. This is a warning signal for the managers of the Nigerian economy to recognise that the solution required at this point in time is one that would tackle the challenges facing the economy from a holistic point of view.” For over half a century, Nigeria has almost entirely depended on revenue from crude oil sales. Experts believe this is the time to take the bull by the horn.  Marcel Okeke, a consultant and former Chief Economist at Zenith Bank Plc is of the view that the current reality would compel the effective diversification of the Nigerian economy to commence. He said: “For too long, economic diversification had been the sing-song or mantra of successive administrations. Alas, only lip service is paid to the diversification agenda. About 16 years ago, for instance, the National Economic Empowerment and Development Strategy (NEEDS) canvassed among others that “the government will diversify the economy away from oil and solid minerals in order to increase economic stability and generate jobs”. But, so many years after, it remains a mere rhetoric. Okeke attributes the overdependence on oil partly to the hostile business environment. He said businesses wishing to operate in Nigeria face many constraints, including poor infrastructure — particularly road networks and electricity supply — inadequate physical security, corruption, weak enforcement of contracts, and the high cost of finance. He added: “These factors have deterred foreign entrepreneurs from investing in Nigeria and induced many Nigerians to take their money and skills abroad.” The economist said though the situation has not changed substantially, the dire and bizarre situation, triggered and entrenched by Covid-19, leaves Nigeria with one option: diversification. But, he is not quite sure that the current crisis situation would make the idea feasible or whether the political will really exist to embark on diversification now. Besides tackling the outbreak of Covid-19, the Buhari administration has a long way to go, to fulfil its campaign promise to provide a better, qualitative and accessible healthcare to all citizens, regardless of their location. Nigeria faces challenges in its health sector, including an inadequate supply of medical doctors and poor or substandard health care facilities. Many Nigerians are also unable to access healthcare services because they lack the ability to pay for them. Bill Gates did not mince his words while addressing the now-defunct National Economic Council on March 22, 2018, on the need to invest more in health and education. The authorities have refused to invest in the healthcare system over the years. As a way of achieving universal health coverage (UHC), African Union leaders, which met in Abuja in April 2001, had pledged in an agreement that was dubbed the Abuja Declaration to allocate a minimum of 15 per cent of their yearly national budget to healthcare. While seven countries — Rwanda, Zambia, Burkina Faso, Botswana, Niger and Togo — have met the Abuja target, Nigeria has over the years failed to meet up. Over the years, Nigeria has continued to allocate less than six per cent of its yearly national budget to the healthcare sector. For example, in 2019, Nigeria’s budget for the sector was N365.77 billion, out of a total budget of N8.83 trillion. This represents 4.1 per cent of the budget. The highest percentage allocated to health since the Abuja Declaration was in 2012 when the country earmarked about 5.95 per cent of the budget to healthcare. The battle against Covid-19 has humbled the political class in many respects. Perhaps, for the first time, the reality of their failure to live up to their responsibility has come home to roost. For instance, Nigerian politicians that usually go abroad for medical checkup have been caught between a rock and a hard place because most of the countries they frequently travel to are now highly infected with the virus. A broadcaster, Ukachi Chukwu, echoed such views on his Facebook page. She said it is sad that the political class is leading an act of gross irresponsibility by refusing to do the right thing. She said Chief of Staff to the President, Abba Kyari knew very well that Germany is one of the highly infected countries but refused to isolate himself after returning to Nigeria and in the process put President Buhari at risk of getting infected. Since the Chief of Staff to the President tested positive for the virus also known as Covid-19, the fear of the virus has become widespread within the political class and many of them have had themselves screened for the virus. This idea was reinforced when Mohammed Abubakar, son of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, the Speaker of Edo State House of Assembly Frank Okiye and three state governors — Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State, Nasir el Rufai of Kaduna State and Seyi Makinde of Oyo State — were confirmed to have tested positive to the virus. The Chief of Staff was reported to have visited Germany where he met with officials of Siemens in Munich on Nigeria’s electricity expansion programme. He was said to have returned on March 14, and he did not show any symptoms of being infected with the virus at the time. This had raised fears of President Buhari being infected. The number one citizen was subsequently tested and the result was negative. Three of the Chief of Staff’s aides have however tested positive for the virus. Today, the fear of the virus is the beginning if wisdom. Those who had contact with persons that tested positive, particularly politicians, have been scrambling to get tested. One of such persons is Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State. The Chief of Staff was among the Federal Government’s delegation that paid a condolence visit to the governor to commiserate with him over his mother’s death. Thus, Governor Bello had to go into self-isolation, along with members of his family, as a precautionary measure against the spread of the virus. But, the governor later tested negative. Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State, his Ekiti and Bayelsa counterparts, Dr Kayode Fayemi and Douye Diri, Africa’s richest man, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, the Minister of Information, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, and a host of others also took the same precautionary measure. However, they all later tested negative. This development had initially fuelled speculations that Covid-19 is a scourge for the rich. As the virus continues to spread, many Nigerians have blamed politicians for not adhering to rules on self-isolation after travels to highly infected countries. Though Nigeria’s Covid-19 cases continue to rise, the country appears to be winning the war against the epidemic. The Director-General, Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu, has indicated that only those who had contacts with infected persons and those manifesting the symptoms should come forward for screening for the virus. The country’s capacity for carrying out the tests is fairly limited, and powerful politicians who do not require it are putting pressure on the NCDC team to get screened for the virus. Ihekweazu said: “We are being bogged down by people who do not require the test. So, we have to manage the demand. We have to focus on those who need it most.” Ihekweazu has indicated that the number of confirmed cases is expected to keep rising in the short term. But he assured that the agency will tackle the ailment, once Nigerians are ready to cooperate by enduring the few weeks of pain that the lockdown will inflict on the populace. 