Kidnappers end the dreams of a lawyer, philanthropist, and politician, Soalabo West, writes MIKE ODIEGWU  Soalabo West was full of life on March 7, 2020. The lawyer, philanthropist, and politician, who hails from Abonema in Akuku Toru Local Government Area, Rivers State had gone to inspect his new investment in agriculture. The lawyer, who was married with kids, was determined to make his farm spanning 10 plots of land and located at Aluu, the back of OPM in Port Harcourt, a success. Sources said he went to the farm to inspect work being done by his workers and to pay them their wages. But tragedy struck. Just close to his farm, he was rounded up by gunmen from Fulani extraction. They abducted him and took him into the forest. The day he was abducted was the last time he was seen alive by his friends and family members. A friend of the lawyer narrated the circumstances that led to his death. He said: “He was abducted outside his farm, a 10-plot development he had just acquired and had thrown himself completely into making it work. “He was abducted on the 7th of March between 4pm and 6 pm. Solabo contacted us on Monday 9th informing us of the demand for N30million”. The source, who spoke in confidence said the ransom was negotiated with the kidnappers, who agreed to collect N2.5m. But the said the agreement on the mode of delivering the ransom later failed. He said: “On March 18, an attempt was made to drop off the ransom at about 1:30 am around an area called Eneka. This was not possible as the kidnapper’s asked we bring the money into the bushes where they were. This was not agreed to and the drop was called off and rescheduled for the next day, Thursday. This was also the last time we were able to speak with our brother. “The next day another attempt was made to drop off the ransom and a shootout ensued. During which the kidnapper who had come for the ransom was shot fatally. Swalabo’ s phone as well as the phone of the suspect and firearms were retrieved as well as the ransom amount. Since then the police have been on the trail of the kidnapper’s. Who turned out to be Fulani herdsmen”. He added: “The kidnappers’  home was raided, phones and other information was discovered, which led us to a female believed to be the girlfriend of the kidnapper. Through her, a primary suspect was arrested. He was interrogated until he agreed to lead the police to the remains of our brother. His body was retrieved from a bush along the Eneka/ Igruta road pipeline.” Further findings and pictorial evidence showed that West was brutally killed by the armed herdsmen days before his corpse was discovered at a bush along Eleka pipeline, Port Harcourt. The decomposing remains of West had a bullet wound and matchet cuts. The anti-kidnapping team of the Rivers Police Command did a good job in its investigation of the matter. A top police officer, who spoke in confidence said before the killing of Soalabo, the team tried to get him out of the kidnappers’ den alive. He said Soalabo was not the only one in the den of the bandits. He said: “The team was able to secure the release of another kidnapped victim, who was held hostage by the abductors of Soalabo. But when they appealed to the kidnappers to let the lawyer go, they refused. Rather they said, ‘we are going to kill this one’. This made the team conclude that it was not all abduction for a ransom. There was an element of assassination. “It was also discovered that the kidnappers had killed the victim before trying to collect the ransom. This is because the remains of the victim were already decomposing when they were discovered in the forest”.  Another intelligence officer lamented the criminal activities of armed herdsmen in Rivers State even in Port Harcourt, the state capital. He said the armed criminally-minded Fulani herdsmen were involved in most of the abductions and killings in the state. “They are not only at the outskirts, but they are also perpetuating their crimes in Port Harcourt town. It will interest you to that indigenes are engaging them to commit murder and other criminal activities believing that they will escape whenever they are caught because of their leadership position in the country”. He said the special forces especially the anti-kidnapping team was having tough times to tackle abduction in the state. He, however, lamented that the special forces lacked basic incentives to do their job with some of them operating without office spaces. He called on the leadership of the police to look into the working conditions of the special police forces in Rivers State. The killing of Soalabo raised some concerns in the state. A suspect, Adamu Musa, described by the police as a notorious kidnapper, was arrested in connection with the killing of Soalabo. The anti-kidnap unit of the Rivers State command nabbed him through a rigorous process. Musa, who hailed from Gumbi Local Government Area of Adamawa State, led the operatives to the forest where their victim was killed along Eneka-Igbo Etche boundary between Obio-Akpor and Etche Local Government Areas of the state. He also named other members of his gang. The gruesome killing of Soalabo has devastated his family. The deceased wife, who has been made a widow at her young age, has yet to come to terms with the death of her husband, who was hail and hearty when he left home for his farm on a fateful day. The family of the deceased, who until his death was a popularly lawyer and promoter of small businesses in Port Harcourt, was thrown into confusion and mourning. Emmanuel, the elder brother of the deceased described the death as unacceptable. He said the victim was at the site to pay his workers when the herdsmen, who were armed with Ak -47 rifles, seized him and led him into the bush. He warned against releasing the suspect and called on the police to ensure justice on the case. “This is shocking to us. We don’t know why they should kill our brother this way. Our entire family has been thrown into mourning. We just hope that the police will arrest all those involved in the killing of our brother”, he said. The Ijaw Youths Council (IYC), Worldwide, condemned the killing of the Ijaw lawyer and raised the alarm over infiltration of the zone by criminal Fulani herdsmen. The Secretary-General of IYC, Alfred Kemepado, said investigations by the council revealed that there were ongoing systematic abductions and other criminal activities in the Niger Delta by armed Fulani herdsmen. “The body of Soalabo was discovered a day the persons killed by criminal herdsmen in Delta State were being reburied. This confirms our fears that we have been invaded by criminal herdsmen. “We are living at a dangerous time which requires absolute vigilance. It is time to identify these criminals and chase them out of our towns, clans, communities and villages. “The murder of West, a prominent lawyer, a sound politician and philanthropist is very painful and can’t be forgotten in a hurry. We so far commend the anti-kidnapping squad of the Rivers State police command for their professionalism that led to the arrest of the kidnap kingpin. “We are appealing to the police to ensure that others who were involved in this unwarranted and gruesome murder should be arrested and brought to book”. The police have yet to officially speak on the circumstances that surrounded the horrible killing of Soalabo. But the family and friends of the deceased, who was also a former governorship aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) expect nothing but justice from the police.