An attempt is being made to distract Lagos State Incident Commander Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu from the Covid-19 war. The salvo is coming from the usual quarter. The main opposition party is waking up from its deep slumber, but from the wrong side of the bed. Many Nigerians have applauded Lagos State government for its leadership example. Encomioums have been showered on Sanwo-Olu for rising to the occasion. The Presidency, the Presidential Task Force on Covid-19, led by the Secretary to Government of the Federation Boss Mustapha; and Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), have urged other states to emulate the Lagos approach. However, Lagos State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has disagreed. In the entire state, it is the lone dissenting voice. In a statement by its publicity secretary, the party has reduced the entire battle to how Covid-19 ‘largesse’ should be distributed to targeted beneficiaries. Criticisms by political parties outside power are good if they are constructive as they underscore the role of the opposition in democracy. But, when they are in bad faith, it may even be injurious to the agenda of the critic. It could create chaos and confusion. Across the federation, political differences have collapsed in the face of the collective threat posed by the strange disease. In Ekiti and Osun states, former PDP governors are cooperating with APC governors to curtail the spread of the dreaded coronavirus. Political rivals are united by the strange pestilence. But, Lagos PDP is not inclined to emulating the emergency team spirit. It has demonstrated a weak commitment as manifested in the behaviour of a key chieftain and potential governorship contender who allegedly violated government’s directive on lockdown and social distancing by joining some famous rascals at a party in Lekki. The major concern of the main opposition in Lagos is how the Coronavirus Fund is spent, or how it should be shared. It is being insinuated that big money has entered Lagos from the federal purse, public spirited individuals and organisations, and this will be shared to the exclusion of PDP, which is left in the cold, just because it has failed to capture power in the Centre of Excellence. How the war is being fought-the constraints, the challenges and anxieties over the growing number of infected citizens-does not matter to the party. According to Lagos PDP, Sanwo-Olu cannot escape probe after the war is over. The party’s publicity secretary said he will be made to account for monies spent. However, the party is silent on the probing agencies and authorities it will recommend, “local” and “international,” whether EFCC, ICPC, police, State or National Assembly or an imaginary ‘Covid’19 Fund Probe Tribunal.’ The PDP spokesman made serious allegations which paled into propaganda and falsehoods. He disagreed with the lockdown, which he said was copied from Europe, a prosperous continent that could guarantee a better welfare package, unlike the Lagos relief package, which he described as a ruse. PDP is comparing Lagos and Nigeria to United Kingdom and United States as if it bequeathed a better country after its hold on power for 16 years. Sanwo-Olu, in PDP’s view, is implementing the relief programme in a “dehumanising” manner by claiming to be distributing few items to many people.” Curiously, PDP’s assessment of the relief package came barely two days after the items were just being distributed. Besides, the party disagreed with the free health services to children, pregnant women, the aged, and those suffering from life-threatening ailments during the emergency, describing it as a mere political statement; a fake palliative. PDP said the governor should have delegated the briefings to his Health Commissioner, Prof. Akin Abayomi, and concentrated on the monitoring of relief distribution. The question is: if anything goes wrong, who will be held accountable by Lagosians? Sanwo-Olu, who was popularly elected or Abayomi, his appointee, whose name was not on the ballot? Also, what manner of an opposition party will ask the governor to abandon the role of an Incident Commander for distribution of relief materials? If PDP is ruling Lagos, is this how it will go about it? The opposition party said it has raised about N500 million, “in cash and materials,” which are distributed by “PDP members and well wishers” to the vulnerable in their neighbourhood. Where is the evidence? Is the Lagos PDP leader now monitoring the distribution on the streets? Lagos PDP is a broad platform, despite its division and protracted intra-party crisis. Inspite of its failed attempts at capturing power, the party still parade some honourable chieftains. Therefore, it is doubtful if the publicity secretary’s outburst is representative of the opinions of eminent Nigerians and sane minds in the party, particularly a former minister who is an eminent surgeon and a gentleman, and a former governorship candidate who is a renowned pharmacist. These are not laymen in public health matters. Many Lagosians believe that, instead of politicising the battle, all hands should be on deck to fight the disease that poses a big threat to Lagos, Nigeria and humanity. Lagos government also deserve encouragement, support and resources to sustain the war. It is a mini-country and an important entry point that that shoulders greater burden and responsibilities in this war situation. For almost two months now, the Sanwo-Olu administration has packaged a courageous, inspiring , professional and reassuring response to the coronavirus scourge. Since the first index case on February 22, Sanwo-Olu had set necessary machinery in motion to protect lives in case of a full outbreak. The state contemplated an imminent danger and designed a plan to tackle the challenge, drawing ideas and impetus from how it handled the Ebola epidemic. The state government reactivated its bio-banking and bio-security laboratory at the Infectious Diseases Laboratory at Yaba. Efforts have been made to decentralise isolation and treatment centres to prevent congestion. Lagos has also embarked on massive media sensitisation and enlightenment programmes to draw attention to the pandemic. The contributions of the media are unquantifiable. Schools, churches, mosques, clubs and bars were closed. Before the lockdown by the Federal Government, social distancing messages have been disseminated. Civil servants from Grade Level 1-12 were directed to stay at home. The governor directed that motor parks, gyms, stadia and beauty salons should be shut down. The Lagos State House of Assembly passed into law a bill titled: ‘A Law to Combat and Stop the Spread of Coronavirus Pandemic in Lagos State and for Connected Purposes’. The law empowers the governor to spend, at least, N20billion to combat the scourge. It also empowers security agencies to arrest residents who flout directives aimed at stopping the spread of the disease. Government also set up temporary food markets in some schools to cushion the effects of the closure of major markets in the state. Food stimulus package for residents targeting 200,000 households have kicked off. These steps motivated the organised private sector and other public spirited individuals to support the government with funds and materials to combat the disease. Members of the Lagos State Executive Council have stepped up activities in their respective ministries and departments to prevent the spread of Coronavirus. Lagos has continued to savour the benevolence of the most High. The Covid-19 case is not growing in geometric proportions. Fatalities are still low. It is gratifying that some patients, at least  39, have recovered, tested negative and discharged from the Lagos centre. What is required of stakeholders at this moment is cooperation; more ideas and assistance in an atmosphere of unity; not a blame game, fabrication and a tissue of lies . Since palliatives are on the front burner, such ideas should drive an improved process of relief packaging, so that the items can get to the targets. This can still be done without insinuating that the money will be embezzled by the implementation team under the leadership of the governor. It is better to advise the government to channel the materials to the vulnerable members of the society through the pre-existing structures that have proved to be dependable, trusted and tested, and efficient, instead of calling for an investigation into a scheme that has barely kicked off. 