Bello, son of Kaduna Governor Nasir El-Rufai, has apologised for threatening to ‘rape’ one of his followers’ mother on twitter. Bello had while responding to the twitter user @thanos_zer on Sunday following a disagreement said: “Tell your mother I’m passing her to my friends tonight. No Igbo sounds please! Tueh.” The comments was widely condemned by Nigerians, including a former Minister of Education, Obiageli Ezekwesili, whom he also attacked for trying to reprimand him for his hurtful outburst. The tweet war was about an argument between the United States President, Donald Trump and President Muhammadu Buhari’s roles since the outbreak of coronavirus pandemic across the world. But in series of tweets, Bello apologised for his action, explaining that he made the comment “during the heat of the moment”. According to him: “A few days ago, I made a comment that was wrong, unbecoming and contrary to the values on which I wa raised. I wish to withdraw the statement and apologise to the gentleman concerned for the hurtful comment. I also apologise for appearing to attack and entire ethnic group for the misdeed of one person,” the statement read. “I regret the sexual innuendo in the private message and apologise unreservedly for it. I wish to state very strongly that the statement was made during the heat of the moment and I wish to put on the record that I do not condone sexual violence.” Bello noted that there can be no justification for gender-based crimes, adding that the experience had taught him how to behave better subsequently. “I certainly do not believe that there can be any justification for gender-based crimes. I am learning from the episode in the continuous journey of emerging as a better person. I have apologized to my mother in person,” he added. “I have also reached out to the women in my life and apologised. I realise that the intensity around this matter stems partly from my surname. Bello said he regretted that his action has brought ridicule to his family which has always uphold strong values in the society. “The mistakes I made with the private message and in smearing an ethnic group because of group because of one person are now being replicated by people that are attacking my parents and my family because of my conduct,” he said. “I am one of many children in a family raised with standards of decency and strong values of which my recent conduct has fallen short. “I appreciate the time that friends and loved ones have taken to show me the error of my ways. I apologise to the general public in recognition of the duty to acknowledge wrongdoing and strive to be better.” My apology. pic.twitter.com/t3JKHeJNY0 — Bello El-Rufai (@B_ELRUFAI) April 17, 2020  The apology comes days after Hadiza El-Rufai, his mother and wife of the state governor, had told him never to use sexual abuse as ammunition during private or public conversations.