Olofa of Offa in Offa local government area of Kwara state, Oba Muftau Gbadamosi, has alleged that neighbouring communities and towns are stigmatising his subjects over the recent cases of coronavirus recorded in the area. Two test cases of the pandemic disease had links with the ancient town while the State Government had placed the town on total lockdown for initial period of 14 days from 6pm on Wednesday. Speaking during a phone chat on Channels Television monitored by our correspondent, the traditional ruler said people from neighbouring towns and communities in the state would no longer want to have any dealings with people living in Offa because of the coronavirus. Oba Gbadamosi said he had stepped in to address the matter with leaders in affected towns and communities, adding that a commercial motorcycle operator, who decided to relocate to his town from Offa over lockdown order, was denied entry. According to him: “Right now, since everyone is locked down we wouldn’t know anything of stigmatisation of such among our people here. “However, from other communities, it is believed that when you’re from Offa you cannot go to any other community around you. “They would say, eehh!! He’s brought corona! He’s brought corona!! That’s just it but people have been calling me and I’ve been trying to let them know that coming from Offa or working in Offa and relocating to your village because of the coronavirus lockdown does not mean you have the disease. “So, I’ve been speaking to traditional rulers in the neighbouring communities and they’re complying and speaking to their people. “A case like that happened yesterday when in a community an okada rider decided to relocate to his town from Offa because of the lockdown and had to be driven away from his town. His people said he has coronavirus because he’s coming from Offa,” he said. The monarch, who said that there was serious panic among residents of the area in connection with the two cases of coupled with the lockdown order by the State Government, added that everyone had kept indoors and obeying personal protection activities to prevent spread of the disease. “Deputy governor of the state was with me here yesterday (Wednesday) and he took about 78 people who may have had contact with the deceased that died of suspected coronavirus for isolation. “On our part as a people, we’ve been educating our people even before now on the pandemic. “Our people are all aware of what’s happening. Most of the people are coming out willingly to say they visited house of the deceased, who reportedly died of Coronavirus for burial and to sympathize with the wife. “They also asked we should tell them what next to do. And we tell them that they should quarantine themselves in isolated places for 14 days, while the NCDC people would be checking on them from time to time. “They are all ready to cooperate. That’s how we were able to get a huge number of about 78 people in two days because all of them are ready to cooperate. They’re willingly submitting themselves for check-up,” he said. On palliatives for people during the lockdown, Oba Gbadamosi said that the community associations, the Offa Descendants Union (ODU) and the rest have done a lot to ameliorate sufferings of the people aside that of the state government by distributing cash, food items and disinfectant. The traditional ruler said that his people were ready to cooperate with the state government to eradicate the disease.