By Praise Olowe It is no longer news that one of the most effective measures for reducing the spread of coronavirus is staying at home. Many states and countries have enforced compulsory lockdowns and a lot of us are getting very bored very quickly. As everyone hopes that a cure to the dreaded virus is discovered, it is only wise to maximise this period and make it very meaningful and memorable. Make out time to build new skills, explore hobbies and do things you have always wanted to. These are a few picks for things you can do while staying at home: Take an online course The period of isolation is a great time to develop yourself in particular areas. There are loads of reputable universities offering free online courses. They range from public speaking to blockchain technology. Google online course, Standford University’s online.stanford.edu and MIT’s openlearning.mit.edu are among the most popular. It would be remarkable, going back to work with new skills. Start a book club online An online book club can be super interesting. Therefore find friends or family with a common interest and begin a book club online. Create a theme, decide on a book, give yourselves time to get through and meet online to discuss. This is interesting than it sounds. Listen to free audio books There is a wide range of applications out there where you could choose books and listen to online. You can always choose a book of your choice and listen online. An example of such an app is Audible. Try new recipes This is one of the best times to bring out the chef In you. Try different recipes and kitchen hacks this period. Involve your kids, partner or friends. Do a video call with friends and have cooking games. Get organised You can begin by sorting out your clothes and generally clearing your wardrobe. Let go of old ones. Also clear your books shelve and just free up some space. Rearrange the house and love it all over again. Build a new body You don’t have to go to the gym to get this done. If you have been thinking about getting fitter, take up yoga or Pilates, or join a functional workout class online. Many yoga and fitness trainers are offering classes online at this time. You can follow them on their social media pages to find the best option. You can also watch fitness and aerobics videos on YouTube. Join online challenges Participate in social media challenges and the tag-along games that are doing the rounds. Use your Instagram stories or your tweets to get movie recommendations, new music suggestions or start a discussion. This can help you reconnect with old friends. Plan your next vacation or next line of action Be it starting a new business, or planning a vacation, think of all the places you always wanted to travel! Make a bucket list (if you don’t have one), and start working on your next trip.