Emma Elekwa, Onitsha Over 2000 persons in Nnewi, Anambra state have benefitted from the generosity of the Zimuzo Development Foundation (ZDF) a non governmental organization in the state. The beneficiaries comprising widows and physically challenged drawn from various churches in the area were given 200 bags of rice, 20 bags of onions and 30 bags of beans. Presenting the items Saturday, Director General of the foundation, Rev’d Ukadike Ibeabuchi said the items were distributed to the widows, physically challenged and the vulnerable in the area as palliatives against the Covid-19 lockdown. “We’re here on behalf of the founder, Chief Dr George Moghalu to make these presentation as part of our contributions towards cushioning the effects of the Covid-19 lockdown. “Though they might not be big enough, but we believe these little will go a long way to assuage the pains you’re passing through,” he said. One of the beneficiaries, Mrs Anthonia Ede, a widow, expressed appreciation to the benefactor for remembering them during the critical period, praying God to reward him. Meanwhile, over 50 corps members serving in various parts of Enugwu-Ukwu community in Njikoka Local Government Area of Anambra state have received some food items and cash as palliatives to cushion the effect of the coronavirus pandemic lockdown. The items included bags of rice, tubers of yam, instant noodles and unspecified sum of money. The traditional ruler of Enugwu-Ukwu community, Igwe Ralph Ekpeh said the distribution of the palliatives was in response to the request of the corps members that they needed assistance. He advised them to observe the rules stipulated by the World Health organization, WHO in ensuring that the pandemic did not spread. “Although it’s not the responsibility of the community to feed the corps members aside providing security to them, we saw the need to assist them especially in this period of lockdown. “The community started with adequate sensitization programme at the outbreak of the virus and then graduated to the distribution of palliatives to the vulnerable ones in the community, courtesy of some illustrious sons and daughters of the community,” he said. Responding on behalf of the corps members, Ekwe Nweze commended the monarch and town union leaders for their magnanimity and prayed God to reward them bountifully.