Without doubt, Government has been paying more attention to vehicles than pedestrians in road construction and in the provision of road infrastructure. About 90 per cent of roads constructed in Nigerian cities are without pedestrian walkways. I have carried out lots of research covering schools, bus stops, markets, and other areas with heavy human traffic but to my amazement, over 80 per cent of these areas had no pedestrian crossing marks across the roads. I hereby appeal to the governments and their agencies to dedicate more attention to pedestrian safety by providing standard walkways, zebra crossing markings, PELICAN crossing facilities and pedestrian bridges with day and night security measures put in place. The pedestrian bridges should also take into consideration the physically challenged and other vulnerable people. In places where pedestrian crossing facilities are provided, most pedestrians don’t use the zebra crossing points. It is disheartening that many pedestrians don’t even know what the zebra crossing marking stands for not to talk of using it. Where provided, pedestrians are expected to gather at the pedestrian crossing point and cross as soon as the vehicles stop for them. Drivers are to stop when they sight pedestrians waiting to cross and when  pedestrian steps on the white and black marking (zebra crossing marking). Pedestrians must watch both sides of the road even if it is a one way road also avoid rushing or running to cross the line. Research has revealed that so many drivers are guilty of disregarding the pedestrian crossing rules. So many people particularly school children have been knocked down on pedestrian crossing lines by aggressive and disobedient drivers. Drivers must approach all pedestrian crossings at slow speed. When pedestrians are waiting to cross, drivers must stop safely and allow them to cross before moving off. The rule is that drivers must stop if pedestrians  are already waiting to cross or they reach the crossing point before the vehicle. On approaching the zebra or pedestrian crossings, slow down and be prepared to stop safely and in good time. Where provided, drivers must stop behind the stop line. Drivers must not overtake another vehicle around pedestrian crossing marking. In a nutshell, drivers must recognise the pedestrian crossing in good time. They must follow the MSM/PSL routine to ensure safety in that environment. Drivers must be particularly alert near schools, shopping areas, hospitals, markets, shopping malls, bus stops, crowdy areas and near junctions. In addition, efforts must be made by the government to ensure that these crossings are also controlled by traffic signals particularly at junctions, traffic control officers and school crossing wardens. With genuine commitment to safety by governments, drivers, riders, pedestrians and other organisations, more lives will be saved on Nigerian roads.