The Senate has received three requests from President Muhammadu Buhari for confirmation of nominees to serve on the Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC), Federal Character Commission; and the Federal Civil Service Commission. The requests contained in three separate letters were read at the beginning of plenary on Tuesday by the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan. According to  Buhari, the request for the confirmation of the nominees was in accordance with the provisions of Section 154(1) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 as amended. The nominees for confirmation as Members of the Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC) are: Salamatu Mohammed Bala, Adamawa; Alfred Egba, Bayelsa; Adamu Shettima Yuguda Dibal, Borno; Emmanuel Nwosu, Imo; Oladele Seminu Gboyega, Osun; Bello Abubakar Wamakko, Sokoto; and Ahmed Yusuf, Taraba. Those nominated to serve as Commissioners with the Federal Civil Service Commission are: Frederick Ekwem, Imo and Abia; and Jonah Madugu, Benue, Nasarawa and Plateau. Nominees appointed by the President to serve at the Federal Character Commission include: Muheeba Dankaka, Chairman; Henry Ogbulogo, Abia; Salihu Bello, Adamawa; Obonganwan Dborah Daniel Ebony, Akwa-Ibom; Ibeabuchi Uche, Anambra; Mohammed Tijjani, Bauchi; Tonye Okio, Bayelsa; Silas Mfa Macikpah, Benue; Abba Ali Monguno, Borno; Nsor Atamgba, Cross River; and Alims Agoda. Others are: Tobias Chukuemeka, Ebonyi; Imuetinyan Festus, Edo; Sesan Fatoba; Ginika Florence Tor, Enugu; Hamza Mohammed, Gombe; Diogu Uche, Imo; Lawan Ya’u Roni, Jigawa; Hadiza Usman Muazu, Kaduna; Mohammed Awwal Na’iya, Kano; Lawal Garba, Katsina; Abubakar Atiku Bunu, Kebbi; Idris Eneye Bello, Kogi; Daniel James Kolo, Kwara; Are Miftah Bolaji, Lagos; Nasir Isa Kwarra, Nasarawa; and Suleiman Barau, Niger. Also appointed are: Abiodun Isiaq Akinlade, Ogun; Olufemi Omosanya, Ondo; Adeoye Abdularazaq Olalekan, Osun; Adeniyi Olowofela, Oyo; Stephen Jings, Plateau; Wokocha Augustine, Rivers; Abdullahi Taminu Tafida, Sokoto; Alhaji Armaya’u Dauda Abubakar, Taraba; Jibril Maigari, Yobe; Sani Garba, Zamfara; and Adamu Mohammed Sidi-Ali, Federal Capital Territory. Meanwhile, the Senate on Tuesday also adjourned sitting indefinitely. The announcement was made by the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, moments before adjournment. Lawan, however, said that the Upper Chamber would reconvene to consider any matter of national importance that requires the input of the National Assembly. 