His transfer to Saudi League side Aladalah Club may have brought to an end his six-month ‘lockdown’ at Hapoel Be’er Sheva of Israel, but Super Eagles midfielder John Ogu, is not happy about the pandemic shutdown that has cut short his comeback bid. Super excited to have teamed up with the Saudi team in January market on free transfer, Ogu said he was just beginning to enjoy competitive action again when the novel COVID-19 struck, leading to a complete lockdown in most leagues of the world. Ogu made his debut appearance for Aladalah against Al Ittihad in a goalless draw and followed up with another on February 22, a score draw against Adha. So far, Aladalah has played five matches and secured five draws before the lockdown was imposed and all league matches stopped. “I’m optimistic that the season will pick up for us but right now we have to deal with this pandemic that has made a mess of football in the world,” said Ogu. He has joined thousands of players all over the world to observe the stay at home order. “It is very strict here (Saudi Arabia) and no one is toying with it.” Though bored of staying in-door, and missing his family who are in Nigeria plus the game of football badly, he is of the opinion that staying at home is the best way to contain the coronavirus. Last week, Ogu, returned home with another Saudi based Super Eagles top player, Ahmed Musa, and took to the social media to celebrate reunion with his family. “Thank God for journey mercies. Y’all stay home.” He, however, has kind words for medical staff that are in the forefront of the battle against COVID-19. To drive home his point he twitted: “God bless all the medical staff all over the world.” Not done with his ‘lockdown’ story, Ogu said it was a most trying period of his career. The midfielder had declined a fresh contract at the expiration of his four-year deal with Hapoel.  He felt he deserved more. “The contract I was given was too little and my agent and I decided to look elsewhere. I had to wait for six months to get a suitable contract coming from Saudi. I wasn’t easy to watch others play while you watch from the stand but I remained positive that I have what it takes to do well in bigger clubs in Europe.” Though his sight was set for top European clubs in Germany and Spain the deal from Aladalah was good enough to steer him off his course. He said of the Israeli debacle in a recent interview with BBC: “It’s been a long, tough and crazy six months, but I want to quickly put it all behind me by getting involved with Aladalah immediately. To watch others actively playing on television at the start of the season was tough and now I have a lot of catching up to do personally on the football pitch. “But I’m confident in my ability and confident that my body is ready for the battles and vigorous games to come.” Ogu’s confidence stems from a superlative 190 appearances and 18 goals for Hapoel while helping them to three Israeli Premier League titles, two Super Cups and the Toto cup in 2017 all within four years. “I felt I have proved myself and deserve a better contract than they gave me. If I don’t play myself up, I don’t know who will? Before playing for Hapoel, Ogu had short stops at Slovenia, Spain and Portugal from 2010 to 2014. Ogu is positive he would do well in Aladalah and help lift the club’s position. “I trust in my ability and working hard too to make a difference.” Meanwhile, Ogu in  this conversation with TAIWO ALIMI,  spoke more on growing up, people that have inspired him and his plan for Aladalah Club. Formative years Like every other footballer, especially in this part of the world, I started from the street. I imbibed football passion from the street. We would move from our street to the next and to far ones while playing football and from there the passion just grew. God blessed me with a talent that could not be hidden and I have to show it to the whole world. Youth career It was at Starlet FC that I learnt all I needed to know about football as a teenager. It was here that I learnt the basis of football, how to kick the ball and a lot of other things that I needed to know as a kid. There are two coaches that I would never forget; Coach Atta, who hails from Calabar, the South South of the country, taught me the rudiment of the game while Coach Baresi (not real name) taught me that how to be disciplined and respect other players. We used to go to competitions where we played other teams and that helped me a lot. It was there that I met an ex-international who offered to help me go abroad. I spent some months in his camp and from there they arranged for me to travel to Europe and that is how I started my professional career. From there I moved to Portugal and was in Portugal for three seasons before I moved to Israel where I am today. Parental support To be honest, it wasn’t difficult to convince my parents to allow me go out play football. My dad and mom supported me fully and not once did they stop me from exhibiting this God given gift. But, again I knew this is what I wanted to do in my life right from my young age and all I needed to do was to know how badly I needed to do it. I’m lucky to have parents that gave me free hand and supported me. It is not all parents that do that but mine gave me more than 100 per cent support and thanks to them for it. Israel Israel was good for me because I was there when the national call up came for me. That I made the World cup list is because of my consistency in the Israeli League. I could have stayed back there if I was given a good contract at the expiration of the first one because I had a great time there. I played over 180 games and scored about 18 goals. At first it was rough but when we picked up we went right to the top. I won many laurels there too. But the contract I was given was too little and my agent and I decided to look elsewhere. I had to wait for six months to get a suitable contract coming from Saudi. I wasn’t easy but I am positive that I have what it takes to do well in bigger clubs in Europe. Champions League I tasted Champions League action in Hapoel because we won the league back to back. It is a great experience when you play against top teams from different countries. On both occasion we dropped to the Europa League and did well. It can be better, though. Europe is tough and there are many big clubs but it is high opener for me. Nwankwo Kanu One player that has remained an inspiration for me from childhood till now is Kanu Nwankwo. It was because of him that many Nigerians became fans of Arsenal and I happen to be one of them. I’ve always look forward to playing for them but our ways have not met. Aside from Kanu, Thierry Henry is another player that inspired me. I’ve seen many videos of these players to gain an insight into their games. Kanu Nwankwo also played his part but Henry was everything for Arsenal while Kanu was one of the reasons I started watching Arsenal. Sunny side I watch football and highlight of games whenever I want to relax. Football is my life and even when I’m relaxing I’m watching football. I watch football a lot. I watch past games and the best way for me to relax is to watch football. When I am tired I slot in a football tape and I feel energised. Football is it for me. I also like basketball. I used to see myself as a banker. But football just killed everything. If I wasn’t playing football I probably would see myself as a manager of a big bank in Nigeria. Nigerian league I did not play in the Nigerian league before going abroad. But I would like to experience it before I end my career. I will come back home to play for a team in Nigeria. I think it is high time that we promoted our league. If you watch Brazilian players, they go back to their home country at a point in their career and play there. It is a way to give back and grow the league. I would rather come back to Nigeria to play than to play abroad without getting paid. This is the time to appeal to our ex-players to give back and help grow the league in Nigeria. That would help bring back the sponsor and the fans into our stadium. I’m 100 per cent sure that I will come back to play in Nigeria. Toughest team and player ever played I’ve played a lot of players. When I am on the field I see every opponent as good and so I don’t underrate them. I’ve played against brilliant players such as Xavi and Pirlo and I respect them. But football is a team play and therefore I play for my team members and they play for me too. Career moments It must be winning my first professional title in Israel and wining it the following year again. The back to back thing simply freaks me out. I do no imagine that I would achieve this so soon in my career. I am really happy to play in Israel. Winning the league shield back to back is a special one for me. Retirement plan I would love to coach one day but it is still a long time to come. It is something for the future. In five, six years, maybe I would begin to look into that. But what I would really like to do is football management. That is what I have passion for. I see myself like a director of a club.