 FBNQuest Asset Management, a subsidiary of FBN Holdings, has offered investors expert guidance on investing opportunities. The firm, which has over N220 billion assets under management,  seeks to serve as a partner that helps investors achieve their goals in a time of heightened uncertainty in the financial markets. Managing Director of the company, Ike Onyia, said the FBN Money Market Fund is one of the largest in Nigeria and since its launch in 2012,  has built a track record of outperforming its benchmark. In a statement, the firms said the COVID-19 pandemic has exacerbated the impact of a price war between leading oil producers on the price of crude oil in the international market. Oil exporters like Nigeria have not been excluded from the economic impact of a drop in oil revenues, which has sparked volatility in the prices of other assets. “These are critical times, as the volatility in local and global markets tends to unsettle many investors. We are of the view that the uncertainty should motivate investors to think more carefully about their objectives and not make hasty decisions.  Through this campaign, we seek to show our clients that we are here to help them keep an eye on the big picture – their goals – and work with them to achieve those goals,” he said. The BeyondToday campaign highlights the skills and products offered by the fund manager to investors with diverse investment objectives. It showcases six  mutual funds designed to cater to the unique investment profiles and objectives of both individuals and corporates in the Nigerian market. In such uncertain times, investors elect to hold cash or near-cash assets while they assess the outlook for other asset classes. The FBN Money Market Fund, one of the six funds offered by FBNQuest, is a viable product for those seeking to preserve the value of their investments. Onyia said: “Very often, market volatility presents interesting investment opportunities to those who pay attention. In addition to offering attractive returns, our money market fund is a great offering for those who require the flexibility to reallocate their funds to other asset classes on short notice.”