 The call for the inclusion of out of school children living with disabilities formed the thrust of discourse at the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding between Out of School Children Empowerment Foundation (OSCEF) and Joint National Association of Persons Living with Disabilities recently at Oshodi, Lagos. The MOU according to Chairman JONAPWD Lagos, Dr. Adebayo Bukola is to boost collaboration and partnership with OSCEF in order to work on putting more out Speaking on the importance of the partnership, he said ‘the reality of out of school children is very critical indeed as research has shown that almost 50 percent of out of school children are children with disabilities. This is the result of a survey conducted by the USAID under the Assist Grant Project. It was discovered that out of about 13 million out of school children, close to 6 million of them are children with disabilities’ “As an organisation that is of and for persons with disabilities in Lagos and an umbrella body for all disability groups in Nigeria as we are in the 36 states of Nigeria, we look at need to work with  OSCEF to contain the menace of out of school children with disabilities. We would use our privileges such as the United Nations Economic and Social Council (UN ECOSOC status and our affiliation with global disability organisations like the International Disability Alliance, African Disability Forum to champion this course of including children living with disabilities who are out of school. “Our  mantra  Effective Partnerships, informs our various collaborations such as we are doing with OSCEF as we realise we can’t do this alone because to achieve optimal results, we must partner with cognate organisations and individuals .It’s a statement of fact that PWDs suffer a lot of discrimination and exclusion in our society. So to enable us change some of these ugly trends, we have to climb on the shoulders of other people and organisations. He continued: “As our organisation does not have enough resources as many of our members are indigent and unemployed, we would therefore like to leverage on the resources, human capital, opportunities that other partners can provide for us to achieve our own goals.  It is, therefore, very comforting that we have an organisation that already works with out of school children, so there is no point reinventing the wheel, as the education of our children is of utmost priority to us, the reality that many of them are out of school, we must ensure that they are returned to schools. This can only be possible with the level of expertise OSCEF presents. The Education Committee of JONAPWD will work closely with OSCEF to ensure we return children who are out of school to schools and most importantly, ensure they remain in school and complete the schooling process.After they finish school, we also have a committee that will take up the issue of employment”. He noted that Lagos State has about 44 inclusive schools and four special schools, adding that there are schools that will absorb these childrens. Founder and Executive Director OSCEF, Mr.  Akeem Kelani  lauded JONAPWD for accepting the collaboration, promising to provide the technical support for the team in the process of enrolment of out of school children with disabilities. He said all the areas JONAPWD pointed out will be duly taken care of and the challenges will also be identified. “While we understand the financial limitations of the organisation, our working together will make us garner support from other humanitarian organisations. Again, we would also try to seek advocacy for the increment in the number of inclusive schools in Lagos with the relevant stakeholders and authorities,” he added. He, however, stressed that international support and collaboration are needed to champion this cause. He used the opportunity to laud the consistent support OSCEF has been receiving from an NGO in the United States; Be The Light Corps run by Mrs. Eucharia Njoku and a Nigerian US immigrant who is deeply interested in humanitarian activities such as donation of mobility gadgets, clothes and consumables to out of school children and children with disabilities. He appealed to well-meaning Nigerians and local organisations to take a cue from Njoku to donate to the humanitarian cause so as to bridge both the educational and social gap between this category of children and their privileged counterparts.