For businesses, the pains and agonies of coronavirus scourge run deep as employment situation these days pretty much sucks. Expectedly, a lot of companies have devised means and ways of weathering the storm since the deadly virus reared its head. Speaking in an interview with our correspondent at the weekend, Sade Morgan, Corporate Affairs Director, Nigerian Breweries Plc, the pioneer and largest brewing company in the country, said like many other companies, Nigerian Breweries has taken the outbreak of COVID-19 in good fate. While noting that this is not the best of times for most companies, considering the level of disruptions that has happened to communities and people in the wake of coronavirus outbreak now ravaging the entire globe, Morgan said matter-of-factly that the giant brewery is particular about the personal safety and security of its staff. “At Nigerian Breweries Plc, safety is a key priority for us at this point in time. Since the outbreak, we took proactive measures to ensure that our employees are protected during this difficult period,” she said, adding, “Personal safety and security of our staff is of utmost priority to us. We have in place a work safety programme for those on essential services.” Specifically, the image-maker of the foremost breweries established in 1946, said the company made provision of sanitiser stations as well as temperature check at entrance gate, including sanitisation/fumigation offices backed up with regular updates to employees via the internal communications channels just as provision of Brewery Medical hotlines are open to all employees. According to her, one thing the coronavirus crisis has thrown up is the fluidity possible in the workplace all thanks to technology. “I can tell you for a certainty that digital has a lot of possibilities. We really haven’t suffered any kind of disruptions as far as holding interface and discussion sessions because all that had been made possible using digital technology. “The company adopted a Working from Home (WFH) programme initiated for Head office/non-essential staff at the Breweries through virtual meetings via Microsoft Team just as dedicated email address was created for employee feedback. We hold daily meetings with the full compliments of staff and it has been really engaging.” The company, she further noted, created temporary isolation centres in all its breweries even as non-essential visitors are no longer allowed at facilities as well as safe distance seating at the canteen for essential staff who are on duty and use of food packs in some locations. While allaying fears of possible job loss, she said Nigerian Breweries Plc with approximately over 3, 000 employees, which serves the Nigerian market and exports to other parts of West Africa, is not planning to lay off staff as a result of the coronavirus crisis. “As part of our economic continuity and sustainability programme, I can assure you that we don’t plan to cut jobs. There is job security for our staff,” she said. She was, however, quick to add that Nigerian Breweries which falls under the list of companies offering essential services would remain in good standing if production lines are not disrupted. “In our engagement with government and other stakeholders, we have said that Nigerian Breweries is willing to contribute its quota towards addressing the current crisis and the only way we can continue to do that is if production lines and distribution channels are not disrupted and cut off,” she said. “For us, we’re prioritising production of drinks, especially energy and fruit drinks like malts and we are going to be supporting the various isolation centres and destinations. We’re prepared to do much more as a socially responsible organisation.”