By Agency Reporter  The Edo State Government has opened a new ultra-modern 30-bed isolation facility at the Stella Obasanjo Hospital, Benin City, equipped with 15 ventilators, oxygen concentrators, dialysis and mobile x-ray machines, among other equipment to manage cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) in the state. Deputy Governor and Chairman, Technical Sub-committee on COVID-19 Response, Rt. Hon. Comrade Philip Shaibu, who led a team of government functionaries to inspect the facility, reiterated the determination of the state government to fight the infectious disease. According to him, the new 30-bed facility built at the Stella Obasanjo Hospital was constructed in 12 days, a development that re-emphasises the state government’s determination to ensure Edo people get top-notch treatment if infected by the virus. He said, “This is an additional facility built in 12 days, to ensure Edo people get the best treatment if they contract COVID-19. This is not a make-shift hospital but a permanent hospital built for Edo people. “The world-class facilities here will sure assist the patients in getting well fast. There are internet facilities that will enable the sick get themselves abreast of the happenings around the world as they are connected to the world through cable television channels.” “We have 15 ventilators in this centre, with 30 bed space. One ventilator is allocated to two beds,” Shaibu added. Commissioner for Health, Dr. Patrick Okundia, on his part, explained that the COVID-19 complex at the Stella Obasanjo Hospital is a three-in-one facility. He said, “We already have a 12-bed facility here; the main building at Stella Obasanjo Hospital is a 158-bed facility, which will serve as a holding centre. Now we have newly completed 30-bed facility. We urge anyone in the state who has any symptom relating to COVID-19 to visit Stella Obasanjo Hospital to meet trained doctors and nurses here.” “The 158-bed facility is a holding Centre where suspected persons will be kept to verify their true status. The newly completed 30-bed space has different sections for the treatment of COVID-19. I urge the people of the State to ensure that they visit the place to be sure they don’t having the disease,” he added. He noted that the state has secured equipment for the two new testing centres in the state.