 BAYERO University’s Department of Pure and Industrial Chemistry has mobilized its staff for the production of hand sanitizers to be used within the university campus and possibly the Kano community. Already, a number of the academic staff from the department who volunteered to participate in the project with a view to contributing their quota towards fighting the COVID 19, are currently in the laboratories formulating the sanitizers based on the World Health Organization’s (WHO) specifications. According to the Head, Department of Pure and Industrial Chemistry, Dr. Ibrahim Tajo Siraj, who revealed this yesterday to reporters, said that the idea was borne out of the desire to give a helping hand in the fight against the disease. He said in view of the gravity of the coronavirus and the urgent need for all stakeholders to join hands in containing the pandemic, the department felt it had a vital role to play in this direction. “As you are aware, universities were known to be serving as research centres where solutions are proffered to any problem facing the society, and now it is time to prove this, hence our decision to mobilize our members to the laboratories with a view to producing hand sanitizers as stop-gap measures,” he said. Dr. Tajo Siraj noted that the department has all that it takes to produce the internationally standard hand sanitizers in line with the specifications of the World Health Organization (WHO). “We have the technical experts, we have standard laboratories for the formulation and we have the commitment to do it,” he said. He said at the moment after the production of the sample of the hand sanitizers it would be submitted to the university management for further action which may include possible financial backing to procure the chemicals and other implements for mass production. “As you can see now, our scientists from the Department of Pure and Industrial Chemistry are currently in the laboratories mixing the chemicals to come up with a quality and standard hand sanitizers,” said Dr. Siraj. According to him, the idea was part of the university’s contribution towards containing the spread of the disease. He said: “Since we do not have advanced medical facilities, the best thing to do under the circumstance is to produce hand sanitizers and distribute to the public which is a very fundamental strategy in fighting the disease”. Explaining further, Professor Abdurahman Abdul Audu, who was also at the laboratory helping other researchers said, the BUK branded hand sanitizers would be very effective as they will strictly abide by the WHO standards. According to the WHO, “the required formulations for hand sanitizers include ethanol, hydrogen peroxide as well as glycerol and water. So here in BUK, we shall strictly adhere to this formulations.” 