 IN their reaction to printed and video evidence of how Chinese authorities discriminated against and stigmatised African expatriate communities in China over COVID-19, African diplomats in China fired a strongly-worded letter to the Foreign Office in China a few days ago. The envoys referenced the complaints of their citizens which were widely disseminated on traditional and social media, and denounced the manner Chinese authorities in Guangzhou, a city in Guangdong Province, dehumanised Africans who were being unfairly blamed for fresh outbreaks of coronavirus disease in the province. According to some reports, nearly 1000 new COVID-19 cases were said to have been imported. But what is not fully disclosed is that 90 percent of those new cases were attributed to returning Chinese, not African, travellers. But disregarding what the statistics of the pandemic in China’s Guangdong Province say, and because a few Africans had tested positive to the disease after China thought it had got rid of it in a matter of months, local authorities have tended to focus primarily on African migrants who were consequently subjected to repeated testing, barred from public restaurants, forcefully evicted from their residences or hotels, forced into repeated quarantines, and harassed by the police. In their letter to the Chinese government, African diplomats insist such measures are discriminatory and racist. “The Group of African Ambassadors in Beijing immediately demands the cessation of forceful testing, quarantine and other inhuman treatments meted out to Africans,” the diplomatic note suggested. A few African countries such as Ghana, South Africa, Nigeria, Kenya and Uganda, among others, have in fact gone ahead to invite Chinese ambassadors in their countries in order to officially serve them protest notes, including presenting them video evidence of the discriminatory and racist tactics deployed by China in Guangzhou city during China’s bid to halt new COVID-19 flare-ups. South Africa, which holds the rotating chairmanship of the African Union, spoke of being “deeply concerned” about the racist profiling and mistreatment of Africans, while Kenya complained of “unfair responses” against Africans in Guangzhou, and Ugandan resented how its citizens were being subjected to “harassment and mistreatment.” On its own, Ghana denounced the “inhuman treatment” and “racial discrimination” which Ghanaians, not to say many Africans in China, were subjected to. It demanded that state officials responsible for such atrocious attacks and harassment be brought to book. Opportunistically, especially having noted that some African-Americans were being subjected to the same treatment as Africans, the United States has not only waded in, it has also identified with the position of African diplomats as well as slammed the discriminatory treatment being meted out to Africans in Guangzhou. It is curious that according to a report, China recorded some 108 new cases on Sunday, most of them imported, involving more 50 Chinese citizens returning from Russia. Records also show that some 111 African nationals living in Guangzhou tested positive for coronavirus when the disease first flared. But officials have also disclosed that 4,553 Africans, out of a black population of about the same figure, had undergone testing in Guangzhou since April 3. This was partly why African diplomats concluded that the focus on the African population in the city was discriminatory, if not racist. Just two days ago, China, which has found it hard to be truthful about the coronavirus outbreak, has revised its fatalities figure by 50 percent in Hubei Province, the epicentre of the outbreak, to a new national total of 4,600 deaths. After first sounding defensive, Chinese officials later responded to the protesting African diplomats by promising to check the manner the disease was being tackled with respect to the African population in China. They knew that their defences were not tenable, and that in the era of social media, they had been shown to overreach themselves. But whether the promise will lead to substantial changes is, however, not clear, especially given the fact that the Chinese have a history of such discriminatory and racist practices. However, responding to the African diplomats’ concern, a Chinese Foreign ministry spokesman, Zhao Lijian, said last Sunday that “The Guangdong authorities attach great importance to some African countries’ concerns and are working promptly to improve their (Chinese officials’) working method… African friends can count on getting fair, just, cordial and friendly reception in China.” Even if the promised non-discriminatory changes are implemented, it is not certain that China’s condescending attitude towards Africans in China will lead to the fair and just practices indicated by the Foreign ministry spokesman. With the more than quadruple expansion in economic relations between China and African countries, much of it controversially underscored by loans, rapaciousness and subtle political influences, there will continue to be concerns about how China is treating Africans in China and even on the African continent, as demonstrated by protests against inimical labour practices, job losses and unfair union practices fostered by Chinese companies in some African countries. China, Russia, France and a few other powerful economies and economic blocs have become accustomed to summoning African leaders for economic summits, sometimes treating them like royalty, and at other times like dependent, slavish and unthinking minions. Having felt short-changed by the industrialised West for decades after independence, Africa, now almost completely inured to the strangulating forces of neo-colonialism, has appeared to entrust their economic and developmental destinies to an ascendant and increasingly powerful China. African leaders are all the more beguiled by China which continues to feign lack of interest in meddling in their domestic affairs. The continent’s leaders were always exasperated by the moral scruples and business ethics of the West. Now they have a new lender and developmental mentor who shows no inclination to judge or censure them. African leaders can protest all they like against the mistreatment of their citizens everywhere, but they must earn respect rather than going cap in hand to developed economies of the East and West for succour. China and other Asian Tigers pulled themselves up by their bootstraps. It is unimaginable that African leaders would continue to rely supinely on aides and loans from outsiders to ameliorate short-sighted and contradictory economic policies, some of them, like leasing of mining rights to foreign entities, so offensive as to constitute treason. The depth, initiative and independence which leaders need to succeed in office are sadly lacking in much of Africa, leading to their continuous and unrelenting reliance on foreign economic, social and even political sure cures. Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) is entirely of Chinese origin. Instead of being remorseful or empathetic, especially going by the global impact of the disease, it is shocking that Africans in China, particularly in Guangdong Province, are being victimised, ridiculed and humiliated. Racism in China is real and has become cancerous. China must deal with it rather than gloss over it. If not, there is little hope that a cancer that has become systemic, and which has seemed to ossify, can be cured by bitter African complaints and casual Chinese promises. On their own, African leaders need to rediscover their sense of self-worth. They need to appreciate the urgency of the task needed to remould the continent. Africa has become the errand boy of the world, and is despised, misused, and expropriated. Its children, weakened by centuries of slavery and colonialism, are submitting themselves again, but this time willingly, to a second slavery. The continent’s leaders should use the Chinese denigration of African migrants as the impetus they need to come to terms with and repudiate their paralysis and submission in favour of radical and fundamental changes capable of delivering the kind of reforms and transformation that have served Europe, Asia and North America well for centuries.