The Maritime Academy of Nigeria (MAN), Oron, Akwa State says it is not at logger heads with Shipowners Association of Nigeria (SOAN) over the cash paid for seatime experience of its cadets, reports MUYIWA LUCAS. THE deal between the Maritime Academy of Nigeria (MAN), Oron, Akwa Ibom State with some members of the Shipowners Association of Nigeria (SOAN) to train cadets of the institution on SOAN’s vessels, under MNA’s Student Industrial Training Experience Scheme (SIWES) programme has gone awry. The Nation gathered that MAN paid N26.45 million to a SOAN member company for the fourmonth industrial training of 27 cadets, but the company trained only 12 cadets with N4.2 million. Another company, which got N8.4 million, spent N2.8 million; another firm got N2.8 million but spent only N1 million. Further findings revealed that of the 49 cadets earmarked for the training, 13 of them, mainly female cadets, could not benefit from it because “some SOAN members failed to provide the service for which they were paid”. Miffed by this development, MAN’s Rector, Emmanuel Effedua, a retired Navy Commodore, asked for a refund of the balance from the defaulting partners, threatening to report them to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), should they fail to do so by April 30. In a letter to SOAN President MkGeorge Onyung, MAN alleged of the 2019 SIWES Exercise and Request for Refund’ that some of its members reneged in the contract, despite collecting money. Effedua regretted that the Academy’s efforts to recover the cash was being misconstrued as a rift between MAN and SOAN, adding that the Academy was only committed to due process. Making the clarification, Effedua said the money was given to some SOAN members who demanded to be paid upfront, bt failed to deliver. “We are not at war with SOAN. We don’t have issues with SOAN. Next year, we will still enter into another MoU with SOAN because we don’t have issues with them. “The truth is I don’t have any problem with SOAN leadership. We’ve been doing business with them and I give them a pass mark.  If only 13 out of 49 could not go onboard is the problem and we know how and why they could not go onboard, it is not an issue to be misconstrued.  I want to tell the world that we are good partners. We will sort our issues with SOAN. Nobody is saying he will not refund the money if the deals could not be consummated,” he explained. The Rector further disclosed that Starsz Marine Limited, one of the beneficiaries of the onboard training fund, has refunded her bit of the money already while others are expected to do same. Onyung confirmed the development, adding that efforts were ongoing to settle the matter. The Nation was, however, informed that a meeting between Effedua and Onyung was put off last week due to the Corona virus pandemic.