From Osagie Otabor, Akure  Nigeria businessman, Jimoh Ibrahim, has donated N40m to the Ondo State Government to help combat the spread of COVID-19 in the state. Ibrahim who made the donation in Akure, Ondo State capital, urged Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu to involve private hospitals as testing centres. Speaking while presenting the N40m cheques to Governor Akeredolu, Ibrahim said the NICON Group hoped to replicate the support in six other states. Ibrahim urged Governor Akeredolu to focus on saving lives rather than constructing bridges and roads amidst COVID-19 pandemic. He stated that COVID-19 could kill 50 million people if one person out 100 affected persons dies. “This is a pandemic we cannot play with. We are going to help six states build medical capacity hat is dangerous. “The government alone cannot fight this virus. We don’t have data. We need data on who have developed symptoms for the virus. If we treat those set of people, they may not graduate to coronavirus. “We want the government to identify private hospitals in the local government that could test patients. “I will suggest we consider COVID-19 a mega project. Identify reasonable well set up private hospital to make them part of centre for testing. If the patients are positive, they could be referred for treatment. Declare in cabinet that COVID-19 is a mega project. You will construct bridges and roads and nobody to use them after losing 50 percent of the population. You better not construct the roads and save the citizens. “What is key in COVID-19 is data but we don’t have those data. What is key to management of epidemics is data. How can we have the data if those centres are not available at the local level. These centres will be able to handle data of those with symptoms. “As NICON Group, we are looking at how to help six states in the country but charity begins at home.” Governor Akeredolu assured that the money would be put into proper use especially to buying more testing kits. Akeredolu assured that he would look into the suggestion that some private hospitals should be included as testing centres for COVID-19. “As part of your philanthropic posture, you have come to donate N40m to the COVID-19 account. We have not had many people who have done this. A few has done something else. Few banks have given us money. We will utilise this money for the purpose. “We have established isolation centres in our three senatorial districts. We will look at your suggestion to involve private hospitals. We will look into it. It is a wonderful idea.”