By: Moses Emorinken, Abuja  The Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) has cautioned the federal government on its planned move to recall retired medical personnel to join existing the frontline workforce in the management and treatment of coronavirus (COVID-19) patients. The Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, had earlier said that the government will recall retired medical personnel as its ‘reserved pool’, to help in the fight against coronavirus disease. The President of the NMA, Dr. Francis Faduyile, while speaking with the Nation, described the move as illogical as retired persons, because of their ages, are more vulnerable and highly susceptible to the infection. According to him: “Do you have any medical insurance for them? It doesn’t make sense that you are bringing the vulnerable group who are retired to come and treat a disease that everybody knows that because of their age they have very low chance of survival if they get it. Have you used all the people that are still active? “I think the government is just playing to the gallery by calling everybody to come and join in the fight against coronavirus. When you tell them to come, my question is – to come and do what? What are the things on ground in terms of their welfare? “Do they expect the retired people to just walk down to the ministry and write their names? The stand of the Association is – what does the government have for this category of retired healthcare professionals? The Association must protect them. What incentives do you have for them? “For example, if you have a war against your territory in military, will you start saying you want to bring the retired people to come and lead the war? Can that be done? Before you send the military to the war front, you must have all the arsenal and be able to make them happy and ready to go. They must have some confidence that if they go there, and something happens to them, there are incentives that will take care of their families”. He further added: “We have had several doctors that have died as a result of Lassa fever. What has the government done? Are there good medical insurance and how are they taking care of the children and the family of the deceased doctors? “The president is talking about feeding for students but they are not talking about those people that they are sending as front-liner to treat those that have this disease. It is established worldwide that doctors, nurses doctors and those who are at the frontline usually contract diseases and many of them have died. “So the question is – what do you have in store on ground for them? Nobody is talking about that one and they are saying they want all retired health care professionals to come forward. To come and do what?”