Actor Yemi ‘Olufela’ Solade has criticized filmmakers who travel abroad to shoot movies. The 60-year-old actor discussed the setback the trend has brought to the Nigerian film industry in an interview with Aajiirebi on Africa Magic TV. According to him, it’s of no advantage to go abroad to shoot a movie because it is a way of showcasing and promoting other people’s country. “Of what value it is when I go to Dubai to shoot a movie when I can easily go to a village in Ondo state to shoot my movie? “It is common among young singers but no one can stop them from doing that because it is their own business. Though, one may criticize their going abroad to shoot their videos but these musicians would have tenable reasons when asked,” he said. The veteran actor also blamed the government for being too rigid in approving specific locations for movie producers. “Since Nollywood came into existence, let’s not talk about the inception of cinema.  Nollywood is about 30 years old now. The government has not deemed it fit to give us even a prison to shoot our movie. “When people watch a cinema scene, they criticize the locations used and they say that is why we don’t watch Nigeria movie. It is because, producer can not shoot a movie in front of the prison yard or police station; you will be chased away. “It’s not that producers didn’t know their steps to obtain permission from these places but the bureaucracy involved is discouraging. So when young artistes gather their money, buy tickets and travel abroad without an input from the government, I see nothing wrong in it but it doesn’t promote our culture. “Even the federal government can not stop them because the government has not put an alternative in place. Is not even convenient to producer movie in Nigeria because of lack of stable electricity, fund and other challenges.” Solade, however, said that there is nothing bad for Nigerians to travel abroad for studies but we ought to return home and work here for the development of our own society.