 LOCKDOWN ideally is lockdown. It involves curtailment of movement as people stay in their homes except for necessitated outings like going to stock up food, congregations are outlawed to forestall mass contact in pursuit of the social distancing rule, and virtual platforms adopted for the conduct of operations that previously involved people meeting face-to-face. That is the lifestyle forced upon us at this time by ongoing efforts to flatten the curve of Covid-19 infection. But Niger State has shown the way in how lockdowns can be made floatable – that is, with lockdown being in force; then, suspended momentarily to allow certain routines proceed largely as was the case before the pandemic; and then, slammed back into place after pre-stipulated expiry of the temporary suspension. In other words, it’s some stop-go-stop arrangement. How ingenious! Niger State Governor Abubakar Sani Bello had penultimate week imposed a two-week lockdown, following confirmation of the index case of coronavirus infection in the state. Last week, that lockdown was temporarily lifted to allow Muslims observe Juma’at congregational prayers. The government said the lockdown would be back in place immediately after the prayers. A statement by Information Officer to Secretary to the Government of Niger State and chairman of the state task force on Covid-19, Lawal Tanko, said the prayers should be held under strict precautionary measures and be conducted within 30 minutes. The statement read: “This is to inform the Muslim Ummah that the state government has lifted the suspension of congregational Friday prayer (Juma’at) for today Friday, 17th April 2020. “The Juma’at prayer is expected to hold between 11am to 3pm under strict observance of all the precautionary measures, using hand sanitizers, face masks, hand washing facilities (soap and water), maintaining social distancing and avoiding contact base greetings. The sermon and prayers are to be conducted within thirty minutes; Muslims are advised to adhere strictly to the precautionary measures taken by government on the containment of coronavirus pandemic in the state. The lockdown however continues immediately after the Juma’at prayers.” Not that Niger State is alone in harbouring the idea of floatable lockdown. Some state governments – for instance, Ondo – were reported to have contemplated relaxing the lockdown in their respective domain for the observance of Easter Sunday worship by Christians penultimate week, but they changed their minds at the last minute. Ideas to lighten the crushing effect of the lockdown on the citizenry are by all means welcome. But such ideas must factor in the collective health of society and aim at its long-term gain, not appeal to sentiments that only deliver political capital. Stop-go-stop lockdowns hardly serve the purpose that lockdowns are meant for in the first place.  