Nigeria, like all other countries in the world, is grappling with the devasting health, social, and economic fallouts of the COVID-19 pandemic. As at April 29, 2020, we now have 1532 confirmed cases, a dramatic increase since February 28, when the first infection was announced. Of these cases, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) reports 44 deaths and 255 discharges. To curb the virus’s spread, the federal government has so far, shut all national land and air borders and imposed a stay-at-home order in the three most affected states: Lagos, Abuja, and Ogun. Other states have since adopted movement restrictions aimed at limiting the disease spread. As more testing is done, we are seeing larger numbers of new cases confirming that community transmission is growing. Abuja is in its fourth week of lockdown. Hospitals and clinics, both public and private, remain open, but many have put routine services like vaccinations on hold. This is concerning. A friend who owns a private clinic in Abuja tells me, “mothers are calling from all over the country frantically asking me where to get their children vaccinated as their usual places are closed.” If clinics or hospitals don’t have personal protective equipment (PPE) for their staff, they cannot attend to patients. My friend now buys PPEs for her vaccinators, in order to continue to offer vaccination services. This adds to her running costs, which is inevitably passed to the parents. While the rich can pay, the poor cannot. Access and equity are declining. World Immunization Week is a time to remember the crucial value of vaccines and the need to make immunization services available to all who need them even in the face of COVID-19. Vaccine-preventable diseases such as pneumonia, diarrhea, malaria, measles, and tetanus account for more than a third of all child mortality in Nigeria. As we fight the coronavirus, we must not lose sight of why vaccines matter always. Consider the measles vaccine, whose worldwide use helped to reduce measles death by 80% between 2000 and 2017, saving 21 million lives. Just like COVID-19, the measles virus is highly contagious, so a high level of coverage is needed to avoid outbreaks. If children miss vaccinations, unwanted and preventable deaths can result. In January 2020, the NCDC reported 1,618 suspected cases of measles. The concern is that more children will likely die in a measles outbreak than from COVID-19. Experience from the Ebola epidemic in the Democratic Republic of Congo and Sierra Leone shows that immunization coverage dropped precipitously during the 2014 Ebola outbreak and put many children are risk of sickness and death from vaccine preventable diseases. We know that Ebola is different from COVID-19 one important way, that COVID-19 positive people could be asymptomatic and still transmit the disease, whereas for Ebola, those that are contagious already manifest the disease and thus can be avoided. This implies a paradigm shift in the way healthcare is provided, given that any client presenting to a clinic could be COVID-19 infected and inadvertently transmitting the virus. Universal precaution and infection control must therefore be strengthened in our health facilities. It is common knowledge that many health centers lack the most basic facilities, even running water. This is an opportunity to change that. All hospitals and clinics must have water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) facilities as well as the space for social distancing, and the room to separate patients with features of COVID-19 from those with none. Health worker’s knowledge, practices and attitude is central to maintaining immunization services and inspiring public confidence in the safety of health services. All 220,000 plus primary healthcare workers across the country must be trained to know how to triage clients on arrival and separate suspected COVID-19 cases from others. They must have PPEs to protect themselves and masks for their clients. They must engage the grassroots with the right preventive messages and assure parents to continue to bring their children for vaccination. In all this data is key. As the Presidential Task Force of COVID-19 tracks and announces the COVID-19 cases, they should also announce data on vaccination services periodically. We must track national vaccination data to know when we are falling behind and when to act. Citizens must monitor and report which clinics and hospitals are not vaccinating to drive accountability. Although government owes Nigerians a duty of care to protect their health, fighting COVID-19 and keeping essential immunization services going, requires a whole-of-society effort. Let us join hands to advocate for adequate supplies and equipment for clinics and health workers, to keep immunization and primary health care services save for all Nigerians, even as we battle COVID-19. Dr. Chizoba Wonodi is the Immunization Technical Lead, USAID’s MOMENTUM 2A: Global Technical Leadership and Targeted Technical Assistance.