Ever had phone sex with your spouse? Research has shown that phone sex does not only spice up marriages, it also saves long distance relationships, especially with this pandemic, some couples, due to no fault of theirs. I watched a movie recently where the married couple due to their career demands had to relocate to two different geographical locations. The couple, no doubts they were still madly in love with each other, but duty called. A time came when they needed to make babies, but the long distance made it almost impossible to do so. But guess what, readers. Phone sex came to the rescue. The husband went to a lab where his sperm could be frozen. After the necessary documents were signed, a small can was given to him to fill up but by the time he got to his office, he had to be ”in the right mood” to be able to fill up the can. So, he can thereafter send to his wife and complete other medical requirement of putting the sperm into his wife and all that. So, what did he do? He called up his wife; and they began to talk. Dirty talk, if you like, it worked. Till the end of the film, in which they were apart for years, what saved their marriage? Constant sex; very hot, passionate, phone sex! Have you tried it? Come on, there is no need to be so old fashioned about things like this; after all, he or she is your spouse, abi? Shame should be thrown aside when it comes to being intimate with your spouse. Don’t forget that your sex life can make or mar your union. It is the truth, studies have shown this. If you have not tried it before now, it is time to start. It can start with calling up your spouse, (of course, you must ensure that they are completely done with the day’s job) with a question like: “What are you wearing? Other times, you can start a focus on breathing or a loving, but stern command like ”Take off your clothes” or Open your legs”. At other times, you can start with a simple “Hello baby” or whatever pet name you have for your spouse, like my heartbeat, my own, honey pie, honey bunch, sweetie etc, but whatever you do, your intention is to put your significant other, in the right mood, so your tone matters. Ensure you have enough airtime, because you never know how long it could take. No matter how you start, practice they say makes perfect. As a wife there is nothing that should stop you from initiating a phone sex with your man. According to survey by an edition of Cosmopolitan magazine, it was found that 85 per cent of men would like it if their women give it to them good over the phone. The key thing to enjoying phone sex is not just your partner’s participation; it is your active participation that will determine how much you both will enjoy it. Enthusiasts say that after phone sex, his wife showers him with compliments. She tells me she is amazed at my ability to satisfy her. Phone sex is popular for a myriad of reasons. It is healthy and safe. You literally talk your way to a place where you want to touch yourself. No protection is needed. Phone sex can also be intensely intimate and it can bring you and your partner together even when you are on separate coasts or in different countries. A lady can reach orgasm twice if the call is handled properly. Good phone sex requires trust as much as it requires good signal. Once you establish trust between both of you; you can enjoy sex with your most powerful organ – the brain. Susie Bright, a sex expert and author of ap2: the erotic treasury, says ”it may seem ‘disconnected’ when you first pick up the phone, but the most interesting part of talking into someone’s ear and listening to their confidence will soon have you completely oblivious to your surroundings. ”Pretty soon you will be one of those people who say, with utter seriousness, that ‘phone sex’ is one of the best sex I’ve ever had.” Even if what you talk about is in the realm of fantasy forever, connecting orally allows you a freedom you may not get at other times in your relationship. Yes, it really is possible to excite your partner with dirty talk phrases, without being in the same room. You might be familiar with it if you’ve ever been in a long distance relationship. It is phone sex if you can just take your time and get creative with your partner, phone sex can be so good; it almost feels like the real thing. When you are having a phone sex, please do go all the way with your partner, don’t hold anything back. Since he or she is not with you in person, you will both have to work harder to get things heated up. Vivid details and fantasies are a must when talking over the phone. Go wild and say things that you might deem to be too “out there”. Try using lighter dirty talk phrases to get him in the mood before you unleash your fantasies. Make sure to let him know what you are wearing, and if you have passed that stage (not wearing anything at all), tell him exactly what you are doing to yourself. Emphasis is on how much details you use. Each time you escalate into dirtier words, make sure he is ready for it before doing so. Once he says the word, you can say it as well. Pay close attention to his breathing. If he is very aroused, his breathing will be that much heavier. Pay closer attention to where he is taking you with his words. Once he decides what he wants, he will lead you there subtly. You have got to enjoy it too! The point isn’t to reach orgasm with the dirty talk phrases – you want it to seem like you’re closer than you actually are.