Nigerians have continued to hail President Muhammadu Buhari on the Federal Government’s welfare package for health workers as Nigeria continues to fight COVID-19. Some lawyers in Lagos on Wednesday described the decision as encouraging, urging citizens’ cooperation in the fight. They spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos. NAN reports that Buhari had, in an address to the nation on Monday night, said that the government had signed a memorandum of understanding on the provision of hazard allowances and other incentives with key health sector professional associations. ” We have also procured insurance cover for 5,000 frontline health workers,” the president told Nigerians. A human rights campaigner, Mr Kabir Akingbolu, told NAN that the decision was commendable. “One must commend the president for the innovation in the welfare of health workers, especially the insurance scheme,” he said. He said that the scheme would give health workers the hope that in the event of any hazard in the line of duty, their families or themselves would have something to fall back on. “Nigerians will be glad if this promise is kept. “The president surely has lofty ideas and programmes to help the country out of the coronavirus pandemic. “It is hoped that no saboteurs will be given chance to smear government name in this regard,” Akingbolu said. He also hailed Federal Government’s continued restriction of interstate movement. ” This will go a long way to curb the pandemic. “It is also noteworthy that the president’s speech recognised the danger inherent in social and religious gatherings. “Also, Buhari’s resolve to take necessary steps to address Kano’s issue is a welcome idea. “His recognition of state government’s rights to adapt or give necessary directives to ensure that the virus is properly tackled is praiseworthy” he added. Mr Olakunle Fapohunda, also a lawyer, said that Nigerians should be patient and exercise more caution to curb the pandemic. “Let us be reminded that the virus is still actively lying out there. “Ideally, a total and longer lockdown should have been recommended and ordered, if the government can meet with people’s daily needs especially those that depend on daily income to survive,” he said. Fapohunda applauded the president for efforts made for financial stimulus packages for small and medium scale enterprises. ” Nigerians earnestly await the manifestation of his directive, and we hope it will be transparent as he has said. “There is a ray of hope for business activities in the commercial hubs of the nation now that the lockdown imposed on Lagos, Ogun and FCT would be eased by May 4,” he said. NAN reports that Buhari had in the address also said that distribution of palliatives was still ongoing and in a transparent manner. “I urge all potential beneficiaries to exercise patience as we continue to fine-tune distribution processes,” the president said. NAN)