 LAST week, for the umpteenth time, policemen were caught on camera violating their rules of engagement, this time, assaulting a woman accused of violating lockdown regulations. The woman, Tola Azeez, a resident of Iwo in Osun State, was on her way to get drugs and relief materials for her family when she was accosted by two police officers, Inspector Ikuesan Taiwo and Corporal Abass Ibrahim, and flogged for being disrespectful. A video of the incident went viral, leading police authorities to order the arrest of the officers. They have been tried by the police in line with service rules and are awaiting the decision of their employers. But what if there had not been a video evidence. The video of the incident is unsightly, and clearly points to some of the fundamental problems militating against the operations and image of the Nigeria Police Force. Until those fundamental problems are addressed, the police will find themselves trapped in a pirouette of malfeasance and punishment involving their errant officers. Nothing suggests that the police are any nearer resolving these contradictions that have considerably hobbled their operations and given the law enforcement agency a bad name. The police may have reacted quickly to douse the controversy and disgust triggered by the Osun flogging incident, but that prompt response has, however, not suggested that something was being done to avoid a repeat in the near future. In fact, hardly a day passes without the police being mentioned in one atrocious behaviour or another, whether it has to do with extrajudicial killing or extortion, or even framing innocent citizens for crimes not committed. The police authorities have nearly always reacted to such grave infractions by investigating, arresting and disciplining offending officers. The problem is that whatever the police have done has not meant that institutional deterrence has been infused into the force. Everything points to a fundamental default in the training and deployment of police officers. For even when they are not involved in flouting their own rules of engagement, they have been deficient in acting with the professionalism and impartiality integral to police operational procedures. In the states, they have sometimes been inseparable from tyrannical governors, and in the streets, they have sometimes connived at crimes, sided with the guilty, favoured the first complainant, and subordinated themselves to the rich and influential. Clearly, the police must firmly and decisively changed their operational paradigms. That change must begin at the training schools, and the country’s political leadership as well as the police hierarchy must find the boldness and vision to birth a very fundamental change. Nigeria’s political structure is weak, tentative and susceptible to fragmentation. No matter how bright the police leadership is at the moment, that needed paradigmatic shift in the force is unlikely to happen anytime soon because of the structural inadequacies and contradictions in the system. The country will, therefore, content itself with cosmetic changes such as the country has unfortunately become inured to, one in which police officers who demonstrate poor and egregious judgement are cashiered. Over the decades, each police Inspector General has found it practicable to coax the nuisance handed down to them, hoping that nothing tsunamic would happen to disrupt handing down the same nuisance to their successors.  The public must reconcile themselves to the disappointing fact that they are unlikely to get the police force they crave — a police establishment that is independent, policemen who are proud of their profession, firm, experienced, tactical, responsible, patriotic, fair, humane and visionary — indeed a police force among the very best in the world. That is perhaps a chimera too distant and too abstract. However, they must never tire of campaigning for a great police force, regardless of the painful fact that the country’s political structure and poor leadership make that goal unrealizable. Indeed, the irony was probably lost on many Nigerians last week that the controversial and cantankerous traditional ruler of Iwoland, Oba Abdulrosheed Akanbi, weighed in on the flogging incident to counsel the police and sue for public restraint. Said Oba Akanbi: “The act and action of the police against an Iwo woman, Tola Azeez, is condemnable. It is an unacceptable and barbaric display. Iwo is civilized beyond such incivility. The palace has for time immemorial devised necessary machineries to ensure the community and the police co-habit peacefully for effective security. I’ve intervened, the police have gone to her place with the DPO of the affected division to tender their apology formally.” But Oba Akanbi was the same traditional ruler who physically battled a fellow oba in the presence of top police officers, as the law enforcement agency proved powerless to do anything about the fight, not even to bear witness to the truth about the brawl between the two feuding obas. The rot in the police and the society has taken long to crystallize; it will take deep and fundamental changes to find the antidote to what has probably become a cancer.