By Ozolua Uhakheme Assistant Editor (Arts)  Director-General National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC) Otunba Segun Runsewe has called on Nigerians, particularly residents of Lagos, Ogun and FCT, to brace up and battle the COVID-19 pandemic by obeying the strategic protocols already in place. He said that President Muhammadu Buhari as the father of the nation, is pained about the effects of pandemic on the Nigerian people, hence the very visible interventions and public engagement to discourage panic and fear. Otunba Runsewe appealed for calm as additional two weeks lockdown takes off again, adding that necessary intervention projects will get to the people if we must all see ourselves as stakeholders in the effort to kick coronavirus out of Nigeria. “I must confess that the scenario is difficult for everyone, government losing revenue fast than ever before, the budget been slashed which again will affect project deliveries and the effects on those who work to eat. It’s a humongous reality but as a people, Nigerians have always in one accord risen to put down clouds of darkness which threatened our collective existence in the past and this COVID-19 cannot be an exception,” he said. He recalled the many values of our cultural history, obedience to constituted authorities and respect for welfare and safety of  neighbours as phases of culture value chains, which Nigerians from all walks of life must put to practice, including social distancing, regular cleaning of hands and other protocols meant to mitigate the spread of COVID-19.  Otunba Runsewe urged the traditional rulers, clergy men and Moslem leaders not to see COVID-19 protocols and consequent lockdown across the country as targeted against them but a sacrifice which everyone must bear to keep our people and our future safe. “Take a global look at what is happening today and every one can see even the greater impact.The Saudi Arabia government cancelled the Hajj activities and programmes, the pope also shut down the Vatican and other grounding of travel, culture and tourism structures, so we cannot pretend these clear potential dangers and damage of COVID-19 in our country and take to behaviours that will endanger the life of our people,” Otunba Runsewe added. He disclosed that NCAC will unfold a post COVID-19 cultural intervention through skills acquisition across the nation to help unskilled Nigerians, particularly women to support their families and to help rural economy to rebound. The NCAC boss commended the FCT Minister for the structures put in place to secure the city as evident in the efforts of Police Commissioner and the Task Force. “Lagos Governor is doing great too and he needs the backing of security architecture to reduce the incidence of communal transmission and also to check crime, Otunba Runsewe said, adding that  Nigerians must be strong and prayerfully acknowledge that the president cares and is deeply concerned about our welfare and safety. “As officials of government, we must all be seen to do our best to help our people. It’s trying time for us all no doubt, so we must wake up to help Mr President reach out to the people and stem the tide of fear about the pandemic and bridge gaps where necessary. It is our people and our country first and no sacrifice is too small.”  Otunba Runsewe stated.  