The hospitality/tourism industry is the most adversely hit by the COVID-19 outbreak. Travel restrictions, social distancing, isolations, curfews and now, total lockdown in some states and the Federal Capital Territory, to contain the spread of the killer virus, have forced a total freeze on all hospitality and tourism-related activities. The crisis, which is taking a debilitating toll on various operators along the tourism value chain, has also dampened hopes of leveraging the industry to diversify the economy and create jobs, writes Assistant Editor CHIKODI OKEREOCHA If late, it has been extremely difficult to extract a smile from the President, Federation of Tourism Associations of Nigeria (FTAN), Alhaji Saleh Rabo. The cloud of uncertainty that has descended on operators in Nigeria’s hospitality/tourism industry, following the outbreak of the COVID-19 has momentarily robbed him of his usual jolly mood. An evidently worried Rabo lamented that most hotels in Nigeria are now operating with less than 30 per cent guest occupancy rate, thereby operating at a loss. He added that because of the toll COVID-19 is having on his members’ business bottom-line, many of them have been forced to downsize in order to reduce cost and save their businesses from shutting down completely. The FTAN President, who spoke with reporters in Abuja recently, rued the impact of COVID-19 on employment. He said FTAN members are the largest investors in Nigeria’s tourism industry, including investments in hotels, resorts, transport services, tour operations and travel agencies, among others. And they have been providing thousands of direct and indirect jobs to Nigerians. The tourism industry employed about 1.6 per cent of Nigerians in 2016, according to Nigeria Hospitality Report 2016.  The report by Jumia Travel Nigeria, Africa’s hotel booking online portal, also said the industry generated an estimated $5.5 million, about N1.7 billion. This represented about 4.8 per cent contribution to Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in the third quarter of 2016. Indeed, tourism is widely acknowledged as having the potential to significantly contribute to a nation’s GDP. The industry, according to experts, currently accounts for 10 per cent of global GDP and jobs. This must be why Rabo and other stakeholders in the tourism value chain are now worried over the fate of Nigerians who have lost their jobs in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak. Their worries stemmed partly from the assessment of the likely impact of the COVID-19 on international tourism by the United Nations World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO), which predicted that because of the unparalleled introduction of travel restrictions across the world, international tourist arrivals will be down by 20 to 30 per cent this year. The UN specialised agency for tourism stated that an expected fall of between 20 and 30 per cent could translate into a decline in international tourism receipts (exports) of between $300 and 450 billion, almost one third of the $ 1.5 trillion generated last year. As if the figures are not depressing enough, the World Travel and Tourism Council (WTTC) also warned that the COVID-19 pandemic could cut 50 million jobs worldwide in the travel and tourism industry. WTTC’s Managing Director Virginia Messina projected that of the 50 million jobs that could be lost, around 30 million would be in Asia, seven million in Europe, five million in the Americas and the rest in other continents, including Africa. Messina said equivalent to a loss of three months of global travel in 2020 could lead to a corresponding reduction in jobs of between 12 and 14 per cent. She also estimated that once the outbreak is under control, it would take up to 10 months for the tourism sector to recover. Why local tourism’s recovery may be slow Even with the WTTC’s projected 10 months recovery timeline for the industry, it is hard to see the light for Nigeria’s tourism industry. And the reasons are obvious. For one, the Nigerian economy, tourism sector inclusive, was yet to recover fully from the 2016 economic recession caused by the crash in oil price, which began in mid-June 2014. Although the economy managed to exit the recession in 2017, its full recovery has been rather slow. Virtually all the sectors were still struggling to bounce back before the COVID-19 pandemic unleashed its terror on the global economy, with Nigeria and her tourism sector badly hit. According to experts, its impact on the local economy, particularly the tourism industry, would have been minimal, but for its peculiar structure. The thinking is that the COVID-19 pandemic cast a spotlight on the shortcomings in the composition of the economy. It, once again, exposed the economy’s vulnerability to global shocks, apparently because of its over-reliance on oil at the detriment of other high growth sectors, particularly tourism. For instance, more than 90 per cent of Nigeria’s foreign exchange earnings are from crude oil and gas. Oil is also the major driver of accretion to her foreign reserves. But the price of oil has since been tumbling, throwing Africa’s largest oil producer and most populous nation into confusion. Although, the current dramatic dip in oil price is not entirely caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, the demand for Nigeria’s oil and gas has reduced significantly, meaning that a drastic reduction in the revenue of government has become inevitable in the near time. And this will, among others, constrain infrastructure financing. Incidentally, the dearth of infrastructure has been one of the obstacles before the emergence of a vibrant hospitality/tourism industry. The lack of critical infrastructure such as good roads, constant electricity and even potable water has been major disincentive for existing and potential investors in the tourism sector. Also, before the avalanche of restrictions that came in the wake of the COVID-19 lockdown, operators in the tourism industry have been agonising over the pervasive insecurity across the country. This has been scaring away prospective investors and forcing existing ones to spend so much on the provision of independent security for clients and tourists. To make matters worse, terrorism, particularly by the dreaded Boko Haram blood hounds in the Northeast, including robberies, kidnappings for ransom, among others, have made tourism an unattractive venture. Series of coordinated attacks by insurgents and kidnappings have sent jitters down the spine of would-be tourists. Daily, various media platforms, including print, electronic and social media are awash with heart-wrenching stories of the deadly attacks by insurgents and the gruesome murder of innocent citizens by marauding headsmen. Many foreign countries are forced to issue travel advisories, warning their citizens of the dangers of visiting the country. While operators in the industry were still struggling to come to terms with the effects of the monumental image problem the situation foisted on them, the COVID-19 outbreak and subsequent total lockdown have added to their woes. Rabo lamented, for instance, that the travel agency sub-sector has lost over N160 billion following the COVID-19 outbreak. He attributed the heavy financial hemorrhage by travel agencies to mass flight cancellations by domestic and international airlines. The National President, National Association of Tour Operators (NATOP), Bilkisu Abdul, also said the pandemic had taken its toll on efforts to boost tourism in Nigeria. “We are all scared because of this COVID-19.  A lot of our planned trips have been put on hold,” he said. Abdul, who is also the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of BBOOG Travels and Tours, said, for instance, that her planned trip to Turkey with about 60 people was billed for April, but she had to put that on hold as a result of the scare. “You can imagine the losses,” she complained. COVID-19 was first identified in Wuhan, Central China, in December 2019. The World Health Organisation (WHO) declared it a global pandemic on March 11, 2020. But like wildfire, it has since spread across continents from mainland China, its roots, to Asia, Europe, America and Africa. The pandemic eventually found its way into Nigeria through an Italian who travelled from Milan to Lagos, in a Turkish Airline. That was on February 27, 2020. At first, Lagos State, and a few other states responded by announcing partial restriction of human and vehicular movement, including asking certain categories of members of staff to work from home. However, the quantum jump in the number of confirmed coronavirus cases in a remarkably short time forced President Muhammadu Buhari to step in to confront what he said had become both a health emergency and an economic crisis. Accordingly, Buhari, on Sunday, March 29, 2020, announced a total shutdown of Lagos and Ogun States, as well as the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. The lockdown, which was for an initial period of 14 days, took effect from 11:00 p.m. on Monday, March 30, 2020. The push to contain the spread of the virus came a little over a month after Nigeria confirmed its first case. As at the time of the lockdown on Sunday, March 29, the number of confirmed cases of coronavirus in Nigeria had jumped to 254 as at Tuesday, April 7. On the strength of the lockdown order, Buhari, in an address to the nation, said: “All citizens in these areas (i.e. Lagos, Abuja and Ogun) are to stay in their homes. Travel to or from other states should be postponed. “All businesses and offices within these locations should be fully closed during this period. Movements of all passenger aircraft, both commercial and private jets, are hereby suspended. Special permits will be issued on a needs basis.” However, rather than abate, the number of confirmed cases in Nigeria has continued to rise, much to the chagrin of health authorities and operators in various sectors, particularly those in the tourism industry. As at Friday, March 3, 2020, a tweet from the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) indicated 210 confirmed cases of COVID-19 in the country. The NCDC tweet reads: “Two new deaths have been recorded in Lagos and Edo state. As at 10:30 p.m., April 3, there are 210 confirmed cases of COVID-19 reported in Nigeria. Twenty new cases of COVID-19 have been reported in Nigeria; 11 in Lagos, three in the FCT, three in Edo, two in Osun and one in Ondo.”