Believers should be reasonable enough to know when a situation calls for reason more than faith.  It is a cause for concern that the Sultan of Sokoto and spiritual leader of Muslims in Nigeria, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar lll, needed to emphasise the reality of the COVID-19 pandemic to Islamic clerics living in denial. It is commendable that the Sultan responded promptly to a dangerous misrepresentation of the coronavirus crisis by some Islamic clerics. Specifically, the leader of Izalatu Islamic sect in Plateau State, Sheikh Sani Yahaya Jingir, was said to have declared, during a television sermon, that Coronavirus was unreal, and the pandemic a lie by western conspirators, to stop Muslims from performing their religious rites. In other instances, two Islamic clerics defied a curfew imposed by the Kaduna State government to contain the Coronavirus, and led congregational prayers in Malali and Ungwan Kanawa, in the Kaduna North local government area of the state. These actions, the Sultan said, amounted to “misleading the Muslim Ummah (community) by some sections of Ulama (preachers) over the coronavirus prevalence.”  The Sultan is correct. For example, some misled protesters in a northern state, angry at being barred from the mosque for Jumat service, were reported to have burned a police station, with possible police fatalities. The mob clearly did not believe that the coronavirus is real, and that shutting the mosque was a protective measure aimed at minimising social contact and checking the spread of the disease. As President General, Jama’atu Nasril Islam (JNI), the Sultan spoke through the JNI Secretary General, Dr Abubakar Khalid-Aliyu, in a statement that showed his sense of responsibility. “It is… sheer monumental ignorance to falsely claim that the pandemic of the coronavirus does not exist and that it is a lie…” the Sultan declared, noting “the serious health implications of adhering to such empty dispositions that invariably endanger humanity.” It is relevant to note that even Saudi Arabia, where the two holiest places in Islam are located, has imposed a 24-hour curfew on Mecca and Medina, in response to the spread of the coronavirus, which has killed more than 20 people and infected nearly 2,000.  These developments in the country regarded as the home of Islam show the unreasonableness of the overzealous local Islamic clerics who deny the reality of COVID-19. However, the Sultan’s message is not for Muslims only, but for all believers. Religious faith should not be carried too far, particularly to the point of unreasoning fatalism.  Christian leaders should also emphasise the reality of COVID-19, and avoid misleading their flock. Indeed, all faith leaders should follow the Sultan’s example. It is noteworthy that, last month, for instance, there were cases of churches that disobeyed the Lagos State government’s order disallowing gatherings of more than 20 people.   “We had to shut down a few services as some pastors have not complied with the order,” said Bala Elkana, spokesman for the Lagos Police Command. “We cannot allow the virus to spread beyond the level that the health facilities can handle. We will continue to enforce the ban until we have full compliance.” Lagos Deputy Commissioner of Police Mohammed Ali confirmed that three pastors were arrested, but not detained, for disobeying the government’s order. In fact, a major Pentecostal church attracted public criticism after its defiance. The Sultan is a voice of reason, and his position as a respected spiritual leader makes him a credible voice that should be taken seriously by believers of all faiths. COVID-19 is a global health emergency.  The Sultan should use his position to influence local Islamic clerics to spread the correct message about COVID-19.  It is important to make believers understand that this crisis calls for reason; and that only the living can worship God.