Evangelist Elliot Ugochukwu-Uko is the Secretary of Eastern Consultative Assembly (ECA) and Founder of Igbo Youth Movement (IYM). In this interview, he told Associate Editor, Sam Egburonu, that Igbo youths are disappointed with the quality of leadership offered by governors in the region. Excerpts Some critics in the Southeast have alleged that lopsided distribution of federal government funded COVID-19 palliatives in the region. Are the governors aware of this and if so, what are they doing to correct the anomalies? I expect you journalists to investigate and bring this inequity to the attention of the authorities. These inequities are the stuff revolutions are made of. You don’t need a soothsayer to note that, just a little spark could lead to riots and mayhem. The little aide available is not being fairly shared all across the country. That is unfair. That is wrong. Every discerning person can see that the seeds for a revolution are being sown by the people applying this dichotomy. They are actually saying to some regions ” go to hell, you don’t belong here”. Our governors should note that the angry people of this region are unhappy with the state of affairs in the land, especially with the one-sided style of distribution of the so-called palliative. Our people are clearly disappointed. Why can’t the governors … I don’t want to talk about our governors. I don’t agree with their style and I also don’t want to breach my code of conduct, which is: not to attack any governor, as that would distract me. The people know whether the governors are standing up for them or not. When I and Prof Ben Nwabueze escorted Nnamdi Kanu to a meeting with the Southeast governors, two and half years ago, I realised that the overbearing influence of the central government makes it difficult for the Southeast governors to be their own men. I painfully saw why the central government is very interested in whoever emerges as governor in Igboland. Ndigbo are in big trouble my dear brother. Ugwuanyi is good at trying to avoid any kind of fight, struggles to be a nice guy, Umahi, even though he is performing wonders in Ebonyi, very impressive infrastructure development, is totally committed to the politics of pleasing the master and remaining in the good books of the owners of Nigeria; Obiano decided from day one to fight his benefactor, thereby concentrating on survival in office, he has never stood up to identify with Ndigbo aspirations, Ikpeazu doesn’t have any achievements you can put your finger on, he too is busy battling for survival. The Supreme Court governor is the one that will split Igboland. Sad but true because even though nobody is thinking about it now, in nine months, he will produce the next Ohanaeze leader. You won’t expect him to nominate a PDP sympathiser. That would negate why he was forcefully made governor at this time. You also won’t expect Ndigbo to flow with his Ohanaeze nominee, who will definitely be an APC sympathiser. Nwodo’s last nine months may actually be the last days of a united Ohanaeze. You may quote me on this. So Ndigbo are going through difficult times and it’s not over yet. The younger generation of Ndigbo are not proud of our governors, they are nobody’s heroes, except of course the (otinkpu) praise singers and cheerleaders. The owners of Nigeria will never, for obvious reasons, allow strong willed, independent minded guys to emerge as governors in Igboland. We are a conquered people, held down in bondage and monitored aggressively. All our political leaders are compliant actors. This subject is a taboo; a no go area. Never to be discussed. But interestingly, the angry youths are discovering a lot of things, which inform their agitation. So back to your question, the people who share and distribute the palliative know that they are not fully carrying the Southeast along. They may cleverly organise a roadshow somewhere in Igboland for photo ops or propaganda purposes, but nobody is fooled. The intensely provocative dichotomy makes it difficult to preach one Nigeria in this region. These are clearly some of the reasons the agitation has remained very popular, in fact, reality on ground, points to the fact that everything is being done to hold Ndigbo down perpetually as slaves in Nigeria, but for the awareness and agitation by the younger generation, who tell me all the time, that they believe, there is a deliberate agenda to hold them down as slaves for a thousand years. The opposition party says the government is not handling the COVID-19 crisis properly, unlike Jonathan’s government that handled the Ebola outbreak so efficiently that the world applauded Jonathan. That could be true, but you see, even though this Buhari regime is a disaster, the 16 years of PDP didn’t actually move Nigeria forward. The PDP brought upon the land, the evil of imposition of candidates, mind boggling rigging, financial malfeasance or sleaze in a scale never before experienced in the land. PDP laid the foundation for the confusion in the land today. Dr. Alex Ekwueme told me that Obasanjo assured him that he would restructure Nigeria, but the fellow mischievously preferred a third term to salvaging Nigeria. Igbo political elite surrounded Jonathan for five years, they drank brandy with him into the wee hours, they failed to use the opportunity to address group interest, today Igboland has nothing. The roads until recently were in a horrible condition. The PDP is extremely lucky that Buhari goofed, if not PDP would have been history. Is there any hope with the APC then? The PDP gave us bad dreams. The APC brought nightmares. More than half of the APC people jumped from the PDP. We are in trouble. They are all the same. The entire political class is a direct product of the military. The military ruled us with their civilian accomplices and collaborators, these guys simply metamorphosed into the Nigerian political class, whose dreams, desires and aspirations are totally different with that of the hapless masses. The citizens crave for jobs, infrastructure, security, a growing economy and justice. The politician is occupied with how to win the next election, acquire property overseas, live the good life and of course, continue to fool the people. None of them worries about the condition of the masses or the future of the country. They only pretend they care, when it’s convenient. If they truly cared, they will not delay the restructuring of Nigeria, a day longer. The country is crumbling and I bet you, they are all busy husbanding resources in preparation for the next elections. They are so self-centered. They are like a band of predators terrorizing the land, and we are like grass- eating gazelles at their mercy. Some are leopards, some are lions, there are also hyenas and cheetahs. When one species outsmarts the other, they will come appealing to the poor masses for sympathy. Any sincere leader in Nigeria should know that without restructuring, Nigeria will die. If they were truly committed to the wellbeing of Nigeria and Nigerians, this country should have restructured long before now and set on a proper trajectory towards growth and greatness. But just look at where we are; Pity. What should be done? Nigeria is long gone beyond redemption if we don’t restructure immediately. We have been lying to ourselves for over 50 years. You see, I will be 58 years old this year. The story of Nigeria, from my eyes, isn’t an inspiring story. As a kid I recollect the first republic politicians in their flowing agbada and long cars, Opel Capitan, Zephyr, Chevrolet, etc. They partied like there would be no tomorrow. They were truly powerful. The crises and the civil war blew them away. Then came the soldiers in their well starched and well ironed green khaki and their Land rover convoys, they held sway as they were worshipped for import licence and other favours. They too passed away, then came the second republic, the NPN, UPN PRP, GNPP and NPP days. I was a teenager moving into my early 20s.Those ones ran amock. They lost all sense of responsibility and probity. I have seen enough to cry over my country’s missed opportunities. While other countries were busy building their nations, we wasted decades, beating about the bush. Nigeria is a sad story. The painful part of it all is that the political class don’t want to repent. That’s the problem. Is that why some youths of eastern region are agitating to secede? The youths of eastern Nigeria are more dynamic than youths of other regions for three reasons. They suffer from discrimination everywhere they turn, every day of their lives. They are afraid and scared to hand over or bequeath this condition of second class citizenship to their children. That is unacceptable to them. Their position is unambiguous: Treat us as equals or let us go. We want to live as freemen, not as slaves. Two, they have never been slaves to anyone for thousands of years, until Frederick Lugard forcefully united Nigeria and forced them into a union they neither understood nor desired. So the agitation will simply continue until something gives. Finally, Igbo youths in the diaspora have managed to convince the millions at home that their elder’s laissez-faire attitude to the precarious political situation of Ndigbo in the last 50 years is largely responsible for their plight. They are all agreed that something must be done about it. That is exactly what has been going on. The Nigerian state regrettably chooses neither to engage them nor address the structural imbalance that feeds their anger and disenchantment with the system. So the beat goes on. I fear a revolution. All the ingredients are there.