 AXA Group and parent company to AXA Mansard Plc have continued to demonstrate their commitment to eradicating coronavirus pandemic globally. This was made known in a statement by the company on the COVID-19 pandemic and the launch of the AXA Solidarity Response. According to the company, at the early stage of the crisis, the AXA Research Fund was the first to support the COVID-19 Task Force launched by the Institut Pasteur, a world-class research centre, with 33 institutes in 25 countries, thus, has been at the forefront of the fight against COVID19. The Chief Executive Officer, AXA Group, Thomas Buberl, stated that the Task Force would help understand how the virus works and spreads and develop new diagnostic tools and treatments. AXA will further strengthen its commitment to Research by earmarking five million euros to fight COVID-19. He said at a time intensive care units around the world are under  pressure, AXA Group has partnered Fund 101, an organisation that federates more than 1,200 intensive care units across 60 countries, to share and accelerate improvements in therapeutic protocols.  He said: “In France, AXA Group purchased two million masks, which were given to the medical system while also helping health workers by financing their meals. In addition, AXA Group has gone a step further in its commitment with 101 Fund by launching a global solidarity challenge, #AXA Solidarity Response, with its employees to support 1,200 intensive care units in 60 countries, including Nigeria. The challenge which will run from the 7th of April through to the 30th of June, 2020, will give each AXA employee the opportunity to donate five Euros, financed by AXA, to 101 Fund by publishing a solidarity message on their personal Twitter or LinkedIn or Instagram account, enabling them to also take action, even from home. “The world is going through a crisis that will stand in collective memory. In an unstable environment, AXA has been fully mobilised since the outbreak of the pandemic to respond to two challenges: the health emergency, by protecting its employees and clients, and the economic and social emergency, by ensuring the continuity of a business that is essential to society. In line with our mission, and consistent with the actions taken by public authorities around the world, we are announcing today new commitments to reinforce the impact of initiatives already underway.” Chief Customer and Marketing Officer, AXA Mansard, Jumoke Odunlami, added that since the outbreak of the pandemic, AXA has been at the forefront of educating its customers and community about the precautions to take and we would continue to do so.