 MORE states on Sunday strengthened measures to tackle the spread of coronavirus pandemic. Rivers, Edo, Katsina and Kwara either locked down the states or parts of them. Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki proclaimed a dusk-to-dawn (7 pm to 6 am) curfew from today, reviewable after 10 days. “The security agencies, by this directive, are mandated to enforce total compliance by ensuring that movement is restricted at night across the state,” Obaseki said. Katsina State Governor Bello Masari ordered a lockdown of the capital from 7 am tomorrow. It followed the confirmation of two new cases of COVID-19, bringing the number to 12 with one death. He told reporters: “We have discussed and agreed that by 7 am Tuesday, there will be a total stay at home in Katsina LGA.” The governor expects workers to be paid their salaries today. Rivers State Governor Nyeson Wike imposed a total lockdown of some parts of Port Harcourt. Wike said: “The affected areas are local business hubs where streets are overflowing with traders, such as Creek road, Prison junction, Nembe waterside, Cultural Centre, Yam Zone and Ahoada Street. “The lockdown also affects the bustling and densely populated Diobu areas, including Education bus stop, Kalabari by Odi Street, Afikpo Street, Gambia Street, the entire Ikoku Spare part zone, Rivers State University roundabout, and Abali Park under the flyover (both descending and ascending) at Mile 1 and Isaac Boro park. “Residents and visitors to these neighbourhoods must stay at home. All business premises, shops and commercial interactions must also cease immediately.” Kwara State government on Sunday reiterated the restriction of vehicular movement, saying only those transporting food and drugs are exempt. Deputy Governor Kayode Alabi told reporters that the markets remain open on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays between 8 am and 12 noon but residents are to walk to the markets. “People are to patronise only markets nearer to their places of residence. Movements to the markets shall be on foot,” he said. Commissioner of Police Kayode Egbetokun added that security agencies would prosecute anyone who violates the restrictions. “Going forward, anyone who is caught violating the no-movement directive will be arrested and prosecuted in the mobile courts,” he said. Anambra State Governor Willie Obiano reiterated the lockdown of the state, urging residents to stay home, except farmers. The governor maintained that boundaries with neighbouring states remain closed, adding that only vehicles conveying essential commodities and supplies were allowed. He said those in Awka, Nnewi, Aguleri, Onitsha, Ekwulobia, among other communities, must remain in their locations, adding that motor parks remained closed. Food markets in Anambra State, according to him, were to open on Tuesdays and Fridays. Obiano said: “All farmers in Anambra State are directed to return to their farms with immediate effect.     