 The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) has commended the Federal Government, particularly the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF), for giving manufacturers of essential products and services easy movement during the 14-day lockdown to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. MAN said the food, beverage, pharmaceutical and other complementing sectors that make the value chain of essential products available are very critical and the Association was glad that government recognised this critical role in its directive for 14 days lockdown. It noted that its members have testified to unhindered operations in the face of the lockdown. MAN President, Mansur Ahmed stated that since the decision to lock down economic activities by some states and the national declaration by President Muhammadu Buhari, the association has maintained consistent talks with relevant government stakeholders on the survival and sustenance of livelihood of Nigerians via the operation of critical manufacturing sectors. According to him, such talks indeed yielded positive results, one of which was a letter addressed to him by the Chairman of the NGF and Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, for manufacturers. “I am deeply impressed by the move of the NGF for taking heed to the call of manufacturers of essential products at a time like this,” Ahmed said. The NGF had in a letter to MAN, dated March 30, 2020 and titled “Covid-19 Emergency Response-Special Clearance for Producers, Suppliers and Distributors of Essential Goods and Services” conveyed its support to manufacturers to ensure that their operations are unhindered with continued effective and efficient movement of essential items. The letter, which was signed by Fayemi and made available to The Nation, read in part: “Considering the crucial role you (Manufacturers) play in ensuring the production of essential items such as nutritious foods (including beverages), medical and pharmaceutical products considered critical for the sustenance and well-being of individuals and families especially in these times. “Following careful and deliberate consideration by the 36 Governors of the Federation, we are pleased to convey to you our full support to ensure that your operations are unhindered with continued effective and efficient movement of such essential items.”  Accordingly, the NGF said all parastatals and agencies of the 36 State Governments have been advised that the operations and activities of food, medical and pharmaceutical product companies and their suppliers of raw materials and packaging materials, service providers (logistic companies, etc), transporters, distributors, sales team and retailers should not be hindered by officials or agents of the State Governments. The NGF, however, said all food, beverage, pharmaceutical and medical companies are required to issue all suppliers and transporters a letter of authority confirming that they are authorized by them; that all their staff ensure they carry their identity cards at all time for all movements, with a copy of the letter of authority. The Forum also said it will soon provide manufacturers with toll-free numbers hey can call in case they have any problems or bottlenecks with their letter of authority. “We are working assiduously to ensure unhindered flow of essential goods and services,” the NGF said. Reacting, MAN pointing out that the NGF’s directive has yielded good outcomes in some states, as “Our members have testified to unhindered operations in the face of the lockdown,” Man, however, said some security operatives in other states are not yielding particularly, the rank and file officers on the field. Ahmed, however, said to address this setback, “We are in talks with the NGF to give the necessary directives for adequate sensitization of officers who are unyielding to giving manufacturers of essential products easy movement hampering the chain of distribution.” He added that while MAN continues to play its role as an advocacy body committed to creating friendly business environment for manufacturers, “the Association can only rely on the government to reciprocate by implementing the suggestions of MAN on the support for the sector during this era of Coronavirus pandemic.”