 Justice Jide Falola of Osun High Court sitting in Ikirun has sentenced two men to death by hanging for murder. Falola, in his judgement on Thursday, said the prosecution counsel proved his case against the convicts – Elijah Oyebode, 25, Yusuf Ajibade, 28, and Jelili Raji, 35 – beyond reasonable doubt. He, however, acquited the second convict, Ajibade, of two-count charge of murder and conspiracy but convicted him on the third count charge of receiving stolen property. The judge sentenced him to two years imprisonment, while Oyebode and Raji were sentenced to death by hanging. He also said that the shrine where the deceased was murdered be forfeited to the state government. The convicts, who were first arraigned on Nov. 14, 2017, pleaded not guilty to three-count-charge of conspiracy to commit murder, murder and stealing preferred against them. The State Counsel, Mr Kareem Adekilekun, had earlier told the court that the defendants murdered one Miss Rofiat Adebisi, a 400-level student of Osun University, Ipetu-Ijesha, on Dec. 22 2016. Adekilekun said the offences were contrary to Sections 324 and 316, and punishable under Sections 319 and 322 of the Criminal Code Cap.3 Law of Osun, 2002, respectively. The prosecution counsel told the court that on that fateful day, the deceased boarded a golf car with Lagos number plate FKJ 636 DL, driven by the first convict, Oyebode. Adekilekun further told the court that on Dec. 23, 2016, the lifeless body of the deceased was found by the road side along Egbeda road in the state. He said the convicts were arrested with help of the police through the iPhone 5 of the deceased, which was sold to Ajibade. Adekilekun said Oyebode, in his confessional statement, said that Raji asked him to supply him a maid. According to the prosecution counsel, a charm was given to Oyebode by Raji to charm any lady that he will bring and that such lady will be unconscious. He also explained that in Oyebode confessional statement, he said the charm was used against the deceased. He said Oyebode thereafter handed the deceased to Raji in his shrine and paid him N10,000. He also told the court that the confessional statements of the three convicted persons were corroborated by the police, whose report showed that Oyebode had sex with deceased before taking her to Raji’s shrine. Counsel to convicts, Mr Suleiman Bello, pleaded with the court to temper justice with mercy.(NAN)