Two years after its inauguration, the Kaduna Inland Dry Port (KIDP) has remained under-uitilised. If put to maximum use, the facility may facilitate a turnaround of the economy, especially during post-Covid-19, MUYIWA LUCAS writes.  OPTIMISM greeted the inauguration of the Kaduna Inland Dry Port (KIDP) by President Muhammadu Buhari on January 4, 2018 for two reasons:  It is the first dry port in the country and it portrays a bright future for inland dry ports in the sector. Such facilities, if encouraged, would further expand the market as a port of origin and port of destination for maritime business in the north. But feelers from the north, which is home to the KIDP, gives cause for worry. Challenges of cargoes rail movement, global recognition and shipping firms’designation of the facility as a port of final destination, have ensured that the dry port has remained in partial operation. For instance, findings by The Nation revealed that KIDP is operating at less than two percent of its monthly throughput. Besides, a major source of worry for the facility is the lack of support from shipping firms for it in their documents by issuance of Bill of Laden (TBL), movement of cargoes by road and low patronage by some northern states. The shipping lines, it was gathered, do not recognise dry ports as a port of destination, making it difficult for them to flourish. For instance, dry port logistics operation is done from a port of loading to that of destination, that is, KIDP, while Lagos seaports/terminals – Tin Can Island Port or Onne Port in Port Harcourt – is port of discharge. “These challenges, and others, have not been enabling us to commence full operations as a dry port. The Nigerian Shipper’s Council (NSC) is trying its best and these challenges would have been overcome if other stakeholders cooperated and  supported the objectives of dry ports in Nigeria. For example, last year, we (KIDP) moved about 120 20-feet equivalent units (TEUs) within three months before the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) stopped operation into the facility due to the ongoing rail line construction going in the Iju-Apapa axis in Lagos. We operate under customs bond status moving cargoes on trucks by road, which is expensive and involves several documentation with various customs units for processing/clearances coupled with other agencies clearance before leaving the ports of discharge,” the General Manager, KIDP, Rotimi Raimi-Hassan, told The Nation at the weekend. He urged the NRC to recognise the importance of rail haulage in the movement of cargoes to the Kaduna Inland Dry Port. “The situation calls for a lot of improvement on the side of NRC. There are not enough wagons and locomotives that will haul containers here and meet up our demands,” he said. Stakeholders in the industry explained that in an ideal situation of dry port logistics, rail service is a major mode of transport from the seaport serving as a connecting link to dry port terminal, mass evacuation from the mother port with immediate transfer to dry port. Sadly, that has remained a tall dream in Nigeria.  Patronage While the Inland Dry Ports regulator NSC is said to be exploring ways of ameliorating these challenges, Raimi-Hassan argued that there was the need for increased patronage of the facility by all the northern states to maximise  the benefits of the port facility. According to him, only three Northern states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) are taking advantage of the port. “The Kaduna State government has done her bit as the host state by providing water, electricity, access road and support to KIDP. I want to emphasise that the Kaduna State Governor Mallam Nasir Ahmed El-Rufai, has been a strong supporter of the dry port project. Aside other roads he constucted leading to the dry port, there is an ongoing dual carriage road that is over 70 percent completed he is working on which will further boost our operations,” Raimi-Hassan added. The stakeholders contended that the support for KIDP by the state government might not be unconnected with the port’s multiplier effect on Kaduna. He listed these to include the creation of employment, encouraging the development of other businesses related to port activities; bringing shipping services to doorstep of shippers in Northern Nigeria; increases revenue generation to state and Federal governments, enhanced localisation of industries in the northern states, in particular Kaduna state, increased socio economic activities in Kaduna state and neighbouring states, among others.  Boost While the dry port was established to cater for states in the northern region, it was gathered that patronage for the facility has come mostly from Kaduna, Kano, Fedral Capital Territory(FCT), Niger are the few states that are patronising Kaduna dry port for now. The KIDP recorded a slight increase in cargo throughput in the first quarter of this year compared to the same period of last year, with the container throughput to the facility rising above 1, 000 TEUs compared to about 700 TEUs recorded between January and March, last year, it is still a far cry from its daily capacity of 4, 000 TEUs. It has created about 400 jobs have been created for now for indirect and direct jobs, but at full capacity when the dry port commences 100 percent operations, it can accommodate and sustain more than five thousand 5,000 jobs. To boost the operations, KIDP said it had engaged in seminars, electronic advert, personal contacts but the required complementary services support from other stakeholders like Shipping companies, NRC, seaport/terminal operators, NPA, appointment of pre-inspection agent etc. are not there for the facility to forge ahead. Raimi-Hassan further said  in the second year, following the commencement of its operations, there was an improvement in export of goods  from KIDP, as the facility processed about 2,378.24 metric tons last year. These export commodities, he said, include ginger, cow horn, hibiscus flowers, solid minerals – manganese, zinc ore etc. “We had 2,017 metric tons of manganese solid, minerals exported from Kaduna inland dry port last year,” he said. The KDIP is linked with the Nigeria Customs Information System (NICIS II)  and in tune with customs modernisation. It has the complement of customs presence. Other port security and regulatory agencies are also involved in the process as obtainable in the mainstream seaports across the country. 