 The Edo State Commissioner for Health, Dr. Patrick Okundia has solicited the support of all residents in curtailing the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19), noting that the state has recorded steady progression in number of suspected cases due to poor compliance with the sit-at-home order, social distancing directive, and other guidelines by the government to contain the infectious disease. Speaking to journalists in Benin City, Okundia said Edo Ministry of Health is tracking a total of 96 suspected cases, spread across 12 Local Government Areas (LGAs) of the state. The commissioner noted that while Oredo LGA has 36 suspected cases, Esan West, Egor, Esan Central and Ikpoba-Okha have 18, 8, 11 and 6 cases respectively. Others are Esan North East (5), Etsako West (3), Ovia North East (5), Owan West (1) Orhionmwon (1), Etsako East (1), and Uhunmwode (1) LGAs. He, however, assured that contact tracing and line-listing are on-going in all affected LGAs in the state. Okundia said two new toll-free lines (08001235111 and 08002200110) for COVID-19 response have been introduced by the state government to strengthen the initial lines from the State Ministry of Health and the World Health Organisation (WHO), which were distributed at the beginning of the outbreak. He said, “We appeal to all residents in the state to complement the state government’s efforts at ensuring the health and safety of all citizens by complying with the governments guidelines against the spread of COVID-19. “It is quite discouraging that while the government steps up measures to protect residents against this deadly virus, some recalcitrant members of the society have disregarded these orders, thereby endangering the lives of others. We call on all residents to adhere to the stay-at-home order and observe other precautionary measures against the spread of coronavirus as the government alone cannot win this battle.” “Wash your hand regularly under running water, use alcohol-based hand sanitisers, and observe social distancing. If you don’t have any serious reason to be out, please stay in your house; don’t go outside to bring what will destroy your friends and relatives,” Okundia added.