Queen Onyemaechi is a model, winner of the 2014 edition of Nigeria’s Next Super Model and CEO Raw Models. In this interview with YETUNDE OLADEINDE, she opens up on her humble beginning, getting into the international scene, challenges and how she is now grooming other models. What inspired you to go into modeling? I would say what inspired me initially was the motivation from my family. They are a big influence in this path that I have chosen especially my mum. Did you have any other plans while growing up? The truth of the matter is that I was just privileged to have an amazing brother whom God used as a tool to push me into dreaming big and becoming a model. I was like most young girls growing up in the streets and what I mean by the streets are neighborhoods where you’re basically struggling to eat and survive. At that point in your life, you can’t think of anything else other than surviving through that day and the days ahead. Interestingly, my mum had plans for me which was the normal routine for every young girl or boy in the neighbourhood, which was learning a trade.  Don’t get me wrong it’s not a bad thing at all; the only problem was that our dreams were limited to that.  We weren’t allowed to dream of going to the universities of course, where would our parents get the money to see us through university, thereby becoming a doctor, a successful editor or a super model. At that point, people even thought been a model means you’re into prostitution. Majority of young girls in our neighborhoods are high school drop outs, they were in the streets living a fractious lifestyle just to put food on the table. So, they’ were not allowed to dream not to talk of having a plan. So it was a bit hard for anyone like me to have a plan. The only plan that was sure for me was learning a trade and definitely getting married to a man who would take care of me, there was no other plan. What was it like at the beginning? At the beginning it was hard!! Like I said, there was no plan other than finishing high school, learning a trade and getting married. My older brothers and sisters were all against it. I can never forget when one of them said that at my age I wanted to be a career woman and they thought I was dreaming. I think I was 16 at that time; it’s still glued to my brain. They all thought that my dream to be a model was invalid and that it was Impossible. They made statements like “who will marry you?”   “No man wants to marry a career woman” “You better start learning a trade”  “modeling is prostitution”, “you want to become a prostitute” it was a terrible experience. My mum was also against it at first but later she supported me immensely. I am really grateful for that, she held it in for me praying passionately that I make it in this path that I have chosen. May her soul Rest in Peace. To be honest, she’s the only one that I am doing it all for. She’s the major reason why I’m still pushing on. It has been a very interesting journey. Now I’m taking care of myself and my family, impacting lives in different ways. I can afford to see myself through school all thanks to this same career. How did winning Nigeria’s Next Super Model influence you? Winning Nigeria’s Next Super Model was an eye opener for me; it helped realize my potentials, it also made me become strong and independent. The astounding knowledge gained through that event shaped me into what I really needed while growing up. What influenced your decision to starting your modeling outfit called raw models? Raw Model management was a direct vision from God given to me on a clean slate. I really wanted to do something different apart from modeling. I really wanted to impact people’s lives and my goal has always been to be a blessing to my family and to the world at large. But I didn’t know how to go about it so I asked God to show me the provision he has made available for me. At that point, he really needed my eyes opened for me to see it. What inspires what you do? My mum is my greatest inspiration. I went through a lot growing up and it’s saddens me that she’s not here to see how intellectually grown I’ve become. I mean I’m still learning, very much open to acquiring more knowledge to improve myself.  But looking back and seeing where I came from I’m extremely grateful and proud and that makes me really want to change the narrative of the modeling industry. It was an escape for me and could be for many more young ladies like me.  Tell us about the memorable opportunities as a model? There have been so many opportunities and it includes travelling round the globe! Modeling in places like New York, London, Paris and Milan to name a few and also meeting amazing personalities that could change your life for good. It is exciting because you’re working and having fun. What else is better than that? What are the other things that you are passionate about? Apart from being a model, I am passionate about Talent discovery and Management.  It’s a new path that I just discovered and I find myself growing a huge interest for. As a matter of fact, I will be enrolling in the university soon to learn more about this. What lessons have you learnt, working on the international scene? Patience, most of the time it works out faster for most girls and boys in the sector. For instance, when you get scouted, get an international contract and your first season you’re walking top shows building an amazing career while for some it doesn’t play out like that. For this group, it might take the 5th or 6th year in your career to blossom. So, I would say that the industry internationally has taught me the act of patience in different ways. What are the challenges? There are a whole lot of challenges and I take things one day at a time. As a model I have come to understand it all and just go with all of it. But being a talent manager is still overwhelming for me. Imagine scouting for young talents whose parents aren’t financially stable, so in other to make that dream possible for them, you have to support them personally. So, you give them funds from your pockets to get passports, visas sometimes flights. You know that’s a huge task on our side and also the fact we’re proposing a dream that we’re not 100% in control of but because we deeply believe in that uniqueness that we’ve discovered in such people, we’d take the risk. It’s still a whole lot to take in. What are some of the things that you treasure most in life? My family, friends and of course my business. Who or what do you consider as the greatest influence in your life and career? For me, the greatest influence is the word of God, and I mean the Bible. It’s the greatest book teaching you all you need to know about life and how to go about it, I’m a huge believer I need to do more studying of it for real. Also Tyra Bank’s has been a great influence on my career. I don’t think my modeling story is complete without her. What is your assessment of Nigerian designers on the international scene? They’re doing amazing things on the global scene now! I mean look at Kenner Ize, Orange culture, Maki oh and a whole lot of them. I’m extremely proud of the fact that Nigerian designers are getting recognized and changing the narrative. Your final word I’ve always admire Tyra banks, she has been a huge inspiration to me growing up and her astounding work ethic is amazing juggling being a super model and impacting lives one way or the other. Patience, stay focus, discover your purpose and keep pressing it will all fall in place. 2020 is a very tough year with this pandemic going on in the world right now everyone is on pause, It’s more like a break for us as we can’t associate with any one for now we expected quarantine ourselves. But would definitely be discovering more talent after all this is over and definitely enrolling in university.