 SCORES of Nigerians on twitter, berated Funke Akindele, an actress, for organising a house party amidst stay -at -home order by the Federal Government over COVID-19 pandemic. Akindele on Saturday organised a house party to celebrate her husband JJC’s birthday  at her residence in Amen Estate Ibeju-Lekki in Lagos Some of the dignitaries that attended the party included; Naira Marley, Rasheed Gbadamosi, a former Lagos state governorship aspirant among others. The Federal Government last week ordered a total lockdown for residents of Lagos, Abuja and Ogun States to curb the spread of COVID-19. However, Akindele, an Ambassador of Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) one of the agencies in the fore front of the battle to stop the spread of the virus, was seen holding house party with friends and families. One of the twitter user, Mazi Olisaemeka with twtiter handle @olisasage said:  “What Funke Akindele and the husband did was highly irresponsible, adding that the duo were expected to know better. “How can you organise a house party with so many people in attendance at this time when social distancing is very important, it is really disappointing,” he said. Also WalkingHumanJollofRice with twitter handle @n60oflife6 called on NCDC to immediately quarantine everybody that attended the house party. According to him, dear @NCDCgov your Ambassador Funke Akindele, her husband JJC, Eniola Badmus, Naira Marley and the entire family threw a packed house party yesterday ” I love Funke and have nothing against her but everyone in that house should be forcefully quarantined, please treat as urgent,” he stated. Another twitter user,  OurfavOnlineDoc with twitter handle @Drolufunmilayo called on NCDC to immediately punish Funke for such act of misdemeanour and violation of government’s order. Meanwhile Funke Akindele and her husband JJC Skillz yesterday apologised to their fans. They waved off the criticisms trailing the party held in their home at the weekend, urging their fans not to be negative. Akindele said she and every one at the party in question had been quartered at Amen Estate for the filming of the Omo ghetto her coming flick. Akindele in Facebook Video which went viral yesterday said: “Uncle don’t create unnecessary sensation. #omoghettothesaga was to be filmed Before the lockdown and some of us had been camped in Amen Estate. So we had to stay in there. So we are safe and happy!! Let’s not be NEGATIVE!!” She further stated, “We all have been together for over two weeks. We are safe and take all precautions”. JJC Skillz also took to Instagram Live to address the situation, saying: “Yesterday we had a bit of an unexpected turn-up. But we thank God. A lot of people are ranting and talking online. It’s your data. You’re very free. Please, go ahead. But, I could tell you guys, we’re safe and sound… Everyone that came to the party has been in Amen Estate for about a month now…” The Nigerian Police yesterday swung into action arresting the actress. The Police also declared her husband JJC, and new rave music sensation, Naira Marley among other top rated celebrities at the party wanted.     