A faction of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Adamawa State has petitioned the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, over alleged harassment of its members. The faction, known as Reformed PDP (R-PDP) and coordinated by a former governorship aspirant of the PDP in the state, Dr Umar Ardo, said in an open letter to the IGP that the faction has a case against the Commissioner of Police, Audu Madaki “On behalf of the factional group of the PDP in Adamawa State, we write to express our dissatisfaction and loss of confidence in the way the Adamawa State Police Command under Police Commissioner Audu Madaki has been maltreating our members since we broke ranks with the PDP Chapter of the state last July,” the letter said. The letter, signed by Umar Ardo, said the faction formally filed a written complaint of physical attack by thugs as members were holding a meeting in Umar Ardo’s house early in February, as a result of which his house and six cars were damaged and some members injured, alleging that the police did nothing about it. The faction stated in the open letter :”On duly reporting the assault, police came and inspected the scene, took pictures and interviewed witnesses. We gave the police names, telephone numbers and addresses of some of the alleged perpetrators of the crime. “We were assured of justice, but to date, not a single person among those we named was even invited for questioning by the Adamawa State Police Command. “Again, when we failed to agree on our differences and we wanted to inaugurate our own factional leadership at the Lelewal Hotel in Yola on 20th February, 2020, the police command went out of its way to seal the venue that we duly paid for to hold a legitimate political ceremony.” Ardo added in the statement that on Thursday April 9, the state police commissioner dispatched a team of mobile policemen that went to his hometown, Kojoli, and closed the factional office of the R-PDP, removed the hoisted flags, arrested the factional chairman, Mr. Phillip Buji, and brought and locked him up in Yola. He added that on Friday when he sent a lawyer, Barr Husseini Guyuk, to bail Mr. Buji, the lawyer was himself promptly detained, and that his PA, Abdulsalam Adamu, who took food to them was as well detained by the police. He said it was sad that arrests of his members were being carried out now that everything, including the work of a reconciliation committee set up by the PDP national leadership, was on halt because of the ongoing lockdown prompted by COVID-19 outbreak, and urged the IGP to address the whole matter.