Emma Elekwa, Onitsha  The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) in Anambra State has dismissed reports of alleged beating of officials of the Corps by angry mob and subsequent begging following a fatal motor accident in the state. The Corps in a statement issued by the Sector Public Education Officer, Pascal Anigbo described the report as false and misleading, explaining that the pictures of the FRSC personnel on the ground were not of any FRSC Staff in the State. The statement read, “A report trending on social media, credited to operanewsapp.com titled, ‘FRSC Officials Beg In Anambra As Angry Mob Beats Them After Motor Accident’, has come to the notice of the Federal Road Safety Corps, Anambra State. “The Sector Commander Federal Road Safety Corps Anambra State, CC Andrew A. Kumapayi wishes to state that the report is not only false but misleading. “The general public are therefore advised to disregard it as there is no truth in the report. The pictures of the FRSC personnel on the ground are not of any FRSC Staff in Anambra State. “For the benefit of the doubt, the fatal Road Traffic Crash which was recorded on Saturday 15 February 2020 at Amansea, just after the cow market, along Awka-Enugu Old road, where Three (3) adult males lost their lives and Eight (8) others sustained injuries, occurred around 6.00am, when a Toyota Hummer Bus with registration number BAL266XA rammed into a stationary DAF Truck with registration number BAL266XA. “It was reported that the Hausa Community in that area barricaded the road, calling on the his excellency, the Executive Governor of Anambra State, Dr. Willie Obiano to see how officials inspecting farm produce causes accidents in that area. “The rescue was effectively and efficiently carried out by Officers and Men of the Federal Road Safety Corps, Awka after receiving a distress call on the crash. “The Hausa community in the area were persuaded to remove the barricades, by the Commissioner of Police Anambra State, CP John Abang. “It is so unfortunate how people go around deceiving the public by propagating fake and forged news, with the aim of gaining cheap popularity.”