WarnerMedia and Trending Media Africa have sealed a strategic partnership that will further diversify WarnerMedia’s business streams. According to a statement, the partnership would offer Trending Media Africa (TMA) clients access to advertising solutions on the high-quality American blockbuster movie channel, TNT, as well as WarnerMedia’s iconic kids’ channels, Cartoon Network and Boomerang. WarnerMedia has been present in Africa for more than 20 years, operating six channels across the continent in 56 English, French and Portuguese speaking countries; including Africa’s favourite kids’ channels – Cartoon Network and Boomerang – and Africa’s tailored blockbusters destination, TNT. Speaking about the deal, VP Head of Commercial and Business Development Turner France, Africa and Israel, Guillaume Coffin said the partnership will yield positive results. “Our wide portfolio allows us to target a large array of segments from young adults, to families, to kids. We can, therefore, offer client’s a fully integrated advertising offering on our channels. We know that clients are looking for fully integrated advertising packages which WarnerMedia is now able to do in Nigeria through our TMA partnership.” “With TMA’s expertise and its ability to bringing game-changing innovation coupled with trade marketing flair, we are convinced that with this new partnership, we will bring even more value to clients,” On its part, Julius Osumah, Managing Partner, Operations at TMA  said that Nigeria is a vibrant market that holds a lot of growth potential for the brand, and, we will work closely with WarnerMedia to deliver the best returns. TMA is now representing WarnerMedia’s channels in Nigeria, giving clients access to a broader distribution with its kids’ channels, and movie destination TNT, being available across DStv’s Family and Premium offerings. At the same time, Cartoon Network and TNT are accessible to GOtv subscribers on GOtv MAX, and TNT also featuring on the GOtv Jolli package.” Following the new partnership, Carton Network and Boomerang will be bringing fresh content like the all-new I, Elvis Riboldi, Lamput and Kingdom Force to their channels, as well as more than 1 000 new episodes of the channels’ favourites like Teen Titans Go, DC Superhero Girls,  Apple and Onion, and others.