Aware of the need to end hunger, African Heads of State established the Africa Fertiliser Financing Mechanism (AFFM) to promote adequate use of fertiliser for sustained productivity and improved agricultural practices. DANIEL ESSIET looks at the progress made by AFFM. The world loses more than 24 billion tonnes of fertile soil  yearly through erosion, compaction, chemical pollution and nutrient depletion, according to the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO). Although globally experts said 30 per cent of the soil is either moderately or highly degraded, analysts believe the situation in Africa is worse with growing population and increasing demand for food. Experts identified depletion of soil nutrients as one of the key challenges to food security on the continent. They attributed the drop in crop yields to decline in soil fertility. They noted that there was the need to increase food production significantly to meet demands. To boost agricultural productivity, they said African countries should embark on more fertiliser use. The need for Africa to accelerate sustainable soil management practices led to the setting up of Africa Fertiliser Financial Mechanism (AFFM) by the African Union (AU) at its Africa Fertiliser Summit in 2006, in Abuja. AFFM is managed by the African Development Bank (AfDB). Also at the end of the  summit,    member states resolved to increase fertiliser use from eight kilogrammes per hectare (kg/ha) to 50 kg/ha by 2015. AFFM has been improving fertiliser access. It has offered more than $400 million in loans to finance projects to achieve the goals of the Abuja Declaration. This year, AFFM convened its Eighth Governing Council meeting at the AfDB’s CCIA building in Abidjan, Côte d’Ivoire. The meeting reviewed its 2019 yearly report and its 2020 programmes. The AU Commissioner for Rural Economy and Agriculture and Chairperson of AFFM Governing Council, Josefa Leonel Correia Sacko, called for speedier implementation of the Abuja Declaration, which was adopted by African Heads of State at its Africa Fertiliser Summit in 2006 to achieve the Comprehensive Africa Agricultural Development Programme (CAADP). “Progress on the implementation of these resolutions has been slow due to several barriers at national and regional levels. These barriers include financial constraints affecting AFFM operations, insufficient number of agro-dealers, ineffective fertiliser laws, unconducive investment policy environments, and undeveloped market infrastructure among others,” Sacko said. The high cost of fertiliser was a key bottleneck for Africa’s smallholder farmers, said AfDB Director, Agriculture and Agro-Industry, Martin Fregene. Fregene said smallholder farmers, particularly, needed special support  as they could not afford the high prices of fertiliser. An inclusive approach, involving all-value chain, he said,  was needed to attain the 50kg of fertiliser per hectare target. So far, Nigeria has benefited from AFFM’s support for fertiliser development. Last year, in Accra, Ghana, AfDB and the African Fertiliser and Agribusiness Partnership (AFAP) signed two grants worth $5.4 million to support fertiliser value chains in Nigeria and Tanzania. The target was to boost the productivity of smallholder farmers in both economies. The AfDB’s Vice President for Agriculture, Human and Social Development, Dr. Jennifer Blanke: “We are just thrilled to be getting together with our partners to expand the efforts to make sure that we are financing the development of manufacturing and blending of fertiliser,’’: adding: “This is an African effort, led by Africans, for Africa.” The two deals were the first by AFFM,  since it was became fully functional last year. They paved the way for the first implementation of trade credit guarantee projects for fertiliser financing led by AFFM in Nigeria and Tanzania. AFAP would be the implementing partner for Nigeria and Tanzania. Scheduled for implementation over a two years, the projects will enhancement the fertiliser value chains in the two countries and will target 10 importers, five blenders/manufacturers, and 37 hub agro-dealers as direct beneficiaries, 520 retail agro-dealers as indirect beneficiaries and 700,000 smallholder farmers as final beneficiaries. This year also, AFFM kick-started a $2.2 million project to provide fertiliser suppliers in Nigeria with financial support to 200,000 smallholder farmers. The trade credit guarantee project is AFFM’s first in the West African nation and will involve 10 fertiliser suppliers, 12 hub agro-dealers and 120 retail agro-dealers. The project, launched in Abuja, will also train farmers in fertiliser use and other agricultural best practices. “We will leverage existing networks and look for creative solutions to increase the availability of fertiliser in the country,” said AFAP’s representative, Nana-Aisha Mohammed,  at the ceremony. The Assistant Director, Farm Input Support Services Department, Umar Musa, who represented the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, said AFAP should work with the government and other actors in the fertiliser value chain to ensure that the project complies with  policies and sector strategies. “We expect this project to support smallholder farmers and improve their productivity to help the country increase its local production and consumption of fertiliser,” he said. “We are confident that the project will increase access to quality and affordable fertiliser by smallholder farmers and hence contribute to the transformation of the agriculture sector in Nigeria,” said AFFM Coordinator, Marie Claire Kalihangabo. Kalihangabo expressed her gratitude to the government for its support to the organisation. The Senior Director, Nigeria Country Department, Ebrima Faal said the National Fertiliser Quality Control Act 2019 reinforces the government’s commitment to the sector. “This programme is timely be-cause the government has placed measures to encourage local production of fertiliser,” he said. Last year, also, stakeholders  met at the Babacar N’Diaye Auditorium of AfDB Group Head Office in Abidjan, Cote d’Ivoire for the maiden West Africa Fertiliser Financing Forum. At the event themed “Fostering fertiliser future”, participants discussed the financing needs of the fertiliser value chain and appropriate financing products. The programme was supported by AFFM and the West Africa Fertiliser Association. A major outcome of the forum was the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the West Africa Fertiliser Association and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), which aims to strengthen the fertiliser value chain in the sub-region and set the stage for the implementation of the regional agenda on sustainable agriculture. “After two intense days of discussions on concrete solutions, it is now time for us to follow up and make sure that what was said here becomes a reality,” the AFFM Coordinator. AfDB President, Dr Akin Adesina reaffirmed the bank’s commitment to work with AFAP in strengthening Africa’s small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in the fertiliser value chain. Adesina said there had been many changes in the African agriculture and fertiliser landscape since the Africa Fertiliser Summit convened in Abuja in 2006. He said AFFM should shift  its support to smallholder farmers. The AfDB president said there was  the need to strengthen innovative financing, and risk mitigation tools, including trade credit facilities and hub distribution financing, targeted at SMEs. “Agriculture is a business; building SMEs is, therefore, critical to creating rural employment and wealth. Strengthening the capacity, including financing distribution channels, should be part of the new orientation of the AFFM,” said Adesina. Head of OCP Nigeria, Mohammed Hettiti agrees with Adesina. He said Nigeria and the rest of Africa should reduce its ‘soil nutrient deficit’ through a holistic approach to increase fertiliser supply and use. He said fertiliser plays a critical role in securing better productivity for farmers but in combination with other input, such as better seeds and agronomic practices. Meanwhile, hope has risen for increased fertiliser use with experts from International Fertiliser Development Centre (IFDC), West and Central African Council for Agricultural Research and Development (CORAF) and the private sector  working to develop an online tool to give localised seed and fertiliser recommendations. Key seeds and fertiliser actors in West Africa are at the last stage of designing an online tool that will soon help address the challenges of accessing these critical input by farmers. The United States Agency for International Development (USAID)/West Africa provides funding for this initiative and the Feed the Future Enhancing Growth through Regional Agricultural Input Systems (EnGRAIS) and Partnership for Agricultural Research, Education and Development (PAIRED) Projects, implemented by