The management of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) said that it will stop at nothing to ensure that the Coronavirus pandemic ravaging the world is quickly brought to an end. The Ondo State NYSC Coordinator, Mrs. Grace Akpabio made the assertion while donating Hand Sanitisers produced by SAED Vanguards to some Hospital Facility and Government agencies in the State. The State Coordinator disclosed that since the outbreak of the deadly virus in the country, the Scheme has put on its thinking cap which has resulted in the production of Personal Protective Equipment such as liquid handwashing soap, hand sanitisers and face mask to mention just but a few. Mrs. Akpabio said that the noble Scheme has invested a lot into the production of these materials to complement Government’s efforts at combating this pandemic. While making donation at Federal Medical Centre, Owo, the NYSC boss said that the facility has done much for the scheme in the state and that the donation is a way of returning good gestures of the institution. “What goes round comes round, Federal Medical Centre, Owo has been a strong pillar of support to NYSC in the state and coming out to support the facility in this challenging period is a collective task which we have undertaken to do”. Receiving the Hand Sanitisers, the Medical Director, Dr. Liasu Adeagbo Ahmed said that NYSC is indeed a true and dependable partner. The Medical Director promised to intensify services to the general public and most especially to the members of the National Youth Service Corps. “Your support today will encourage us to intensify our efforts to do more to the general public most especially to the corps members during this trying period”. At the University of Medical Sciences Teaching Hospital, Akure, the NYSC helmsman said that prompt services the facility is rendering to the NYSC Family in the state prompted the selection of the Teaching Hospital for this widow’s mite. Dr. Adesina Akintan who received the consignment of the Hand Sanitisers on behalf of University of Medical Sciences Teaching Hospital appreciated NYSC for this notable gesture. Dr. Akintan disclosed that the donation would be used judiciously for the purpose it was meant to serve and hoped that the synergy between the Hospital and the NYSC will continue to produce desired results. At the Sector Command Headquarters of the Federal Road Safety Corps, the State Coordinator said that the NYSC management was aware that the personnel of the Command is at greater risk because of the large number of people they deal and interact with every day. “It is incontrovertible fact that the personnel of the Sector Command is at greater risk and will be exposed to occupational hazards during this health pandemic, hence the need for the Scheme to donate these Hand Sanitisers to mitigate the effects of the Coronavirus,” she said. Receiving the Hand Sanitisers, the Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps, Corps Commander Rotimi Adeleye thanked the management of the NYSC for thinking about them. Corps Commander Adeleye said that if every agency or institutions cam make half of the sacrifices NYSC is making, Nigeria is destined to be great again. The Sector Commander used the platform to call on the members of the service corps to continue to live by the ideals and objectives on which the NYSC Scheme was established. The State Coordinator announced that the Scheme in the State would soon start mass production of Hand Sanitisers for commercial purpose with a proviso that it would be subsidised for corps members.