AbdulGafar Alabelewe, Kaduna  As Kaduna State recorded one new case of COVID-19 on Sunday, which brought the number of its confirmed cases to five, the State government said it has so far sent 89 samples to Abuja for testing. The Commissioner for Health, Dr Amina Mohammed Baloni who disclosed this in Monday said, of the 89 samples, five were positive, 77 samples were negative, while, eight are pending. Dr Baloni an a press statement she issued on Monday, 119 contacts have been so far listed, while further contact tracing is ongoing.’ According to her, ‘’the State Government has been taking vigorous actions to contain the spread of COVID-19 since February, by reaching out to the Chief Medical Directors of all hospitals in the state, daily evaluation of the pandemic and devising new ways to check the spread.’’ The Commissioner further said that the ministry has set up an Emergency Operation Centre(EOC), which is chaired by the Commissioner of Health and meets every day, to take proactive measures. Dr Baloni further said that the ministry has ‘’ reactivated and strengthened the Infectious Disease Control Centre(IDCC), by posting trained health workers to the facility, who are currently caring for our patients. ‘’In addition, the ministry has also concluded arrangements for the take-off of an alternative isolation centre which has 69 rooms, where mild to moderate cases will be managed,’’ she added. According to the Deputy Governor, ‘’the facility is expected to be ready to receive patients this week. ‘’ ‘’In the same vein, Kaduna State Government has also concluded arrangements for the establishment of a testing laboratory in collaboration with Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital(ABUTH), Zaria, for quick diagnosis,’’ she revealed. Dr Baloni advised that ‘’cooperating with disease control efforts will reduce the risk of contracting or spreading COVID-19 and therefore, reduce the possibility of a community transmission.’’ The Commissioner said that the State has conducted massive mobilization both on electronic and print media, including social media, to sensitize the public on the danger of this pandemic. ‘’In addition, different sub-committees have been put in place to coordinate response to the disease which include the surveillance, Laboratory, coordination and Risk Communication teams. Likewise, training of health workers is also ongoing,’’ she added. Dr Baloni commended ‘’the frontline health workers who are taking care of our patients and the various professional bodies, Development Partners and individuals who have reached out to support the State Government’s efforts.’’ She called on traditional rulers, community leaders and religious leaders to ‘’continue mobilizing their people on the importance of hand washing, respiratory hygiene and obeying Government’s stay at home directive, as well as maintenance of social distancing in order to avoid spread of the disease.’’