Emerging Africa Capital Group has partnered Lagos, Ogun and Oyo States and Women in Finance Nigeria (WIFNG) to provide relief in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic in Nigeria. According to the firm,  its first round of contributions were to the different public funds set up by  Lagos, Ogun and Oyo State governments to contain the menace and  an initiative by WIFNG, which involved the distribution of food packages as palliatives to vulnerable Nigerians, specifically widows and elderly persons in various communities. Emerging Africa also entered partnership with other credible initiatives such as the private sector-led Coalition Against Covid-19 (CACOVID). The firm is also considering additional support through purchase of medical supplies and personal protection equipment (PPEs) for health workers and Nigerians. Similarly, Emerging Africa is also providing support to the Capital Market Covid-19 Support Initiative recently launched by the Securities and Exchange Commission(SEC) to raise about  N1 billion to support efforts to eradicate the virus. Group Chief Executive Officer, Emerging Africa Capital Group, Toyin Sanni, said the firm would continue to provide all kinds of support including financial donations, professional services, thought leadership and awareness creation in Nigeria and the rest of Africa until the pandemic is over. Group Chairman, Emerging Africa Capital Group, Dr. Onikepo Akande said the firm is a responsible corporate citizen and key player in the Nigerian private sector. “We are wholly committed to playing our part in fighting this scourge and in being a part of the solution to probably the greatest challenge that has confronted our nation and our world in the last century,” Akande said. Emerging Africa Capital Limited and its subsidiaries EAC Advisory, EAC Trustees and Emerging Africa Asset Management provide a range of investment banking, asset management, trusts and estate planning services to African individuals, companies and governments.