 THE Logistics Command of the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) on Saturday gave out food items to 700 vulnerable members of its Oshodi and Shasha host communities in Lagos State. The palliatives which comprised 10kgs of rice and beans, a litre of vegetable oil and 10 sachets of tomato pastes were distributed in celebration of the force’s 56th anniversary. Handing them over to the traditional rulers and community development associations (CDAs) of both communities, the Air Officer Commanding (AOC) Air Vice Marshal (AVM) Lawal Alao urged them to ensure indigent pregnant women, aged people and those with physical disabilities are given considerations during disbursement. He noted that the palliative was aimed at reducing the sufferings of the people in these trying times. The Elewu of Ewu Kingdom, Oba Shakirudeen Kuti received 400 bags for the vulnerable populace of Ewu Kingdom and Shogunle communities in Oshodi while Onishasha of Shaha, Oba Babatunde Akanbi was given 300 packs for those in his domain. Alao said giving the palliative was a directive from the Chief of Air Staff (CAS) Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, adding that all six commands of the NAF located in Markudi, Bauchi, Yenegao, Kaduna, Bauchi and Lagos were asked to do it. He said: “The NAF celebrated its 56th anniversary on April 22 and the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar directed that in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and directive for lockdown, our celebration be low key and it has been. The only activities that took place was a speech by the CAS in which he admonished us to continue to be responsible to our constitutional roles as well as our flight pass that took place in Abuja with banners reminding us to stay safe and another one which was done to remind us of the sacrifices of our colleagues who died in active duty. “In so doing, we have already reached out to Mafoluku and Shogunle communities which are closest to us at the Sam Ethnam Base. We were able to give out palliatives for 400 vulnerable families. We are now in Shasha where we have our 041 Communication Depot to reach out to 300 families. “Each bag contains 10kg rice, 10kg beans, a litre of vegetable oil and 10 sachets Tomato pastes. We know that this is not enough to reach out to all vulnerable families but we belief we are adding to what other well-meaning Nigerians and organisations have done in various communities.” In his remarks, Oba Kuti praised the NAF for the gesture, adding that it would bring succour to the beneficiaries. He also pleaded with the NAF for special considerations to his people during recruitment, noting that there were many qualified persons willing to join the service. Oba Akanbi appreciated the NAF for remembering the grassroots people at a time like this, urging other agencies and organisations to emulate the service. Some of the beneficiaries who were invited for symbolic presentations at the two communities could not contain their excitement as many of them claimed to have been without food. A widow with mobility challenge Theresa Uzoma, 52, said the relief item was the first she had received since the lockdown. She described it as the hand of God, praying for God’s blessing upon the NAF. A man with visual impairment Sunday Badru said the food was like an answered prayer since things have been very difficult for him as those who usually assisted him were also finding things difficult. He said the NAF pack was the second he had received, adding that his family got one from the government last week which has exhausted. 