  As coronavirus disease continues to claim lives all over the world, wreaking havoc on economies of nations, governments have stepped up measures to prevent the spread of the pandemic, which has already taken a huge toll on the global economy. Nigeria, the most populous country in Africa, is among the nations affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. In Imo State, both his supporters and the opposition have commented on Governor Hope Uzodimma’s steps to protect the citizens from the deadly disease. The steps taken so far Although there is no confirmed case of COVID-19 in Imo State currently, the Uzodimma-led government has activated the hitherto moribund health platforms and put these measures in place in case of any eventualities. The first thing the governor did in the wake of the Coronavirus disease outbreak in Wuhan, China and some other countries, was to activate all the health platforms in the state to ensure  enough capacity to handle any possible outcome. The governor did this after a state broadcast, where he urged the citizens not to panic but to adhere to all precautionary measures released by the WHO, including but not limited to avoiding crowded locations and observing social distancing and personal hygiene. Citizens were also urged to report any suspected case to the nearest health facility for prompt action. Also, the governor directed the state Ministry of Health to put in place robust emergency response measures, including enhanced border surveillance, community awareness, health workers’ sensitization, as well as procurement of personal protective equipment and hand sanitisers, which were distributed to citizens of the state. Determined to rid the state of filth, which is a major cause of communicable diseases, Uzodimma recently set up an environmental taskforce to rid the state of all forms of debris. The taskforce headed by the state Commissioner for Environment, Dr. Iyke Njoku, has his works counterpart, Ralph Nwosu, the Deputy Chief of Staff, Emeka Agbo, and Special Adviser to the Governor on Special Duties, Chinasa Nwaneri, as members. Other members of the environmental taskforce are Mr. Ifeanyi Oru (Senior Special Assistant to the Governor), Chinedu Mbakwe Obi and Macdonald Ebere, the Special Adviser to the Governor on Environment and General Manager of ENTRACO. Penultimate week, the governor inaugurated a 9-man COVID-19 committee comprising tested professionals in the field of medicine and related disciplines, with a mandate to monitor developments around the world on the outbreak of the COVID-19. Specifically, the taskforce, which has renowned Professor Maurice Iwu, who has been at the forefront of research for the Coronavirus cure, as Chairman, was directed to take prompt actions, with a view to investigating suspected case/cases and taking the necessary actions.  The team has not only demonstrated the capacity to protect the state from the infection but has shown that it is well equipped to handle any eventualities in the state. Penultimate Saturday, the governor ordered the closure of all markets in the state indefinitely and also prohibited all forms of public gatherings to forestall outbreak of the deadly coronavirus disease in the state. The governor, who made the announcement in a state broadcast, stated that all forms of marriage and funeral ceremonies, religious worships, both in churches and mosques, including crusades and open evangelism are also prohibited. Furthermore, the governor directed that all borders into the state be blocked and those coming into the state must obtain clearances from the health officials attached to the check points before they are allowed entry into the state. Uzodimma also ordered the immediate deployment of combined teams comprising military, police and other security agencies to major streets in Imo to ensure strict compliance with the directives. Further preventive measures taken by the governor, according to his Chief Press Secretary/Media Adviser, Mr. Oguwike Nwachuku, included the training of health officials deployed to rural communities to educate them on the coronavirus. The health officials also distributed protective materials and hand sanitizers procured by the state government to the rural communities. Last week, Uzodimma also unveiled the Imo Initiative Programme (IIP) to tackle contagious diseases aside the COVID-19. The development is a shift from the hitherto reactive system, which waits for one to become ill before it kicks into action. On Friday, during the unveiling of one of the COVID-19 Isolation Centres and security patrol vehicles in Owerri, the governor declared that although the focus was on COVID-19 because of its awesome potency, “we must never lose sight of the fact that other threats to our collective safety and peaceful existence abound.” He cited such threats as crimes, other contagious diseases and disasters. He expressed happiness that even with the rising confirmed cases of COVID-19 in the country; Imo State has not recorded any confirmed case. The governor, while attributing this to the glory of God and the relentless efforts of the government and co-operation of the people, cautioned: “As a people, we must remain vigilant, creative and disciplined in our response to this monstrous virus to ensure that it never gets to our state and if it does, that we must not be caught napping.” Uzodimma, who restated his administration’s readiness to fight the disease to a standstill if it finds its way into the state, said that the six isolation centres located in Okigwe General Hospital, Aboh Mbaise General Hospital, Orlu General Hospital, Federal Medical Centre, Owerri, General Hospital, Umuguma and the Ultra-Modern Well-being Centre, Owerri, Orlu Road, Owerri, are well equipped to handle such cases. Apart from the six well equipped isolation centres unveiled simultaneously by the governor, an Operational Ready Test and Treatment Centre for Coronavirus has also been set up in Owerri metropolis with a molecular Laboratory to test COVID-19, Ebola and all other viruses. Well trained and equipped medical experts from the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) are fully on ground to conduct test on anyone with symptoms of the COVID-19 and to administer treatment where necessary. Another major step taken by Governor Uzodimma to prevent the COVID-19 outbreak and other contagious diseases in Imo is the fumigation of the nooks and crannies of the state, which commenced on Sunday. The governor had earlier directed a complete lockdown of activities in the state to ensure the exercise was carried out unhindered and the desired results achieved. The pilot fumigation was carried out on Friday but full exercise commenced on Sunday, beginning with the state capital, Owerri, in line with the governor’s directive. Already, the fumigation exercise has taken place in Orlu and Okigwe zones and would be extended to other zones. Opposition evaluates Uzodinma’s steps Some indigenes, including opposition politicians, who spoke on these developments, have applauded the governor for the initiatives and urged Imolites to cooperate with the government in its efforts to protect the citizens against the deadly virus. “These initiatives by the governor are highly commendable. I was happy when I watched the state being fumigated. This is the first of its kind in the state. It is not about the political party, because I am not a member of APC. “The governor is doing a great job in the state and we can see his hand in less than three months he assumed office. Even when there is no case of Coronavirus in Imo, you can see that the governor is battle – ready; everything is in place. “He has a very good team, who has the interest of Imo people at heart. “We cannot thank God enough for giving us hope when we thought all hope was lost. We therefore urge Imo people to abide by government directives and support all the efforts being made by Governor Hope Uzodimma to save the lives of the good people of the state”, an elated indigene of the state, who is a member of the main opposition party said.