  One of the major fallouts of the COVID-19 pandemic is the massive restriction of human and vehicular movements in the most affected countries of the world. Governments, to contain the spread of the disease, have enacted various laws that affect, not only movements, but also most economic activities in their areas of jurisdiction, leading to what is now ubiquitously referred to as the lockdown. In Lagos State, for instance, when Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu initially announced a series of restrictions, including the closure of markets and stores around the state at the escalation of the number of confirmed cases of the disease in the state, people went into a frenzy. Many of them besieged the markets and supermarkets to stock up  with products they think would be needed over the period the order was to subsist. The governor’s order that exempted those shops and markets that sell foodstuffs, medicines, water and other essential commodities did not deter the impulsive buyers. This led to various outcomes including increase in prices of items, hoarding and scarcity of food items. Then came President Muhammadu Buhari’s address reinforcing the governor’s order, and  even expanded both the restriction and its enforcement. The concept of lockdown and the experiences of other countries that had earlier implemented such measures, made Nigerians very apprehensive of the state of affairs in the period the order would be in effect. How would they buy their personal and household needs – food, water, medicines, petroleum products and other essential commodities during the period of the lockdown? How would people in the country, especially day-pay earners and small-scale business owners survive during this period? Being at home could be very boring and challenging for the average Lagosians whose lives have always been mobile – various scenerios, meeting various people, various menus from assorted caterers, et cetera and the excitement such variety brought. For instance, a senior civil servant resident in Lagos, but who asked not to be identified, recalled that for more than one week, people were subjected to one scene – the home food from one caterer – the wife. The civil servant said: “Most of us are adopting many suggestions on how to cope with the new realities that come with the lockdown, daily indoor exercises and so on and so forth. “Recently, I stumbled on one reality. Looking out from my window, I noticed a heavy presence of delivery men on the roads as they moved around the town delivering peoples’ orders – food, medicines, water and other essential goods. “I quickly did some google search and found out that most of the e-commerce operators are very much in operation and that I could order for my needs and have them delivered to my house even in this period of lockdown.  “I found out that Jumia Nigeria, for example, was not only in full operation, but has even expanded its scope of operations in order to satisfy its customers during the period of the lockdown. Jumia’s customers can log on to its platform and do all the shopping they needed, including food, medicines, water and other essential goods, pay for them and have them delivered to their doorsteps using a contactless approach, all in the comfort of their homes. “I called on other members of my family and we logged on to the Jumia food App and placed orders for our individual favourites away from the home cook which was becoming routine – main dishes and desserts and made the payment online. About one hour later, I heard a knock on my gate and it was a box containing our orders and the delivery man, standing about three meters away.” She said the delivery man explained that the distance was in compliance with the social distancing rule by the Nigeria Centre for Diseases Control (NCDC). “From the way my family members relished their meals that day, it was obvious everyone was tired of the home dishes that we all used to look forward to. Variety is the spice of life, they say,” she said. According her, the experience also exposed her to another reality – how Jumia and, maybe, other e-commerce platforms, are assisting owners of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) stay afloat in this period of the lockdown – running their businesses and providing for their families by doing so. The civil servant added that another reality was how the operations of the online platforms provide sustenance to the citizens doing daily paid jobs. Most of the delivery men are paid daily and would have lost out on providing for themselves and their families, were it not for the operations of Jumia and its likes. According to her, the operations of the online trading companies and their logistics partners are one of the major reasons Nigerians are not feeling the negative impacts of the lockdown like their contemporaries from most other countries of the world. “It would be a reason some MSMEs may not record much losses as a result of the lockdown,” she added. 