More facts emerged at the weekend as to why the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC) sealed up Med Contour, a body-modifying clinic in Lagos. Checks by our correspondent revealed that the Commission launched investigations at the facility over a failed elective cosmetic surgical procedures conducted by the cosmetic surgeons. Addressing some journalists shortly after sealing up the clinic located, a two storey building at No. 11A, Ladi Alakija street, Lekki Phase 1, the Chief Executive Officer of FCCPC, Babatunde Irukera said this exercise followed of many complaints and dissatisfaction from consumers who have been injured by the activities of the cosmetics house. “We have credible information that Med Contour is performing cosmetic surgery procedures in a manner that is inconsistent with the law. We have had complaints and we have opened up an investigation and we have also sent out summons and the notice of the commencement of the investigation,” noted the FCCPC CEO. Irukera explained that the law allows the Commission, on the suspicion of any illegal activity in certain location, to proceed to that location and stop such activity The CEO of the government regulatory agency said besides coming to seal off the premises, the commission had also come to notify the organisation of its intention to commence investigation into the activities of the clinic. He added that the scope of the investigation is pursuant to sections 17(s), (t), (x), (y) and 13, of the FCCPC Act which prohibit obnoxious practices, require services to be safe and for the commission to reduce risk of injury to consumers as well as ensure that services comply with the required standards of care. The FCCPC boss explained that there was credible information that Med Contour, owned by Dr. Anu Fella, had engaged in cosmetic medical procedure in a manner that could be described as inconsistent with the law. “The information we have seems to tell us that the body modification procedures seem not to comply with applicable standards of care and some have complained to us that they have sustained significant and sometimes irreparable injury on the procedure that they have been subjected to,” he stated. In a notice of investigation pasted on the entrance to the Cosmetic clinic, signed by the CEO of FCCPC stressed that “essentially the allegations are that Med Contour engages in conduct that is considered otherwise unprofessional, misleading and potentially injurious, including resulting in possible fatalities.” Accordingly the FCCPC stated that by the notice of the summons, it was informing Med Contour and its owner Dr. Anu Fella that it has immediately commenced an investigation pursuant to the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Act [FCCPA]. “In addition, section 18[4], 32, and 33 make provisions with respect to the powers and processes of the FCCPC in conducting investigations. “Sections 123, 124 125 of the FCCPA, prohibit making misleading statements, issuing guaranties or statements about the efficacy skills or probable outcomes with respect to services that are untested or scientifically unproven, and sections 127, 128 and 129 prohibit unfair or unreasonable contract terms, exclusion, or waiver of legitimate liability for prevailing standards of care.” Irukera then advised Med Contour to provide the information under section 32, 33, 36, and 113 of the FCCPA, in furtherance of investigation on or before close of business on 29th April 2020. Med Contour cosmetic surgery clinic in Lekki Lagos is owned by one Sisi Anu. Her latest victim is the popular Nigerian lady known as Omohtee, who is battling for her life after plastic surgery had gone wrong. The twitter influencer took to her Instagram page to call out the plastic surgeon. According to her in a video, the surgery which was meant to increase her bottom and slim her waist was done at Med Contour Hospital in Lagos by a certain Dr. Anu Omohtee explained that she had tried reaching out to the said Dr. Anu, but she has since declined her any attention. Stepping in, Irukera said the commission had been inundated with complaints and dissatisfaction with respect to certain elective/cosmetic surgical procedures carried out by the firm. He said, “The commission’s initial review indicates that there is sufficient probable cause to inquire into the consumer protection aspects of the representations and services of Med Contour and its operatives. “As such, the commission has opened an active investigation into the practices and processes of Med Contour, its promoter, associates and employees.” Attempts to speak with the management of the clinic as at press time proved abortive.