The utmost need for remediation and restoration, of the Niger Delta area of Nigeria, has provoked debates and discussion for decades now. It accounts for the 1995 controversial trial and hanging of the Ken Saro-Wiwa-led Ogoni 6, which some environmental rights activists have dubbed “state murder”. Since that tragic denouement, however, United Nations bodies, including the World Bank, United Nations Development Project (UNDP) and United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP) have waded in with tonnes of recommendations. But various Niger Delta communities are still crying about criminal neglect by the Federal and State governments. The people of Alamabiri, in Sagbama Local Government of Bayelsa State, just cried out to all stakeholders to save them from annihilation. They told the public that erosion was threatening to sweep away the entire community, as the embankment along the shoreline, put in place during the Ibrahim Babangida regime, has given way. The havoc wreaked has taken a toll on the peace of the community. According to spokesmen of the community, the market that attracts people from the neighbouring communities had been washed away twice; while the current one is no longer attracting much patronage. Similarly, the primary school has been built thrice owing to an exposed shoreline, plaguing the land with free erosion. The only maternity, serving the Alamabiri and surrounding communities, has not been spared. The experience in other agrarian and fishing communities, of the coastal areas of the Niger Delta, is not different. Education, health and commerce have been affected. Tunu-Ama, one of those communities, is said to have shrunk over the years, as the youth see no future in staying around. But when they run to the crowded cities, they are found useful only for menial jobs. As the coastal areas of the Niger Delta primarily bear the crude oil that supplies the bulk of our foreign exchange earnings, it’s been pointed out over the years that Niger Delta and its people deserve more attention than they have been receiving from the various tiers of government. Palliatives, hitherto introduced, have not been effective.  For one, the often casual central government doesn’t seem to realize the enormity of the challenge.  For another — and perhaps worse: the criminal greed of some locals, that often divert the funds meant to correct these problems into own pockets, with little or no thought for the wellbeing of the majority of their people. As a result, the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) is yet to achieve the purpose of being a catalyst for development. As an intervention agency, and peopled by appointees from the oil-producing states — Akwa Ibom, Rivers, Delta, Bayelsa, Edo, Cross River, Imo, Abia and Anambra — it was expected to ascertain the people’s needs; and fund appropriate projects so identified. However, the Country Commission and state governments have been perpetually at loggerheads. This must stop if the cries from communities in the area are to stop. There is also the 13 per cent derivation fund from the national revenue distributable pool. Many non-Niger Delta people are concerned that there is little to show for the allocation since the commencement of the Fourth Republic. Besides, every Niger Delta State has an Oil Area Development Commission, to which the devolved fund is supposed to be committed, with counterpart contribution from the state governments.  Yet, experience has shown that rather than committing the resources for remediation and restoration of the despoiled environment, states have regarded it as largesse for governors to fight and win electoral battles. Thus, the task of renewing the Niger Delta states, mindlessly exploited by the international oil companies since crude oil was first drawn from Oloibiri in 1956, is to be borne by the federal, state and local governments.  So, traditional and community leaders, who have been used as tools for suppressing protests by the exploited people, have to be held accountable by the people. The environment, as international agencies have confirmed, had been so gang-raped over the years that it requires urgent replenishment. Even the Ogoni town whose plight has been more advertised than all, is yet to be approriately fixed. In the interest of justice, therefore, due attention must be paid to the areas producing the bulk of the revenue that has sustained the Nigerian state. Besides, the traditional occupation and vocation of the local people have often been destroyed — no thanks to oil pollution of the land and rivers; and drilling without environmental impact assessment.  Lack of adequate youth empowerment, to cope with demands of the 21st century world, is another serious challenge. All these problems have to be addressed fast.  Otherwise, they could be a ticking  time bomb. Only heeding the cries of the people, and doing the needful now, can avert the looming disaster, not only for the zone but also for the country.