The International Securities Services Association (ISSA) has appointed Chief Executive Officer of Central Securities Clearing System (CSCS) Plc, Mr. Haruna Jalo-Waziri, as the representative of the global community of central securities depositories (CSD) on the Operating Committee of the ISSA. The Operating Committee of the ISSA, chaired by Mr. Jyi-chen Chueh, Executive Director, Standard Chartered Bank, is the pivotal Committee of the ISSA saddled with the responsibility of providing technical support and execution to the Executive Board of ISSA in proposing, executing and managing work projects aimed at advancing securities services globally. Headquartered in Switzerland, the ISSA is an association of the world’s largest central securities depositories, global custodians and securities transaction services banks, including The Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation , the CSD for the United States markets; Euroclear, European CSD; Clearstream, German CSD, Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited, Citigrpup, Credit Suisse, Deetsche Bank AG, BNP Paribas, Standard Chartered Bank, SWIFT and Bank of New York Mellon among others. Chief Executive, International Securities Services Association (ISSA) , Parry Colin, said he was delighted that Jalo-Waziri agreed to be a member of the ISSA Operating Committee. Parry noted the value proposition of nominating and appointing Jalo-Waziri to the Operating Committee of ISSA included his leadership role in the Nigerian CSD and his understanding of ISSA as core member. Jalo-Waziri described the appointment as a clarion call to service in an industry that he is most passionate about. “It is my pleasure to have been nominated and appointed to join the esteemed professionals on the Operating Committee of the ISSA and I look forward to working with colleagues, with diverse global experience in actively promoting forward-thinking solutions that create efficiencies and mitigate risk within the global securities services industry,” Jalo-Waziri said. For more than 40 years, ISSA has made significant contributions to the development of the worldwide securities services industry by facilitating the interaction among market participants and providing leadership in the formulation and promotion of best practices in the post-trade securities services.