In the wake of the Coronavirus, the African Development Bank (AfDB) announced a $10 billion support for African countries to battle the pandemic. This support and other development strides of the Bank are weapons in a cold war rocking the Continental lender, whose President, Dr. Akinwumi Adesina, has been endorsed by African leaders for a second term due in September, writes OLUKOREDE YISHAU.  The Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) at its 56th ordinary session of the Authority of Heads of States endorsed the re-election of Dr Akinwumi Adesina as the President of the African Development Bank (AfDB). Nigeria, it is worth pointing out, maintains the largest shareholding in the Bank, with about $6 billion portfolio. The ECOWAS leaders said: “In recognition of the sterling performance of Dr Akinwumi Adesina during his first term of office as President of the African Development Bank, the Authority endorses his candidacy for a second term.” The sterling performance mentioned by the ECOWAS leaders in their communique has seen Dr Adesina win the 2017 World Food Prize and the 2019 Sunhak Peace Prize. The Bank too has seen its fortune rise in the same period. In the 2018 Aid Transparency Index Report, released by ‘Publish What you Fund’, AfDB was ranked 4th among 45 development organisations around the world. The World Food Prize Foundation, while conferring on Adesina the coveted ‘Nobel Prize in Agriculture’ alluded to his proficiency at qualitative leadership when it noted that “through his roles over the past two decades with the Rockefeller Foundation, at the Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa (AGRA), and as Minister of Agriculture of Nigeria, Dr Adesina has been at the forefront of galvanising political will to transform African agriculture through initiatives to expand agricultural production….” Adesina is due for a second term, commencing in September and recently received the African Union’s endorsement which was considered, by many, as putting a seal on an extended tenure – after all, it is an African Bank and African leaders had spoken. However, a crisis is being precipitated. One of the key assistance Africa has received in its efforts to battle the Coronavirus pandemic is a $10 billion support from the AfDB. The Bank has equally listed a $3 billion social bond on the London Stock Exchange to help Africa deal with the pandemic. Many feel that the Bank’s package against the pandemic appears to be one of the reasons behind a cold battle in the bank. Some forces in the bank, with roots outside of Africa, were said to have expressed reservations about the nature of the financial support, thus delaying the announcement of the assistance, until very recently. The AfDB boss was said to have expressed strong support for the poor and vulnerable Africans, pointing out that Africa had to be helped to quickly join the rest of the world in the battle against the pandemic. Interestingly, the United States has had declared packages of over $2.2 trillion relating to the fight against the pandemic. This is in addition to a reduction in Federal Reserve lending rates and liquidity support to keep markets afloat. In Europe, there are stimulus measures in excess of 1 trillion Euros. Aside the disagreement over the pandemic support fund, there is a complaint by some members of the AfDB staff against Adesina’s running of the bank. This is currently being looked into by the AfDB’s Ethics Committee. A summary of the issues against Adesina is that he has a plan to “Nigerianise the AfDB by giving compatriots key positions, but also by more easily granting lines of credit to leading Nigerian companies.” Facts on the bank’s website, however, point to the contrary as an approved list of projects on the website show that Senegal, Cameroun, Tanzania, Rwanda, Namibia and others are key beneficiaries of about 75 projects worth $64.5bn. These countries have projects specifically  targeting them, while Nigeria benefits more from multiple-country focused projects. This has prompted some to nurse the view that the allegations are merely aimed at thwarting the re-election of one of Africa’s most decorated development economists.  A dramatic dimension Things recently attained a dramatic dimension as a break-away group from the rank of the petitioners, on March 13, filed a complaint against a key non-African Executive Director for allegedly misleading and manipulating the members of the group against Adesina. The compliant reads: “This denunciation is made in accordance to the whistle-blowing and complaint handling policy of the African Development Bank. It is also made in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Conduct for Executive Directors of the African Development Bank. This note is brought by a group of staff members outraged by the actions of an elected staff member, the Executive Director, who uses a group called “Group of Concerned Staff Members” to take hostage our Institution. We were members of the group called “Group of Concerned Staff Members” until we understood that we were being manipulated by a group of non-regional Executive Directors…, not for the good governance of the African Development Bank but to discredit the candidacy of the current President for his re-election. “Our objective is to trigger investigations that will confirm or infirm the breach of the Code of Conduct alleged below. Cases of Alleged Breach of the Code of Conduct by the Executive Director”, the renegade group contended, proceeding to state instances of what they believed to be serious and repeated breaches of the Code of Conduct by the said Executive Director. A damning revelation was the fact that the said Director had breached the confidentiality requirements of the rules and regulations of the Ethics Committee, by providing “exhaustive reports of all discussions (during meetings or by email) between members of the Ethics Committee”. They also revealed that the Director assisted with the preparation, along with the whistleblowers, of all “reactions to be sent following discussions between members of the Ethics Committee.”  Adesina’s response Adesina, in a formal response on the allegations, said: “The African Development Bank has a very high reputation for good governance”, adding that he has confidence in the Board of Governors of the Bank and pleaded that the Ethics Committee should be allowed to do its job without interference. The Committee, The Nation learnt, has continued sitting despite the COVID19 Pandemic, prompting optimism that the entire episode will soon be resolved. A source, who preferred anonymity, said: “Dr. Adesina will certainly have his day to defend himself. On every single allegation, he is 100 per cent confident that he will be vindicated.” He called the allegations a “smear campaign concocted by an interest grouping that has never felt comfortable with the rise of the Bank in global development finance reckoning.”