From Kolade Adeyemi, Kano  Inundated with reported mass deaths in Kano, Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje on Monday directed investigation to ascertain the cause of the strange incidence. No fewer than 40 corpses were reportedly buried since the declaration of the lockdown at Dandolo cemetery in Dala local government area of the metropolis, against the usual three and at most five corpses daily, The Nation gathered. At Kofar Mozuga Cemetery also in the metropolis, the number corpses brought for burial on a daily basis hit 10, a development begging for serious concern, Aminu Abubakar told The Nation. Also, at Kara cemetery, near the Abbatoir, Aminu Koki told this reporter, between Monday and Tuesday 42 corpses were buried at the cemetery, but, said “l can tell you the cause of deaths. The situation is pathetic, which needs urgent attention of the government. However, the chairman Fagge cemetery committee, sheriff Hadi Kabir, called for urgent government intervention to unravel the incidences of the unexplained deaths in the state. Kabir, who lost his father three days ago, described the situation as terrifying. He said at Zangon Barebari in Kano Municipal, over thirteen people died between Sunday and Monday from severe fever, suspected to be acute malaria and typhoid and other ailments. He attributed the resurgence of malaria to mosquito bites, associated with the coming of raining season. According to him, this is not coronavirus as been speculated, it is severe malaria, due to the exposure to mosquito bites. Reacting to the development, however, Commissioner for Information, Muhammad Garba who acknowledged the reported strange death told journalists that government has swung into action to examine the matter. Although Garba disagreed that the sudden rise in the case of death in Kano is related to COVID-19 pandemic, he noted that Governor Ganduje has directed the state ministry of health to investigate. Also reacting to the development, director, Centre for Infectious Diseases Research, Bayero University, Kano, Professor Isa Abubakar Sadiq said research has not confirmed the development has anything to do with COVID-19 pandemic. The Public health Consultant stressed that information so far obtained from on the development indicated death of aged persons who might have suffered from severe age-induced illness. ” What we have seen so far is more or less false and rumour because there is no scientific research to prove that the purported mass death was due to COVID-19 pandemic. ” While investigation, as directed by the government, is still on, we stand to say the reports are false and it is meant to cause panic in the city. I did not subscript to the fact that there is unusual record of death. There are so many interests around and people are ready to generate unfounded stories”. Professor Isa noted.