 The Police Command in Anambra says it has arrested three suspected members of a car snatching syndicate and two other robbery suspects in the state. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mr Haruna Mohammed disclosed this in a statement made available to newsmen in Awka. Mohammed explained that the three suspected car snatchers were members of four other suspects, who were earlier paraded by the command on April 3. “They specialise in snatching vehicles at gunpoint and selling same after dismantling and overhauling the vehicles to evade detection. “Discreet investigation by police detectives attached to Abagana Division led to their arrest of the suspected members of the syndicate including the gang leader. Mohammed gave the names of the three suspects as Ikechukwu Nwabueze, 38; Uzoma Okani, 26; and Uzoma Ebele, 29. He said the command recovered exhibits including a gold coloured Toyota Corolla car with registration number ENU158EQ, allegedly snatched from one Mr Ifeanyi Onuorah along Eke Nweje Ogidi on March 19. The police spokesperson said the command had so far, recovered three exhibits and arrested a total number of seven suspected members of the syndicate gang. In a related development, Mohammed said on April 15, the command also arrested two armed robbery suspect who snatched a tricycle at gunpoint along old airport road, Oba near Onitsha. “On April 15, at about 9:30a.m, following a tip-off, Police operatives attached to the command’s Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) arrested two robbery suspects – Ugochukwu Nwali, 29 and Ikechukwu Aneke, 39. “The suspects had on same date at about 11:45p.m., allegedly snatched at gunpoint a tricycle belonging to one Ochoyo Baba Sunday, aged 27 years along old airport road, Oba. “Exhibits recovered from the suspects include the robbed tricycle, one locally made double barrel shot gun and another locally fabricated gun,” Mohammed said. He noted that both cases were still under investigation, after which suspects would be charged to court.