The Joint Senate and House of Representatives Committees on Pensions is not probing the Acting Director-General of the National Pension Commission, (PenCom), Mrs. Aisha Dahir-Umar over any misappropriation of funds or irregularities, neither has it recommended her to be probed by the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), The Nation has learnt. This is coming following investigations by The Nation into allegation of misappropriation of funds, flagrant violation of procurement process and abuse of office by the Acting DG. The Chairman of the Committees and former Governor of Kano State, Senator Ibrahim Shekarau in a telephone conversation with The Nation said reports making the rounds that the committee has found the commission under the Acting DG culpable is false and mischievous. Shekarau said as the chairman of the committee, he can state clearly, that neither the Senate Committee nor the House of Representative Committee on Pension is currently investigating her for any wrong. He further stated that the Joint Committee do not have the power to ask the ICPC to probe the commission, noting that if they found any problem, they would have referred it to the Presidency. He pointed out that there were issues raised when budget was being prepared last year and all were cleared before us by the commission and we did not have any problem with them. He said the National Assembly adjourned plenary in the Senate and House of Representatives chambers which has not been held for six weeks, wondering where the falsehood is coming from. He said: “The National Assembly have not in six weeks and I wonder where this falsehood is coming from. I am not aware of any problem with PenCom. It is totally false. “I think somebody somewhere is trying to frame the Acting DG for reasons best to known to them. But as far as we are concerned, we have no issue, needless recommending her for probe”, he added. Meanwhile, a top source in the Commission lamented the attack on the Commission by bad elements in the country. He said claims that ICPC is set to probe the commission’s Acting DG, Mrs. Aisha Dahir-Umar over alleged misappropriation of funds, flagrant violation of procurement process and abuse of office is false. It is really sad that at a time of global emergency of Covid-19, some blackmailers are busy putting up falsehood to further destabilize the country.