Elo Edremoda, Warri  There is anxiety in Delta’s oil city, Warri, over the record of an index case of the novel Coronavirus in the State. According to sources, the case was discovered at a private hospital within the commercial hub of the state. Sources who spoke on condition of anonymity confirmed the development. The sources disclosed that the person, who recently returned from a foreign trip, had been receiving treatment in the hospital. They, however, declined to reveal the identity of the victim but assured that the index case had been moved to one of the established four isolation centres, name withheld, in the state. Governor of Delta state, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa confirmed that a case has been recorded in the state. Addressing citizens on Wednesday morning, he stated that the person had been in the state for two weeks before the lockdown which took effect a week ago. Okowa called for calm and charged Deltans to continue to adhere to the precautionary measures and sit-at-home directive in order to ensure safety of all individuals and families, further warning that defaulters would be duly prosecuted. He stated that relevant officials have begun contact tracing of possible persons the case may have had contact with, just as he appealed to practitioners in private hospitals to report cases with COVID-19 symptoms to the designated centres. Recall that the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) had on Tuesday announced 16 new cases of COVID-19 in the country, one of which was discovered in Delta. Meanwhile, the member representing Ughelli North Constituency ll at the Delta State House of Assembly, Hon. Prince Eric Oharisi, has debunked testing positive for COVID-19. Reports on social media platforms on Tuesday night claimed that the lawmaker was the index case who tested positive for Coronavirus in the state. But expressing shock at the development, the lawmaker described the reports as false, assuring that himself and his family members are in good health. Calling on the general public to ignore the rumour, Prince Oharisi attributed the reports to the handiwork of his political detractors. Prince Oharisi said, “It’s fake. It is being peddled by enemy of progress but nemesis will soon catch up with them. I don’t know where this fake news is coming from. I don’t know! “I travelled last year and I returned January 28 this year. If anyone is having symptoms of COVID-19, it should be after 14 days. I attended sittings for over two weeks before issue of Coronavirus came up. I don’t just know where this is coming from. “I have not gone through any COVID-19 test and I believe wherever this is coming from nemesis will catch up with those who are spreading this false information. “As a lawmaker, I have complied with the directive of the Delta State Government on the sit-at-home. I am still in my home in Asaba, I have not visited Warri or anywhere. “I have been in my house respecting and obeying the directive of the state government as declared by our amiable governor (Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa). As a lawmaker, I shouldn’t be the one breaking the law that had been enacted by the Assembly by going anywhere.”