David Umahi, the 56-year-old civil engineer and governor of Ebonyi State who plunged carelessly into the eye of a media storm last week, has a rough edge to his politics and life. Elected for a second term by a plurality that shamed his opponents, unlike his first term when he eked out a disputed victory against his co-contestants and the wish of his predecessor and mentor, Martin Elechi, he has acted and spoken like a potentate from Africa’s dynastic past. His ire was drawn by two reporters from The Sun and Vanguard newspapers who clearly did Nigeria proud by helping to expose to the country the real Mr Umahi behind the governorship mask. The Sun’s Chijioke Agwu had written a story on the outbreak of Lassa fever in Ebonyi, based on statistics sourced from the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). The governor said the report was a fabrication. On the other hand, Peter Okutu was said to have painted a distorted and disparaging picture of the alleged military invasion of Umuogodoakpu-Ngbo community in Ohaukwu LGA, and allegedly also reported a cholera outbreak, reports that drew the ire of the local government chairman who promptly ordered his arrest. The police, obviously at the prompting of the state government, waded in and detained both reporters, while the governor unprecedentedly vented his spleen at them in a live broadcast last Wednesday. Mr Umahi’s bellicose statements were widely quoted by Nigeria’s offended media. Hear the governor: “If you think you have the pen, we have the koboko. I want to say that I am very displeased with the president and leadership of the Nigeria Union of Journalists and I am going to seize their allowances for two months because they have failed to discipline their members. Ebonyi State is no longer a dumping ground. Only the other day, Chijioke Agwu (that is, The Sun correspondent) wrote that Lassa Fever was killing Ebonyi people in droves, and a few days ago, Mr Peter Okutu of Vanguard did his own. Okutu is fond of degrading Ebonyi State, and I don’t know why my officials have allowed him to continue to do that, because he is not from Ebonyi State. I want to ban him for life with Chijioke Agwu. I don’t want to see them anywhere in any government facility. We are not begging you to give us good report, because the only person that gives good or bad report is God. We are all accountable to him. If you think that Ebonyi State is a dumping ground, try it again.” In case Nigerians found Mr Umahi’s threats improbable, here is how he summarised his anger against the two reporters: “If you think you have the pen, we have the koboko (horse whip). Let’s leave the court alone. Ebonyi people are very angry with the press, and let me warn that I won’t be able to control them or know when they unleash mayhem on you, if you continue to write to create panic in the state. I want you to write it that way, that I said, press in Ebonyi is trying to create another COVID that is more dangerous and that is to create panic in our people. The other one wrote that cholera had killed 20 people in Ohaukwu. If you try it again, I may not know when Ebonyians might react. This is important for the NUJ to know. If you are an Ebonyi man or live in Ebonyi and you don’t feel our pains, it is a shame on you. Maybe, the press people claim they are untouchable. I have reported to the National President of NUJ, I have reported to (the) State leadership of NUJ and I have reported to the public. Now, the die is cast. May God save us in this time.” Nigerians will probably blanch with horror at the governor’s threats. The people remember how valiantly and democratically Mr Umahi, a former deputy governor before 2015,  fought to get his party’s nomination in 2015 against the wishes of the then governor, his boss Mr Elechi. They also recall that his victory, which was challenged by a host of political parties, was legitimised by the courts. How someone who has profited from democratic practices could project dictatorial tendencies and threatened and instigated violence against reporters is hard for watchers of Ebonyi to comprehend. The Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) has rightly taken offence and lodged a complaint against the state government with the law enforcement agencies in Abuja, especially seeing how complicit the police in Ebonyi have seemed. Civil society organisations (CSOs) have also openly challenged the governor, decrying his authoritarian streak and wondering whether, instead of threats and arrests, there were no legal provisions to help him challenge and shame tendentious reports. Like the NUJ, the CSOs have complained that it was both wrong and undemocratic for the governor to bar reporters from performing their constitutional responsibility of holding the government accountable to the people. Mr Umahi has now stirred a storm, but no one is sure whether he gives a damn. He is in his second term and, like his predecessor, might wish to influence the election of his successor, or at least the success of his party in 2023. Could he afford reckless boasts against the constitution and the press, not to talk of embarrassingly flouting the laws of the land? Mr Umahi has not been spectacular with his views and his government since he assumed office in 2015; his latest controversy however seems to take the biscuit. He may have, and exercise, state power, but he is unlikely to have the last say on the matter. Reporters living and working in the state may fear him, going forward, but reporters outside the state will naturally take liberty with their opinions and analyses of his controversial, if unsatisfactory, performance as governor. Mr Umahi has promised to ban the two reporters from covering government activities for life. For life? How and where on earth does he think he can muster such influence? At best he has about three years to go, not a lifetime tenure. He could forbid the reporters and use state power to back his decision, but there is no ambiguity at all in the constitution that he does not possess the powers to do to reporters what he has proposed. The governor says his state is not a dumping ground, a manner of speaking perhaps referencing reports that are adverse to him and the state. He should simply refute reports that offend him and leave the public and the affected newspaper publishers to determine the quality or otherwise of their reporters’ work. Mr Umahi adds that only God gives good or bad report. It is not clear where he got his theology, but God has never arrogated to Himself that distinction of being the only one to grade people’s work. For eons, God has shared that distinction with man. Mr Umahi will in fact be graded by man, including the media, just as God will have His say. After all, the voice of the people, they say, is the voice of God. More worrisomely, the Ebonyi governor insinuated violence against the reporters and any non-Eboyian bold enough to dump unfavourable reports about the state government on the people of the state. He then darkly hinted that the courts would not be allowed to be the arbiter when he takes on his media enemies. Not only does the governor unforgivably swear to pretend not to know when violence would be meted on offending reporters, thereby indirectly instigating the people to feel aggrieved and to do something about it, he also asserted that the horsewhip would be more efficacious as a tool of discipline than the pen. The media will get the hint. Worse, he has suggested that the ordinary Ebonyian should feel aggrieved, and must in fact be ashamed not to feel offended, and he urges them to do something about their pains. This is clear instigation to violence. And Mr Umahi calls himself a governor and a democrat? Incredible. But the media must also feel scandalised by the governor’s Freudian slip that saw him announcing that he would withhold the monthly allowances paid the NUJ. It is not clear whether he is referring to reporters as a whole or the leadership of the NUJ in the state. But it is obvious that Ebonyi, according to the governor , and perhaps like most other states, pays state correspondents working in the state. If such payments exist, they would be unwholesome and unethical. How the ethical standards of the press had become so dulled by economic necessities as to be perpetuated for years is hard to explain. However, it is still a credit to the NUJ leadership that regardless of any such payments, they have still felt the necessity to denounce the governor’s authoritarian actions and deplorable threats. Mr Umahi may rightly take exception to some of the reports published about the state in the media. But as an elected governor who swore to uphold the constitution, he should know how to ventilate his grievances with the decency and temperament of a robust democrat. Sadly, he has acted brashly and heedlessly, like a dictator and lawless politician. He is one more evidence, as if any was still needed, that most Nigerian governors and elected officials are overrated and unworthy of the offices to which they have been elevated by public votes. Is Mr Umahi’s predecessor, Mr Elechi, still acclaimed today? Where, indeed, are all Nigeria’s former governors? How many of them are still spoken about fondly by most Nigerians? Mr Umahi’s tenure will soon come to an end: he has the choice of making that end noble and distinguished, or ignoble. If he does not realign his perspectives with the laws of the land, the levity with which he takes both the constitution and his oath of office seems fated to render him inconspicuous and insignificant in the future.