 The Nigeria Football Federation is still undecided if the 2020 Aiteo NFF Cup will hold and the format it will take if it eventually goes ahead. Football is at a standstill globally due to the Coronavirus pandemic which has witnessed over 1.3 million reported cases and close to 80,000 deaths as at the time of filing this report. The NFF cancelled football activities in the country for one month mid-March and there is a likelihood it will be extended with reported cases on the increase daily in Nigeria. Nigeria has had close to 280 confirmed cases with six deaths and 44 discharged as at April 8 and NFF president, Amaju Melvin Pinnick in a chat disclosed that the football house will have discussions with the sponsors of the competition, Aiteo to look at the feasibility of organising the competition and the format it will take.  “By now, we ought to have started Aiteo NFF Cup but we don’t know if that can even happen this year again because we don’t know when this (Covid-19) will end,” Pinnick stated. “Even if it is going to be an abridged version of course we have to sit with our sponsors. They have the sole right to decide what they will pay for an abridged version.” The NFF President  was  also evasive regarding the possibility of Aiteo NFF Awards holding this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic: “We also have our very highly revered Aiteo NFF Awards sponsored by the same company and the FIFA President Gianni Infantino was scheduled to pay a visit to Nigeria for this Awards.  “We want to celebrate them because women’s football is a big deal in Nigeria and believe this year’s Aiteo NFF Awards will be all about women’s football but we don’t know if it will hold this year. “ Even if it will hold, it is going to be periphery. It won’t be as loud as we would have wanted it to be. “It will just be to keep our contractual agreement. So the Covid-19 pandemic is taking a toll on global sports. We believe that after this whole impasse, we should be able to sit down take a cue from what others are doing and plan consciously towards our next line of action,” Pinnick said.