Telcos are unbale to provide unlimited data promised customers because they have locked their spectrum to 2G technology, the Managing Director/CEO of ntel, Babatunde Omotoba, has said. The ntel chief, who spoke during the unveiling of two devices, Evolution 1, EV1, by Partner Mobile in Lagos, said telcos are unable to offer the data needs of customers in the country. They hardly keep their promise of offering them unlimited data, he said, that explains the reason for multi-simming in the country. Also speaking, the Chief Technology Officer, Partner Mobile, Olusola Akintola, said the infrastructure for 4GLTE does not come cheap, arguing that 4G is different from LTE. He lamented the free entry and exit of mobile devices into the country, warning that if unchecked substandard devices with dangerous emission will find their ways into the market. Specifically, he said some of such devices could be found in far flung places such as Kano and metropolitan Lagos. Omotoba said ntel had worked assiduously with Partner Mobile for sometimes to introduce a budget- friendly smartphone targeted at the consumer market. He said: “Following months of compatibility tests, we are delighted to announce that the ntel network is now compatible with the EV 1 smartphone. This means that anyone who owns this smartphone can now call and browse at a superfast speed, in fact, that is the fastest speed you will see in the Nigerian market. “Our network supports crystal clear high definition voice calling as well as has PLT advanced features which combine to enable downlink speed of up to 150megabits per second on our network. “To demonstrate our commitment to this partnership in driving internet penetration in the country which is in line with the National Broadband Plan, Ntel will be offering end users 4.5 gig data upon purchase of the EV 1 in our stores.” He added that the collaboration with Partner Mobile signals a new dawn in the evolution of Nigerian 4G LTE segment which has been impacted by concern that most people don’t have phones that can work on 4G LTE. “But now we have EV 1 which everyone can afford and be on the 4G LTE,” he added. Interestingly, the  UHD mode of EV 1 combines 4 pictures into a single photo, allowing users to create a whole new high-quality photo, which will reach up to 52MP super pixel effect, brings an impressive experience that lets users keep clarity of their memories. Also, the AI portrait recognition is applied to both front and rear cameras, it automatically recognizes faces and jumps to portrait mode, blur the background naturally.  Another feature is when the owner light up the screen, Face ID will unlock the phone instantly. EV1 also supports fingerprint unlock on the back when Face ID is inconvenience for the owner.