 LAGOS State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Wednesday said offices, businesses, markets and stores will be allowed to open daily from 9 am till 3 pm on selected days from Monday. Only 60 per cent of staff members should report for duty and must wear facemasks, he said during a briefing. Sanwo-Olu said everyone must observe precautionary measures such as social distancing, use of facemasks, regular disinfection of offices, provide hand-washing equipment and temperature checks. The governor said public officers from grade levels 1-12 are to work from home unless otherwise directed by their accounting officers, who will also determine who on grade levels 13 and above should go to work. Sanwo-Olu said schools, entertainment centres, cinemas, arcades, bars, casinos, day clubs, nightclubs, beaches, swimming pools, gyms, barber-shops, spas, beauty salons, and all public parks will remain closed for another two weeks. “Businesses/companies are encouraged to make adequate arrangement for the transportation of their staff to their places of work to reduce the risk of contagion and exposure while travelling on public transportation. “Companies transporting their staff to work in their private transportation arrangements shall be expected to strictly adhere to the principles of social distancing; as well as to enjoin their staff to practise very high levels of hand and personal hygiene,” Sanwo-Olu said. He advised the elderly and persons with underlying or pre-existing health conditions to stay indoors as much as is practicable. The governor said transport operators/companies must sanitise their vehicles, parks and garages regularly and continuously, at least before and after every trip. They must have at the entrance of their parks hand washing equipment with running water; deploy temperature readers to test every passenger before boarding, and have alcohol-based sanitisers in their vehicles for drivers, conductors and passengers. “All motor parks and garages must avoid overcrowding. Social distancing is required for passengers queuing up to board buses. All buses should be loaded to a maximum of 60 per cent of full capacity,” the governor said. The governor also suspended the operation of commercial motorcycles, popularly known as Okada, across the State, except those used for courier and logistics purposes. Sanwo-Olu directed the drivers of tricycles (Keke NAPEP) operating in unrestricted areas not to carry more than two passengers per trip and the passengers must keep an appropriate distance. 