Mastercard has extended access to science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) curriculum, Girls4Tech, through a suite of new online educational resources. The programme has been designed to help parents and teachers engage and inspire kids, ages eight to 12. Through the new website Girls4Tech Connect, as well as through activities made in collaboration with Mastercard’s education partner Scholastic, teachers and parents can download lessons to help students learn about STEM topics, from the comfort of their homes. These activities are built on global science and maths standards and incorporate Mastercard’s deep expertise in payments technology and innovation – to enable children to discover a range of STEM careers, such as Fraud Detective, Data Scientist and Software Engineering. Now in its sixth year, Girls4Tech has engaged more than 800,000 students across the globe – including more than 100 in Nigeria – through inquiry-based activities and real-world challenges, all with the goal of inspiring more girls to pursue STEM careers and reduce the gender gap in these fields. Just last month, Mastercard hosted its first 2020 Girls4Tech programme in Nigeria where it reached 60 girls aged between nine and 12.  Director, Marketing and Communications, Mastercard sub-Saharan Africa, Ifeoma Dozie, said: “We know that these are challenging times for parents and teachers on many fronts and hope that these learning resources are a fun way to engage and inspire kids about STEM while at home. The easy access to the website enhances what we’ve done in our many workshops across Nigeria. We look forward to building on both efforts when it’s once again safe to gather in person.” New activities have been posted on  weekly at the Girls4Tech website, Facebook page and Twitter handle. Lessons are available in English. While lessons are designed for students to work independently, materials are also available for teachers to guide online sessions. To date, Girls4Tech has reached more than 800,000 girls in 27 countries and on six continents. The programme has engaged more than 4,400 employee mentors worldwide. Mastercard has partnered Scholastic, Be Better China, Major League Baseball, Network for Teaching Entrepreneurship (NFTE), R&A and YCAB in Indonesia to further scale the programme and offer STEM skills in unique ways to girls ages eight-