LAST week, the Babajide Sanwo-Olu administration rolled out the promised stimulus package for Lagosians, with a dire warning against the sale of the food packs meant for the indigent and the most vulnerable in the society. Of the food packs said to have been produced for a size of six people per household to last for at least 14 days, Commissioner for Agriculture, Prince Gbolahan Lawal, said the government had been working with the existing database of the state – using the Lagos State Social register and 4000 community development associations  (CDAs) register, in 377 wards, to ensure the right people benefit from the programme. First, we commend the initiative. If anything, it is a tribute to the state government’s confidence, capacity and resolve to handle the different facets of the COVID-19 pandemic, not least the lockdown occasioned by the need to contain the spread. Second, in a country where the issue of basic data for national planning has tended to be something of a rocket science, it is a measure of the fore-sightedness of successive administrations in the state that such basic data on individual households already exists, particularly for such a time like this. It is something worth recommending to other states in the federation. Third, that the administration would plod on with the massive palliatives for those class of Lagosians, despite having its hands full with the management of the pandemic, is without question, the hallmark of a caring government.  But we must understand that not everyone truly deserving of the palliatives would be reached. That, we daresay, is impracticable. In any case, not the best of processed data will guarantee that every segment of the targeted population will get the package given the limited funds available; even more so, in the circumstance that the state, nay the country, has found itself. Much as we urge the government to seek to expand the reach, Lagosians will need to show greater understanding of the challenges facing the government at this time. The same applies to complaints about the size of the provisions. The expectation that the packs will meet with the needs of every household can only be wishful in a clime where household needs are not only variegated but complex and diverse. That is why it is aptly tagged palliatives – something supplemental to assist the beneficiaries until such a time the state will open for business. We enjoin religious bodies, corporate organisations and other interested civil society groups to do their bit in bringing succour to the citizens at this difficult time. As in every human endeavor, we understand there will inevitably be challenges, hence room for improvement. The government will do well to listen to genuine complaints on the administration of the palliatives, with a view to addressing them.  That Governor Sanwo-Olu has pronounced on some negative feedbacks so far, promising swift correction, is reassuring. Still, the government must be open to investigating any alleged abuses by officials, particularly those bordering on possible diversion of the materials, by officials and other players posing as middlemen. Notably, the commissioner alluded to this when he advised citizens not to buy such products from anybody, saying that products under the stimulus initiative were adequately branded and are to be given out free. Perhaps,  most important of them all: the government must emplace a tracking mechanism to ensure that every pack can be accounted for and where there are lapses, the officials involved must be held to account. The government might wish to have a dedicated telephone line for this as a way to buoy public confidence.