 The Oyo State Government on Monday said its commitment to development and building of school facilities, had led to the increase in the enrollment of children in public Basic and Primary schools. Dr Nureni Adeniran, the Executive Chairman, Oyo State Universal Basic Education Board (Oyo SUBEB), disclosed in a Statement after visiting two newly completed Model Schools in Ibadan. The Model schools were under the State’s 2014 Federal Government-Universal Basic Education Commission/OYO SUBEB Intervention projects. They were located in Baptist Primary School, Isale Oyo, Atiba Local Government Universal Basic Education Area and Immanuel College Primary School, Samonda, Ibadan. The Oyo SUBEB Chairman said that in spite of the stay-at-home, Oyo government ensured that work did not stop on the model schools. He said that the buildings would ease access to quality education in the State, at the end of the novel coronavirus. Adeniran said that the board members were carrying out periodic inspections on schools in the State, in spite of its challenge. He said that the visit was to ensure that the work was progressing this period and that quality jobs were done at the schools. Adeniran said that he was satisfied with the two schools visited in Oyo town and Ibadan, adding that the buildings were ready for use as soon as pupils resume. He commended Gov. Seyi Makinde for putting things in place to safeguard the future of pupils in the State’s public primary schools. The Chairman said that parents and pupils should take advantage of the ongoing ‘Learning-on-air’ which would avail them the opportunity to learn within the comfort of their homes. He added that the programme was to encourage pupils to learn while the stay-at-home lasts, noting that it would also boost their intelligence quotient. “This is a clarion call to parents, whose children are yet to join the moving train, to please emulate those who have started with us. “Parents are to mandate their children to learn on radio while they help with house chores during this period,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Oyo SUBEB launched a ‘learning on air’ programme on radio. The educational programme tagged “Oyo SUBEB Learning-on-air” is simultaneously cast on the State’s broadcasting stations, at Ibadan, Ogbomosho and Oke-Ogun, adding that it is on air from Monday to Saturday. (NAN)