Lockdowns  have become the new  global  life style of  human existence   nowadays . It was difficult to contemplate before,  when it was about foreign lands  but when you have lived in it for a week as we have done in  Lagos,  then you see clearly  that it is not at all a laughing matter .  Now you  understand why those indoors  on their  balconies  in Italy  shout  ‘idiots ‘at  people they see on the streets during lockdown not knowing some of them  are medical personnel. Italy  for now is second  only to the US  in terms of deaths in their thousands,  as  the center of the corona virus  pandemic  .  You  can  also   appreciate   why  in Lagos state a famous actress and her  husband  have been fined 1000 naira  each for holding   a   party during lockdown   while  the police is still searching for prosecution all  those  who attended the party. In  Scotland the Chief  Medical  Officer attending the  daily corona virus briefing with the PM was captured on social media on a visit  to her country home with her family; and after protests or maybe even without that.  The PM s  aked  she should just resign as a bad example on the safety and lockdown rules she daily proclaimed . In  real and grim terms,  the corona virus has shown that life  has no  duplicate and that viruses are  no respecter of persons. A good example of that is UK PM Boris Johnson who  was reported to be fighting for his life in the Intensive Care  Unit in the UK. He  warned  rightly at the  beginning of the epidemic that people will  die with the grim rider ‘without   sugar  coating it‘;     an  expression the US president Donald Trump later adopted when accused wildly  by the opposing media against him, that he had downplayed American leadership appreciation of the gravity of the pandemic initially. In Nigeria the Chief  of Staff  to the President at the powerful  Aso  Rock   has gone on self-quarantine after testing positive. At UCH Ibadan,  Nigeria’s  oldest teaching hospital the Chief Medical Director has tested negative, gone to  seclusion and resumed duty, while the Chairman of the board of the hospital has tested positive  a second  time and is again gone on quarantine. On this pandemic issue the rules are clear and as the Federal Government spokesman said on the convicted actress    case, nobody is above the law. However despite  the   real  dangers of death  by asphyxiation  and dry cough, the reported symptoms of this deadly pandemic, it  would   seem some part  of   the world is not facing it with a herd mentality inherent in the  favourite  strategy of lockdowns to  contain it. Examples abound of those who simply defy    the lockdowns and get away with it or  threaten those who try to effect the lock down by law. According to  reports there was  the usual massive traffic jam in Lekki during this week of lock down such  that even a medical  personnel allowed to move during the lockdown had to  turn back home because there was no road to his destination. The excuse given for the traffic jam was that the police were checking for those violating the lockdown   hence the traffic logjam.  But since thetraffic jam has always been a feature of the place it is apparent the logjam was caused by lockdown  violators . An   excuse has been given that those in Lekki are rich people and  have large  number of cars but they  are not above the law and the state should show that nobody is above the law like the FGN said. And  indeed,  the state should not make laws it cannot keep. In  Ogun  state  the Governor  Dapo  Abiodun , obviously got annoyed with protests over the clearance for Dangote trailers and   others  to ply its borders and roads during the lockdown and asked people to try and be like Dangote,  because to the governor,  Dangote  has  helped  on the virus  finance  support   and  is the richest  man in Africa. That peculiar observation on riches is not an original observation of the Ogun state governor as there is a  popular song by a rapper that  says Dangote does not have two  heads  to   be so rich   and he   prays   to  be like him. But that is not the point here and I think the good governor  has missed the point of the criticism. The Dangote trailers , tankers and different mechanical contraptions    have  been a menace on Lagos and Ogun  state roads  all  the time, and to grant them exemption during lockdown makes the public think they  are above the law in these two  states  on  which the Federal  Government  has, from Abuja clamped a lockdown for two  weeks . Already  the  Federal  Minister  of Information has  somewhat  gleefully  warned that the lockdown will  be extended if citizens or  residents in the two states  do not respond which is an unhelpful and  spiteful  advice in these  testy times. I  expect  Lagos state to have the same attitude shown  by the Ogun state  governor  on the  Dangote  issue  but one should  keep in mind that it is the same FGN which  said clearly that  nobody is   above the law on lockdown violations. Let  us now  move to Germany  and the US where  some people are  taking the law into their hands or challenging it in their intention to insist that life must  go on as usual in spite of the deadly pandemic . Let  me  note  again that Germany  has the lowest rate of deaths in Europe on the pandemic  and  the US has the highest,   being the epicenter of the virus . In Europe Germany has a rate of 1.5 %    while    Spain which  has the largest  deaths  has 9.5%  and Italy    has 7.5  percent. Germany’s  low death rates has been  ascribed to limiting tests to  those with symptoms as even  some  German critics of  even this fine performance, have said it would take three years to test all  Germans. While the German government has  insisted on the lockdowns a fanatic Catholic body  took the German  government to court on the issue because the government  insisted the Churches will not be opened for Easter  services this year. A German court backed the government and ruled that the lockdown and closure of churches   for Easter do not violate freedom of worship or religion in Germany.  The intending violators have argued that if people can be allowed to go out and buy food and beverages in lockdowns, they should be allowed to  go to  Church. The government lawyers however countered that people stay longer together in Churches and that can make even social distance unproductive in containing the virus. So, for now  the law has had its way in protecting lock  down and social distance on religious worship in Germany  which  I  hope  religious bodies  should  notice and  embrace  globally,  especially in Nigeria. In  the US,   too,  a court  ruled  in the opposite  direction to the situation in Germany on lockdown  with  regard  to the state primaries of the Democratic  Party in the state of  Wisconsin. The  Democrat  state  governor had ordered a lock  down   and  postponement of the primaries, because of the pandemic and was taken to court by the Republicans who  argued that the state  governor did  not have the power to postpone the election unilaterally . But    the State Supreme court which has a Republican majority on its bench ruled that the primaries must hold despite the lockdown this week. The Democrats   had wanted  voting by post  which  the  Republican  US President Donald Trump  called   ‘corrupt‘  in the circumstances.  The  Republicans could be accused of making an ass of the law or playing politics with it,  but undoubtedly in Wisconsin, the Supreme   Court or even the Republicans have put politics above public safety   and one prays or hope they  will  not pay a steep  price for  this later   with this pandemic. But then the basis of society is the law and it must be obeyed, lock down or no lockdown. Once again, long live the Federal Republic of Nigeria. 