 Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, on Monday took a swipe at security agencies manning the state’s borders saying they were allowing movements in and out of Rivers despite the border closure. The governor also announced complete lockdown of parts of Port Harcourt and Obio/Akpor Local Government Areas following failures of residents of the affected areas to comply with the regulations to check the spread of coronavirus. Speaking in a state broadcast in Port Harcourt, Wike berated security agencies for allowing travellers to enter and leave the state at will insisting on inauguration of a Taskforce in boarder closure. He said: “These unscrupulous security officers are deliberately putting our State and the lives of our people at risk as our health system can hardly cope, should there be a surge in COVID-19 cases. “To contain this threat therefore, we will be inaugurating the State’s Taskforce on Border Closure on April 28 to effectively monitor our boundaries and ensure that no unauthorized person and or vehicle leaves or enters our State under any guise in breach of the lockdown order.” He said the complete lockdown of parts of the affected councils would start from April 28 till further notice. He named the affected areas as Elekahia, including the entire stretch of Rumukalagbor-Elekahia link road; Rumuomasi, including Stadium road and Rumuobiokani. He said: “All residents in these areas must stay at home. All shops, mini-markets, officesand business outfits in these areas must also cease to operate until further notice. “Landlords in these areas must take personal responsibility to enforce this lockdown as we will not hesitate to pull down any commercial building or structure that opens to business in violation of this specific directive.” “We are also watching the conduct of residents and traders in Rumuokoro, Rumuokurusiand Oyigbowho are refusing to adhere to the Government’s ban and restrictions on business and social gathering in the State. “We appeal to the leaders of these communities to enforce the established restrictions or risk the imposition of a total lockdown on their communities.” Wike directed the State Commissioner for Social Welfare to round off and deport all vagrants to their states of origin. He said: “We have also directed the Commissioner of Social Welfare to round-up and deport all vagrants, including the almajiris, to their States of origin to protect our people from the threat they present to the transmission of this pandemic. ” We have also widened our case finding and containment strategy by moving from targeted testing to active sentinel search for cases with acute symptoms across various public and private facilities and subject them to immediate testing, isolation and treatment. “With these measures, and ceaseless supplications to God, we are confident to win the battle against COVID-19 in our State.” Wike commended Rivers healthcare workers for their efforts and personal sacrifices and in prayed God to bless them richly.