Fanen IHYONGO, Jalingo  Taraba State Governor, Darius Ishaku, has tasked Christians in the State to pray against Coronavirus, also known as COVID-19, during the Easter period. This was contained in his Easter message, signed by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Bala Dan Abu, Friday. Ishaku said the festival is a reminder to all Christians of the great sacrificial act of Jesus Christ, the son of God, through which God’s grand plan for the salvation of mankind was actualised. He said it was particularly gratifying that Christians the world over, have remained steadfast in their faith and belief in the Lord Jesus Christ, even in the face of adversities that the world is contending with today. Governor Ishaku said it is unfortunate that this year’s Easter coincides with the outbreak of Coronavirus -a highly infectious disease that has not only claimed thousands of lives globally, but has made the gathering for religious worshipers involving large crowds inadvisable. “COVID-19 is today the biggest threat to humanity and in particular, the worship of God,” he said and called for a united and well-coordinated action by people the world over to get the pandemic defeated quickly. He advised Christians not to despair in the face of the threat posed by the pandemic but rather take advantage of its coincidence with Easter to renew their relationship with God by becoming more prayerful and dedicated. The governor also on Friday relaxed some of the restrictions he had imposed on the state to enable Tarabans engage in religious rites. “Juma’at and Church services across the state can now be conducted, but social distancing, use of hand sanitizers and basic personal hygiene must be observed,” the governor said. He promised to continue to review the situation to enable religious faithful engage in necessary rituals that can uplift the Society spiritually. Parts of the statement read: “Governor Darius Ishaku has congratulated Christians in the state on the occasion of this year’s Easter -an important festival celebrated annually to commemorate the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. “The governor said Taraba State is particularly lucky not to have recorded any case of Coronavirus so far. He attributes this to God’s divine protection and the cooperation of Tarabans. “He urged the people to remain firm in their belief that Taraba will remain free of Coronavirus till the end of the pandemic. He regretted the hardship caused by the lockdown which his administration had to impose to prevent the spread of the pandemic in the state, but noted that it was the best thing to do to protect lives. “He thanked the people for their understanding and resilience in the difficult circumstance foisted on the state and the country by Covid-19. “The pandemic is not yet over and, therefore, it is not yet time to relax as a people. The threat it poses is very real and we as a government, will continue to take proactive steps that may become necessary to prevent it from entering the state. “The governor commended Taraba people for their cooperation and urged them to continue to obey instructions on the restriction of movements, social distancing and personal hygiene.”