Gov. Dapo Abiodun of Ogun on Thursday assured that the state would soon be free of Coronavirus in view of the various measures and facilities put in place by the state to curtail the spread of the dreaded disease. Abiodun gave the assurance while distributing relief materials to stranded students of Ogun State College of Health Technology (OSCOHTECH), Ilese, Ijebu East Local Government Area of the state. The governor expressed satisfaction that the state, through its COVID-19 Taskforce Team, led by his Deputy, Mrs Noimot Salako-Oyedele, had so far handled the pandemic well. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the distribution of the relief materials was facilitated by Office of Special Assistant to the Governor on Students’ Matters, Azeez Adeyemi, to cushion the effect of the COVID-19 lockdown on the students. The governor noted that despite the success recorded so far in the fight to combat the spread of the virus, his administration would not relent in its efforts to achieve zero case of COVID-19 in the state. According to him, the state is intensifying its efforts and putting more measures in place to ensure that Ogun achieves total victory over COVID-19. ”We have commissioned first state fully funded molecular laboratory to increase the number of test, the establishment of various Isolation centres across the state and the commencement of mobile testing of residents, especially those living in border communities,” he said. Abiodun urged the students and Ogun residents at large to continue to comply with the sit-at-home order, wash their hands regularly and use their nose masks at all times. He disclosed that the government was engaging tailors across the state to locally produce over one million nose masks which would be distributed to residents free of charge when ready. He used the opportunity to assure the students of his administration’s commitment at improving the quality of education in the state, adding that students would be given top priority in his government. The students expressed gratitude to the governor, assuring that they would continue to comply with the various precautionary measures put in place by the government to curtail the spread of Coronavirus. (NAN)