There was contention on the position of the Osun state government officials over the COVID-19 patients who went missing at the isolation centre in Ejigbo and was later apprehended by the police who returned her to the Isolation facility in Ejigbo. The Nation reports that the Commissioner of Information and Civic Orientation, Mrs. Funke Egbemode refuted the claim that six people from the isolation centre escaped. However, she admitted that only one person was missing. Egbemode, in her first release, noted that only one coronavirus patient was missing at the facility in Ejigbo. Her words, “This morning we embarked on a headcount and found out that only one person could not be accounted for by officials stationed at the isolation centre out of the 127 persons. “The state government is currently investigating the matter and will ensure that the missing person is brought back to the isolation center and we will also ensure we trace all his contacts. Egbemode stressed that any officials(s) found culpable will also be dealt with accordingly urging members of the public to his countenance the alarm being raised. Also, at about 2:30 PM, a statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Mr. Ismail Omipidan confirmed that the COVID-19 patient who absconded the isolation centre in Ejigbo has been found. Omipidan statement quoting the Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation read, “The state government of Osun has found the only person who reportedly absconded the isolation center in Ejigbo earlier today. She said that the state government was still in the process of tracing individuals she might have come in contact with adding that security within and around the isolation centre has been beefed up. When the deputy governor, Mr. Benedict Alabi visited the isolation centre on Saturday evening, the police who are guiding the isolation center in Ejigbo lamented over poor welfare and lack of protective wares. A policeman who addressed the deputy governor on behalf of about 75 other officers told the deputy governor that they lack protective wares at the duty post. He said, they only received only a petty sum of N1,000 for the past three days after resuming duties in the isolation centre and were not given any food. He noted that they have not been given nose masks, hand gloves, and other protective wears, saying with the peculiarities of the environment in the isolation centre, the provision of protective materials was critical for their health. Responding, the deputy governor, who also doubles as the chairman, COVID-19 Taskforce Committee in Osun assured that all their complaints would be looked into, just as he charged them to be effective in providing security at the isolation centre. When the deputy governor, Mr. Benedict Alabi was addressing journalists at the isolation centre, he contended that none of the returnees from Cote d’Ivoire, who tested positive escaped despite the official statement issued by the Commissioner of Information, Mrs. Funke Egbemode that the escaped returnee had been found. Alabi who is also the chairman of the COVID-19 Task Force Committee said, “there is a mixup we are trying to sort out in the laboratory and another state which I won’t mention now. None of the Cote d’Ivoire returnees that tested positive is missing, they are all in the isolation centre.” “All those who came into the state, we profile them by getting their phone numbers, addresses and that of their next of kin. Some of them did not believe the test we did which is the reason why we have security personnel around them. We have 17 of them tested positive and they are inside the isolation centre.” “We are trying our best to see that we are fully prepared in Osun State that is all the effort we are making. All the index cases we have in the state are in the isolation centre and being taken care of and all the ones that are negative are preparing to leave for their various homes.” “When the issues of the foreign returnees came to Ejigbo, we converted the General Hospital to isolation centre. We want to decentralize our isolation centre. We have in Ejigbo, Ile-Ife, and Osogbo, We are working on Ede’s own.” However, the spokesperson of the returnees, who tested negative, Alhaji Mojeed Animashaun, an indigene of Iwo appreciated the state government for their kind gesture, just as he apologised for their hitherto unruly behaviour. This was just as all the returnees who tested negative and not from Osun State left the isolation centre in Ejigbo on Saturday for respective states. From the breakdown of the figures, 11 of them are from Imo, Abia, Delta and Edo, 11 from Oyo State, two from Lagos, while one is from Ogun State.