No fewer than 80 people have benefitted from the Lagos State Government Free Medicare plan for the expectant mothers and emergency/casualty cases in Alimosho General Hospital, Igando. The hospital Medical Director, Dr Madewa Adebajo, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Thursday in Lagos that the measures were to cushion the effects of lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19. Adebajo told NAN that a sizeable number of people in the local government area had benefitted from the free healthcare initiative. NAN reports that Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, had on April 4, while briefing State House Correspondents on the update of COVID-19, announced a free medicare plan for the expectant mothers and emergency/casualty cases in the state. Adebajo said: “This locality has large number of financially incapacitated residents. “The lockdown had further aggravated the situation of finances and expenditure upon their status. “The free medicare for Lagos people during this period is an encouraging measure put in place by the governor. “We have had several Cesarean Sections, circumcisions and also provided services for emergency related cases, and none was billed for the medical services under the the hospital’s assessment. “The meals, beds, procedures and tests had been absolutely free, as well as the surgeries conducted for them.” On the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, the medical director said that regular handwashing was key, while wearing of face masks in public places was necessary to curb the spread of the virus. He added that the hospital was also taking precautionary measures to ensure that health workers and patients in the facility maintain good hygiene. Adebajo said: “200 litres of 75 per cent alcohol-based hand sanitisers are provided every three week for public use, which is poured into our sensor-reflective sanitisers situated at four major areas in the hospital. “The sanitisers are produced by our Pharmacy Department and this come along with the weekly supplies of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), which has shielded our personnel from easily contacting the virus. “We indulge in traditional sanitising procedure, using hypo-chloride based agents for all surfaces and public appliances.” Some of the beneficiaries of the free medical initiative thanked the state governor for the gesture. One of them, Mrs Grace Eso-Bassey, a fashion designer, who gave birth through a Cesarean Section on April 19, said the initiative was commendable. “I had a successful Cesarean Section on April 19; my baby and I are fine. l have not pay a dime for bed, meals and tests conducted since l have been here. “This is my second birth in this hospital and the service gets more impressive by the day. “Many thanks to Gov. Sanwo-Olu for the intervention, especially during this trying time, ” she said. Also, Mrs Adigun Wasiliat, told NAN that the initiative came at the right time owing to the hardship caused by the COVID-19 lockdown. “I was delivered in the early hours of Wednesday, and l have been receiving free treatment toward my full recuperation. “I sincerely want to thank the state governor for alleviating the financial constraints induced by the COVID -19 lockdown,” she saidl. (NAN)