The Sarkin Hausawa of Idi Araba, Alhaji Hassan Abubakar Auyo has called on the people of Idi-Araba Community in Mushin, Lagos to abide by the directives of the Federal and Lagos state governments. Alhaji Auyo said the directives were in line with the injunctions of Allah and Prophet Muhammad. Nigerians, he said, should be obedient and law abiding. “We should ignore the call by some unpatriotic elements to disregard the good intentions of both the Federal and Lagos state governments. I issued this statement because I was accused of being a supporter and a stooge to the government. Agreed I am a supporter of the government which made me a supporter of Almighty Allah because that is the injunction of Allah that one should be subservient to the government and his leaders. I am loyal and submissive to this government as well as my leaders,” he said. The Sarkin Hausawa of Idi Araba said he learnt someone was instigating the community members to go against the government directives. “I heard that one Alhaji said he will disregard the government’s order by calling on people to gather for Jumat prayers as well as observing the shoulder to shoulder stand in the Mosque. If what I heard is true, then I am using this medium to call on the said Alhaji to shelve such idea. If he still insists in disobeying the government’s order, then the authentic Lagos State Council of Arewa Chiefs that have membership across the state will be left with no option but to call his arrest and prosecution,” he said. Alhaji Auyo said he had instructed leaders of the two central mosques in Idi-Araba to shelve Jumat service pending the time the government reverses the directive. “Our Lagos State Arewa Council of Chiefs at all times strives to achieve a cordial relationship and understanding between Lagos State government, the people of Lagos State both indigenes and other non-indigenes and the Arewas in the state. “I will at all times condemn disobedience to the laws of the land and government’s directives because our leader, Prophet Mohammed said obedience to your leaders is synonymous to obedience to Allah. We all know how the COVID-19 is being spread; it is the duty of the government and traditional rulers to safeguard lives and property of the people,” he added.  