 The Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Adebayo Adeniyi said the ministry has established an emergency operation centre to monitor the supply of essential commodities at this critical time of the spread of coronavirus. Adebayo stated this at the briefing on the Covid-19 pandemic to curtail its negative impact on the manufacturing, trade and related sectors of the economy. H said after the national broadcast by President Muhammadu Buhari, the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Investment estabished establish an Emergency Operation Center to monitor the supply of essential commodities. This centre, which is housed in the ministry, would help to monitor the real-time status of transportation and delivery of essential goods to cut down on the difficulties being faced by manufacturers, transporters and distributors of essential commodities across the country. He said since cases of COVID-19 started spreading across the country, state government’s have announced actions ranging from partial lockdowns, to outright bans on movement, to ensuring that the spread of the Coronavirus is controlled, limited or declared non-existent in their respective states. “As we work to deliver on these key objectives, there has been a dedicated secretariat in place – of men and women from the public and private sectors – who have been working round the clock to ensure that truckloads of food, drugs and other essential items get to their points of destination across the nation. “After subsequent engagements with the leadership of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) and the Nigerian Association of Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA), one critical constraint that was identified was that while working to comply with the directive of Mr. President, distributors and manufacturers still had restricted movement due to the enforcement of the lockdown by the Nigeria Police Force and other security agencies,’’he added.  What this means is that the raw material needs of our manufacturers are being met, and recognised road transporters of essential goods are able to transport goods. This synergy, between our law enforcement agencies, our essential manufacturers and producers and the Ministry, will allow us to be able to meet critical demands at this time. “I would also like to thank the Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, for the partnership with the Ministry by responding appropriately to this crisis, the Aviation Ministry has availed us the use of a number of aircraft to facilitate the movement of essential products and personnel across the nation. Additionally, the personnel of the Nigeria Customs Service, under the able leadership of Comptroller-General of Customs, Hameed Ali, must also be singled out at this pivotal juncture in our nation’s history, for their work in ensuring the free-flow of essential cargo through our ports to the final destinations across the country”. Furthermore, as we brace ourselves to respond effectively and thoroughly to this crisis, we have been engaging with the Ministry of Health, NAFDAC, the Standards Organization of Nigeria (SON), and NCDC to identify and augment the list of essential goods and services. We are working with SON and NAFDAC to ensure the acceleration of the issuance of Certificates of Standards of essential items – without sacrificing the quality of these items. Such items include hand sanitizers; coveralls for our medical workers; face masks; needles; goggles; gloves; Sodium Hypo Chloride; and Digital Thermometers. In a nation like ours, where a major segment of our population live off daily wages, it is imperative that our citizens have access to essential products. Consequently, Mr. President has directed the Ministry to work with the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN); the Nigerian Association of Chamber of Commerce Industry Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA); Nigerian Traders Association (NANTS); and other affiliated stakeholders to guarantee that the production of essential items like food, medical and pharmaceutical products continues unhindered. With the support of the NCDC, we have also embarked on the training of emergency COVID-19 volunteers – who now have the requisite skills to handle emergencies in the workplace 