From the outset, everything about his battle with Coronavirus otherwise known as COVID-19, which eventually claimed his life last Friday, was shrouded in secrecy.  When the President’s late Chief of Staff (CoS), Mallam Abba Kyari, caught the virus, the media ran the story at its own risk because officialdom was not ready to confirm the report. The Federal Ministry of Health (FMoH) and the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) only mustered the courage to talk after his death and burial. The omnibus Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 in which the FMoH and NCDC serve, holds a daily briefing in Abuja, but it never mentioned Kyari’s name until he died. Why? One can only surmise that the PTF decided to tread gingerly where it concerned Kyari because of unknown consequences. The task force was being careful not to offend Kyari or those close to him because it did not know how they would take the report. What the PTF did not realise is that Kyari was never the issue. What is at stake is bigger than Kyari and any other person for that matter. Coronavirus is a highly dangerous disease which can wipe away the earth if information about it and those infeçted is not properly shared. This is why other countries are not hiding information about persons who catch the virus, no matter their status. When British Prime Minister Boris Johnson came down with the disease,  the authorities spoke out, telling the nation about the status of its leader. Britons prayed for their leader while he was in intensive care in a public hospital until he was discharged and returned to the ward. The PTF missed a golden chance to use the Kyari case to drum home the enormity of the danger of COVID-19 to human existence. Rather than keep sealed lips on Kyari, it should have used him as a poster case on the need for all to imbibe the World Health Organisation (WHO) Protocols on how to avoid getting or spreading the disease. Those on the PTF find it convenient to talk down on Nigerians because they are small fries but lack the courage to cite the case of a big fish like Kyari to drive home the point about how deadly the virus is. It was only after Kyari’s death that PTF Chairman Boss Mustapha found his voice to tell the public that the unfortunate incident shows that COVID-19 is real. With due respect to the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, that is not true. COVID-19 had long shown that it is real by striking many eminent persons around the world,  including presidents,  kings, princes, prime ministers and their spouses. By striking Kyari too sometime last month, it brought that realness closer home, but the PTF failed in its duty to use the CoS’ case to strengthen the campaign against the deadly virus. The PTF was set up to prevent the spread of Coronavirus in the country and not to deliberately keep quiet when a big gun catches the virus. To do so, amounts to shirking its responsibility and a disservice to the nation. There can be no two sets of rules in the anti-COVID-19 war. Let no one be deceived, this virus knows no status, office, super or no super power. It does not differentiate between the rich and the poor nor look at skin pigmentation. Let me refresh our memories with a quote from the March 5, 2020 piece on this page: “Coronavirus is no respecter of status, age or nationality. Top government officials, including a vice president,  and some footballers, among others, have fallen victims of the pandemic”. This was long before Kyari tested positive for the virus as reported by the media on March 25. What happened in other parts of the world before then and how those countries handled their cases should have prepared us for what to do when the nation finds itself in the same quagmire. The PTF saw what was happening in all those places, but it learnt nothing from them. It saw how those countries handled high calibre cases. They did not give anybody, whether king or serf,  preferential treatment. Once you had COVID-19, off you go to the isolation/treatment centre. The PTF has been shouting itself hoarse that private hospitals are not allowed to treat COVID-19, with the Health Minister, Dr Osagie Ehanire, warning “my professional colleagues” not to treat such cases “secretly or in private”. One cannot say when the FMoH accredited some private facilities to start handling COVID-19 cases, but what is known is that Kyari went into such a facility on March 29 when he issued a statement on his status. But as recently as last week, Ehanire was still saying that private hospitals had not been approved to take those cases. Well, to every rule, there is an exception.  Kyari might have been exempted because of his high office, but the public should have been informed because of any eventuality as none of us has power over life and death. Let me emphasise that the PTF badly handled information surrounding Kyari’s case right from when he contracted the virus last month until he died last week. Even after his death, the double standards it displayed in matters concerning him are still there for all to see. Just last week,  it said victims’ remains would not be released to their families for burial as the bodies are still contagious. But that same week, it allowed Kyari’s remains to be buried on Saturday in a public cemetery with a large number of people in attendance, who flouted all known safety measures for preventing the spread of the virus. Reacting to this development on Monday, it apologised for what happened on Saturday, claiming that there is no known WHO Protocol that says COVID-19 victims’ bodies are contagious. Why then did it wait till Kyari’s death to make that clarification? So, will families, henceforth, be allowed to collect their relations’ bodies for interment? What is sauce for the goose should be sauce for the gander. May Kyari find rest in the Lord’s bosom.  How did Chief Richard Osuolale Akinjide (SAN), who died on Tuesday, come about the nickname 12 2/3? It all happened in 1979 during the legal battle over that year’s presidential election. The electoral dispute was a litmus test for the Supreme Court. Everything hanged on its pronouncement which was being awaited on September 26, 1979. Sixteen days earlier, the Court of Appeal, which served as the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal, had dismissed the claim of Unity Party of Nigeria’s Chief Obafemi Awolowo that President Shehu Shagari of the National Party of Nigeria did not win the election as he did not score 25 percent of the votes cast in two-third of the then 19 states of the federation. The Federal Electoral Commission (FEDECO) had declared Shagari winner on the basis that he scored 25 percent of the votes cast in 12 2/3 states, which it interpreted as two-third of 19 states. Awo disagreed, insisting that two-third of 19 states was 13 and not 12 2/3 as there cannot be a fraction of a state. So, the issue before the Supreme Court, the Presidential Election Appeal Tribunal, was as clear as daylight: what is two-third of 19 states? Awo, through G.O.K Ajayi (SAN) argued that it was 13. Shagari, through Akinjide submitted that it was 12 2/3. All waited with bated breath as the seven-man panel of justices comprising Atanda Fatai-Williams (CJN), Ayo Irikefe, Chukwuweike Idigbe, Mohammed Bello, Andrews Otutu-Obaseki, Kayode Eso and Muhammadu Uwais read its judgement,  just  five days to the Presidential Inauguration on October 1, 1979. In a 6 – 1 decision, the court upheld Akinjide’s submission of 12 2/3  and validated Shagari’s election. In a minority verdict, Eso disagreed with his colleagues, upholding Awo’s claim that two-third of 19 states is 13. The majority decision, which the court said would not be cited as authority in future, paved the way for Shagari’s inauguration and his subsequent appointment of Akinjide, who has earned himself the 12 2/3 moniker, as attorney-general and minister of justice. Akinjide was among the best in his profession, attaining the prestigious rank of SAN with Awo, G.O.K Ajayi, Kehinde Sofola, Remi Fani-Kayode, Augustine Nnamani, Ben Nwabueze, P.O. Balonwu, Mudiaga Odje, Nwakanma Okoro, Olisa Chukwura, E.A. Molajo and T.A. Bankole-Oki in 1978. Akinjide ran a good race. Rest well, chief.