Stakeholders have continued to support operations at the seaports since the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic. In this report, MUYIWA LUCAS  looks at the imperativeness of  leaving the ports open during the lock down  For stakeholders in the maritime sector, the last fortnight has been hellish. From the fear of incurring huge demurrage, to lost man hours and vessel delays, drop in vessel calling at the ports, goods clearing, among others, uncertainties pervade the air. Last week, the crowd at the Lagos port complex was unparalled as freight forwarders pressed to get their consignment cleared. Owing to the strategic position of the sector to the  economy, the Federal Government exempted dock workers and those related to the sector from the lockdown. Yet, there have been challenges of inefficiency and non-attainment of the objectives of the government for removing the sector from the lockdown.  NSC initiatives Port activities, especially cargo clearance, were still abysmally low at the ports despite the efforts of port regulatory agencies, which offered palliatives to enable freight forwarders surmount the challenges of pandemic. As part of these palliatives, the Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC) has offered free transportation for freight forwarders to and from the ports amid the lockdown. Banks were asked to open to facilitate payment of Customs duties. To address the challenges of Customs Duty payment, which has remained difficult for freight forwarders, the NSC is partnering some commercial banks. The initiative was to ameliorate the problems faced by brokers last week while trying to pay Customs Duties during the period. NSC Executive Secretary/CEO, Hassan Bello said the council reached an agreement with the banks for the smooth freighting. He confirmed the arrangement for free buses to convey freight forwarders to Lagos ports during the period. Bello added that the NSC is working with the Council for Regulation of Freight Forwarding in Nigeria (CFFRN) to ensure that only accredited freight forwarders use the buses.  NIMASA collaborates for shipping To further sustain shipping, the Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Bashir Jamoh, said the guidelines for vessels at the ports were to ensure shipping continued to thrive. Jamoh, receiving Bello and some stakeholders, including shipping firms to the NIMASA head office, said while the Federal Government was concerned about Nigerians, the economy must be sustained, hence the need for collaboration with relevant agencies, like the Shippers’ Council. Also, acknowledging that the pandemic has slowed activities in the sector, he appealed for more understanding as the global economy is going through a trying time. “We are in trying times and all hands must be on deck to sustain the economy. Let me assure stakeholders and the shipping community that on our part as a regulatory agency we will continue to embrace collaboration. This is a phase and it will soon be over, because today’s pains are necessary for tomorrow’s gains. “The world was not prepared for the pandemic and that is why we are trying to ease the pressure on our industry, while taking necessary precautions to safeguard lives. We will continue to review these guidelines where necessary to ensure that shipping does not suffer, especially when it comes to movement of medical facilities through the sea,” the DG said. Bello corroborated the stance of the NIMASA DG and appealed for more cooperation and collaboration from the shipping firms and stakeholders. He stated: “At this period, we must sustain our economy through shipping. Though it is a delicate balance, considering the havoc the pandemic has caused the globe; that is why we are working hand in hand to ensure ports activities continue, while not being detrimental to human lives.”  ANLCA wants force majeure Though the end of the coronavirus crisis is not in sight, experts warned that it would further throw the industry into more problems. The President, Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA), Tony Nwabunike, warned that for normal businesses at the seaports, airports and border stations to take its full swing, imported and export items might have been trapped in the ports. “As such, demurrages and rent payable to shipping companies, concessionaires/terminal operators would have attained an unbearable proportion due to the lockdown. As you already know, it is difficult, if not totally impossible, to process customs documentation and take delivery of cargoes in our ports during this period. Even when attempts are made, it becomes difficult because state governments have closed interstate borders, markets are locked and movement of certain vehicles restricted,” Nwabunike wrote in a letter to Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. He therefore called on the VP to order a Force Majeure in line with international best practices. Nwabunike appealed to the Federal Government to prevail on shipping companies, terminal operators and other agencies at the ports to waive charges, taxes and fees. “Consequently, we seek for   demurrage, rents, penalties etc emanating from inability to clear cargoes as at when due from the ports at this period to be  waived effective from the first week of March 2020 when the first case of the deadly virus was detected in Nigeria through an Italian,” he said.  NPA reacts The Nigerian Port Authority (NPA) has announced rent-free days and suspended payment of demurrage to ease cargo clearance procedures. The NPA assured stakeholders that arrangements have been made for operations at the ports to continue without hindrance, assuring that the well-being and security of stakeholders and staff have been taken into consideration. The Authority enjoined  other agencies  at the ports to  open for business in line with the presidential directive on the Lagos ports.  STOAN’s support The Chairman, Seaport Terminal Operators Association of Nigeria (STOAN), Princess Vicky Haastrup, emphasised the need for the seaports to remain open at all times while the Federal and state governments battle to contain the spread of the pandemic. “As we face the global public health crisis birthed by the Coronavirus disease, we advise the government to ensure that the supply chain is not disrupted and the seaports keep running. Even if other sectors  are shut to guard against the spread of the virus, the seaports should remain open to ensure that there is no shortage of food, drugs and other essential supply to Nigerians,” the STOAN Chairman said. The shipping sector, Haastrup emphasised, is key in contributing to secure the continuity of economic activities, ensuring supply chains to industries; transport of essential goods, including energy and food supplies, and transport of vital medical and protective equipment, and supplies.  