 Against the backdrop of the outbreak of global coronavirus pandemic, Xcene research, one of Africa’s leading contract research organisations, has called for increased medical research and innovation in the fight against the fast-spreading pandemic. The Executive Director of Xcene, Adebukunola Telufusi, made this known in Lagos, while commiserating with families of those who are battling with or may have lost their lives in Nigeria and across the world to the deadly virus. “We live in challenging times, where extreme safety measures are required for survival. The place of research is extremely important and cannot be overemphasised. Exceptional situations require extraordinary measures and global problems require comprehensive solutions. We must, as a matter of urgency, deliberately create an outlook for now and the future if we are to withstand pandemics such as these. “It’s great to see the level of research now being directed to the development of a cure against COVID-19; we are happy about this progress and we are more than ready to support our partners locally and abroad with any research-based information that is needed to combat this outbreak,” Adebukunola added.  Speaking on the President Muhammadu Buhari’s directive to stay at home and observe regular personal hygiene, Dr. Faramola Ogunkoya, a project manager with Xcene, said: “We implore everyone to heed the directives on social distancing, keeping ourselves and environs clean, washing our hands with soap and water regularly or using alcohol-based hand sanitisers to protect ourselves. We are confident that this would help greatly to reduce the number of individuals affected and ease the burden on our health institutions to cater to those already with the virus.” Xcene, which has been advocating improved clinical research in Nigeria and sub-Saharan Africa, also emphasised the need for collaboration between the private sector and the government to achieve great and result-driven strides. However, in the wake of health challenges, the company has maintained that for research to be optimal and beneficial for solving global health challenges, funders and key stakeholders need to show commitment and dedication of funds from sponsors.