 Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Minister of State, Dr. Ramatu Aliyu, has disclosed that there was no diversion of palliative items in Abuja as alleged in some quarters. The minister clarified this while answering questions from reporters during the inspection of palliative items for Gwagwalada Area Council of the territory. Aliyu, maintained that with the composition and structure of the monitoring team, it would be impossible for any diversion to take place. She noted that all the stakeholders including representatives of the youths, women, political and religious leaders are involved in the monitoring and distribution of the palliative items. Aliyu said: “I will be very clear with you, it is not possible with this team, except we are not Nigerians that took an oath and pledge to Nigeria our nation to be faithful, loyal and honest to serve Nigeria with all our strength. “I want to put it to you that the composition of this team is so strong across the 62 wards of the six area councils of the territory. “I have to trace issues of diversion I heard only to discover that it is a private organisations that just came to carry out their own civic responsibility and not our own team. And I know I will still put it to you that there is no diversion that will be accommodated. For a diversion to succeed with the entire structure put in place, that means the police might have compromised, the DSS might have compromised and all other critical stakeholders might have compromised because in each ward you have representatives of these groups.” The Minister however, vowed to hold representatives of the stakeholders accountable for any misconduct during the exercise, just as she apologized for the delay in the distribution of the palliatives to underserved communities in Gwagwalada area council. “I most sincerely apologize to the entire member of Gwagwalada area council and on behalf of my team to take responsibility for the delay. We were ready yesterday but we have to come to a halt because the transport organisations almost held us to a ransom.  I will tell you again that on behalf of the FCT Administration, we will take responsibility,” she said. 