 The Surprise winner of the men’s singles title at the 2019 African Games, Olajide Omotayo has  spoken about  how his compatriot and top-ranked Aruna Quadri  fuelled his decision to stick to Ping-Pong. After failing to make the team to the 2015 African Games in Congo Brazzaville,  Omotayo dumped table tennis and  moved to United States for  greener pasture. But Quadri ‘s feat  as the first African and Nigerian to make it to the quarterfinal of the men’s singles of table tennis at Rio 2016 Olympic Games, revived the interest of the former national junior champion . Few months after Rio Olympic Games, Omotayo changed his mind and returned to  Europe to kick-start his professional table tennis career in Italy with the sole aim of making it to the 2020 Olympic Games in Tokyo, Japan. Today, apart from fulfilling his dream of qualifying for the Olympic Games, Omotayo has joined the league of African Games champion after emerging champion in the men’s singles at the 2019 African Games in Morocco. Omotayo recalled:  “I was closed to making the team to 2015 African Games but unfortunately I missed out and I decided to quit table tennis and moved to United States for greener pasture.  “I got to United States and I was taking part in competitions and one of the coaches invited me to watch Aruna Quadri play at Rio Olympic Games and it was after watching the performance of Quadri becoming the first African to make it to the quarterfinal at the Olympic Games that really reignited my interest to reverse my decision of turning professional. “After Rio Olympic Games, Coach Michael Oyebode was able to secure a club for me in Italy and I decided to move to Europe to start my professional career in table tennis. “I am happy with the decision; it is now history today having qualified for my first Olympic Games and winning the African Games title along the way. “It has been a good feeling for me since my qualification for Tokyo and I believe I still have a long way to go and I’m happy I didn’t stop believing in myself,” he added. Despite lamenting the lockdown prompted by COVID-19 pandemic, the 25-year-old believes the postponement of Tokyo Olympics till 2021 would afford him more time to prepare for his maiden outing at the quadrennial event.