A coalition of Non-governmental Organisations (NGOs) is pushing for cancellation of debts of Nigeria and other poor countries. The coalition has prepared a presentation to be submitted to G20 Finance Ministers meeting on Wednesday. The coalition is made up of Oxfam, Global Justice Now, Jubilee Debt Campaign, Catholic Agency for Overseas Development (CAFOD) and AVAAZ. The coalition, in a statement, warned there is need for the G20 countries “to heed the warnings – a “third wave” of the coronavirus crisis could result in a catastrophic loss of life in poorer countries in the Global South and push half a billion more people into poverty.” According to the coalition:  “The window to act is closing quickly. But this week, the G20 finance ministers, the IMF and the World Bank can offer an instant lifeline – cancel all external debt payments for 2020. “Cancelling debt payments of the 76 poorest countries could save $40 billion immediately and support almost 500 million of the world’s poorest to survive this crisis.” “Other developing countries like Nigeria which did not benefit from the first round of debt relief granted by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) the coalition said “also need debt cancellation, and if their payments were also cancelled for the next year, the figure would reach over $300 billion. These nations will also need an injection of additional emergency funds.” The coalition argued: “There is huge public backing for urgent debt relief measures – not just from African finance ministers, but also from dozens of former and current heads of state as well as more than 750,000 citizens across the world who have signed petitions calling for debt cancellation.” Nigeria and other blend countries did not benefit from Monday’s IMF 6 months debt cancellation. ‘Blend’ countries are those eligible for International Development Association (IDA) funding based on per capita income but which are at the same time deemed credit-worthy by the markets. In this case the World Bank and the IMF allows them limited IDA funds supplemented by the market-based international Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), forming a ‘blended’ loan package. Economies are currently divided into four income groupings: low, lower-middle, upper-middle, and high. Nigeria is in the lower-middle income bracket. Income is measured using gross national income (GNI) per capita, in U.S. dollars, converted from local currency using the World Bank Atlas method.