 The Police Command in Enugu State has arrested six suspects for various offences ranging from armed robbery and kidnapping within 10 days. The Command’s Public Relations Officer, ASP Daniel Ndukwe, made this known in a statement in Enugu on Friday. Ndukwe said that the suspects were arrested between March 28 and April 7. He said that the Command recovered two locally-made pistols with five live cartridges, one tricycle and four mobile phones from the suspects. He noted that on April 7 at 10 a.m., police operatives attached to Abakpa Police Division arrested one of the suspects at Ogwuege, Abakpa-Nike; after him and other members of his gang, now at large robbed a victim of a Tecno phone at gunpoint. “One locally-made pistol with four live cartridges, two phones and a black bag were recovered from the suspect. “Further investigation to arrest and bring to book other fleeing members of the gang, alleged to have been terrorising the Abakpa-Nike area, is ongoing at the Command’s Special Anti-Robbery Squad,’’Ndukwe said. He said that on the same April 7 at about 0020hrs, police operatives attached to Uwani Police Division, while on patrol along Onwudiwe by Ohafia St., Uwani, Enugu, arrested three others. “Items recovered included a suspected stolen Bajaj tricycle, yellow in colour with Registration number: ENU 600 VL; two knives and two iPhone phones they robbed from different victims at Niger Foundation Hospital, Independent Layout Enugu. “Preliminary investigation shows that the suspects, who have been terrorising Uwani and other parts of Enugu metropolis, were fleeing from the Ogui axis with the alleged stolen tricycle when they were apprehended. “The case is undergoing further investigation at the Command’s Special Anti-Robbery Squad,’’ the police spokesman said. Ndukwe said that on March 28 at about 1:14 a.m., police operatives attached to Oji-River Police Division, while on routine patrol along Enugu/Onitsha highway within Umumba/Ezeagu, arrested another suspect who had fallen off a moving motorcycle in an attempt to escape being apprehended by police. “One locally-made pistol and a live cartridge was recovered from him. The case is undergoing further investigation at the Command’s Special Anti-Robbery Squad,’’ he said. He said that on April 6 at about 5:25 p.m., operatives of Police Mobile Force 3, Enugu, while on stop and search along Enugu/Onitsha Highway, arrested one suspect and took him to Oji-River Area Command for necessary action. “Preliminary investigation reveals that the suspect was involved in the kidnap of one Sgt. Sale Shehu attached to Police Mobile Force 3, Enugu, at Obioma in Udi Council Area of the state on Sept. 9, 2018 at about 6:30p.m. “Further investigation into the case is ongoing at the Command’s Anti-Kidnapping Unit,’’ the police spokesman added. (NAN)