The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has asked Nigerians to hold President Muhammadu Buhari responsible should there be any upsurge in the rate of COVID-19 infection and death in the country following the importation of doctors from China, the epicenter of the scourge, by the Federal Government. The party said it’s alarmed that President Buhari ignored the protests by Nigerians and professional bodies, including the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) and allowed the importation of the Chinese doctors despite warnings that bringing in doctors from the hotbed of the plague will expose Nigerians  to further risks. Fifteen Chinese doctors had arrived in Abuja on Wednesday on a chartered Air Peace aircraft, on a mission to treat COVID-19 patients, including some Chinese residing in the country. In a statement on Wednesday by the spokesman for the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, observed that Nigerians from different walks of life have continued to question the status, identity and interest of the Chinese doctors in the country. The party also raised questions regarding the safety of kits and equipment from China, particularly following scary reports of escalation of the scourge in certain countries reportedly after the arrival of Chinese medical personnel in those countries. “Moreover, our doctors and nurses have been on top of the situation with records of recoveries and less casualties, thus raising questions about the real intentions of bringing in doctors from China. “The situation is even more distressing as the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 had been making frantic effort to exonerate itself from the decision to bring in the Chinese doctors into our country. “The PDP wants President Buhari to note that Nigerians already know the pace, intensity and trajectory of COVID-19 statistics at the time the Federal Government, which he leads, gave passage to these Chinese doctors. “Nigerians are aware that since the index case was reported till date, our nation’s COVID-19 data stands at 254 confirmed cases, out of which 44 have been successfully treated by our doctors with six deaths, which reportedly had other underlining ailments”, the party noted. The PDP called on the entire world to hold President Buhari responsible should there be any sudden upsurge in COVID-19 infection and deaths with the arrival of Chinese doctors in the country. The party charged Nigerians to be extra vigilant and also demanded that the Presidential Task Force outlines the states and local governments where the Chinese doctors are expected to operate, to enable Nigerians monitor their activities as well as the aftermath of such activities.