 THE General Overseer, Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor Enoch Adeboye, on Sunday declared that normalcy will soon return to Nigeria and the entire world. Adeboye said the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic will soon decline, but advised  Nigerians not to relax in the fight against the dreaded pandemic. He also called on Christian faithful to always pray and ensure peace in spite of the troubles the world is passing through. Adeboye spoke during Sunday’s  service by the RCCG aired live by the DOVE Television. He said the good news was  that God is in control of the COVID-19 pandemic and the challenges it poses for the world. He said:  “The journey to normalcy has begun. Very soon, your pastors will return to their duty posts. I have perhaps one more Sunday to spend with you (televised broadcast), then, everything will return to normal.” Adeboye, who lauded the efforts of doctors in curtailing the scourge for the past few weeks, however, urged members and indeed, the global community to continue ensuring high hygienic habits to ensure the world is not hit by a worse pandemic any time soon. He said: “I also advise the government that, in the future when they are setting up their committees, men of God should be included. I am not talking about small boys like me. “I am talking about chief imams, arch bishops and others so they can help them with the spiritual aspect of this warfare. I sincerely hope that we would all know at the end that it is not by our wisdom, our abilities, our planning that has given us whatever victory that we have already gotten. “We need to return all the glory to God because as the elders will say, the rain can send you into the same hut more than once. We need to give the glory to God because we don’t want the victory we have won so far to be reversed”. Adeboye also said a relapse in the scourge of coronavirus, even after it recedes, is possible. He said: “If you ask any doctor, he (she) would tell you that the most difficult cancer to handle is the cancer that relapses. We don’t want a relapse of this scourge. “Like I said before, this Coronavirus, by the grace of God, will recede. But, don’t let anybody deceive you. It is not going to disappear 100 per cent. Flu came about a 100 years ago. It receded. Ebola came. It receded. You know very well they have not died completely. Let’s give all the glory to God that He will see that our victory is complete.’’ Though the continent was perhaps the last to be massively hit by the virus and has so far recorded fewer cases, than other continents, Adeboye said: “God will give victory to Africa first. God will give us (in Africa) victory first before it extends to other parts of the world. “Even after the lockdowns end, any journey outside the country, except it is very essential, postpone it”. Adeboye, however, said the coronavirus season would soon end globally and the world would heave a sigh of relief. The seven-day nationwide prayer announced  by the Christian Association of Nigeria  to combat  Coronavirus will start today. The prayer, according to  the CAN President , Rev. Supo Ayokunle,  is to last  30 minutes daily. Ayokunle  commended Christians for their  show of love and adherence to governments’ and medical experts’ advice  on  how to avoid  contracting the infectious disease. “I enjoin all Christian families to set aside 30 minutes each day for the next seven days to praise the beauty of God’s holiness with effect from Monday, April 20 to Sunday, April 26, 2020,” he said in a statement on Sunday. 