Doctors and health workers in Ogun State have appealed to Governor Dapo Abiodun to provide better renumeration and equipment to enable them cope with the challenges associated with managing COVID-19 cases and patients. They spoke on Wednesday during different media parelys in Ogun State. The National Association of Government General Medical & Dental Practitioners (NAGGMDP) Ogun State Chapter, alleged its members, which comprise doctors working under hospital board and Ministry of Health covering 35 hospitals across the state, have been neglected in the management of COVID-19 crisis. Chairman of the association, Dr Durojaiye Oluwatosin and secretary, Dr Ajayi Abiodun, told reporters at Ijaye General Hospital, Abeokuta, Ogun State that claims by Commissioner of Health, Dr Tomi Coker, that frontline health workers have been provided with Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) were untrue. The association noted health workers that have been infected with COVID-19 are the ones working in the hospital and not in isolation centres. The doctors demanded PPE for all health facility in the State as well as upward review of health hazard allowance to N100,000 monthly. Also, Association of Resident Doctors Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital (OOUTH), Sagamu, Ogun State called for protection and appreciation of doctors putting their lives on the line during the pandemic. It asked for 50 per cent of their consolidated basic as hazard allowance to do better in managing the crisis. President of the body, Dr. Mutiu Abiodun Popoola and Acting General Secretary, Dr. T.A. Osundara, further demanded additional 20 per cent of the initial 50 per cent as special risk allowance as well as immediate adjustment of Appropriate Remuneration to avoid more exit of resident doctors and medical dfficers who are the Frontline in the management particularly during this pandemic. It also requested for Group Life Insurance to all resident doctors, medical officers and house officers in OOUTH to cover for up to 300 per cent of annual take home in case of infirmity, permanent disability or death. Other demands include reactivation of employees compensation act provision of 2010, stating that in the event of death in the course of duty, the four children of the deceased up to the age of 21 should be trained to tertiary level. In addition, the association appealed for a waiver on tax on professional allowances.