Mike Odiegwu, Port Harcourt  At least 20 suspected crude oil thieves have been arrested in Rivers State by the operatives of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC). The operatives also impounded two boats, two trucks, vehicles and pipes deployed by the suspects to move stolen products to different locations in the state. Speaking in Port Harcourt, the state Commandant, NSCDC, Muktar Lawal, said despite the spread of the Coronavirus pandemic, the corps would continue to pursue its core mandate of protecting critical national assets and infrastructure in the state. Explaining the operations, he said three suspects were nabbed at Alakiri creeks in Gokana Local Government Area for vandalizing petroleum products adding that a boat and two drums containing suspected AGO were recovered from them. He said his command received four suspects and a tugboat from the Nigerian Army arrested at Okirika Local Government Area for illegal dealing in petroleum products. Muktar explained that two boat engines, rubber and PVC pipes were seized from five suspects apprehended by his operatives at Okrika community in Ahoada West Local Government Area. He noted that at the Yam Zone Town of the state, his operatives impounded a truck laden with suspected stolen petroleum product and arrested a suspect. He said: “Three persons conveying suspected AGO product were also apprehended at Abuloma in Port Harcourt City Local Government Area. Three suspects and a truck were impounded in that operation. “Along Akpajo-Eleme road, a suspect with unspecified quantity of suspected AGO loaded in an inbuilt tank of a bus was arrested. Even at Ada George in Obioakpo Local Government Area, we arrested two suspects with suspected vandalized 120 litres of DPK stacked in a white bus”. He said the suspects arrested within the period of COVID-19 between February and April were facing prosecution. He urged residents in the state to be patient with the state government and see the ongoing lockdown in the state as measures to curtail the spread of the coronavirus. He warned unauthorized persons to stay clear of the critical national assets and infrastructure in the state.