From Sunny Nwankwo, Umuhaia  Abia State government said that it has been able to trace about two hundred and nine persons (209) that have had contacts with the two COVID-19 cases in the state. Samples of the two suspected index cases from Umuahia North LGA and Ukwa West LGA of the state returned positive from the National Center for Disease and Control Center in Ebonyi state while the sample of another suspected COVID-19 patient, Prosper Vincent came back negative. This was disclosed by the state Information Commissioner, Chief John Okiyi-Kalu in a Press release issued Friday. Okiyi-Kalu who disclosed that the 209 persons were from Ikwuano, Ukwa West and Umuahia North areas respectively added that all those traced are currently in isolation and under the surveillance of a team from World Health Organization (WHO) that are providing support. The Abia State information boss who stated that the index cases, both of whom are above 70 years in age and with underlying medical conditions are stable and responding to medical management procedures at Federal Medical Center, Umuahia, also hinted that sample of a suspected case who lives off Ikot Ekpene Road, Aba, returned a negative result from NCDC testing centre. He further disclosed that two other samples sent to NCDC from Abia State also returned negative, adding that the state is expecting test results for 23 samples related to contact tracing for the index cases to return back from the testing centre. The state information boss said that the state government has noted with dismay that contrary to earlier directives of the state Governor, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu, many citizens still leave their homes without wearing face masks, thereby exposing themselves to possible infection within the period of ongoing contact tracing. He said that mobile courts have been deployed to try persons who flout the order in accordance with the existing COVID-19 Prevention and Control Regulations of Infectious Diseases in Abia state. “We have also observed the orchestrated attempts by unconscionable political actors from our state aimed at distracting the government from focusing on ensuring that we protect and save the lives of Abians and control spread of the coronavirus within our dear state at a time of such global health emergency as this and wish to assure the people that we will remain focused on the task of protecting and saving the lives of Abians in this era of the pandemic, as always,” Okiyi-Kalu stated in the release.