First Bank of Nigeria Limited has reassured its customers of its numerous services. The bank, in a statement by its Chief Executive Officer, Adesola Adeduntan, hailed its  customers for their steadfastness, especially in the last two weeks, despite the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic ravaging the country. “As I reflect on the last two weeks, I am comforted by the resilience of our people,” he said. On the bank’s strides in the last one week, Adeduntan said the lender has over 53,000 agents across the country who have processed over five million transactions with differing values in the last week alone. “We recorded approximately 2.5 million withdrawals, which amounts to N35 billion across our Automated Teller Machines (ATMs)  last week. ‘’Our larger corporate customers have done over 1,700 successful transactions worth N6.8 billion on our e-bills platform during this challenging period. Nigerians with FirstBank cards have used them 21 million times to make payments or withdrawals worth N268 million as they rely on us to settle their banking needs. “Our customers have made transfers over 10 million times with a total value of about N615 billion across our digital channels.” The FirstBank chief further assured its customers that the bank  would ensure that transactions continue, and that  the lockdown would not slow it. “Expertise and resilience are in FirstBank’s DNA. We are holding up our side; and COVID-19 will not slow us down. “More than ever before, the bank will uphold its promise to its customers to be there for them and put them first. “We recognise our role in keeping the engine, and society going and recognise further that it is our responsibility to remain at the forefront of this. “Our unparalleled network and total coverage of the nation serve us all well at this time, ensuring that safe alternative channels are available for our customers 24/7. “Rest assured that we are in this together and together we will emerge stronger at the end of this period because this too shall pass,” he added.