The Edo State government has announced the discharge of the sixth Coronavirus patient in the state, after the unnamed person tested negative twice for the virus and was cleared for discharge at one of the state’s isolation centres. As at Friday, five COVID-19 patients were discharged in Edo state, while the 6th person was discharged yesterday, with contact tracing continuing. Governor Godwin Obaseki said: “Good people of Edo State, I have good news again today (yesterday). One more Coronavirus (COVID-19) patient has tested negative twice for the virus and cleared to return home. “Please, stay safe and stay at home, as we intensify efforts to check the spread of COVID-19 in our dear state.” Meanwhile, Edo Commissioner for Health, Dr. Patrick Okundia, yesterday in an interactive session with reporters, urged residents of the state with the symptoms of Coronavirus disease to seize the opportunity of the ongoing massive screening across Edo’s 18 local government areas to ascertain their status, noting that prompt detection and treatment would increase their chances of survival. Okundia called on Edo indigenes and residents to support the state government’s efforts at preventing the spread of the deadly Coronavirus by coming out for screening, testing and treatment, as well as complying with guidelines to contain the infectious disease. He noted that while Edo had recorded 15 confirmed cases of COVID-19, six had tested negative and had been discharged, while contact tracing was ongoing for about 330 persons who had different levels of contacts with the people who tested positive to the virus, stressing that the number of suspected cases has increased to 123. The health commissioner, who said COVID-19 was not a death sentence, urged Edo residents to stay at home and observe precautionary measures, while assuring that the state government would always put in place measures to curtail the spread of the lethal disease. Okundia said: “The Edo State government encourages everyone with symptoms of the Coronavirus disease to come out for screening, testing and treatment, as prompt detection and treatment increase the chances of survival. COVID-19 is not a death sentence and not a lifelong disease. Once treated and discharged, you are free to live a normal life. “All citizens of Edo State are hereby encouraged to abide strictly by government’s directives on social distancing, use of facemasks in the public, regular handwashing with soap and running water or using alcohol-based sanitisers, cough etiquette and compliance with the stay-at-home order. “COVID-19 is real, with immense impact on the health and wellbeing of the general populace. We all have a collective responsibility to contribute our quota in ending the scourge. “I want to commend the health workers of Edo State and our partners for a job well done so far. If you have any COVID-19 symptom, please call these toll-free lines that have been activated by Edo State government for assistance: 08001235111 and 08002200110.” Edo has so far recorded two deaths from the Coronavirus pandemic, while Obaseki directed partial lockdown in the state, with all the markets in the state shut last week for one month for fumigation and to ensure social distancing, while the traders were relocated to nearby public primary and secondary schools.