 There was fear in Ado-Ekiti, the Ekiti State capital, yesterday as armed policemen dispersed traders and buyers, who thronged some major markets, against the directive by the state government. The policemen, who stormed the markets around 10:30am in six pick-up vans and an Armoured Personnel Carrier (APC), were civil in their words and actions. The policemen were at Bisi Market and Oja Oba both in Ado-Ekiti and Shasha Market in Ikere-Ekiti to stop trading. The Nation learnt that activities were stopped at the two markets in Ado-Ekiti because traders and buyers did not observe social and physical distancing. The residents, who stormed the markets to utilise the one-day window of opportunity to restock foodstuffs and other necessities, caused gridlock, as traders displayed their goods on the road. It was gathered that traders had arrived the markets from parts of the state at 5am to transact business.  The Commander of Mobile Police (MOPOL 33), ACP Samuel Erhale, who led the policemen to Oja Oba and Bisi Market at about 10:30am, gave the traders 30 minutes to pack their goods and leave for neighbourhood markets. Social and physical distancing were observed at Shasha Market in Ikere- Ekiti, but Erhale insisted that holding the market violated the government’s directive. After holding consultations with the Sarkin Shasha, Erhale, who is also the Assistant Commissioner in charge of Operations. (AC-OPS) of the command, gave the traders and their customers 30 minutes to remove their goods. He said that the crowded scenes at the markets could lead to further spread of Coronavirus. Erhale advised them to take their goods to neighbourhood markets as directed by the government. The police officer stressed the need for traders and buyers to observe physical and social distancing in line with the directive by the government. He said that the government had ordered that Oja Oba and Bisi Market should not be opened for business, hence the enforcement of the closure order. The police waited until the traders removed their goods from the two markets in Ado-Ekiti before heading for the market in Ikere-Ekiti to enforce the same order. 