Omolara Akintoye had a brief encounter with Senator Ibrahim Hassan Hadejia, the Senator representing North-East Senatorial District of Jigawa State and reports on the former Attorney-General and Deputy Governor of Jigawa State’s belief in internal democracy as the way forward for Nigeria  Senator Ibrahim Hassan Hadejia, the Senator representing North-East Senatorial District of Jigawa State, who is also the deputy chairman of Senate Committee on Public Account, is of the view that party managers must change their perception about internal democracy in order to reduce election matters at the tribunal. He says the sore point in our democracy since 1999 would be the way internal politics was practiced. “It leaves much to be desired. How candidates emerge is very important. It is even more important than on the day of the actual election. This awkward process, in my view, has discouraged quite a sizable number of good people from participating in politics. In most cases, it is most of the time selection at the primaries, instead of election”, he said. That, according to Hadejia, is the reason even after election, the tribunal, the Court of Appeal and even the Supreme Court is still adjudicating pre-election matters. “That is one of the reasons why I will always support electronic voting. Pre 2003, there was no election, they were just writing results. No election at all. Results were just being written and they announce. But I think we are evolving. We are not where we used to be in 2003. And because the process is improving by every election circle, the calibre of contestants has also improved. You know during the last election, the number of voters that came out to vote for Badaru during the governorship election even when it was postponed twice, was far more than the presidential election,” the senator said. Hadejia therefore enjoins party managers to change their perception about internal democracy. That is the first thing we must improve upon. Without internal democracy, there would continue to be more election matters at the tribunal. Speaking about how he got into politics because little was known about him until he became the Deputy Governorof Jigawa State in 2001, he said “I was never in politics until I became the state’s Attorney General. As a matter of fact, I was not interested in politics until Saminu dragged me into partisan politics. I was into banking in Lagos when my name was mentioned to Saminu to be the state’s Attorney General. I was not really keen to being in government which was why we had to meet severally before I could agree to come over to Jigawa. Even at that, when my name was mentioned at the State House of Assembly for clearance, I didn’t go, because I never discussed with Saminu that I had accepted. He even had to call my father to prevail on me to accept the appointment,” he said. After having worked with two governors within the space of eleven years, Hadejia said if given another opportunity again, he said “Former Governor Saminu Turaki have given me the opportunity to serve my state for the period I served with him as his deputy.  I became his deputy in 2001, that is completing the balance of his first term and then fully completed the second term with him. For Muhammad Badaru, his administration was completely different. He is performance driven. It was fantastic working for him. I think that is the difference between those in the private sector who find themselves in public service. The orientation is different and delivery, certainly, will be different too. That is exactly what happened in the case of Badaru. If not the constitutional limit, if given the same opportunity within the same circumstance, I will gladly serve Badaru again as his deputy”, he said. Although his father has carved an inch for himself, Hadejia said he is also trying to chart his own course. “Yes, my father may be comfortable, but that does not mean one should not chart his own course. When I left government in 2007, I was quite busy all through till I returned to government in 2015. I am a certified security consultant”, he said. It is a fact that most politicians are fond of making empty promises, Hadejia said he can never make a promise he cannot deliver “I have never promised what I cannot deliver. Those who are close to me know that the moment I tell you I am doing something, I will definitely do it. Once I am able to accept your invite and time is 10, know that I will be there exactly that time. That is why some have stopped inviting me because they know I don’t play with my time. That is why I do tell my people that my job is to make laws, laws that would be beneficial to you and everyone. I don’t have executive powers, however, whatever projects from the central government that I can bring to you, I will do everything to ensure it gets to my immediate community. My no is no. My yes is yes. We must be truthful to our people. That is why it is easy to tell you what I will or be able to do or otherwise”, he said. On what next to do after having completed his tenure as a Senator, Hadejia said it is for God to decide.