 No fewer than twelve persons were on Wednesday arraigned before an Ado-Ekiti Magistrate’s Court for allegedly violating the Ekiti state government’s directives on Coronavirus. The accused persons were brought before Chief Magistrate, Mr. Abdulamid Lawal for defying the sit-at-home directives given by the government. Governor Kayode Fayemi had on Sunday announced that the state will be totally locked down with full restriction of human and vehicular movements commencing from Tuesday, as part of the strategic efforts to mitigate against the spread of Coronavirus pandemic. The accused were two Egyptians, Mohammed Mustapha and Mahmud Ahmed, Oladapo Oyinlade, Matthew Oyinlade, Ogundana Gbenga, Sunday Ani and others. The Director of Prosecution, Mr. Julius Odugbemi, told the court that Mustapha and Ahmed on April 1, 2020 flouted government stay-at-home directives for driving around the Ado-Ekiti metropolis without lawful excuses. He added that the offence violated the Provisions of the Ekiti State Coronavirus (Prevention of Infection) Regulations, 2020 made pursuant to Section 8 of the Quarantine Act, Cap Q2, LFN, 2004. According to the prosecutor, “On the 1st day of April, 2020 at Fajuyi Area within the Ado-Ekiti Magistrate District, the defendants violated the Provisions of the Ekiti State Coronavirus (Prevention of Infection) Regulations, 2020 made pursuant to Section 8 of the Quarantine Act, Cap Q2, LFN, 2004. “On the 1st day of April 2020 at Fajuyi Area within Ado-Ekiti Magistrate District, did without lawful excuse drive Rav 4, Car contrary to and punishable under Section 202 of the Criminal Code Law, Cap C16, Laws of Ekiti State, 2012”. The duo found guilty of the two count charges leveled against them were both fine N2,500 each of the count charges, totaling N10,000. The Chief Magistrate Lawal, in his ruling, said both defendants are reasonably suspects and should be kept in mandatory isolation for 14 days, since Mustapha, gave evidence in court that he came into the state from Ilorin, Kwara State. Oladapo and Matthew were also fined N2,500 each of the two count charges for riding on Okada, during the stay-at-home order. Others include Ani who was fined N1,000 each of the two count charge for defying government directives to buy drugs for his dog that was sick. Gbenga was discharged due to his plea that he assisted someone who wanted to buy medicine for someone who is sick before he was arrested.  