The dust is yet to settle on the economic impact of the coronavirus pandemic all over the world, and one sector that is obviously affected is the entertainment industry. Ironically, the significance of this sector as an essential service industry is being underrated. You would agree with me that one way to cushion the effect of depression and anxiety in a period like this is through one form of entertainment or the other. For instance, study shows that the number of people said to have reported significant levels of depression and anxiety rose significantly after British Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s announcement of a historic lockdown of the U.K. With social distancing measures, the entertainment sector is experiencing an unprecedented setback, as all shootings of films and TV programmes, public concerts and access to cinemas have been stopped. In Nigeria, we may not have the statistic to measure how people are faring, but our entertainment industry has been one of the factors that have kept the country going at a time like this. Unfortunately, and understandably so, an industry that provides such essential service has to be locked down. However, if its counterparts in the western could be feeling affected by the imminent loss, there is no gainsaying that Nigeria that is less cultured on rights and royalties of creative will cry more. Kudos to Copyright Society of Nigeria (COSON) for responding to distress calls with a N50million emergency relief fund for about 4,500 members on the society’s register. While we celebrate COSON that has managed to stay afloat in view of the tough terrain of the Nigerian creative industry, the number of beneficiaries cannot represent 20 percent of musicians in the country, let alone the entire creative economy. Thus, with an obvious lacuna that is hitting the entertainment industry in the face, and given the lessons learned, one can only wish for a paradigm shift for the industry after the pandemic. That said, I feel that in view of how government should respond to an industry it has so touted as a source of alternative revenue to oil, this is another opportunity for rethinking its priorities. And since we like to imitate the approaches of the western world in almost everything, here is another trend that might interest us. According to Hollywood Reporter, the global box office has already taken a coronavirus hit of at least $7 billion. If the remainder of March, April and May are included, lost revenue would climb another $10 billion, making a total loss of approximately $17 billion. And if the crisis continues beyond May, all bets are off. As a result, UNI Global Union, a global union federation for skills and services, gathering national and regional trade unions has joined other professional associations representing talent and crew in film and TV production in calling for urgent financial and social measures for the film and audio-visual sector over cash-flow shortage and to prepare for the reopening of society and creative, cultural and economic activities post-COVID-19. They reason that the backbone of the sector are the people in front and behind camera who are mostly employed on short-term contracts and do not have enough social benefits to fall back on during this crisis. The on-screen diversity and innovation displayed by the film and TV production sector across the world results from a strong and inter-dependent network of creative, financial and business partnerships, including many SMEs.  During this period, thing have been halted due to lack of cash flow and revenues to sustain their activities. This becomes a global concern as the TV and film sectors is said to account for about $540 billion of annual revenue. Nigerian filmmaker Madu Chikwendu raises a pertinent concern in a piece of March 29, 2020 titled Covid-19, The Creative Industry and Looming Recession, saying: “If we were the poverty capital of the world before Covid-19, what would Nigeria be after Corona? According to the notable practitioner, while Germany and the U.K Art Council have committed 50billion Euros and $190million to their creative sectors respectively, the palliatives from the federal government of Nigeria through the Economic Stimulus Bill 2020 have so far not accommodated its creative industries in spite of the huge losses it is suffering. “The government and private donors need to understand that the creative sector is one of the most vulnerable for the simple reason that it is characterized by the highest number of self-employed individuals and SME’s. Without movies, music, video games and other forms of entertainment, nobody would survive a lockdown. It is no longer enough to praise the soft power of the creative industries and the monumental contributions in engaging the youths. The government and donors need to match the importance of this great sector with commensurate support. The creative industries need support like other sectors.” What else can I say?