From AbdulGafar Alabelewe, Kaduna  As part of its contribution to curbing the spread of coronavirus in Nigeria, the Nigerian Defence Academy (NDA) has designed and produced 2 types of ventilators, hand wash and sanitiser that could be quickly reproduced to stem the shortage of the equipment in the country. The design and production of the ventilators are coming a week after the Commandant NDA, Major General Jamil Sarham, convened a team of engineers, technologists and technicians from the Mechatronics Department under Major Dr Abubakar Suraj Imam to rapidly develop affordable ventilator within the shortest possible time, using readily available components. A statement issued by the Defence Academy’s Public Relations Officer, Major Abubakar Abdullahi said, the team was also tasked to develop capacity of producing at least 30 ventilators in a month. The Academy said the development of locally made ventilators was against the backdrop of the high cost of foreign-made ventilators and the present difficulties associated with procuring them. Presenting their report to the Commandant, head of the team who is also Head of Department Mechatronics, Major Dr Abubakar Surajo Imam, disclosed that his team was able to, within a week, design and produce 2 unique ventilators that could be quickly deployed to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. According to him, both ventilators, NDA Type 1 and NDA Type 2, could be reproduced cheaply and noted that currently the Academy has the capacity of producing 30 ventilators in a month. Speaking further, he disclosed that NDA Type 1 ventilator is a fully automated system with an interactive user-interface and 4 potentiometers for adjusting air and oxygen parameters.  “Similarly, the NDA Type 2 is also fully automated, operates with a 2 KVA self-sustaining onboard inverter equipped with a military-grade lithium battery.” He noted that both prototypes have been subjected to a series of technical performance evaluation tests with impressive results. “It is worthy to know that apart from the production of the ventilators, the NDA also produced hand wash and sanitisers. This is to enhance the hygiene and develop washing hand culture among the Academy community.” While responding to the various research efforts, the Commandant, Major General Jamil Sarham commended the effort of the team. He however pledged to continue to support all research efforts in the Academy in order to proffer solutions to various problems affecting the country.