 SUNU Assurances Nigeria Plc plans to cancel 11.2 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each out of its 14 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each as part of a recapitalisation plan aimed at increasing the capital base of the insurance company to the new minimum capital base. At an  Extraordinary General Meeting, shareholders of the company approved a proposal by its board to cancel four ordinary shares out of every five held by shareholders. The company stated that the purpose of the share capital reduction is “to allow for the issuance of new ordinary shares by way of a rights issue and private placement, in order for the company to comply with the recently revised share capital requirement by the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) for insurance companies”. The company explained that the share capital reconstruction was adopted as the more efficient approach to creating room for new equity capital issuances. “The share capital reconstruction will lead to the cancellation of 11.2 billion ordinary shares and result in an increase in the share price to N1. This will enable the rights issue, private placement and any subsequent equity capital raising to be priced above the nominal value of 50 kobo,” the company stated. According to the company, the shortfall between its paid up capital and NAICOM’s new capital requirement of N10 billion for non-life insurance companies was N7.71 billion as at September 30, 2019. The company stated that it is exploring a recapitalisation plan to augment the shortfall ahead of the December 30 deadline for compliance with the new minimum capital base. NAICOM had in May 2019 released new capital requirements for insurance businesses with a 13-month compliance period for operators to shore up their minimum capital base to the required level.  The minimum paid-up share capital of a life insurance company was increased from N2 billion to N8 billion, non-life insurance from N3 billion to N10 billion, composite insurance from N5 billion to N18 billion while re-insurance companies were directed to raise their capital base from N10 billion to N20 billion. SUNU Assurance Group had in 2016 acquired 60 per cent equity of the former Equity Assurance Plc and renamed the company SUNU Assurances Nigeria Plc. SUNU Assurance has operations in not less than 12 Franco-phone African countries and the acquisition of Equity Assurance was a major entry strategy into the Anglo-phone countries. Managing Director, Sunu Assurances Nigeria Plc, Mr Samuel Ogbodu, said the company was favourably disposed to the new minimum capital requirements, noting that the move was in the best interest of the insurance sector. He said the recapitalisation would lead to consolidation of the insurance sector and provide more opportunities for large ticket transactions while positioning Nigerian insurance companies as big players, as against the current trend of being agents to foreign insurance underwriters. He added that insurance brokers would have more creative roles to play towards harnessing the benefits of the new capital base requirement. According to him, the recapitalisation will help to reposition the Nigerian insurance sector to take its rightful place in the country’s economy as insurance companies would at the end of the recapitalisation be able to take up opportunities hitherto taken by foreign companies. He said various efforts aimed at boosting the insurance sector’s contribution to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) from its present 0.1 per cent level would be accelerated with the implementation of the new capital base. Ogbodu was optimistic that insurance penetration in the country would surpass one per cent with proper implementation of the capital raising exercise as players would be forced to harness new grounds. He assured shareholders and stakeholders that Sunu Assurances Nigeria would surpass the new capital base of N10 billion.