Paramount rulers in Cross River State have expressed commitment to ending violence against women and girls in their communities. They spoke when Spotlight Initiative, a collaborative effort between the European Union and United Nations to end the culture of violence against women and girls, visited them in Calabar South and Obanliku local government areas. The Spotlight Initiative team that visited the royal fathers stressed the need for women, girls and children to be protected especially during the COVID-19 lockdown. The team, led by the State Director of National Orientation Agency Mrs. Florence A. Osang, also emphasised the needs for proper birth registration in their domains. UNICEF Spotlight Initiative Consultant, Olorunjuwon Oloruntoba, explained Calabar South and Obanliku were chosen as the focus local governemnt areas due to the prevalence of issues surrounding Violence Against Women Girls/ Violence against children. He said the Initiative aims to eliminate sexual and gender-based violence (SGBV), harmful practices (HPs), and address related aspects of sexual and reproductive health and rights (SRHRs) In the pilot of the programme, eight priority countries including Nigeria, Liberia, Niger, Malawi, Mozambique, Zimbabwe, Uganda and Mali were selected. In Nigeria, Cross River, Ebonyi, Lagos, Adamawa, Sokoto and FCT were selected. In Cross River Calabar and Obanliku local government areas were selected. The Chief Orientation and Mobilisation Officer of NOA in Obanliku, Mr. Atunkanre Vincent Bainche, sensitized the community heads on the importance of birth registration to the Nigeria child. He stressed the need for community heads to talk to their subjects on the importance of registering their children’s births and how it positively impacts on their children’s future. NOA State Director, Florence Osang, stressed the need for communities to practice good hygiene and adhere to the guidance on social distancing amidst the COVID-19 pandemic. The Child Protection Network focal person for Obanliku, Mr. Richard Preach, as well as the Welfare Officer for the area, Mr. Peter Ubusu urged the communities to own the Initiative. They said the community heads can be at the frontline of the battle against ending violence against women and girls. They called for stronger collaborations among the community, civil society organizations and governemnt as it is a collective responsibility that the problem is eliminated in the communities. Royal fathers visited in Calabar South include HRH Muri Maurice Okon Eyo 1, Clan Head of Efut Akwa Ikot Ekpe Kingdom; HRH Muri Joseph Bassey Anating Edem VI, Clan Head of Efut Ekondo Ancestral Clan; HRH Elder Etubom Micah E. E. Archibong VI, Clan Head of Archibong Ekpo Clan; and HRH Etubom Nyong Effiom Okon, Clan Head Ewa Ekeng/Effiom Ewa Nsa Clan, Calabar-South and Ntoe of Big Qua Clan, HRH Ntoe E. B. Oqua, Clan Head Big Qua Community among others. Among traditional rulers visited in Obanliku were those of Kigol (Chief Clement Machu); Imale (Chief Alum Alexander); Amana (HRH: Sunday Ayawa); Ranch (HRH: Sunday Ichile); Bebi West (HRH: Augustine Owoshi); Busi II (Chief James Ijah Ijua); and Busi III (HRH: James Ekesebe Bikaa).