Trading at the stock market continued on Tuesday through existing full remote trading arrangement in spite of the 14-day restriction of all movements in Lagos ordered by the Federal Government. Lagos is Nigeria’s main economic centre and it hosts Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) and other major stock market institutions. President Muhammadu Buhari had ordered restriction of movements in Lagos State, Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and Ogun State for an initial period of 14 days effective 11pm on March 30, as part of efforts to stem the spread of Coronavirus. Total turnover at the NSE yesterday stood at 422 million shares valued at N1.72 billion in 3,448 deals. Benchmark value indices however indicated average decline of 0.1 per cent. Aggregate market value of all quoted equities dropped from its opening value of N11.117 trillion to close at N11.101 trillion. The All Share Index (ASI) declined from its opening index of 21,330.79 points to close at 21,300.47 points. The NSE said it has made adequate arrangements to ensure continuity of transactions at the secondary market while expressing support for steps being taken by governments and all stakeholders to flatten the rising curve of Covid-19 cases in Nigeria. Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), Mr. Oscar Onyema, noted that the ability of the financial and money markets to continue to operate during this crisis is a testament to a well-functioning economy, pointing out that the presidential approval which included the financial system and money markets in the list of exempted services from the lockdown is vital. “Given this new pronouncement, we will sustain our remote trading activities at normal hours and days, in line with the guidance provided by the World Federation of Exchanges,” Onyema stated. According to him, to comply with the government’s directive on the lockdown, the NSE has activated the second phase of its business continuity plan that will see its essential staff move into a secured accommodation close to its offices with adequate arrangements for healthcare and other matters necessary to their wellbeing. He explained that access to the NSE’s offices will be restricted to these essential staff who will ensure smooth remote trading and provide remote technical support to stockbrokers, while also continuing to provide remote access to listed companies and issuers during this period. He pointed out that while capital markets around the world have seen levels of volatility that are only comparable to the global financial crisis of 2007-2008 since the outbreak of the Coronavirus pandemic, the Exchange had last week activated its business continuity plan to maintain the integrity of the market in order for it to continue to stimulate growth. He highlighted the elements of the business continuity plan to include continued trading during normal hours and days by providing remote trading access for stockbrokers through FIX Protocol and Virtual Private Network (VPN) platforms, commencement of remote working for non-essential staff nationwide, closing of trading floors nationwide, maintaining continuous flow of relevant market information to enable stakeholders to make informed investment decisions and engaged with government to address market issues raised by Covid-19. “While we hope for a quick end to this pandemic, we encourage everyone to maintain precautions, take responsibility for others by observing social distancing and practicing personal hygiene. Most importantly, we advise that you comply with guidelines issued by relevant health agencies of government towards curtailing the spread of the virus in our beloved country,” Onyema said. He assured stakeholders that the Exchange is open for business remotely noting that people can reach out to the NSE through various digital platforms including email, X-Issuer, X-Boss, X-Whistle, telephone, website and other digital and social platforms.