Erstwhile Golden Eaglets captain  Musa Muhammed has described the on-going Coronavirus pandemic  times to the world, even as he called on Nigerian to play safe and follow all  related directives in order to curb the spread of the virus. Currently with Croatian club HNK Gorica , the 23-year-old  lively  defender has been in rich vein of form until coronavirus brought football to its knees around the world. There have been over 1000 reported cases of Covid-19 in Croatia  and the amiable Muhammed  said is it is hard to see people  across the world going through pains amidst  the pandemic. “ This is  really a serious hard and tough times for everybody but we are managing to cope by the grace of God,” the attacking-minded defender stated matter-of-factly.“ It is hard  that Covid-19 is spreading around the world; it’s really hard times for everybody. “ It is a difficult time but the best thing is to stay at home and that is what we are doing as a family.” In line with procedures obtainable in many clubs around the world, Muhammed  explained that he was not only keeping safe but keeping his fitness by strictly following the personal  training regimen handed over to him by his club. “ I’m training  at home because the club  has drawn a schedule for us even while we are staying at home,” he said. “That is the present situation  but we are praying that this unfortunate period will go very soon so that we can be back to the good times again.” Speaking further, Muhammed  enjoined his teeming fans and Nigerians in general  to remain united  and support the government in the fight against Covid-19. “ It is a good thing to remind  the fans that  it will be a good thing for them to stay at home because this is really a very hard time. But we have to be prayerful that this Covid-19 will soon go away but we have to stay alive by staying at home as directed by the government, and follow all the advises by washing our hands and using hand sanitizers,” said Musa who led the Golden Eaglets and Flying Eagles to win the FIFA U-17 World Cup and U-20 AFCON in 2013 and 2015 respectively.