 They can be aptly described as being two of a kind. While one wields a mighty pen that qualifies him as among the brightest and best of Nigeria’s print media, the other’s major asset is a golden voice and infectious élan, that firmly secures his place in the pantheon of Nigeria’s most proficient and enduring broadcasters. We refer to Messrs Yakubu Mohammed, co-founder of Newswatch, the doyen of weekly newsmagazine journalism in Nigeria, and Iquaibom Jones Okpoho Usen aka ‘Citizen Jones’, ace broadcaster, and soul of breezy Radio Nigeria 2, Martins Street, Lagos, at its pioneering days. Both media Titans turned 70 on Saturday, April 4. Their personalities and professional trajectory naturally diverge widely. Yet, the two converge with their ardent love for media practice, a track record of career excellence, an unassuming mien as well as uncommon longevity and durability, characterized by undiminished vigour and relevance in their professional practice. In a culture where a materialistic outlook is prevalent and most members of the elite are engaged in a ruthless rat race for wealth accumulation, by all means and at all costs, the duo are defined by a preoccupation with elevated values and the utilization of their talents and skills in the pursuit of a better society. A graduate of Mass Communication from the University of Lagos, Mr. Mohammed also holds a Postgraduate diploma in Public Administration from the Glasgow College of Technology, Scotland. In an eventful career path, he served as Associate Editor and later Managing Editor of the defunct New Nigerian newspapers before becoming Editor of the National Concord, a position he occupied between 1982 and 1984. Along with the late Dele Giwa, Ray Ekpu and Dan Agbese, Mohammed was a co-founder of the path-breaking Newswatch Magazine in the mid-1980s that redefined news magazine journalism in Nigeria. The intellectual profundity of the magazine, its high quality production, audacious and incisive reporting and, in particular, its scintillating and hard-hitting columns made it an instant success with a wide audience. Mohammed was, of course, one of the star columnists of the magazine and remains one of the country’s most engaging, respected and influential columnists till date, long after the Newswatch had gone moribund. Although he has maintained a lifelong dedication to journalism practice, Mohammed served as Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of the Governing Council of Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) between 2005 and 2007 and was pioneer Pro-Chancellor of the Federal University, Birnin Kebbi.  Apparently trying to demonstrate in practice the values of honest and good governance he had advocated so long as a public opinion influencer, Mr. Mohammed contested for the governorship of Kwara State last year on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) albeit without success. On his part, it can be said of Jones Okpho Usen: broadcasting is his life. Knowing exactly the path he had chosen for himself in life, Usen joined the then National Broadcasting Corporation (NBC) straight from college in 1974. His sonorous voice, keen sense of humour and mastery of current affairs made him an instant hit with the country’s teeming radio audience. At a time when radio was indisputably the most influential medium of mass communication, Usen impacted large numbers of Nigerians through a diversity of educative, entertaining and enlightening programmes. He particularly had a knack for stirring up intense debates on issues of national importance through his various programmes. It is certainly not fortuitous that Usen is more widely and popularly known as ‘Citizen Jones’. For over the last four decades, he has used both radio and television as instruments for promoting the virtues of good, patriotic and responsible citizenship. He has at various times served as Programme Director, Production manager, Head of Programmes and presenter of a myriad of programmes on diverse radio and television stations. In the course of his career, Jones Usen won the award of ‘Announcer of the Year’ and ‘Broadcaster of the Year’ by the National Broadcasting Corporation and the Nigerian Media Merit Awards (NMMA) respectively. Even at 70, Mr. Usen continues to present programmes with verve and freshness on both radio and television just as Mr. Yakubu Mohammed remains an arresting and thought provoking columnist with leading Nigerian newspapers. We wish both media titans many happy returns.