The Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN’s) policies on financial inclusion, including the Payment Service Banks (PSBs) and mobile money initiatives, are expected to deepen financial penetration by taking banking to the grassroots. A report released by Enhancing Financial Innovation & Access (EFInA) shows that more Nigerians are embracing financial services, with positive impact on lending and the economy, writes COLLINS NWEZE. Financial inclusion is the provision of a broad range of high quality financial products, such as savings, credit, insurance, payments and pensions, which are relevant, appropriate and affordable for the entire adult population, especially the low-income segment. An inclusive financial sector is characterised by the diversity of services providers, the level of competition between them, and the legal and regulatory environments that ensure the integrity of the financial sector and access to financial services for all. Evidence worldwide shows that access to financial services contributes to growth and wealth creation and is, therefore, key to tackling the ‘poverty’ trap in Nigeria. It is critical for regulators and policy makers to create an enabling environment to promote  the demand for and the supply of financial services to the unbanked and under-banked. Despite financial inclusion challenges, the hope for the country to achieve 80 per cent financial inclusion rate this year is alive. The plan received a major boost with the figure from the Enhancing Financial Innovation & Access (EFInA) survey showing that 2.6 million more people have embraced financial services. The Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN’s) policies on mobile money, agency banking, Know Your Customer (KYC), insurance, and recently, Payment Service Banks (PSBs) expected to take off this year have helped to deepen financial penetration. Not long ago, the CBN berthed the National Financial Inclusion Strategy (NFIS), which seeks to ensure that over 80 per cent bankable adults in Nigeria have access to financial service by the end of this year. In addition to what the Deposit Money Banks (DMBs) and other financial institutions have been doing, the CBN has cleared the way to license new operators referred to as Payment Service Banks (PSBs). It has spelt out the requirements, the structure, what will be allowed and what will be considered illegalities. The key objective is to accelerate financial inclusion in rural areas. By so doing, there will be increased access to deposit products, payments and remittance services to small businesses, low income households as well as entities through high-volume low-value transaction in a secured technology-driven environment. The FSS2020 initiatives were tailored to align with the mandate of these institutions that have the responsibility to implement the identified initiatives which is within the realm of the FSS2020 objectives. For Instance, CBN has achieved a lot in Payment System Vision 2020,  an initiative of the FSS 2020 along with the cashless policy. Notably, over the years, the CBN, in its various initiatives, has made progress in creating a robust financial system framework through several reforms. The apex institution has focused on fostering stability, sensitising the gains in serious governance and restoring confidence in the nation’s financial system. The EFInA survey The EFInA survey showed that 63.6 per cent of Nigeria’s adult population has access to financial services. EFInA is a non-governmental organisation and a financial sector development organisation funded by the Department for International Development (DFID) and Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to promote financial inclusion in Nigeria. The firm conducts surveys every two years to determine the progree made on financial inclusion in the country. EFInA’s report came after a research across the country, with 750 respondents in each of the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), and 27,470 interviews, which represents 97 per cent of the target samples of 28,380. The survey was anchored on several indicators, including banked population, remittances, savings with a bank, payments, received income, loan with a bank, and banking agents. Northeast, Southeast on the spot Before the release of the EFInA report, another financial inclusion report on Nigeria showed that Northeast and Southeast regions have the least access to banking. With five per cent financial access points for the Northeast and seven per cent for the Southeast, both regions remain disadvantaged in access to financial services despite efforts by the CBN, Bankers’ Committee and commercial banks to take banking to the grassroots, the Shared Agent Network Expansion Facility (SANEF) report has shown. The CBN voted N20 billion for banks, Nigeria Inter-Bank Settlement Systems (NIBSS), licensed Mobile Money Operators and Shared Agents to accelerate financial inclusion and take banking to more Nigerians. A member of Technical Committee of SANEF, Bolaji Lawal, said the SANEF initiative involves on-boarding 40 million low-income and un-served Nigerians into the financial system, increasing financial access points from 50,000 to 500,000 by the end of this year and deepening access to mobile and digital financial products and services, such as savings accounts, micro-loans, insurance, and pensions by Nigerians. Obstacles to financial inclusion The EFInA survey report concluded that three factors – affordability, institutional exclusion and lack of awareness – were the biggest obstacles to financial inclusion. According to EFInA, 60.1 million Nigerians do not have/use a bank account, 96.3 million do not have/use mobile money and 97.9 million do not have insurance. On the digital usage in the country, it revealed that mobile money, which was thought to be useful in the financial inclusion drive, was found to only deepen rather than expand financial inclusion. The re-port, therefore, revealed that while 35.5 million Nigerians (36.6 per cent of the adult population) use bank accounts only three million adults have mobile money and bank accounts, whereas 59.4 million (60 per cent) neither have mobile money nor bank account. Similarly, the study showed that while 82 per cent of adults, comprising subsistence farmers and small business owners, receive their income in cash, 10 per cent of those adults receive their own income via mobile money or bank account, while another eight per cent did not receive any income at all. Savings dropped by 13.3 per cent, according to the report, while savings in assets, property, and livestock had risen from 47.4 million to 54.7 million since 2016. Other decrease on this indicator was that of borrowing, which went down by two per cent and remittances to one per cent. On financial access by gender, the report indicated that of the 99.6 million adults, 33.5 million male adults were financially included compared with 29.4 million female adults. This represents a decrease in the exclusion rate of 4.3 per cent and 5.7 per cent in the male and female gender, and a decrease of 4.8 per cent for gender compared with the 2016 figures. On financial access by age groups, the report revealed that Nigerians in the age bracket of 36 to 45 (19.5 million and 30.6 per cent exclusion) have more access to finance than all others. This group was followed by those in the age bracket of 26 to 35 (30.3 million and 31.5 per cent exclusion) and 46 to 55 (10.9 million and 32.4 per cent exclusion). Regionally, the Southwest and Southeast, two zones with the least financial exclusion rate in the past, had underperformed in the last two years.The zones recorded exclusion rate of 18 per cent and 28 per cent in 2016, compared with 19 per cent and 29 per cent exclusion rate in 2018. All the other zones, however, recorded significant decrease in exclusion rate in the last two years with the Southsouth zone improving from 31per cent in 2016 to 23per cent in 2018, and the Northcentral achieving 31per cent in 2018 from 39per cent in 2016. Northeast and Northwest scored 55per cent in 2018 from 62 per cent in 2016 and 62per cent in 2018 from 70per cent in 216. A breakdown of the report shows that Kano, Jigawa and Katsina states in the Northwest failed to achieve the region’s average of 62.4per cent, with Kano having the highest exclusion rate of 75.2per cent. Gombe, Bauchi and Yobe states fell below the average in the North-east region (54.5per cent). Gombe, for example, had the highest exclusion rate of 76.1per cent, Bauchi 60.8per cent and Yobe 60.0per cent. Taraba had the least exclusion rate of 30.9per cent in the region. In the Southeast zone, Ebonyi emerged the only state that failed to achieve an exclusion rate below the average of 29.3 per cent. It recorded a financial exclusion rate of 43.6per cent. In the Southsouth zone, Bayelsa, Akwa Ibom and Edo  were the states that had an exclusion rate more than the average in that zone (22.7 per cent). The states had 35.3per cent, 29.1per cent and 25.4per cent. In all, the 2018 EFInA report revealed that 36.6 million (63 million have access to finance) Nigerians are financially excluded against 56.3 million in the 2016 report. Of this number, the exclusion by gender shows 55.9per cent for female and 44.1per cent for male. The exclusion rate of 34 per cent among Nigerians aged between 18 and 25 is the highest, whereas the exclusion rate in the rural and urban areas stood at 78.5 per cent and 21.5per cent. EFInA believes that providing financial products and services to the low-income population represents a large business opportunity for the private sector. Providers of financial products and services should develop innovative products and services that better suit the needs of the low income unbanked and under-banked population.