 Not fewer than 105 Boko Haram insurgents were killed by the Nigerian Army in a hot battle encounter at Buni Gari, Gujba Local Government of Yobe State on Saturday night. The Acting Director of Army Public Relations, Col. Sagir Musa, in a statement said the onslaught on the insurgents was as a result of credible intelligence received by the Army of the intention of the insurgents to attack Buni Gari community. The Operation, according to Col. Sagir, was carried out by troops of Sector 2, Operation Lafiya Dole, led by their Commander, Brig. Gen. Lawrence Araba. He also informed the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai was happy with the troops’ massive success against their enemies, commending them after visiting the wounded soldiers at the Field Ambulance Logistics Base III Damaturu and the Special Forces School, Buni Yadi on Sunday. “Gen Buratai visited two officers that were wounded in action during the Buni Gari encounter and other soldiers already on admission at the medical facility in Damaturu before proceeding to the Special Forces’ School in Buni Yadi where he and his entourage were briefed on the incident by the Commander, Sector 2 OPLD, Brig Gen Lawrence Araba,” the statement added.  Briefing the Chief of Army Staff, Araba informed him that the recent success was as a result of intelligence report, which revealed plan by Boko Haram/ISWAP terrorists to attack the village. “Based on intelligence received about the plan by the terrorists to attack Buni Gari, our troops swiftly intercepted and engaged the criminals in fierce battle that led to the killing of 105 Boko Haram/ISWAP terrorists as well as the capture of several arms and ammunition from the criminals. “Initial situation reported that 10 terrorists were Neutralized. However, following exploitation by our troops, a total of 105 Boko Haram/ISWAP Criminals are comfirmed to have met their waterloo as a result of the encounter and some of the pictures are here for you to see Sir”, Brig. Gen. Araba informed. The Sector II Commander OPLD further disclosed that the exploit apart from neutralizing the terrororists made significant recoveries including five (5) AK-47 Rifles, three (3) GPMG, one (1) Duska Anti Aircraft Gun, one (1) PKT Gun, two (2) handheld radio, while one (1) terrorists’ gun truck was destroyed. He added that several ammunition and ammunition links, two(2) hand grenades, two (2) magazines with ammunition and assorted hard drugs were captured. The elated COAS promised to continue his support for the troops, charging them step up momentum and defeat the insurgents within a very short time.