Governor Seyi Makinde on Monday said aside from using his isolation period to fight the health challenge occasion by his testing positive to Coronavirus, he also used the period to reflect on his plans and programmes for the people of the state. The governor who said the state is now ready to fight the Coronavirus pandemic also assured the people of the state that indeed God answered all the prayers offered on his behalf while combating the virus. Governor Makinde spoke after an inspection tour of the state Infectious Disease Centre, Olodo, Ibadan to assess the level of work done, especially while observing the 14days isolation period as required. The facility which will also serve as isolation and treatment centre for all Infectious diseases has 100-bed space and is said to be ready to receive patient as soon as the need arises. The Governor who was received at the Centre by the Acting Chairman of the State COVID-19 Task Force, Prof Temitope Alonge, was also accompanied at the press briefing by the members of the Task Force, Commissioner for health, Dr Bashir Bello, representative of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), representative of the World Health Organization (WHO), UNICEF among others. He described as ‘jobless’ those who condemned his choice of Prof Alonge to head the Task Force Team in his absence, saying the experience and expertise of the former Chief Medical Director (CMD), University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan is a big boost to the work of the task force in sustaining the fight against the virus in the state. He appealed to the people of the state to give more support to his government and the task force, especially by observing rules of hygiene and others stipulated by the Task Force. He also assured the people that the Taskforce will give a daily briefing of how the fight against the pandemic is being fought as a way of reassuring the people of government’s effort. Makinde said “I want to specially thank Prof Temitope Alonge, I can see a lot of improvement here and I can also see that we are ready to fight Covid-19. “I have been in isolation myself, yes I lost a little bit of weight which I think it’s good because when you are in isolation, the tendency is to just watch television and eat but I have been using the treadmill. “It has also been a period to reflect, look at the programmes, the policies and the things which we want to do for the people of Oyo State and also reflect on how COVID-19 is going to affect us socially and economically. “I want to use this opportunity to say thank you to the people of Oyo State for all your prayers and support. God answered your prayers on my behalf. All our aspirations for the good people of Oyo State shall be fulfilled. “The COVID-19, like the experts, have been telling me, we are all in an uncharted territory, so we may not be hundred percent perfect, but I want you to continue to give us your support, because we are here to work for you and we are here to ensure that no life is lost to this pandemic. Please continue to follow the directives of the Task Force. “I am back to work now, some jobless people have been talking about who I should hand over to whether he should be a professor of virology. I am not a professor of virology myself, but, when the expert speaks, the people in position of leadership only need common sense. “And once you listen to the experts, they have a room in there where they crosscordinate ideas, they discuss, they challenge themselves and then they come up with the best course of action. So its the same thing for us fighting this pandemic. “So, let us all keep observing our social distancing, hygenic conditions and wash our hands with soap and water. They told me that even the virus is timid, that when you wash your hands with soap and water, it can destroy the virus. So, let us continue to observe all these hygienic practices. “We will continue to brief you on a daily basis. It is a situation that is fluid as things will keep evolving. If you have ideas, please, call us we will listen to you. We acknowledge the fact that we don’t know it all and we are and we are not all-wise, but God is with us in Oyo State. “I pray for all those still battling the virus, just the way I overcame, they too will overcome it. The way I overcame it, Oyo state too will overcome Coronavirus.”