Although football leagues and most championships are suspended indefinitely, that is no cause for alarm for football fans. You can wager on all your favourite teams and still make money. How can this be? Check out for yourself at 1xBet, a world-class betting company! You can place bets on the most significant and best FIFA and PES football games, and you really don’t want to miss that action! Variety of tournaments There is a massive variety of FIFA and PES betting options, tournaments and an incredible array of sports events. For instance, you can wager on Premier League team Arsenal and still enjoy an exciting simulation of the match in FIFA. Familiar players are included in the rusted, so you can apply your real football knowledge, which will certainly come in handy. Besides the Premier League, you can choose to bet on World Cup games, national leagues in Spain, Italy, Germany, France and other prominent leagues. Exotic bets that are not in real football You can place exotic bets not ordinarily available for real soccer matches that enhance the exciting wagering experience. You will see English Premier matches taking place in courtyards! Great teams such as Chelsea, Liverpool, Tottenham and Manchester United are in action along with several other football clubs playing in a 4-by-4 format in a courtyard!. Which team do you think will win a game in that format? You have the additional opportunity to stage an exciting penalty shootout between two teams, including only your favourite players like 11 Messi’s versus 11 Ronaldos! With real football games, that is obviously impossible, but here at 1xBet, you can turn that into a reality while earning income with your bets. Great opportunity to make money When you bet on FIFA and PES, you have a superb chance of untimely winning a payout from your wagers. You won’t have to wait for the match to start, as the games run around the clock every day of the week. Matches last a lot less than the usual 90 minutes! That means you will save time and find out the outcome of the event quickly. You can complement your stakes with high odds and the options of betting total goals, handicap and the result of the game. It is a real joy to still bet on your favourite football teams while watching matches unfold, even when the sport is on hold. 1xBet is offering just that, to continue betting on your favourite team now. Stop missing out on the football action and start betting on FIFA today, only at 1xBet! 