Shyness is a feeling of awkwardness, worry, or tension during social encounters, especially with unfamiliar people. Severely shy people may exhibit physical symptoms like blushing, sweating, a pounding heart or upset stomach. They could also be filled with negative feelings about themselves and worry how others see them. Feeling shy on occasion is perfectly normal. However, some people face intense feelings of shyness that may prevent them from interacting with others. This usually leads to problems in school, at work, and in relationships. If this leads to significant impairment in social activities or relationships, then it is no longer shyness but a psychological problem called social phobia (fear of humiliation or possible scrutiny by others), and this requires professional help. A person who is suffering from social phobia usually will find it easy to interact with his family or close friends. But, he will be under great pressure if he has to meet new faces, and he will tend to avoid such situations. In children, the most common observable symptom of shyness is “avoidance behaviour”, where the child tries to avoid all situations where he or she has to meet other people. The child may exhibit anger, resort to crying, or keep silent (elective mutism) if he or she is forced into such a situation. If you have a child who struggles with shyness, it is advisable that you address and improve the issue while the child is still in his formative years. Addressing the situation at an early stage ensures the child can enjoy a better and healthier school experience – which gradually leads to more confidence in later life. Be observant of your child’s mannerisms and reactions in order to find out whether your child is shy. How you can help? Shy children are afraid of peer rejection and worry whatever they say or do may be perceived as incompetent. Therefore, negative comments or labels are dangerous, as they will cause emotional distress to your child. This may make him become even more withdrawn or reserved. Accepting your child for who he is is very important; labelling him as “a shy child” will make him more likely to be shy. Therefore, it is important to accept the child as he is – this can make him feel more confident and less inhibited. Shy children tend to have doubts about their capabilities. They also have negative self-image and constantly think that they will not be accepted. Nurture your child’s sense of self-esteem and confidence by allowing him to make decisions and take responsibility for them. Praise and acknowledge him when appropriate. This can help him feel good about himself. Source: https://www.thestar.com