The Governors of Ekiti, Oyo and Kwara States, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, Engr Seyi Makinde and AbdulRaman AbdulRazaq, on Monday resumed official state functions in their respective states after 14 days self-isolation. The self-isolation is in line with the globally accepted COVID-19 Protocols. In Ekiti, Fayemi, who went into isolation on March 24, emerged from solitary confinement to perform his first state functions; with the flagged off of distribution of palliatives to 20,000 indigent Ekiti citizens, as part of the state’s Covid-19 Response Food bank and the relaxation of the shutdown imposed on the state to allow for the reactivation of trading activities between 6am and 2pm between today till Thursday. Fayemi said the government will work out modalities to give financial supports to those whose businesses had been adversely affected by the restriction slammed on the state to rout  COVID-19. In Ibadan, Governor Makinde conducted an inspection tour of the state’s largest isolation centre- Infectious Disease Centre, Olodo, Ibadan immediately he resumed office. The governor, who appeared calm and relaxed, said he was thankful to the people of the state for their fervent prayers during his isolation period. The 100-bed hospital was left in carcass by the immediate past administration, which christened it Mother and Child Hospital. Makinde’s administration re-designated it Infectious Disease Centre, with the capacity to serve as isolation centre for 100 patients. The governor maintained that though the efforts put in place by the government might not have hit the 100 per cent mark, there were clear signs that the state was ready to fight COVID-19. In Kwara, Governor AbdulRaman AbdulRazaq disclosed yesterday that he went on self-isolation shortly after returning from the National Economic Council (NEC) meeting in Abuja. He added that the action was in full compliance with the safety protocols of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control on COVID-19. Mallam AbdulRazaq said: “until now, I have remained in self-isolation shortly after returning from the National Economic Council meeting in Abuja on March 19. This is in keeping faith with the COVID-19 Protocol that requires anyone with probable exposure to the virus, especially after travel to frontline areas, to either self-isolate for 14 days incubation period or get tested to know their status. AlihamduliLlah, I am fine as I have always been.” The governor said this in Ilorin, the state capital, where he launched the Federal Government’s conditional cash transfer to 25,000 households in the state, with beneficiary getting at least N20,000 each. He said: “Today, I flag off the disbursement of conditional cash transfer initiative of the Federal Government to 25,000 households in Kwara. Each benefiting household is to get N20,000 cumulatively for the months of January, February, March and April. 