Federal Parastatals and Private Sector Pensioners’ Association of Nigeria (FEPPPAN) has appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to include vulnerable pensioners in the COVID-19 palliatives being distributed by government. The penaioners said this would help cushion the hardship of the senior citizens during the lockdown period ordered by the Federal Government in some states. They made the appeal in a statement by their President-General, Chief Temple Ubani. According to the statement, the appeal was necessitated by the perennial vulnerability of pensioners in the country, which has been exacerbated by the strict lockdown of Ogun, Lagos and Federal Capital Territory. The statement said that pensioners need money to procure both drugs and other necessary needs to stay live while the lockdown persist. It reads: “We most humbly request the President to please include Nigerian Retirees spread all over the Nigerian States and the FCT in the palliatives meant for distribution to vulnerable Nigerians. Pensioners are among the most vulnerable in any community because of their age and health. “These Pensioners can be reached most effectively through their pay-points; such as: The Treasury Funded through PTAD, The Self Funding and Private Sector Pensioners through their former Employers and, The Contributory Pensioners through their PFAs. “Though our union was registered to care for Federal Parastatals and Private Sector Pensioners in Nigeria, in a matter like this, we are under obligation to be our brothers keeper, hence the general appeal for all pensioners. “We appeal to government to avoid sending palliatives meant for the vulnerable Nigerian pensioners to none pensioners for distribution or adopt any other distribution mode that will work hardship for the pensioners, especially the Federal Government funded and Private Sector Pensioners.” The FEPPPAN hailed pensioners across the country for adhearing to government’s stay-at-home and stay safe order, as a measure to contain the spread of the novel Coronavirus.