It is both significant and heart-warming that the apex bank is leading the charge in the efforts to keep the economy from floundering in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Days after announcing a N52 billion ($136.6m) lifeline to businesses affected by the coronavirus pandemic, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), together with the Bankers Committee is pooling a princely sum of N3.5 trillion to buoy up the pharmaceutical sector’s response to the pandemic. CBN Governor Godwin Emefiele, said the apex bank “took the decision to support the pharmaceutical firms because the pandemic was of grave public health challenge”. ”The fund”, he stated ”would grant funding facilities in naira and foreign exchange (forex) to enable pharmaceutical firms procure raw materials and equipment to boost local drug production in the country”. We commend the apex bank for putting the money where the nation’s heart is at the moment. Indeed, if there are lessons to take from the measures being taken by countries across the world to contain the health crisis, it is the need for such extraordinary measures to boost domestic drug production capabilities. For a sector that has always complained of being done in by inclement government policies, Nigerians will certainly pay more than a passing interest not just in how the funds will be utilized but in its impact on the industry’s operations in the coming months. With current capacity utilization of barely 47 per cent, Nigerians expect to see significant boosts, not just in operations, but also in the areas of job creation. The more pertinent question, however, is what difference that huge sum can make in a sector where everything from equipment to basic raw materials – including most ridiculously, pharmaceutical grade corn-starch – are sourced abroad; where the so-called big names operating in the country are only a little more than trading outposts for multinationals, for which the nation gets to pay billions of naira for patents and licences. Imagine a country that boasts a number of world-class pharmaceutical and related research institutes; yet it is unfortunately the case that issues of backward integration and domestic linkages have been confined to the realm of endless theorizing by policy makers, despite the long-acknowledged abundance of local raw materials. The summary, of course, is that the country requires a lot more than such episodic, ad hoc interventions, if it truly desires to turn the sector around. Much as it might be tempting to confuse the bursts of activities to be spawned as funds hit the coffers of the beneficiary companies with the fundamental changes that the sector requires, only in the long run will the country get to discover that very little in substance has changed. Both for the sake of the country’s well-being and its survival, we can only urge that the Buhari administration think long-term. To miss the opportunities created by the current crisis to evolve a national drug production strategy that integrates our abundant raw materials, with our manufacturing processes, would be most tragic. To miss the opportunities created by the current crisis to evolve a national drug production strategy that integrates our abundant raw materials, with our manufacturing processes, would be most tragic. We must aim at reducing our current dependence on imported raw materials for drug manufacture while ultimately weaning the system of its dependence on drug imports. With developed countries scrambling for limited Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) and other items of critical care in the wake of the outbreak of the Covid-19, Nigeria ought to be wiser nowthan to count on the benevolence of others in moments of grave crisis.