Ernest Nwokolo, Abeokuta  The Ogun State chapter of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has suspended Mr. Adebayo Dayo over alleged anti-party activities. The Ogun PDP has two persons laying claim to being the Chairman of the party in the state. While Hon. Sikirullai Ogundele claimed to the chairman of the arm of the party loyal to Hon. Ladi Adebutu, allegedly, with tacit support from the National body, Bayo Dayo claimed to be the authentic party Chairman in the state and his claim is backed by court order. His camp is controlled by Senator Buruji Kashamu. But on Monday in a statement by the Publicity Secretary of the PDP in Ogun State, Mr. Oyejide Sunkanmi, the party said it has suspended Bayo Dayo, alleging refusal to attend party meetings as one of the reasons for the decision. The statement reads: “At a meeting of the Ogun State Working Committee (OGSWC) of the PDP held at the State PDP Headquarters in Abeokuta on the 26th of March, 2020, attended by officers listed in the schedule hereto with their signatures affixed, concerning allegations of anti-party activities against Engineer Adebayo Dayo (erstwhile State Chairman), it was resolved as follows: “Notwithstanding the refusal of Engineer Adebayo Dayo to attend this meeting after being duly notified of the convening of the meeting by 2/3 of the members of the OGSWC of our great party drawn from the three (3) Senatorial districts, the PDP OGSWC hereby resolves to send its complaints of anti-party activities against Engineer Adebayo Dayo to the National Executive Committee of the party for disciplinary measures to be considered. “Engineer Adebayo Dayo is hereby suspended for a period of one month from the date hereof in the first instance and thereafter until the National Executive Committee takes a decision regarding the allegations made by the PDP OGSWC against him. “The State Deputy Chairman of the PDP, Mr. Samson Kayode Bamgbose, is hereby authorised to act as State Chairman till the election of and handover to new officers of the Party at State level as scheduled.” The resolution was signed by 10 members of the 14-member State Working Committee who are more than the quorum required to pass any resolution. The Publicity Secretary urged all members of the party to remain calm as efforts are ongoing to reconcile and reposition the party and return it to winning ways “but that process must be driven by credible people who enjoy the confidence of all stakeholders and not political jobbers who are after their belly.” In another development, members of the Ogun State PDP Exco has distanced itself from a letter which was signed by Dayo debriefing Prince Ajibola Oluyede of TRLP LAW as counsel to the party in the state. The party said Dayo had no authority of the Ogun State PDP Exco to write the said letter dated 30th March, 2020, after he had been suspended. In a letter dated 8th April, 2020, which was signed by the Acting State Chairman, Mr. Samson Bamgbose and State Secretary, Barrister Bimbo Lanre-Balogun, the party said, “We thank you for notifying us of the letter dated 30th March, 2020 allegedly written to you by the suspended State Chairman, Engr. Adebayo Dayo and hereby reiterate that Adebayo Dayo had no authority of the Ogun State Executive Committee, Local Government Executive Committees or the Ward Executive Committees of the party to write the letter to discontinue with your services as our lawyer. “We had already suspended Engr. Adebayo Dayo from his position as Chairman since the 26th of March, 2020 in order that we might send our complaints against him to the National Working Committee/National Executive Committee of the Party for disciplinary processes to commence against him. Perhaps the letter written to you after his suspension was part of his design to destabilize our great party. “We therefore implore you to discountenance the said letter and continue your good work on our behalf. “In this regard, we hereby specifically instruct that you take steps to replace Adebayo Dayo as the representative of our Executive Committee in any court action in which he has sued or been sued as our representative.” The letter was signed by all members of the State Executive Committee, which comprises of the State Working Committee, 20 Local Government party chairmen and relevant Ward Executives across the state’s 236 wards.