 EKITI State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, has extended the movement restriction and curfew imposed in the state by two weeks, following the expiration of the initial order on Monday night. The restriction will now end on April 27. The new directive which was contained in a release signed by the Secretary to the State Government, Mr Biodun Oyebanj, also made wearing of face mask compulsory in public places. The Governor also directed that the restriction of movement would be suspended for eight hours, (between 6am-2pm) on Thursday, April 16 and Thursday, April 23rd, to allow the people re-stock essential goods. Like the previous order, those on essential services and vendors of food stuff, water and medicines and other essential goods are allowed to move with valid means of identification. The Governor also said government would scale up its palliative measures and other support to the people and businesses in order to cushion the effect of the movement restriction. The statement reads: “In consideration of available evidence on progress made to curb the spread of COVID-19 in Ekiti State and in recognition of similar efforts by neighbouring states and the Federal Government of Nigeria, the Governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, has directed the extension of restriction of movement and curfew in Ekiti State for two weeks, until 23:59 Monday, April 27, 2020. “Only exceptions allowed are for the purposes of obtaining food, seeking emergency, life-saving, or chronic medical attention or obtaining social security grant.  Persons performing essential services will be allowed to move around, particularly health workers, but must be duly designated with an identity card by the Head of their Institutions. “All businesses and other entities shall remain closed. Oja Oba and Oja Bisi markets shall remain closed.  Except for any business or entity involved in the manufacturing, supply, or provision of an essential good or service. In facilities where essential goods are sold, all directives in respect of hygienic conditions to prevent the exposure of persons to COVID-19 must be adhered to.    