Lagos lawmaker and top actor Desmond Elliot has explained why he embarked on the handwashing project, which has attracted criticisms on social media In a nine- minute video clip, a visibly angry Elliot said that the handwashing programme, which was a makeshift project, was done at the same time he distributed 2000 hand sanitisers, bags of rice, garri, noodles and soaps. He wondered why those ones did not trend except the handwashing buckets at strategic locations in his Surulere constituency. He demanded for better suggestions instead of unnecessary criticism. Elliot sad: “We also created awareness. We sensitised the people. Nothing was heard about that. If you read my post on social media, I said makeshift. It was something that was going to test run and see if it will work. “To the world, it wasn’t working, to the people it was. I did the cases, the blue bucket and in it we have the hypo disinfectant, we had sanitizers by it. There people checking on it to make sure water is there constantly. The soap is there as well. My part of Surulere is very residential. “So, we have it in front of either gates or by the bus-stops. When you come down from the bus, you can wash your hands. Sometimes people just come and take them and we replace them and it is something that started less than a week ago. “Why this is going viral, people would have suggested something better and said I like the thought but why don’t you do it this way? You made bloggers sell negativity even in death and when I mean death, I mean something as grievous as COVID 19 and then someone is asking why my face should be on there. “I wore a sports kit saying let’s kick COVID out and then you turned it to say I want to score a point. If I want to do that, I would have put my face on every bag of rice, garri, etc. I didn’t say it was a perfect thing I did. I’m only doing what I feel is right because I am here and you are there. “All you do is take your phone and criticize especially those of you in the diaspora; there is nothing of hope here but for me, there is a ray of hope. If you are not happy over something, make a suggestion, let’s build this country together and trust me I am doing my best I am making sure I add value. “Social media, not Nigerians what value are you adding to your country besides criticisms? Can’t for once something good went viral? That you are a politician does not make you a bad person. I’m here for service.”