Chieftains of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Bayelsa State and other stakeholders have expressed concern over the interest of immediate former governor of the state, Seriake Dickson, in the vacant Bayelsa West Senatorial District seat, reports Sam Egburonu, Associate Editor  Although COVID-19 lockdown has literally crippled political gatherings in Bayelsa State, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftains in Bayelsa West Senatorial District told The Nation during the week that they have not forgotten the importance of the forthcoming rerun election for the West senatorial seat. “We may not be meeting formally now to strategize on how to retain the West Senatorial seat, but no one needs to be told that we cannot lose sight of the importance of the seat in the political calculation of the ruling PDP in Bayelsa State. Moving forward, we are prepared to retain that seat and as you know, our leader, former Governor Seriake Dickson, is most likely to fly our flag for this very important election. Fielding a candidate of Dickson’s stature confirms how certain we are that the seat is ours,” says Mr. Ayebaidobamo Tamunolbi. In fact, since chieftains and groups like Bayelsa Frontiers, an increasingly laud political cluster in Bayelsa State’s political theatre, began open lobby for Dickson’s participation in the forthcoming senatorial rerun, observers said the stake has indeed been raised even as All Progressives Congress (APC) prepares to field a candidate that will merge and defeat PDP candidate. For over a month now, PDP stakeholders have alleged that a disinterested Dickson was being wooed to declare interest in the contest, with some of them saying that once the former governor accepts the offer, PDP would be sure of victory. It would be recalled that some of his close associates who sustained the theory that he is not personally interested in the senate seat said earlier that before the end of his tenure as the governor of Bayelsa State, Dickson had indicated interest to return to the classroom. But his critics said Dickson’s interest for the West senatorial district could be traced back to 2018, when he carefully ensured that a trusted aide, the former Commissioner for Works in his government, Lawrence Ewrudjiakpo, not only emerged as the PDP candidate for the West Senatorial District but also occupied the plum seat at the Red Chamber. According to them, the understanding was to make way for Dickson when he leaves office in 2019. Raising the alarm then, an Ijaw interest group, Association of True Ijaw Values, has warned that “the 2019 selection of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate looks likely to affect the unity of the PDP.” President of the group, Chief Francis Akpofemowei, had told newsnen in Lagos then that by endorsing Diri and Ewrudjiakpo ticket for governor and deputy governor, “Dickson wants to achieve his ambition of becoming the senator representing Bayelsa West in the Senate immediately after he leaves as the governor. This winner-takes-all plan leaves out the other groups in the PDP in Bayelsa State.” He also warned that “This is certain to create major frictions among PDP loyalists which may lead to the loss of either the governorship contest or the loss of another senatorial seat to the APC as the APC appears to have put its house in order by making Timpre Sylva a minister, while leaving the space free of any bickering in its quest to take the governorship of Bayelsa State,” said Akpofemowei. He explained further: “To achieve his ambition, he put his friend, Lawrence Ewrudjiakpo, whom he had previously made his commissioner for works as the candidate for the Senate position in Bayelsa West so he could get Lawrence Ewrudjiakpo to step-down from his position and take the deputy governor position in the 2019 governorship race so Dickson can achieve his ambition of going to the Senate immediately his tenure ends as governor.” Dickson’s critics therefore said that now that Lawrence Oborawharievwo Ewhrudjakpo, the senator that represented Bayelsa West Senatorial District of Bayelsa State at the 9th National Assembly, has, as planned emerged the Deputy Governor of Bayelsa State, leaving the senatorial seat vacant, it is certain that Dickson is poised to occupy the seat. His supporters said he seems ready to win the election. Kpodoh Godson, a PDP supporter in Yenagoa said yesterday that “even if APC fields Sylva, which is not likely, given the risk of losing his position as the Petroleum Minister, our leader is certain to win the election. He has the grassroots structure and the support of the governor and his deputy, his known associates. Our only fear today is the possibility of Dickson declining to contest the election. If he accepts the offer, PDP is sure of victory. While PDP stakeholders seem focused on how they intend to get the West Sebnatorial seat, it seems that APC is still battling with the shock it received when the Supreme Court ruling denied it of the governorship seat it won, barely a day to inauguration of its governor-elect, David Lyon. However, some outspoken chieftains of the party in the state, like a one-time State Chairman of the Conference of Nigerian Political Party (CNPP), Hon. Sunday Frank-Oputu, have offered suggestions on how to move forward. To him, “Sylva should step aside, and do the needful by calling Lokpobiri and saying my brother I am sorry, let us work together but meanwhile, go and take the leadership of the party in state, redirect their steps and do anything that you think can push the party’s image and bring back all the dead minds alive because everybody is in mourning.” Given former governor Sylva’s influence in Bayelsa APC, many members openly disagree with the likes of Frank-Oputu. Thomas Opotobo for example, said majority of the progressive members of the party today do not want the old leaders to contest the senatorial election. While they would prefer a younger element like David Lyon to contest for the Central seat, they would want Dickson to steer clear of the West seat. They are not alone. For example, a group known as the Ijaw Unity Watchdog in a recent statement signed by its National Leader, Comr. Pereotubo Sunny, called on Dickson “to stop his plan to become the Senator representing Bayelsa West Senatorial District.” As the verbal exchange continues, leaders of PDP outside the state have expressed concern.