The above question has been raised on several occasions by both insurance service providers and consumers. Out of it came other questions such as: In insurance contract, an “act of God” is often referred to as an event that occurs due to natural causes which cannot be avoided through the use of caution and preventive measures. They can also be described as natural disasters beyond human control. Common examples are floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, and storms. The COVID-19 pandemic is certainly a global disaster, but whether it qualifies as an act of God is debatable. This topic however, has raised a lot of issues in contractual relationships amongst organizations in many countries. While some insurance policies provide cover for these unforeseen events, it is an excluded peril in others. This is where the issue of reading and understanding your insurance policy documents comes in. Since an act of God is often unclear, a lot of insurance companies no longer include that in the policy wordings. They will rather list the specific natural disasters that are covered or excluded. A good example of this specification is the recent publication by the Nigerian Insurance Companies to provide N1m life cover for frontline health workers who are attending to    COVID-19 victims. Note that it wasn’t an open cover but a specific one that is tailored towards a particular occurrence. Another point also, is that the above cover is not for victims and it will rather be too late to commence cover for victims now. However if some of the victims have life policies which do not exclude death as a result of a pandemic, they will be compensated and if there is an exclusion as the case is in some other countries, then there won’t be any compensation. My advice therefore to insurance service providers is to develop products that will cover  a pandemic like that of COVID-19 and the consumers to be fully involved in any insurance contract they enter into.  And in order to guard against the repudiation of claims in a case of  unforeseen event like COVID-19, insurance consumers may ask their insurance companies to remove a force majeure clause (escape clause or “act of God” clause) if it is in the policy document. For future planning and protection, the following are the suggested insurance policies that will compensate the affected people but I doubt if any of these was in place before the outbreak of a pandemic.