Lagos Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has announced gradual and controlled easing of the lockdown in the state in line with President Muhammadu Buhari’s nationwide broadcast on Tuesday. The Governor made the announcement in a media briefing at the Lagos House, Marina, Lagos According to Sanwo-Olu all offices business places, open markets and stores will be allowed to open daily from 9am till 3pm on selected days and only 60 per cent of staff strength should report for duty. He added they must observe precautionary measures including social distancing, use of face masks, regular disinfection, provide hand-washing equipment, temperature checks and 60% maximum capacity. For civil servants, the Governor said: “public officers in the entire unified public service from grade levels 1-12 are to remain and work from home; unless otherwise directed by their Accounting Officers. “For those on Grade Levels 13 and above, Accounting Officers will carry out a Needs Assessment of critical staff, identify essential officers and draw up a Flexible Work Roster in compliance with Social Distancing principles.  The Head of Service will provide further details via a circular.” However, schools, all entertainment centres, cinemas, arcades, bars, casinos, day clubs, nightclubs and beaches, swimming pools, gyms, barber-shops, spas, beauty salons and all public parks, including those in private and residential estates will continue to remain closed for another two weeks in the instance. “Let me, however, say this: as many of us that can continue to work online and remotely from the office, please let us do so. Online and Work-from-Home arrangements are highly encouraged to continue as much as is practicable. “Businesses/Companies are encouraged to make adequate arrangement for the transportation of their staff to their places of work to reduce the risk of contagion and exposure while traveling on public transportation. “Companies transporting their staff to work in their private transportation arrangements shall be expected to strictly adhere to the principles of social distancing as well as enjoin their staff to practise very high levels of hand and personal hygiene. “We will continue to monitor the public health situation; the economic impact of the lockdown and always adjust our responses accordingly,” Sanwo-Olu assured. The Governor advised “all elderly persons, as well as all persons with underlying or pre-existing health conditions to stay indoors as much as is practicable; and request the assistance of those not in the vulnerable or elderly category to procure essential items needed.” 