 Two men identified as Christian Chikezie and Dako Aaron, 52, have been arrested by the police in Lagos for alleged rape of underage girls at Ikorodu and Okokomaiko areas of the state Chikezie, the police said, defiled a nine-year-old girl whose mother left in the care of a neighbour around 7:10pm on March 29. The victim’s mother was said to have gone to the hospital and left the girl in the care of one Mercy, only to return at the wee hours of March 30, to find out she has been sexually assaulted. According to police spokesman Bala Elkana, the woman reported that the Ikorodu division around 1:50am on March 30 that she saw her daughter with Chikezie coming out of his house when she returned from the hospital and upon questioning, the girl disclosed that the man penetrated her sexually.  Elkana said: “On getting back from hospital, she discovered that the girl is no longer there. While searching for her, she saw her with one Christian Chikezie coming out from his house. On enquiry her daughter told her that the said Christian Chikeze had sexual intercourse with her. “The survivor was taken to hospital for medical treatment and forensic examination. The suspect was arrested by detectives from the Juvenile Welfare Centre, Ikorodu Police Station and transferred to Gender Unit, Command Headquarters, Ikeja for discreet investigation and prosecution. Investigation is ongoing.” On the other hand, Aaron, a resident of Olanrewaju Street, Okokomaiko, allegedly raped his 13-year-old victim on February 2 and 12 before he was eventually caught. He was alleged to have forced the victim into his security post at a private company where he worked as guard and forcefully had canal knowledge of her. “The survivor was taken to hospital for medical treatment and forensic examination. The suspect was arrested and transferred to Gender Unit for discreet investigation and prosecution. From records available, the suspect is an habitual paedophile. He was last charged to court on February 22, 2017 for raping a minor. “The suspects will be charged to Court. The Commissioner of Police Lagos State, (CP) Hakeem Odumosu has advised parents to beware of paedophiles preying on their children during the lockdown period,” said Elkana.