Osagie Otabor, Akure Officials of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) have arrested a farmer, Emmanuel Ezekiel, in Akure for impregnating his 17- year-old step daughter. The victim has been admitted at the Federal Medical Centre, Owo in Ondo state as it was discovered that her pregnancy was already nine months. Doctors were said to have demanded N80,000 for surgical session before she could deliver her baby. Sources said Ezekiel was arrested after some concerned neighbours reported the matter to the NSCDC. He was said to have been married with three children in Akwa Ibom state before relocating to Ondo state to work. It was gathered that mother of the victim moved in to live with Ezekiel alongside, her two children including the suspect’s three children. Sources said some family members, including the victim’s mother, have mounted pressure on the NSCDC to release the suspect because life has been diffcult for them since his incarceration two weeks ago. Ondo Spokesman of NSCDC, Olufemi Ayodeji, who confirmed the incident, said plans were on to prosecute the suspect and rehabilitate the victim. Ayodeji said: “After investigation,we later discovered that they lied about the state of the pregnancy. “They told us that it was six months but we later got to know that it was close to nine months. That means anytime from now the girl would put to bed. “There is an NGO that showed interest of taking responsibility of the delivery and we have already sent the details of the girl to them because she would actually go through cesarean section and that would be done at Federal Medical Center, Owo. “The community members and religious leaders have been coming to appeal on behalf of the suspect and presently,he is just being released on bail based on recognition while we focused on how to rehabilitate the victim but i can assure you that he is not yet released. “We actually gave him bail because he fell ill while in custody and his state of health was deteriorating. He is expected to be reporting to our office. “The NSCDC is not trying to bury the case. We will never do such because investigation is still ongoing and we will get to the root of the matter and definitely the man who defiled the girl would face the wrath of the law.