The Ogun State Police Command on Friday advised residents of the state not to panic over the threat by a faceless group called ‘One Million Boys’ to storm their areas for criminal activities. The police, who was responding to the concerns of residents in respect of the threat, said the Command has what it takes to deal decisively with any criminal group that dares to operate in the state. The Command’s Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, in statement, said the police would have ignored them but for the need to allay the fears of the citizens and residents. Abimbola, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), added that purveyors of fake news for the purpose causing panic and disaffection in the state would be tracked, arrested and punished according to the law. He said:  “The attention of the Ogun State Police Command has been drawn to a letter purportedly written by a faceless group who called itself  “One Million Boys” to the good people of Ogun State, informing them of their intention to storm the state to carry out criminal activities. “The command would not have dignified the said letter with a response but for the purpose of allaying the fear of good people of the state, the response becomes necessary. “To start with, the Command is not perturbed by the mischievous letter because we have what it takes to deal decisively with any criminal gang who may want to infiltrate the state under any guise or nomenclature. “Since the commencement of the lockdown ordered by the Federal Government, the  Command is not oblivious of the fact that some hoodlums may want to take advantage of the situation to perpetrate one crime or the other, and that informed the decision of the Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson, to activate all the Command’s tactical squads such as SARS, anti-kidnapping unit, anti-cultists Unit, PMF as well as other conventional policemen and put them on red alert with  the mandate to deal ruthlessly with anyone or group that may want to make life difficult for law abiding citizens of the state. “The Command therefore wishes to assure the good people of the Gateway State not to panic or be unnecessarily apprehensive as the Command will not allow any hoodlums to fester or hibernate in the state. “‘The command also wishes to warn those who are in the habit of sending fake news capable of causing fear in the minds of the people to desist from such devilish act as the command will be tracing the source of such fake news with a view to dealing with the author in accordance with the existing law of the land. “Also, the Commissioner of Police is using this medium to send a note of warning to those who have formed the habit of taking the law into their hands by embarking on jungle justice to deal with suspected criminals, adding that anybody caught in such act will be seriously dealt with. “A case study at hand  is that of  four innocent young men that were mistaken for armed robbers who were arrested, beaten and had both hands and legs tied by members of the public at Oke Ata area of Abeokuta on Thursday 23rd of April 2020. “Save for the quick intervention of policemen attached to the state task force, the four young men would have been beaten to death. “The commissioner of police has ordered a full scale investigation into the circumstances surrounding the inhuman treatment meted out to  these young men with a view to bringing  those involved to justice. “The outcome of the investigation, the Commissioner assured, will be made known to members of the public.”