Three survivors of the COVID-19 pandemic were on Sunday discharged from the Ibom Multispecialty Hospital Uyo,  Akwa Ibom state. Commissioner of Health,  Dr. Dominic Ukpong, also disclosed that 30 samples out of 31 samples sent from the state for test had returned negative. One of the survivors,  Dr. Otobong Asuquo, according to findings contracted the virus during a medical outreach programme in Uyo. An elated Asuquo declared that he was going straight back to work as contracting COVID-19 would not deter him from doing his job of saving lives. They were discharged amid wild celebration as they danced to a brass band positioned at the entrance of Ibom Specialist Hospital on Sunday. In celebration of the survival, they greeted members of the public with a common message that “Covid-19 is real! Please follow all the precautions given and protect yourselves”. Recounting his experience, Asuquo said having read about COVID-19 before his infection, he self- isolated for 10 days before being picked up by the emergency response team of the State Government. “I am going back to work! I vowed to protect lives and I nothing can discourage me from doing so. But this time around; I have to be very strict with personal protection. “The moment i suspected I had contracted coronavirus, I had to first of all protect my family members by going into self-isolation for 10 days before I was picked up. Protect yourself if you are negative. Covid-19 is real!”, he said. Another discharged survivor, Pharm Ememobong Gabriel Udoh, who said his symptoms started with the loss of his sense of smell, said he initially adopted home remedies such as steam inhalation and vitamin C to build his immunity. Though initially scared, the Pharmacist, who contracted the virus at the same medical outreach, said: “It was quite a rough and scary experience initially, but I got courage from friends and family. “Ibom Specialist Hospital also did a great job. The treatment has been top notch. It encouraged both physical and psychological recovery.” Udoh, however, recounted a panicky experience where he tested negative after some weeks of treatment only to test positive on a confirmatory test.  