 The coronavirus pandemic is biting hard, having killed thousands of people with no cure or vaccine on sight. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control(NCDC) on Monday night reported there are 238 confirmed cases of coronavirus with five deaths recorded. Nigerians have been advised to employ methods of thorough handwashing for about twenty seconds with soap and water, coughing or sneezing into the elbow, avoiding crowded areas, self-isolation in order not to spread the virus. For those with symptoms, there is a need for self-isolation. But can someone self-isolate?
WHAT IS SELF-ISOLATION? Simply put, self-isolation means strictly staying at home or away from situations where you mix with family members or the general public for a period of 14 days (according to the NCDC). This means avoiding any situation where you may come in close contact with others (face- to- face contact closer than two metres. WHO SHOULD SELF-ISOLATE? The NCDC requires that all returning travelers into Nigeria or anyone who has come in contact with a confirmed case of coronavirus should self-isolate for 14 days. This is for the benefit of the individual, his family, and everyone around. WHAT SHOULD BE DONE DURING SELF-ISOLATION? – The individual should stay in a well-ventilated room and if he/she is working, the individual should work from home during the entire duration – There should be dequate food, water, hygiene provisions and appropriate medical treatment for any existing medical conditions while in self-isolation – The individual must stay away from pets as there is a chance that humans can pass the disease to them – There should be necessary communication facilities e.g. mobile telephone to communicate with others during self-isolation – The individual must avoid sharing toothbrushes, utensils, dishes, drinks, towels, clothes or bed linen with anybody – The individual must always wash his/her hands with soap and water regularly or use an alcohol-based sanitiser, WHAT TO DO TO STAY FIT AND ALIVE DURING SELF-ISOLATION? Self-Isolation could be very strenuous and depressing as thoughts of fear and hopelessness could set in. There are however things to do to stay alive during self-isolation – Keep in touch with family members and friend via telephone, emails or social media – Exercise regularly in your room – Eat all your meals in a timely manner – Ensure that you drink at least eight glasses of water every day to keep hydrated – Think about how you have coped with other difficult situations in the past and reassure yourself – Pray