But for the adverse effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, a new electricity tariff regime would have been in place from April 1, 2020. Although the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission has shifted the implementation of the tariff review for three months till June 30, 2020, private sector operators, particularly manufacturers, are vehemently opposed to the plan, in view of the prevailing inadequate electricity supply. They are calling for a suspension of the plan, as well as a review of the power sector privatisation. Assistant Editor CHIKODI OKEREOCHA reports. A major crisis is brewing in the Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry (NESI). And it took a proposal by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) to increase electricity tariff in the face of the perceived prevailing inadequate power supply to set the stage for a possible confrontation between it and members of the Organised Private Sector (OPS), particularly manufacturers. The NERC literarily touched the raw nerves of private operators when it released its March 31 “Order on the Transition to Cost Reflective Tariffs in the Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry” signed by NERC Chairman, Prof. James Momoh, and the Commissioner in charge of Legal, Licensing, and Compliance, Mr. Dafe Akpeneye. Under the Order, which has pitched the Commission against private operators, a new electricity tariff regime was supposed to have been in place from April 1, 2020. However, the rampaging COVID-19 pandemic and its consequential impacts on Nigerians, coupled with wide metering gap forced the NERC to suspend its implementation. The suspension of the tariff review is for three months, which means that the new electricity tariff regime earlier scheduled for April 1, now has a new takeoff date of June 30, 2020. Private operators kick Regardless of when the implementation of the new electricity tariff regime kicks off, the proposed upward review will surely be met with stiff resistance by private operators, particularly manufacturers. They voiced their concern about the potential impacts of the proposed tariff increase on the  economy,  particularly as it affects private sector businesses. The Organised Private Sector in Nigeria (OPSN), in a statement said, it is “not in support of any minor, major and extra-ordinary tariff review, or the proposed upward review in electricity in an economy that just came out of recession and currently experiencing fragile growth.” While the OPSN said it appreciated the NERC’s efforts to sustain improvement in electricity supply and seamless operations of the NESI for the benefit of the country  and private businesses, it, however insisted that an upward review of tariff will be counterproductive on consumption and productivity. It said any form of increase in electricity tariff in the face of inadequate electricity supply, high electricity tariff and exorbitant cost of self-generated electricity, will further spike the cost of doing business with consequential upward spiral effects on unemployment rate. At moment, electricity outages average about 10 hours per day; electricity expenses still constitute about 40 per cent of total cost of production, with the cost of self-generated electricity averaging N119 billion in 2019 alone. “Most worrisome is the fact that private sector operators, especially manufacturers bear the burden of commercial and technical losses through very high monthly electricity bill that is largely estimated,” OPSN said. The OPSN comprising Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA), Nigeria Employers Consultative Association (NECA), Nigerian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises (NASME), Nigerian Association of Small Scale Industrialists (NASSI) made its position known in a statement released on April 2, 2020. The statement, which was made available to The Nation, said private operators are already plagued by high cost operating environment arising from poor regulatory environment, macroeconomic asymmetries and high cost of energy, adding that this unfriendly operating environment was responsible for the oscillatory performance of the sector in the past few years. The OPSN also said the planned increase in tariff was coming at a time that private businesses, especially MSME are groaning under the pain of injuries inflicted on them by the last economic recession, the prevailing harsh operating environment and the increasing burden of taxes. Besides, the state of readiness in terms of competitiveness for the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA), which takes off July this year, is currently at the lowest ebb. That is not all. The private operators argued that the trajectory of continuous increase in electricity tariff without commensurate improvement in electricity generation, transmission and distribution is not sustainable and would have catastrophic impact on the real sector. “The proposed increase in electricity tariff is coming also at a time that the NESI is pervaded with high level of inefficiency, low investment in strategic electricity infrastructure; majority of consumers are not metered and the billing system is still largely estimated,” they added. They further argued that an upward review in electricity tariff will worsen the already precarious position of the critical mass of small and medium businesses. Also to feel the heat of the proposed increase in tariff, according to the group, are strategic private sector businesses with high electricity intensity processes. Lending his voice to the growing outcry by private operators against the proposed increase in electricity tariff, MAN President Engr. Mansur Ahmed said modern industry competitiveness depends to a great extent on provision of adequate and efficient infrastructure especially electricity supply. Ahmed, who spoke at the “2020 MAN Annual Media Luncheon” held in Lagos, said, for instance, that electricity is a vital input for manufacturing process to the extent that it constitutes up to 40 per cent of the cost of production. He, therefore, said increasing the tariff of this core input will have drastic negative effect on the Gross National Product (GNP), GDP, disposable income, consumption, consumer price index, employment, and government revenue from corporate taxation etc. The MAN chief said similar to this is the uneven pricing of this commodity (electricity) across DisCos, which if not corrected, will lead to uneven development in certain parts of Nigeria as the percentage increase in tariff differs. While stating that a reduction in electricity tariff for industrial purpose is more ideal, he said even if it cannot be reduced, “I should not be increased. Any increase on the tariff will reinforce the already high cost manufacturing environment and further depress productivity in the sector.” Ahmed, therefore, said: “Our appeal is that government, being a major stakeholder in the electricity industry, should concentrate on developing processes and polices to attract significant investment to encourage large scale generation and significant improvement in transmission and distribution. “It is also important for government to ensure adequate and appropriate consultations with stakeholders in the private sector on such decisions with far-reaching implications. Push for suspension of tariff increase Against the background of the aforementioned concerns, private operators have kicked their heels in, insisting that “The proposed tariff increase should be suspended in the best interest of the Nigerian economy.” They stated that even if electricity tariff cannot be reduced, it should not be increased, reiterating that “Any increase in tariff will reinforce the already high cost of doing business for the private sector and further depress productivity in the manufacturing sector.” Instead of contemplating an increase in electricity tariff, the OPSN suggested that government, being a major stakeholder in the electricity industry, should concentrate on developing processes and polices to attract significant investment to encourage scale generation with improved transmission and distribution infrastructure in the industry. Renewed agitation for review of power privatisation The Federal Government had in November 2013 unbundled the defunct Power Holding Company of Nigeria (PHCN) into 18 successor companies and subsequently handed over the power assets of the successor companies to private investors. It was expected to set the stage for a major transformation of the power sector to guarantee uninterrupted electricity supply to the manufacturing sector and Nigerians in general. But seven years after, this has not happened. Rather than enjoy significant improvement in electricity supply, Nigeria’s electricity generation capacity has been wobbling between 4, 500 Megawatts (Mw) and 5, 000 Mw, leaving sour taste in the mouth of consumers. Nigerians are still groaning in darkness, lack of metres, dearth of power infrastructure and high tariff, among other issues. While manufacturers and Nigerians are agonizing over the alleged failure of the privatisation exercise to address these issues and ultimately, turn the power sector around, arbitrary and startling increases in tariff and other discomforting developments such as fixed charges and unwarranted disconnections by Electricity Distribution Companies (DisCos) appear to rob salt to injury. Against the background of the foregoing, the OPSN drew attention to some obvious questions that readily come to mind, one of which was whether any increase in electricity tariff should be approved by the NERC in the face of the prevailing inadequate electricity supply, despite the privatisation. The group raised other pertinent questions: “Why has NERC not addressed the issue of current exploitative tariff structure that is skewed against the private sector but increased liquidity in the coffers of the Discos? Is the level of improvement in electricity distribution and associated infrastructure commensurate with previous upward reviews in electricity tariff? “What is the level of investment and achievements made by the DisCos in reciprocation for previous reviews? Is NERC satisfied with the current high-level inefficiency that pervades the operations of the DisCos? Are the prevailing macroeconomic fundamentals including the backlashes of Covid-19 congenial to an upward review in electricity tariff?” While it is not clear if and when private operators will get answers to these questions, what is, however, undeniable is that manufacturers’ productivity and competitiveness have nosedived despite the power sector privatisation. And the resultant frustration has reignited operators’ age-long agitation to a review of the privatisation. The OPSN did not mince words when it said “Government should review the privatisation/unbundling of the electricity industry in the best interest of the over two hundred million of Nigerians.” However, private operators are not alone in such call. Recall that early this year, Senate President Ahmad Lawan also called on the Nigerian Government to review the privatisation of the country’s power sector. “I think the privatisation has not worked. It has failed because the essence of privatisation is to create efficiency,” Senator Lawan, who spoke when he addressed the Executive Committee of MAN, in Abuja, said, noting:w “It appears most of the DisCos have no sufficient capital and probably the same thing with the GenCos.” However, despite the renewed agitation for review of the power privatisation, the NERC has continued to caution against a review or reversal of the privatisation. The Commission argued, for instance, that the Federal Government may not have money to buy back the power utilities.