 She had tears rolling down her pale sunken cheeks, her faded and torn piece of wrapper barely able to cover her nakedness. She had one baby on her back and was holding onto one, both showing clear cases of malnutrition. I had asked her whether they were twins but she then told me their ages, three and five. The children were of course retarded, a condition common to most children in the country. Mama Jide sells vegetables at the street corner. I had checked on her the previous day and but her table was covered and her blue plastic chair turned upside down. We had become friends since she told me her story. She had been married for four years without a child. So her husband, a bricklayer had married a second wife. Her own two kids came years after but the gulf was already too deep and she virtually has had to financially sustain herself and her kids. Her older sister had given her ten thousand naira to start the vegetable business. So Iya Jide as she is addressed in the neighborhood had been struggling. Her husband is bricklayer in a reputable construction company but refuses to assist her financially but that is not her problem, she also surfers occasional physical and sexual abuses. So in the last few weeks things have worsened with the pandemic taking its toll on the economy. She had just been beaten by the husband and she decided to leave but to where? She has no money, no support and her business was no longer viable because supply had thinned out due to the uncertainties of the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown. Iya Jide’s story is a metaphor for most women and some men in Nigeria and as the lockdown to contain the pandemic comes into place, the Round Table is stirring our conversation towards the often unaddressed consequences of incidents like this on our most vulnerable population, women, children, the physically challenged, the old and the unemployed.  The government measures to keep the pandemic  from spreading is commendable but if governments exist for the welfare of the people all tiers of government  must be provide material and psycho-health support for the most vulnerable. The economic impact of the pandemic affects men and women and other members of the society able or disabled. However, it is factual that women, children and the vulnerable groups due to pre-existing economic and social conditions are often worse affected. In a developing economy with very poor infrastructure like Nigeria, living for most is on a subsistence level. Most people earn and spend on a daily basis so as the economy nears a total lockdown, these groups are virtually without any hope of sustenance in an economy that gives virtually no support to most citizens. For women like Iya Jide, despondency is euphemistic, she is financially, psychologically and physically broken. She is raising two innocent kids who depend on her financial and psychological wellbeing. What most politicians fail to understand under the short, medium and long term impacts of too many citizens feeling uncared for by the governments at all levels. Because we have not heard many plans to care for the overall effects of the pandemic especially on the most vulnerable, a number of NGOs under the aegis of Nigerian Feminist Forum have raised their voices. Some have taken the initiative to draw the attention of governments to the realities. The Lagos State Domestic And Sexual Violence Response Team (DSVRT) is admirably collaborating with many organizations to track domestic and other forms of violence that even though could impact both men, women and children but the scale tilts too much against the women given that most of the women before now are both financially dependent and live under certain levels of violence at home, they realize that the idea of a lock down creates an enclosure that now literally locks up a cat and a mouse. If a man is the bread winner, is used to going out every day and coming back late at night, now with a twenty four hour home stay, domestic violence; physical sexual, verbal and emotional are on the increase. Men could be victims too and in a society that bullies men to be ‘men’ might suffer in silence but we equally know that women, the physically challenged and children suffer more domestic violence often from their spouses. Chibogu Obinwa, a Gender  and Social Development Consultant with vast experiences with some international agencies for development  expresses her disappointment that most state governors are not making any efforts to assuage the impact of the current lockdown on women and other vulnerable groups. According to her, more efforts must be made to provide for these groups. She feels more Social workers and genuine volunteers must be co-opted into the essential services group to help in dealing with cases of domestic violence not only in Lagos but across the other states too. She insists that from reports some of her organizations have received, sexual violence seems on the increase as more men stay home. She suggests that therapy centers must be set up and equipped for online services in the first instances while further help centers can be set up and equipped. Another gender/rights activist, Bose Ironsi of the Ireti Resource Center, the founder and Executive Director of Women’s Rights and Health Project (WRAHP) explains that the financial predicament of most women at this time is better imagined than seen given that most women due to the socio-cultural structures are disempowered financially. She expects that state and federal governments must have well defined palliative measures for women and men who live on daily income but are presently on the edge of the precipice due to the lock down. To her, the security system might be out of hand nationally if governments do not have serious plans to help the helpless. Bose regrets that the level of domestic violence including sexual violations being reported will rise with time and now is the time to put measures in place to provide help for victims and to possibly prevent future ones through proactive engagement with relevant agencies of government and individual NGOs and volunteers. While the efforts of government to provide some palliatives through the National and State Emergency Agencies is commendable, this period must be a wake up one for Nigerians to begin to create a system that is as functional as it is accountable. Without correct data and statistics of citizens and their varying circumstances, how would grants whether local or foreign effectively get to targets? Lack of basic infrastructure like roads, rail and modern airports in the country is so glaring now. The fact that public hospitals have always been mere consulting clinics shows in the rate of maternal and child mortality especially at a time like this and shows the sheer need for facilities and equipment. Developed economies are deeply impacted but electricity and internet services are taken for granted. In Nigeria, electricity is still a huge problem and as such, about 70% of the population are in the rural areas and have no access to any form of media. This is one dangerous aspect that can exacerbate the spread of the virus.    