Authorities at the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) have granted Prestige Assurance Plc  and E-Tranzact International Plc approvals to raise N13.82 billion new equity funds from their shareholders. Prestige Assurance will be offering 13.636 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each at a per value of 50 kobo. The rights will be pre-allotted on the basis of 38 new ordinary shares for every 15 ordinary shares held as at January 31, 2020. E-Tranzact will be offering 4.67 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each to existing shareholders at a price of N1.50 per share. The rights issue will be pre-allotted on a basis of 10 new ordinary shares of 50 kobo each for every nine ordinary shares of 50 kobo each held as at the close of business on March 25, 2020. Shareholders of Prestige Assurance had created additional new 14 billion ordinary shares to create headroom for the new capital raising. Prestige Assurance increased its authorised share capital from N3 billion of 6.0 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each to N10 billion of 20 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each through the creation of additional 14 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each. Shareholders also authorised the board of directors of the company to raise “capital by way most suitable to the company in line with the recapitalisation requirement of the National Insurance Commission”. The New India Assurance Company Limited, Mumbai, the precursor and founder of Prestige Assurance, holds 69.50 per cent majority equity stake in the Nigerian subsidiary while Leadway Assurance Company, an unlisted Nigerian insurance company, holds 11.47 per cent equity stake. Shareholders of E-Tranzact had also in December 2018 authorised the board of the company to raise additional capital of up to N7 billion “through the issuance of any form of equity instrument(s), whether by way of public offering, private placement, rights issue, offer for subscription or other methods they deem fit, with or without preferential allotments, either locally or internationally, at such dates and on such terms and conditions as shall be determined by the directors”. Shareholders also empowered the directors to consider as an alternative or addition issuance of convertible or non-convertible loans while allowing the company to issue undersubscribed shares to interested investors as well as absorb excess subscriptions. Shareholders increased the company’s authorised share capital from N2.1 billion or 4.2 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each to N9.1 billion or 18.2 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each. Market analysts said both Prestige Assurance and E-Tranzact might use their new issue to correct their free float deficiency. Prestige Assurance is 1.05 per cent below the regulatory minimum of 20 per cent for its listing on the main board of the Exchange. E-Tranzact has a free float of 18.22 per cent, 1.78 per cent below the 20 per cent benchmark. E-Tranzact had been given a deadline of December 07, 2020 to redress the deficiency by either reducing the concentrated core shareholdings or dilute them. Free float, otherwise known as public float, refers to the number of shares of a quoted company held by ordinary shareholders other than those directly or indirectly held by its parent, subsidiary or associate companies or any subsidiaries or associates of its parent company; its directors who are holding office as directors of the entity and their close family members and any single individual or institutional shareholder holding a statutorily significant stake, which is 5.0 per cent and above in Nigeria. Stock markets maintain minimum public float to prevent undue concentration of securities in the hands of the core investors and related interests, a situation that can make the stock to be susceptible to price manipulation. Besides, it provides the general investing public with opportunity to reasonably partake in the wealth creation by private enterprises. Insurance companies are in a hot race to raise new equity capital to meet new minimum capital requirements for various insurance functions as directed by NAICOM. NAICOM had in May 2019 released new capital requirements for insurance businesses with a 13-month compliance period for operators to shore up their minimum capital base to the required level. The minimum paid-up share capital of a life insurance company was increased from N2 billion to N8 billion, non-life insurance from N3 billion to N10 billion, composite insurance from N5 billion to N18 billion while re-insurance companies were directed to raise their capital base from N10 billion to N20 billion. The deadline was subsequently extended to December 31, 2020. Most analysts agreed that the recapitalisation would open up opportunities for mergers and acquisitions, putting the top insurance companies with large capital base in good stead to acquire other companies and build up their base.   