 MINISTER of Youth and Sports Development Sunday Dare  said it was a welcome development  after the International Olympic Committee (IOC) cleared the cloud of uncertainty over the Tokyo Olympic Games qualifiers involving  Nigerian  athletes  and  their counterparts around the world. The postponement of the Tokyo Olympics by a year as a result of the spread of Covid-19 had cast over most of the qualifiers that were yet to be completed. Respite has however come for Nigerian athletes and their counterparts from other countries that were yet to complete their qualifiers as the IOC has fixed new dates for the qualifiers. In a letter  to all members of the IOC ,non-completed  qualifiers  have now been  extended till the end of June 2021, a week  grace before the final deadline of July 5th which is  18 days before the Olympic Games is expected  to  get underway on July 23rd, 2021. “We understand at these times that these are unlikely to include full details of the dates and locations of the specified events. We recognise that this would follow later as the impacts of the Covid-19 and its related restrictions become clearer,” the IOC  letter stated. Fifty-seven per cent of the 11,000  athletes  that  would be participating  at the Tokyo  Olympics  had qualified before the event was moved by a year due to the pandemic  and  the IOC said it would finalize the adapted qualification system later in the month to the delight of all. “We are excited that the IOC has granted this concession so that those qualifiers  can be completed,” stated Dare.“ This will give the athletes ample time to prepare. “ Also, we now have enough time to make funds available  to those sports  Federations  that are  yet to complete  their qualifiers; we are monitoring all our athletes and we believe they are training well despite the world – wide lockdown. ” The minister  assured that Nigeria would stick to the earlier stance to feature in only 11 events  at the Tokyo Olympics  in order to enhance  performance of her athletes.