In the view of Dr. Timothy Olawale, Director General, Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA), the umbrella organisation of employers in the organised private sector, the impact of COVID-19 on businesses is unquantifiable as many businesses are already experiencing the bitter pill. Speaking in a telephone chat with our correspondent at the weekend, Olawale said, even before the coronavirus-induced economic crisis, businesses have been struggling, but the outbreak of COVID-19 has further compounded the problem for most businesses. “There is a level in which businesses will be able to absorb the shocks. Companies still have to settle overheads, pay staff salaries, employee pension contributions and all kinds of cost. We have advised the government to continue to carry everybody along. We hope this crisis doesn’t escalate beyond the period businesses can endure.” While commending the Federal Government and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) for the ongoing efforts at containing the spread of coronavirus, especially the various interventions and palliatives aimed at ensuring business continuity, the NECA boss urged the government to take more specific steps in providing palliatives and support to organised businesses. “In Nigeria, you are saying people should take loan. All that would still translate to some of indebtedness at the end. It remains to be seen how many people would access this facility. The reps announced some incentive like tax waivers which they said would take effect in 2021. Now I ask, of what use is that kind of palliative whose impact cannot be felt when it’s most needed? The N1.5trillion is not enough. It’s even as loan facility. Other countries gave grant. It’s left to be seen how many businesses would access this facility.” Olawale, a graduate of Psychology from the University of Ibadan, while commenting on the Federal Government palliative measures confirmed to our correspondent that the OPS had made representation to the lawmakers with a view to getting better incentives for businesses. “We had sent a position paper to the National Assembly where we presented learning points from other climes. In most countries currently battling the crisis there are lots of incentives being given to the citizens. Some countries are co-sharing salaries, paying compensation, offering discounts for utilities as well as giving waivers on taxation.” According to him, many countries gave grants to citizens. “In Australia, government provided tax-free cashflow for employers. Up to $25,000 is available to help pay wages or for investment to protect against downturn in activity. This is excluding wage subsidy and instant asset write-off for businesses with turnover of less than $500million.” Pressed further, he said, “In China, SMEs were exempted from payment of Pension contributions, unemployment and work injury insurances, while same had been halved for large companies from February to April, 2020 and also extension on the tax reporting period; import goods and materials were exempted from import tax, amongst other palliatives. The Cook Island provided an Economic Stabilization fund consisting NZ56 million to support business continuity. It included provision of wage subsidy at the minimum rate for up to three months. “In Denmark, the Government is providing Pay Compensation Scheme to companies with the risk of laying off in order to retain jobs. Under the scheme, which will last for three months, the state will cover 75% of the salaries of employees paid on a monthly basis who would otherwise have been fired, with companies paying the remaining amount. For hourly workers covered by the agreement, the government will cover 90% of their wages, up to 26,000 Danish kroner (£3,162) per month. In France, the government had proposed that water, gas and electricity bills as well as rents will be suspended for companies in difficult situation. Fixed costs will also be reduced by the saving of rents, especially for businesses that have to close. “To encourage disclosure and contain the spread of the Virus, the Ireland Government instituted a payment of €305 per week for two weeks for those self-isolating and for those diagnosed with the virus, the payment will be made for the duration of illness. This is separate from the payment of €203 per week for six weeks (COVID-19 pandemic unemployment payment) available for affected workers (including self-employed) who have been impacted but not ill or self-isolating.” The Italian government, amongst others, he said, “initiated the suspension of payments of taxes and social security contributions, while the Japanese government pays 8,330 yen per day for each worker who misses work, while self-employed people, as well as freelance workers who meet certain conditions, will receive a uniform 4,100 yen per day. The same story applies to Maldives, New Zealand, North Macedonia, Philippines, South Africa, Singapore, Spain, Switzerland and many other countries.” NECA, he maintained, has sought “Temporary scheme for paying compensation to companies in risk of laying off in order to retain jobs. This is to aid the continued existence of companies and prevent layoffs within private companies facing financial pressures as a result of coronavirus. Under the scheme, which could last for the next three months, government will cover 60% of the salaries of employees paid on a monthly basis, who would otherwise have been fired, with companies paying the remaining amount.” The NECA boss, who shared outcome of the multisectoral meeting between members of the organised private sector and the Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu penultimate Wednesday, recalled that both parties agreed in principle to address real concerns aimed at ameliorating the adverse effects of the country-wide lockdown on businesses and the economy. Specifically, he said, NECA made up of fast moving consumer goods companies (FMCG) and pharmaceutical companies– about 24 participants including Nestle, Unilever, Nigeria Breweries, Friesland, Promasidor, Flourmill, Honeywell Flourmill, Spar, Neimeth Pharmacy, Shoprite, Cadbury, Emzor Pharmaceuticals, etc, agreed that Lagos will not be on complete lock down but slow down as the intention is to take non essentials out of the street. “We agreed with the authorities that food companies must continue to run, same with water production companies and those who deal on household items. All these fall within the essential services,” he said. “We agreed with the authorities that food companies must continue to run, same with water production companies and those who deal on household items. All these fall within the essential services,” he said. Besides, he said, trucks carrying inbound supplies or outbound products of FMCG companies will be allowed to operate to ensure supplies continuity of essential products. He also hinted that the Lagos state governor promised to put a call immediately after the meeting to Chairman of Governors Forum of the federation who is governor of nearby Ekiti State (Governor Fayemi) for him to use his office and prevail on all state governments to cooperate and allow trucks of FMCG companies delivering essential raw materials and products supplies free passage into and through the states of the federation to ensure supply continuity.