 Sanlam Emerging Markets (SEM) has thrown its weight behind the fight against the spread of the Coronavirus in all the markets that mirror its business footprint both in Africa and other international markets where it operates. A statement made available by Petra Steenkamp of Sanlam Group Communications stated that Sanlam is donating R45 million (about USD2.3 million) to support various initiatives to fight the pandemic in Africa and other territories where SEM has a business presence. Sanlam, which owns stakes in FBNInsurance, also owns stakes in financial services companies in Namibia, Botswana, Swaziland, Lesotho, Zimbabwe, Mozambique, Mauritius, Malawi, Zambia, Tanzania, Rwanda, Uganda, Kenya, Burundi, among others. SEM Chief Executive Officer, Mr Heinie Werth said there are over 11,000 reported cases of Coronavirus infections in Africa, and over 500 COVID-19 related deaths reported according to the World Health Organisation (WHO). He stated that the funds are aimed at assisting efforts in ‘flattening the curve’ and to support various initiatives to combat the spread and the impact of the virus and will be used for personal protective equipment (PPEs), contributions to national solidarity funds, food relief and assist schools with e-learning.  He added that each of the 32 countries in Africa as well as other markets Sanlam operates in will be allocated funds for use at the discretion of Sanlam subsidiaries and associate companies in those countries to support initiatives to fight the Coronavirus. He said: “We believe this effort will contribute not only towards the fight against the coronavirus, but also towards securing a sustainable future for all the communities where we do business across the continent.  In addition, the country operations may contribute additional funds from their respective businesses to relief efforts. “The scale and impact of this pandemic on both Africa’s people and economies can be dire, but if we act in solidarity and collectively, we can contribute to the ongoing efforts to attenuate the impact of COVID-19. “As a leading Pan-African financial services company with a rich history of ‘doing well by doing good’ and good corporate citizenship, we are proactively taking responsibility to support the countries in which we operate to fight COVID-19,” said Werth.