The Governor of Ekiti State, Dr Kayode Fayemi, has the death of the Chief of Staff (CoS) to the President, Mallam Abba Kyari should serve as a battle cry for all Nigerians irrespective of political, religious and ethno-cultural affinity to join hands with governments to defeat COVID-19 pandemic. Fayemi, in a statement, in Ado-Ekiti on Sunday by his Chief Press Secretary, Yinka Oyebode, said the dreaded Coronavirus is a common enemy that poses existential threat to humanity, hence, deserved a total war to be prosecuted with collective resolve, uncommon unity of purpose and togetherness. “While the nation is mourning the death of Malam Abba Kyari, his death shouldunite all Nigerians irrespective of their leanings to join hands with the government to defeat COVID-19. “COVID-19 is a common enemy that we must all defeat, Mallam Kyari’s death should further fire our collective resolve to fight the pandemic to a standstill”, he said. The governor who commiserated with President Muhammadu Buhari, the family of the late CoStaff as well as members of the President’s cabinet, described Mallam Kyari’s death as a great tragedy and a monumental loss to Nigeria at a very critical period. He said Mallam Kyari will be sorely missed by the Presidency, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), the Federal Executive Council and other statutory bodies he served as  member in his capacity as CoS to the President. Dr Fayemi described Kyari as a reliable partner of the Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF), which he chairs, on issues of development of the Nigerian federation. He further described Kyari as a committed patriot and altruistic servant who dedicated his life to the service of his fatherland both in the private and public sectors. According to him, the late Chief of Staff was a goal getter who delivered on any assignment committed to his hands because of his belief that service should always come first. The Governor said Kyari played a part in the historic victory of the APC in the 2015 general election and the equally unforgettable re-election achieved by the party in the 2019 polls. He noted that Kyari died while on active national service, saying his sense of selflessness is worthy of emulation by all and sundry.