Over the last few weeks, we have all been forced to watch, helpless, as coronavirus, the current known and virulent scourge, has taken over towns, cities, countries, nay the entire world. If that is not world domination, I’d like to know what is. The jokes have continued to flow from the factories and more importantly, the reactions have also been coming. Now, I think the WHO boss is eyeball to eyeball with the American President, Mr. Trump, over the politicisation of the world’s unfortunate situation. Come on, man, is he not a politician? Give him a break! What do you expect, that a tiger should change his tigritude? I mean, look at the Nigerian situation. Even in these direst of times, when no one knows who lives or dies, the tigritude must still show in us. I hear that the best chunk, about N700b, of the relief funds and materials being doled out by the government and good people of Nigeria to the poor, are not going to get to the poor because the treasury housing the relief funds was gutted by fire! They want us to believe this was an accident but, you know that saying: if it looks like a duck, sways like a duck, quacks like a duck, then it probably is a … This fiscal recklessness is obviously in our blood; it’s written in our DNA; it’s in our stars. We can’t help ourselves, and we’ve also lost it! Seriously, people, the whole world is literally fighting for its life now because this virus does not respect race, else it probably would have spared the Caucasians. It does not respect age either, else it probably would have spared the sagacity of old age or the rosiness of youth. It certainly has no respect for position, else the prime minister of Britain might have been able to stare the virus down when it called on 10, Downing Street. Man, this thing has no respect at all for knowledge, or else more than one hundred doctors would still be alive in Italy today. Yet, we Nigerians have no respect for it, something that has no respect for anyone. Are we tough or are we tough! Take the distribution of relief materials to help the disadvantaged during this enforced lockdown as an instance. Here we are, on the edge of a precipice as a world, when people are at their lowest ebb because of fear or lack, yet certain among us must still rob the poor to become rich. In other words, they still do not think that they had better be on the side of the almighty should the worst come to the worst, especially as corona does not really care whom it visits. I have posts of entire local governments being given only a few loaves of bread and grains of rice. This smacks to me of real arrogance. How dare they! How dare they think that I didn’t deserve a loaf of bread too and some grains of sand or rice! Seriously, I think the government could have done one better. In the first place, if the government meant well, it should have devised a more sophisticated method of getting relief to the poor and deserving. As it is now, neither the poor nor deserving got anything remotely resembling relief from their government, only lockdown. Listen, we run a very crooked system, devised no doubt by successive governments for periods like this. I believe it is a shame that this country cannot account for its citizens efficiently. We have no adequate statistics to help us know the distribution of everybody by age or social place or even need. As it is now, the government does not know exactly how many people to cater for in anything. This is why it keeps doing things without planning. Only blind men work that way. I keep telling this story and I will keep saying it for as long as I remember, so just pray I forget it quickly. When I had to reside in a foreign country for a period of time that exceeded three months, I was obliged by law to register myself in the town I was going to live in. That way, the government had its finger on the demographics of every town in the country. When I joined them, they knew that their water resources would be used by one more person; when I left them, they knew that their water resources would be used by one less person. That is how clear sighted men work. Most governments have good statistics of the people they govern. They know where the people live. That is called planning. For that matter, the people also know where the government lives so that they can chuck them out whenever they need to. More importantly, they respect them enough to know that should they ever call on them not to go out to forage for food, they would need to give them food. They will not however buy them loaves of bread. They would send them the cheque that’ll cover the price of the loaf. It shows respect. It shows seriousness. It also shows transparency. That is how clear sighted men govern. I think it is high time we began to think and work like people with a semblance of sense and sensibility. Throwing loaves of bread at citizens of one’s own country, no matter how poor or rich, is arrogant. It is worse when one remembers that it is the government that ordered these people not to go and forage for their day’s meal. It is demeaning, degrading and most disrespectful. It is arrogant. Worse, the people are imbibing this culture of arrogance. Take the story of how the virus is said to have entered Kwara State. According to the account, the gentleman medic who brought it to the state was said to have invited an acquaintance already said to have been stricken by the disease to come to the state from Lagos, where they already had a functioning isolation centre! I understand that medical doctor was a perfect gentleman in every way; I don’t know if we can still say that of him now. However, something made that professor medic commit that error of judgement. That something, ladies and gentlemen, was arrogance. Just as the government believes it can do anything it likes, people are now taking their cues from that. As long as they have the power and position, people now know they can do whatever they like. What else can propel a perfectly reasonable gentleman to do something so horrendous as to willingly expose the 3 million plus good people of Kwara State to the virus just to please one friend? People, he was merely mimicking the government’s own, shameless arrogance. It’s shameful; the government opened that door. And is the government looking back and apologising to the people? Not on your life. They are thickening the plot. Otherwise, how is it possible for the government treasury housing the ‘N700b relief funds’ get burnt and no other place? There is something seriously wrong here. It is either we have no idea what serious trouble we are in or we have truly, truly lost it. Actually, you have lost it when you have no idea what trouble you’re in. Our government functionaries need to do some real thinking. Throwing loaves of bread at people who are on the wrong side of the fence in this trying time because someone needs the rest of the money is not governing. It is arrogance that is wearing a hat, and it is shameless. Like I always say, history is waiting to judge everybody’s name. 