Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike’s disclosure that the cache of arms and ammunition recovered in the state was enough to dislodge Port Harcourt, the state capital, is a notorious fact, given the high level of criminal activities in the state, especially in the recent past, and the sheer size of the seizure. Unfortunately, it is a notorious fact not only for Rivers State or the state capital, but the entire country. It is a fact of life in virtually all parts of Nigeria: small arms are in the wrong hands all over the place, explaining the high incidence of criminality. The state commissioner of police, Mustapha Dandaura, displayed the weapons as part of the achievements of the crack team codenamed ‘Operation Sting’. Dandaura said ‘Operation Sting’, initiated by him was sanitising the hitherto troublesome East-West Road,  the Elele-Owerri Road and the Ogoni axis of the East-West Road,  making the state safer for residents and visitors. The 3,249 arms and ammunition seized from bandits included General Purpose Machine Gun (GPMG), G-3 rifles, SMG rifle, one rocket launcher (RPG), Pump Action guns, 933 rounds of 7.62mm live ammunition, and 1,111 rounds of 5.56mm live ammunition. An obviously elated Wike said: “We give God the glory for keeping us safe in Rivers State even as we battle this coronavirus pandemic. Rivers State Government is working to keep our people safe, yet some criminals want to make the state insecure.” We commend the synergy between the state government and the security agencies. That is one of the ways by which policing can be effective, at least within the framework of our lopsided federalism which has placed policing in the hands of the central government. Without the state government’s logistical support, the state police command could not have been as effective as it is in handling its assignment. Unfortunately, this is the situation in many other states in the country. However, we dare say that small arms are about the most single security threat in the country today. No matter how intelligent or sophisticated criminals might be, what gives them the audacity to operate, often without fear of security agents, are the weapons at their disposal which oftentimes are more sophisticated than the ones carried by our policemen. Although the Rivers State arms haul in question could be linked to militancy in the Niger Delta region, the arms, like in many other parts of the country, can also be traced to election cycles and politicians’ do-or-die attitude to elections. Rivers State has been a hotbed of electoral violence, especially in recent years. Sadly, Nigeria has a lot of such arms illegally brought into the country. The Nigerian Customs Service (NCS) estimated that about 21,548,608 arms and ammunition were shipped into Nigeria illegally between 2010 to 2017. Data obtained from the NCS headquarters indicated that 21,407,933 live ammunition, the largest cache in the country, was intercepted at the Apapa port in November, 2010, while 1,100 pump action guns were seized at Tin-Can port in September, 2017. This, no doubt, is huge. The situation calls for a grand strategy to mop up the arms. Part of the strategy is the need to identify the source of the arms. This requires tremendous courage on the part of the government. It is after the source has been identified that efforts can be made to mop them up. We are aware that some of the cases of suspected arms smugglers are in court. Government must ensure diligent prosecution of these cases with a view to securing convictions that could serve as deterrence to those behind the illegal arms importation. It is good news whenever illegal arms seizures are made; but instead of always being reactive, the government has to be pro-active, to curb the menace and make the country more secure. Here, credible intelligence is key, as we have found out in the instant Rivers State.