 Two top players in the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) Victor Mbaoma of Enyimba and Nyima Nwagua  of Kano Pillars have spoken poignantly about the effect of the Coronavirus pandemic. Following an executive order from President of the  Nigeria Football Federation(NPFL) Amaju Pinnick all footballing activities were postponed until April 15, in a bid to curtail the spread of the pandemic, forcing the league organisers League Management Company (LMC) to suspend matches of the NPFL until further notice. “This lockdown experience has been terrible and it was as if we are in jail,” the 23-year-old Mbaoma told NationSport. “But staying at home at this period is the best in order to stop the spread of the virus and I can only advise that we just have to cope with the restriction in order to safe our lives.” “I want to encourage all our fans out there to be strong at this time and be hopeful because this time will pass away; and we will reunite in victory. “We all have to take precaution and stay safe,” noted Mbaoma who has notched nine goals before the league was suspended after MatchDay 25. Speaking in the same vein, Kano Pillars’ touch-tackling defender Nwagua said his COVID-19 experience has been nothing but nightmarish, adding he has learnt useful lessons in human relationship as a result of the unfortunate circumstances.  “This whole experience is scary and for the whole football activities to go on break worldwide is worrisome and scary not a good one at all,” explained the 26-year-old former Lobi Stars defender. “Apart from protecting myself and family, I’m very worried about the less-privileged of the society. “But I’ve also learnt so much about life during this lockdown; I will not stop checking on my neighbours when this Coronavirus is over.” Meanwhile, Mbaoma has tipped Enyimba as a candidate for the league title once the NPFL suspension is lifted. “We (Enyimba) aspire to win the league because we are on course. “We have outstanding matches and that will give us an edge over other teams when the league resume. After the Coronavirus is over, we can keep our track in order to achieve our aim,” Mbaoma boasts.