 The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ondo State has said that the 7pm to 7am curfew by Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu was to restrict movement and avert disaster that could result from a careless approach to managing the rampaging COVID-19 pandemic. It said the curfew became imperative to stem activities of nocturnal operators, “who, unfortunately, have an inelastic knack for violating reasonable orders and instructions.” A statement by spokesman Alex Kalejaye said the party was happy with the governor’s decision. He noted that no serious economic activities took place at night, but sharp practices such as gathering at club houses and beer parlours. Kalejaye said it was unpleasant and myopic for anyone to disregard professional advice on issues that bordered on personal health and the health of others. Said he: “It is a challenge and beckons on concerted efforts to arrest derailments. “The action of the government, to us, is well thought out in the best interest of safety and well-being of the residents. It is apparent that the government is being futuristic in its drive to ensure the curtailment of the global pandemic concern.  “We, therefore, urge attention-seekers and professional critics to place public good over and above whatever personal gains. “The state chapter of the APC hails Governor Akeredolu for being sensitive and proactive in rolling out measures aimed at protecting the populace. He has demonstrated an unusual mastery in handling the fearful development. “We implore the people to be wary of living a carefree life at this critical time. They should observe guiding instructions from the government and its agents to forestall spread of the virus.” Some residents of Akure, the Ondo State capital, who were arrested for violating the dusk-till-dawn curfew imposed by Governor Akeredolu were yesterday cautioned and asked to go home. Police Commissioner Undie Adie made this known after a brief meeting with the Assistant Inspector-General of Police in charge of Zone 11, Bashiru Makama. Makama was in the state to monitor compliance and response of the police in terms of carrying out government directives on curbing the spread of COVID-19. Adie said the violators were allowed to go because it was first day of the curfew.