Importantly, the coronavirus crisis is an eye-opener for people in power. Last week, Senate President Ahmad Lawan, House of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila, and Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) Boss Mustapha, showed that they had experienced an epiphany. When Lawan and Gbajabiamila met with the Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajia Sadiya Umar Farouq, on April 7, they criticised the Federal Government’s Social Investment Programme (SIP), supervised by Farouq’s ministry, and argued that it should be reviewed and reinvented. According to a report, “The SIP has gulped over N2 trillion since 2016 when the special intervention fund was created as annual budgetary allocation targeted at the poor. The sum of N500 billion was provided in the budget every year since 2016. Also, in the wobbly 2020 budget, the sum of N500 billion was voted for the SIP.” Lawan said: “The National Assembly is very much interested in the current intervention initiatives of the Ministry particularly with respect to the disbursement aimed at assuaging the plight of the poorest of the poor in Nigeria against COVID-19. “We feel that we need to work together with you to ensure that there is effectiveness, there is efficiency… that those who are supposed to benefit, benefit directly. ”When, for example, some conditions are set, that those who will benefit will have to go online, through the internet or BVN (Bank Verification Number) and the rest of it. “I want to tell you that the majority of those who are supposed to benefit have no access to power. They have no access to Internet. They have no bank account, so no BVN. “In fact, many of them don’t even have phones and these are the poorest of the poor. Yet, some of the conditions or guidelines which you set inadvertently leave them out.” He continued: “Now with Coronavirus, they need our attention more than ever before. The time has come that we review the ways and manner we use to deliver the services under the SIP to Nigerians. “We need to be better in terms of strategy for delivery and definitely, what we have been doing in the past cannot deliver exactly what will solve the challenges of the most ordinary and most vulnerable Nigerians. “So we need to put on our thinking cap and work out some strategies on how to identify the poorest persons in Nigeria. I think we have not been able to reach far out there to get them properly captured.” It took four years to arrive at this point. It took the coronavirus crisis to arrive at this point. Now that the country is at this point, the authorities should improve the SIP. Two days after this illumination, Mustapha, who is also Chairman of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19, expressed concern about the country’s healthcare system while briefing the leadership of the National Assembly on his group’s work. Mustapha was quoted as saying: “I can tell you for sure that I never knew our entire healthcare system was in the state at which it is until I was appointed to do this work. “Our health infrastructure is in a most deplorable state.  If countries in Western Europe or America can be overwhelmed by the COVID-19 pandemic, my prayer is that we don’t get to that stage. We do not have an infrastructure that can carry that burden.” After he was reported to have given this insight into the country’s health system, Mustapha was reported to have told journalists that he had been quoted out of context. “Yesterday, I mentioned at the National Assembly that I became fully aware of the state of our medical system during the execution of this Task Force assignment. It has become clear that this has been taken out of context,” Mustapha said. “I must clarify that I am aware and have indeed been a champion for the reform and transformation of the health care system. However, this PTF assignment has afforded me the opportunity to dig deeper, interrogate and x-ray the system better. So for anyone to think that I didn’t know the level of deplorable state of our healthcare system is a complete misrepresentation.” He went on to paint a picture of the circumstances of his birth: “For the benefit of those who do not know me well, I come from rural Nigeria. I was born in a village almost 64 years ago that didn’t even have a hospital, it had a small missionary dispensary probably with one midwife, no birth certificate was offered. So I don’t even have birth certificate, I have declaration of age… So from birth I know the state of our healthcare system, I am not a foreigner.” Mustapha added:  ”But having to serve in this committee gave me a further insight into what is happening. Most of the things you see around as specialists, hospitals or clinics, you just see the buildings; you don’t know what is inside. But, being in this committee has given me opportunity of walking into these facilities, looking at what they have in relation to what they ought to have, my conclusion on that is that they don’t have what they ought to have.” These observations are disturbing.  The coronavirus pandemic has further exposed the country’s underdeveloped health system. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), adequate financing, a well-trained and adequately remunerated workforce, well-maintained facilities as well as leadership and governance that provide clear direction are necessary for developing health systems. Among other things, the Federal Government needs to allocate more funds to the health sector, in line with the Abuja Declaration of 2001 when heads of state of African Union countries pledged to set a target of allocating at least 15 per cent of their annual budget to improve the health sector. Nearly two decades after, Nigeria, which hosted that significant conference, is yet to implement the resolution. For instance, less than five percent of the Federal Government’s 2020 budget is allocated to health. This is not how to develop the country’s health sector.