 WITH an advice to Lagosians against stigmatisation, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has confirmed the discharge of additional five patients who previously tested positive for COVID-19. The governor broke the news through his verified Twitter handle @jidesanwolu yesterday in Lagos. He called on members of the public to collaborate and support the discharged patients to get over their experiences as fast as possible. Sanwo-Olu twitted: “Today, I am happy to inform you that five more patients, comprising two males and three females, including a 10-year-old girl have tested negative twice to #COVID-19. “These five patients have been discharged to reunite with their families. “This brings to a total of 29 the numbers of patients who have fully recovered and have been discharged from our facility at Yaba.” “I need to reiterate that the result of tests conducted by our health workers on the recovered patients is a confirmation that they pose no threat to the community. “I will like to use this opportunity to advise Lagosians against stigmatising the discharged patients as this act could bring feelings of shame, hopelessness and despair. We need to do all we can to support them in whatever form to get over the memories as soon as possible.” The governor thanked the frontline health workers who have been taking care of patients and members of the Lagos State health family and the Emergency Operation Centre for their kindness and flexibility in managing the patients and checking the spread of the disease. “As the disease ravages countries all over the world, Lagos State will continue to do what is necessary in terms of responding to emergencies in an effort to ensure the health and wellbeing of our people. “We will do our best to make sure that other patients at the facility receive the best of care and attention so that they can return home to join their families and the community soonest. “In order to contain the spread of the disease, I strongly advise you to continue observing social distancing. Let us remain indoors and shun the temptation to breach the presidential restriction that has been placed on our state so that the gains recorded so far are not eroded. “You should regularly, and thoroughly, wash your hands with soap and clean, running water and where water is not readily available, an alcohol-based hand sanitiser can be used. “It has come to our notice that some of our youths still engage in sporting and related activities, this is very unfortunate. This act could jeopardise our efforts and the laudable intention of the lockdown. I therefore advise you to adhere strictly to our instructions so that together we can win the battle,” the governor advised. The Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi, had earlier announced the death of a 36-year-old patient (Nigerian). The man died of COVID-19 in the state. Announcing the death through his Twitter handle Prof. Abayomi said the death marked the second COVID-19 patient recorded in the state. He said: “We lost a #COVID-19 patient; a 36-year-old Nigerian, male, who died in a private facility on April 4, 2020. The total number of #COVID-19 patients who have died are now two.” Abayomi, however, did not give further information about the patient’s medical history. The Management of University of Benin Teaching Hospital (UBTH) said one of the three patients, who was confirmed to have tested positive for COVID-19, has died. The Chief Medical Director of UBTH, Prof. Darlington Obaseki, stated this in a statement made available to the News Agency of Nigeria yesterday in Benin. “The two surviving patients are currently being cared for by our dedicated staff in an isolation ward, with restricted access.