 Scenario-building on post corona virus disease, COVID-19 Nigeria may for now, seem somewhat hasty or even preposterous. This is to be understood given the immediate preoccupation of the various governments to contain the increasing spread of the viral disease. Faced with this daunting challenge, it would appear a waste of valuable time speculating on the possible consequences of the pandemic for the country when and if it is finally contained. But such speculations will evoke different feelings if they have to do with easing off of some of the stringent measures to stem the spread of the disease. Because some of these measures are largely temporary, they will have to be relaxed someday to allow normal life return. There is a limit beyond which we cannot stretch the measures without activating both the necessary and sufficient conditions for socio-economic unrest. The reality is that the lockdown will somehow be eased off to allow for the resumption of normal activities. This will come with its own challenges as efforts are still in place to contain the spread of the disease. The challenge is in effective measures to take to live with the virus especially given that continued lockdown and sit-at-home are glaringly inconsistent with the conduct of social organization in this country. How do our usually crowded schools, markets, churches, eateries and hotels respond to such safety rules as social or physical distancing, the use of face masks, regular washing of hands etc.? How do we maintain social distancing in our transportation system without escalating the cost? These and many others are the challenges we will have to contend with when the lockdown is lifted or COVID-19 defeated. Given the absence of any known vaccine for the treatment of the disease, the reality is that we will have to live with it for now. Even when it has been defeated, there is still no guarantee that it will not re-surface sometime in the future. So, some of these preventive measures may have to live with us in the foreseeable future. Secretary-General of the United Nations, Antonio Guterres captured the situation most succinctly when he said a safe and effective vaccine may be the only tool that can return the world to a sense of ‘normalcy’. Yet, the fact that many of those infected, have successfully been treated and discharged gives a glimmer of hope that the virus is incapable of wiping out mankind from the face of the earth. The thing is to prepare to live with the disease now and when it has been substantially tamed. A recent survey by a group of Harvard Scientists captured the situation thus, “A one-off lockdown won’t halt the novel corona virus and repeated periods of social distancing may be required into 2022 to prevent hospitals from being overwhelmed. One thing that remains almost certain is that the virus is here to stay”, they concluded. Going by the figures from the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control NCDC, the total number of infected persons successfully managed and discharged stood at 152 while 13 people lost their lives to the disease as at Thursday night, last week. The fatality rate represented less than 10 per cent of patients successfully treated and discharged.  It is something comforting in the absence of any known vaccine for the cure of the disease that had kept even the most advanced nations of the world on their knees. This success ratio in the management of COVID-19 patients coupled with scientific efforts to develop the relevant vaccine, gives hope that the virus can be tamed if not permanently, temporarily. Thus, our response to the pandemic should be in two phases – one dealing with how the citizenry can conduct their lives in the midst of the ravaging viral disease, while the other relates to the post-COVID-19 era. President Muhammadu Buhari captured these challenges in his national broadcast last week when he said the pandemic has changed the world as we know it. In response to these dynamics, he directed about 13 ministries to jointly develop a comprehensive policy for a “Nigerian economy functioning with COVID-19”. Implicit in this directive is the realization that the pandemic will live with us for some time and our system may inevitably grind to a halt if we do not evolve suitable measures to resume normal economic life while battling with it. That is the challenge the committee has been saddled with. But even if the committee succeeds in working out models for effective functioning of the Nigerian economy as the pandemic persist, that is not all there is to it. There are other equally potent dimensions to the challenge. The pandemic has adversely affected our socio-political and cultural organization such that serious adjustments both within the period of the scourge and thereafter have become patently inevitable. There is no doubt about that. Not with the manner of spread of the virus requiring citizens to social or physical distancing; wearing of face masks, washing of hands regularly and general personal hygiene. It will definitely re-define our social organization and relations.  A return to ‘normalcy’ while the pandemic subsists should even be more scaring given the poor state of our health infrastructure; debilitating poverty that earned us the unenviable sobriquet of the world poverty capital and a burgeoning population that has largely remained hewers of wood and fetchers of water. How to conduct daily living in a largely disorganized, disoriented and unstructured economic and socio-political milieu will be quite daunting. For, much of the measures the pandemic is forcing on our people are largely inconsistent with the daily living circumstances of a vast majority of our citizens that wallow in abject poverty. This group pays scant attention to these rules even as many still believe the pandemic is a hoax. Ironically, this country is bountifully endowed with huge natural resources by Mother Nature which should have been effectively deployed to create wealth and transform the lives of the citizenry positively but for inept, amateur and irrational leadership that wallows in self-aggrandizement and ethnic chauvinism. When these stark existential challenges are juxtaposed with the staccato of measures to keep the virus at bay, the reality of what we face during the pandemic and thereafter becomes more glaring. The upsurge in robberies in Lagos-the epicentre of the pandemic is only indicative of the dissonance between some of the measures to contain the scourge and the material conditions of our people. The hoodlums who have taken to the streets robbing innocent ones both during the day and at night can no longer stand the lockdown notwithstanding its merits. They represent the wretched of the earth without anything to fall back on. For them, it is better for the virus affliction to send them to their graves than hunger. That is part of the contradictions that have been elevated to the fore by the COVID-19 pandemic. More fundamentally, the pandemic has exposed the vulnerability of our weak systems, institutions and processes. It has more than anything, exposed the inherent dangers in paying scant heed to the development of world class health infrastructure and allied facilities in the country in preference for medical tourism by an uncaring leadership. It has drawn our attention to the reality that whatever we make of our country will someday come back to haunt. Who could have foreseen a few months back that countries will shut their borders to non-citizens? It would have sounded absurd if someone had told some of our leaders that at this time of the year, they will not be able to seek medical treatment abroad no matter the amount of funds at their disposal. These are some of the lessons of the current pandemic. Whether our leaders will learn the hard way this time around, will be the defining factor on where we find ourselves in the days ahead.