 The Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN), Nasarawa State chapter has donated 300 bottles of hand sanitisers to the state task force on coronavirus (COVID-19) to combat the pandemic. Mr Abdul-Malik Usman, state chairman of PSN presented the commodity to the state task force on Wednesday in Lafia. Usman said that the association is also seeking the support of the state government to mass produce the high quality alcohol-based hand sanitisers for distribution to residents. Usman explained that the mass production of the hand sanitisers was the association’s way of complementing the state government’s efforts at curbing the pandemic. He said members of PSN in the state were deeply concerned over the negative impact of COVID-19, hence their resolve to intervene as a body. “We looked at the effort the state government has been putting in place with regards to this pandemic that is ravaging the whole world and we felt that as a society, we should play our own role by supporting the government to reduce the spread of COVID-19. “That is what motivated us,” he said. The PSN chairman expressed hope that the state government would collaborate with the association in the mass production of hand sanitisers, adding that members of the society were set to begin the production. “We are not just donating but also showcasing to the state that the pharmacists in Nasarawa are available and capable of producing high quality hand sanitisers for the people of the state. “This gesture is also to emphasise to the state government that when there is a situation like this, we are here to support and assist in the best way that we can. “So there is no need going anywhere to buy them. We are here to produce for them. It is our own way of contributing to the fight against COVID-19. “We have made our plans known to the state government and details of it was submitted to the Director of Public Health with a plea that steps should be taken as soon as possible so as to ensure nobody in the state is exposed to the virus,”he said. Mr Ahmed Yahaya, State Commissioner of Health appreciated the PSN for the donation and assured them that the state government was working tirelessly to prevent entry of COVID-19 into the state. Yahaya who is a member of the state’s task force on COVID-19, said government had been proactive in putting measures to check the spread of the virus through advocacy, sensitisation and mounting security checkpoints. He said that other steps taken by the state government included establishment of Six isolation centres, setting up of a state task force, response team, management and facilities team among others. “We have also began training of volunteers of no fewer than 500 work force who are willing to work to assist in curbing the spread of the virus in the state,” he said. The commissioner assured the PSN of good working relationship and promised to present their request to the governor for consideration. He noted that the move would ensure that every resident, home and establishments in the state have hand sanitisers to guard against the spread of the virus. NAN reports that NYSC Corps members in the state had recently donated 1,000 locally made face masks and also proposed a synergy with the state government so as to mass produce face masks for all residents of the state. (NAN)