 THE Alimosho General Hospital in Lagos on Wednesday reunited David Nnamdi, a five-year-old victim of the March 15 Abule-Ado explosion, with his family, after he full recuperated. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Nnamdi sustained head injuries in the Abule-Ado explosion and was brought to the hospital by the Lagos State Ambulance team (LASAMBUS). The explosion and fire accident occurred in the Abule-Ado area around Festac Town in Amuwo Odofin Local Government area of Lagos State. NAN reports that the fire which started around 9.00a.m was put off in the around 11.00p.m. Dr Madewa Adebajo, the hospital Medical Director, told NAN that the boy had been given adequate treatment, adding that he had fully recovered which necessitated his discharge. Adebajo said: “David was brought into the facility in a very bad shape following the explosion, in which he sustained head injuries. “He was successfully managed and as we speak, he is well, conscious and has been discharged.” On the formality of his discharge, Adebajo said that Nnamdi’s school teacher had been coming on visit due to unavailability of his mother, who was also on admission at the Navy Hospital. “The school teacher confirmed his name and that of his mother, we have also contacted his father who was away when the explosion occurred. “We want to formally extend our profound gratitude to the Lagos State Government for its supportive role, particularly, Mrs Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, for footing the boy’s medical bill,’’ he said. The medical director added that the boy would, however, need to visit the hospital in another two weeks for another checkup. Also, Mrs Oluchi Adiegwu-Nnamdi, mother of the boy, thanked the hospital management and Mrs Sanwo-Olu, Wife of the Lagos State Governor for their benevolent gesture. Adiegwu-Nnamdi promised to always make Nnamdi available for his checkup when required. “I am very sad that I was not by his side all these while; I was also affected by the explosion and was receiving treatment in another hospital,’’ she said. Meanwhile, the Alimosho General Hospital has inaugurated a 3-unit modern handwashing equipment situated at the two entrances to the hospital. The medical director said the initiative came at the peak of COVID-19 spread and also due to the influx of patients to the facility. He said it would further ensure that handwashing was practiced as often as possible by all patients coming in for treatment.