A great coach not only knows exactly what they need, but also the specific skills, talents, and potential they are looking for when they are seeking a player. He does also need to know how to evaluate the foreseeable future of a talent when he comes across one. This is the apt description for Coach Ahmad Lawal, fondly called ‘Black Mourinho’ by his admirers. Born 44 years ago in Kaduna- the epicenter of Nigeria Footballers, he started his career with NUB of Kaduna, an amateur side that rocked the Challenge Cup in the early 90s from shooting stars academy Kaduna. His display at tender age of 16 earned him a professional contract with Concord FC of Abeokuta where he shone like a million star and was shipped to Lebanon playing for FC Harting Naomi. The following years, Lawal played in Qatar, Malaysia and Denmark for Al Arabic, FC Peris and Hanging Freeman FC respectively before he hung his boot. His talent enchant started with Taraba football Academy where he discovered Usman Muhammad former U-23 and Super Eagles invitee. Lawal possesses a CAF license, La liga and NIS certificates. These certificates make coaching job fascinating for him with his gesticulating and peacock displays on the pitch with sordid mastering of techniques and tactical practices. A closed associate of Lawal, who worked with him at Football College, Abuja, Kumbi Titiloye described him as a natural professional football coach. Titiloye, who was the Head of the College, said Lawal is such a dedicated staff under him. “A dedicated staff under me, I employed him at Football College Abuja. I put him through the principles of youth soccer development and boom we produced great players. He’s much disciplined and has good eye for talent” Titiloye said. The Chairman of Kwara United FC of Ilorin, described him as an adherent to all training details with attitude to impact. No wonder the likes of Orji Okwonkwo MSL, David Okereke of Club Brudge, Michael Dogo Bologna of Italy, Sadiq Umar (Roma), Suleiman Abdullahi (Spezia Calcio), Dele Alampasu (CD Ferience), David Samuel of HNK Rijeka among others benefited from his impressive and immerse coach ability. Lawal recently replicate this achievement with National U-15 and LMC U-17 teams. His exploits in talent discovery and coaching is emphatically stressed with stream of laurel won as a youth coach both in Nigeria and abroad among which are Mladen Ramilak Memorial International Youth Cup and Karnesvera Cup both in Croatia in 2015 and 2016 respectively beating the likes of Real Madrid youth team in the final. No doubt about the fact that Lawal is one of the best grassroots coaches the country has ever produced with his love for developing players.”