Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Sunday announced the recovery and discharge of five more COVID-19 patients. This brings to 55 the number of patients discharged from the isolation centres in the state. The news on the discharge of the Lagos patients was followed by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) confirmation of five new cases in three states of Lagos and Kwara (two each) and one in Katsina. According to the NCDC, the total number of confirmed cases stood at 323 with 85 persons discharged and 10 deaths recorded. Sanwo-Olu, who said the patients were discharged after testing negative twice to the virus, identified in a statement that those discharged as four females and one male. The statement reads: “Dear citizens, as we commemorate the sacrifice of Love this Easter, I bring to you more awesome news from our isolation facilities. “Today, five more patients; four females, and one male have been discharged to reunite with their families and society. “The patients were discharged having recovered fully and tested negative twice consecutively to #COVID19.” The governor added: “This news, especially on this auspicious day, gives me joy and happiness and I am sure it does to you too. “While we look forward to more great news from our effort to contain the pandemic, let’s all continue to show love and sacrifice for the course of humanity. “Stay at home, practice Social Distancing Principle, observe the highest possible personal and hand hygiene and report the suspicion to appropriate persons. “Let’s continue to make the little sacrifices for the greater good.” Also on Sunday, the Commissioner for Health, Prof Akin Abayomi said the death of another COVID-19 patient raised the total number so far in the state to five. Announcing the development via his Twitter handle, Abayomi said the death was due to complication from the virus. “Unfortunately, Lagos recorded another death from #COVID19 related complication, bringing numbers of such sad occurrence to five,” Prof Abayomi said. Nineteen of the 36 states, including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) have confirmed COVID-19 cases. They are: Lagos has 176; FCT (56); Osun (20); Oyo (11); Edo (12); Ogun (seven); six each in Bauchi and Kaduna; five each in Akwa Ibom and Katsina; Kwara (four); Delta (three); two each in Enugu, Ekiti, Rivers and Ondo. Benue, Niger, Anambra and Kano have one case each.