The COVID-19 pandemic is affecting people in several ways. It is impacting the most vulnerable, including the elderly and children, negatively. Hence, food companies have joined forces to minimise its impact on Nigerians. Aside delivering free sanitisers, they have donated food products worth millions of naira, DANIEL ESSIET reports.  WITH the disruption of lives, livelihoods, communities and businesses by COVID-19, food companies are identifying with the government with the provision of relief materials to some Nigerians. Aside  delivering free sanitisers, they have also donated food  worth millions of naira. For instance, Olam Nigeria has donated food and medical reliefs. The beneficiary states were Lagos, Kaduna, Rivers, Ogun, Kano, Delta, Kwara, Nassarawa, Ekiti, Cross River and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Its Country Head, Mukul Mathur, said COVID-19 was an unprecedented crisis necessitating urgent attention hence, the distribution of relief materials, especially targeting the most vulnerable in the society, during the lockdown. He said: “We realise the effect this will have on Nigerians, especially the vulnerable in the society, many of whom earn daily wages, and whose incomes are closely tied to ongoing economic activities, which for now have been halted.” Mathur added that the items include edibles, such as Mama Pride rice, Tasty Tom noodles, OK biscuits and Crown pasta. “In addition to the food items, the company recognises the urgent need to support all health workers on the frontline with medical supplies and kits which will include thermometers, masks, hoods, goggles, medical overalls and rapid test kits. This is to be donated to Nigerian Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). It is our belief that our humble contribution will support the overall effort in combating the pandemic as we continue to hope life returns to normalcy as soon as possible,” he stated. Also, Flour Mills of Nigeria (FMN Group) has redeemed a $2.8million pledge to the Nigerian Private Sector Coalition Against COVID-19 (CACOVID) to procure $1.5 million worth of medical supplies to beef up the tests and commence the deployment of $840,000 food packages to vulnerable communities in 12 states. FMN initiated a global supply chain plan to help the Federal Government with support during the global lockdown. This initiative was spearheaded by the Chairman FMN Group, John Coumantaros. Planning involved the leadership of the NCDC, vendors from five nations, multiple logistics partners, and a team drawn from the FMN group’s operational leadership. The team scaled through varying national restrictions on medical supply procurement, limited stock, transport restrictions, but stayed resolute in the race to help Nigeria manage and flatten the curve.  The medical supplies being facilitated were: 331,000 pieces of N95 masks, coveralls, protective gloves, Protective eyewear (PPE) enough to provide regular use for 10,000 health care professionals over two months and  35,000 laboratory-based testing capacity 100/day field-testing capacity    75 ventilators to be distributed through the NCDC. In a statement to kick off the FMN COVID-19 response action, the Group Chief Operating Officer, Boye Olusanya, said: “To reduce the impact of the Coronavirus outbreak, FMN will continue to work with the Federal Government and related agencies to provide relief materials. The safety of Nigerians is paramount to us, so we encourage all Nigerians to adhere to the necessary protective measures against the virus and its spread.” Nestlé has  also stepped  up global response to COVID-19 pandemic. It is working with the International Federation of the Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies. The company  said: “We have worked very closely with physicians to develop new tailored COVID-19 medical nutrition and supplement treatment protocols. We have also donated to food banks and food delivery organisations to support people in need. And we are providing prompt and pragmatic support to our business partners, for example in our supply chains, who are affected by this crisis. Our efforts are continuing – and stepping up – around the world.” On partnership with IFRC, the company said: “The IFRC is a strong and trusted global partner of Nestlé, with unmatched presence and expertise in providing first aid, emergency response and epidemic control. We will donate food, medical nutrition products and bottled water to bring relief to those most affected by the pandemic.    We will deploy available logistics capacities from our out-of-home business to support the needs of the IFRC.’’