As the COVID-19 puts pressure on the livestock sector, the International Poultry Council (IPC) has appealed to the Food Agriculture Organisation (FAO) and the World Trade Organisation (WTO) to support the industry and guarantee its operation. The Nigerian Institute of Animal  Science (NIAS) and other local stakeholders have joined the campaign to save the industry, DANIEL ESSIET reports.  The chicken meat market in Africa stood at $11.4 billion in 2018, according to a report published by Index Box, a global research firm. The figure reflected the total revenue of producers and importers. The countries with the highest volumes of chicken meat production, according to the report, were South Africa (1.8m tonnes), Egypt (1.1m tonnes) and Morocco (720,000 tonnes), with a combined 62 per cent share of total production. Algeria, Nigeria, Malawi, Tunisia, Libya, Tanzania, Sudan and Mozambique lagged somewhat behind, together accounting for a further 21 per cent. Also, the countries with the highest volumes of chicken meat consumption in 2018 were South Africa (2.1m tonnes), Egypt (1.1m tonnes) and Morocco (720k tonnes), with a combined 52 per cent share of total consumption. Angola, Algeria, Ghana, Libya, Nigeria, Malawi, Tunisia, Congo and the Democratic Republic of the Congo lagged somewhat behind, together comprising a further 27per cent. Driven by increasing demand for chicken meat in Africa, analysts expect the market to continue an upward consumption trend. This may not be achievable.The global poultry industry is taking a massive hit after social media rumours that coronavirus could be spread by chicken meat. Analysts predicted potential shocks in supply and demand driven by quarantine and logistics and temporary changes in consumer demand towards home consumption and non-perishable products. The impact has led to feed mills and slaughter houses been shut down creating real supply chain problems. The outlook for the rest of the year will be affected by the virus.   The projection   will drop this year, following a substantial blow to the global agricultural economy caused by coronavirus pandemic.  Institutional stakeholders believe supply of poultry and egg products are likely to be affected over the next six months due to the ongoing battle against coronavirus globally. One of them is International Poultry Council (IPC). The Council said it was essential that the poultry sector continues to operate, in compliance with staff health and safety requirements. As the spread of COVID-19 puts pressure on healthcare sectors of affected countries, the President, IP C, Robin Horel said the poultry sector has to continue to supply nutritious products to meet the nutritional needs of people across the world. Horel said: “These are incredibly challenging times for people worldwide. During this difficult period, it is essential that the poultry sector can continue to operate, in compliance with staff health and safety requirements. Public health always comes first; guaranteeing a steady supply of nutritional food, including poultry, to consumers worldwide is essential in this situation.” The IPC called on international oversight bodies and governments of all countries to collaborate and take specific measures to ensure our industry can continue to operate. “Our priority is the safety of those who operate in this food chain to guarantee food safety, food security and peace of mind for all consumers.” IPC is  worried seeing poultry prices fallen sharply in recent weeks with restrictions placed on moving birds and factories closing for extended periods, effectively paralysing the supply chain. IPC is worried the global poultry industry could see disruptions in breeding stock deliveries in some countries.  The council noted that Covid-19 pandemic could leave some companies without breeding stock and hatching eggs. A possible supply disruption can significantly reduce the ability of the domestic poultry industry to maintain a reliable supply of poultry meat and eggs to consumers, analysts warned. According to IPC, supply disruptions are going to jeopardise food security globally.  In this regard, some actions are required to address that problem and ensure sustainable operation of the poultry industry.  The issue raised by IPC is very relevant for Nigeria.  Need for  guaranteed supply  While the land border closure with neighbouring countries saved the poultry industry in Nigeria about N50 billion since its commencement in October last year, it discouraged the importation of chickens. The Registrar and Chief Executive Officer, Nigeria Institute of Animal Science (NIAS), Prof Eustace Iyayi, said the multiplier effect of the border closure reflected on the upsurge in the operations along the value chain with regard to supply of inputs, storage facilities, transportation/logistics and value addition. He said: “With an estimated 180 million poultry population and annual output in excess of 700,000 metric tons of eggs, that is about 450 million crates of eggs and 300,000 metric tonnes of meat; one can only imagine the several hundreds of thousands. “This is perhaps, with millions of direct and indirect jobs created by the industry in its entire value chain, in conjunction with its related ancillaries. It is indeed an almost endless web of commercial activities. “These ranges from hatcheries, day-old chicks distribution, broiler/layer farming, broiler processing, poultry meat and egg retail shops, crop processing, raw materials supply, feed mill operations, feed distribution, among others,” he said. The registrar emphasised that the huge impact could, however, grow exponentially and be translated to more concrete economic gains and accelerated growth of the nation’s poultry industry. Iyayi said it was clear that the poultry sub-sector, the most commercialised of all Nigeria’s agricultural sub-sectors with a net worth of N1.6 trillion, would play a significant role in contributing to the current government’s effort to create 100 million jobs. “Before the border closure, the poultry industry in the livestock sub-sector was badly hit. “Nigeria consumed about two million tons of poultry meat annually, 70 per cent of which was imported. Poultry meat was heavily smuggled into the country through our land borders. “The imported products, often of lower quality, attracted lower prices. This led to the closure or down sizing of several poultry farms with consequential business and job losses along the poultry value chain.” Iyayi said the NIAS’ ultimate goal was to guarantee food security and have the Nigerian livestock industry organised enough for self-regulation in line with global best practices, leaving no breathing space for quackery and adulteration. In the face of the  coronavirus lockdown situation NIAS urged the government to work with the private sector to save the N1.6 trillion poultry industry from collapsing. Iyayi in a statement, said the industry has about 200 million birds and a total value of over N1.6 trillion that cannot be allowed to collapse. “We also call on the government to exempt operators in the livestock industry from the restriction in movement.   Also related to it are the feed industry and hatcheries on which the poultry subsector depends. Personnel working in the livestock sector should, upon proper identification, be allowed movement across state boarders and within the state,” the group said. The institute noted that poultry producers are essential food suppliers. To cushion the effect, the pandemic will have on livestock producers arising from the lockdown, the institute  called on the government to adopt the model of off-taking the products, such as eggs, milk, meat, whose production cannot be stopped from the farmers and distributing same to the people as a palliative measure for the period of the pandemic. According to the institute, poultry producers will continue to do all that it can to produce the food that is vital during this recovery period, while implementing science-based measures to protect employees working in their facilities. The institute commended President Muhammadu Buhari, the various state governments and other relevant agencies for the response and the mobilisation of resources, both human and material to stem the tide so far. It pledged collaboration with the government in the effort to overcome the impact of the pandemic. The institute urged Nigerians to cooperate with the government in the fight against the virus. NAIS’ Head of Inspections and Enforcement, Nigerian Institute of Animal Science, Olufemi Atunbi said hundreds of livestock were at risk of being wiped out with lockdown due to corona virus. Atunbi said the virus is having impact with transport restrictions preventing much needed animal feed from getting delivered to farms. As a result, he said the prices of various feeds are going up. According to him, farmers are in dire straits because of the coronavirus outbreak. His fear is that many livestock may perish if feed is not getting to them in time. As the outbreak spread, there are concerns authorities may announce measures on transportation on all roads and highways, and even long-distance buses. Atunbi said  feed was in short supply as producers are hoarding it, adding that the extension of business shutdowns will exacerbate the shortage. He warned that restriction of trucks carrying feeds to farmers is going to create massive problems in the livestock sector. Right now, he noted that livestock producers are facing a challenge of delivery due to logistics problems. He said in many states, the transport issue is impacting on production as the cost of moving feed has gone up. Atunbi said the impact has put the agric sector in a very distressed situation. He urged the government to put in measures to ensure farmers still go to the farm or else the situation will lead to food shortage. The Poultry Association of Nigeria (PAN) wants to be exempted from restriction of movement declared by the government as part of lockdown measures to curtail the spread of COVID-19 in the country. The lockdown may result in the loss of over N3 trillion investments in poultry. Its President, Mr. Ezekiel Ibrahim, said the government needed to thread carefully in response to rampaging coronavirus pandemic. He said: “The situation of the poultry products market is not stable at the moment, and if urgent steps are not taken to remove the restriction on the movement of vehicles conveying such critical poultry like day-old-chicks (DOCs), meat and eggs, poultry feeds and drugs which are daily needed by all Nigerians, the poultry industry which is on the part of becoming the mainstay of the Nigerian livestock industry might be completely destroyed.” Claiming that investments in the poultry industry was put at N3 trillion,  Ibrahim said: “We are trying to communicate the close relationship between food producing companies that are considered system relevant and other infrastructural sectors that are tightly connected and without which the food supply chain can’t be kept on. “It is important to relax and make flexible the rules that restrict movement of all kinds of vehicles, and appealing to government at the federal and state governments to allow transport- trucks and buses carrying inbound supplies or outbound products of food, chicken and day-oil-chicks (DOCs) and other fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) products to be allowed to operate to ensure supplies continuity of essential products. “While the above is considered as very urgent and utmost for the continued supplies of protein to Nigerians, we implore the government to consider granting some palliatives to egg and day-old-chicks producers who are unable to sell their chicks, eggs and feeds as a result of the lockdown caused by the measures already taken by the state government in restricting inter-state transport movement. He however commended this present administration of initiating the policy of producing locally what we eat and consume as a nation without which the food security of the country could have been threatened now with the complete lock down of the country as a result of the COVID-19 outbreak.”  