Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has described the ongoing fight against the spread of the Coronavirus pandemic in the state as a war situation. Wike, who spoke while distributing foodstuffs to the 13 wards in Asari-Toru Local Government Area, said all efforts must be made to sustain measures put in place by the government to win the war. The governor, who was represented by the Chairman, Rivers State COVID-19 Palliatives Committee, Amb. Desmond Akawor, said that the foodstuffs were meant for all the residents of the area irrespective of their party affiliation. At least 1300 bags of rice , 1300 bags of garri, 13,000 tubers of yam , 1300 cartoons of pasta and 65 gallons of palm oil. The foodstuffs were received by leaders of Asari-Toru Local Government Area led by the council Chairman, Odiari Princewill, Commissioner for Urban Development and Physical Planning, Osima Ginah, among others. He said that he was reaching out to all communities because hunger affects everybody. He said: “This committee was set up to reach out to those who cannot purchase foodstuffs at this time. It is not for the rich. That is why we are sharing the foodstuffs to the people at the ward level. “The five persons nominated at the ward level, are persons that we believe will reach out to the less privileged”. The governor urged the people of Asari-Toru Local Government Area to observe the health protocols established to slow down the spread of coronavirus in the state. He said that the government would not tolerate any attempt to divert the foodstuffs adding that anyone found committing such act would be sanctioned. Special Adviser on Special Projects to the Rivers State Governor, Alabo George Kerley assured the governor that they would carry out his directive by ensuring that the less privileged in their respective wards got the foodstuffs. Representative of the Amanyanabo of Kalabari kingdom, Alabo Prince Dateme commended Wike for the foodstuffs. He said that the people were happy that the governor continued to prioritize their welfare despite the economic challenges in the country. Chairman of Asari-Toru Local Government Area, Mr. Odiari Princewill commended Wike for the quantity of foodstuffs that were distributed to the 13 wards of the Local Government Area.