Chairman of the Presidential Task Force on Coronavirus Disease COVID-19 and Secretary to the Federal Government, Mr. Boss Mustapha, has expressed optimism the nation will defeat the coronavirus pandemic. He spoke during a visit by the team to some of he isolation centres in Lagos on Tuesday. Mustapha equally commended efforts of the Lagos State Government efforts towards curtailing the pandemic. He said: “Lagos is doing a great job” on containment of the pandemic and will soon be a thing of the past, in view of concerted and sustained efforts to curtail the pandemic in the country.” Mustapha urged residents of the state to continue to give government the necessary support in the fight against COVID-19, in order to kick it out of the country. The taskforce, accompanied by Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, inspected isolation facilities at Mobolaji Johnson Arena Onikan; Lagos Island Mainland Infectious Disease Hospital IDH, Yaba; University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) Idi-Araba and Gbagada General Hospital, Isolation Centre, Gbagada. The SGF told reporters: “We’ve just taken a tour of this facilities that is very important place in anticipation that we’ll have to receive patients here. “So far, I think Lagos State is doing a great job. From what I’ve seen here, they’re putting up a first class and a world class facility that will help us in the management of those that are affected with COVID-19.” “I think we are on course and the basic strategy of the national response is containment, try as much as possible to reduce spreads to tracking of those that have already been infected so that we minimize the the case of community transmission. “We are doing very well. So far, processes that have been put in place, the plans, the objectives are being achieved. “I listened to the briefing of the commissioner for Lagos State yesterday, where there was quite a clear indication that the reason for the lockdown and the processes that have been put in place is achieving its desired objective.”