 CHRISTIANS in parts of Kaduna marked this year’s Palm Sunday in their homes because of the imposed curfew by the state government over the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. Checks conducted yesterday in Kaduna by the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) revealed that most churches at areas visited, including Barnawa, High cost, Television, Romi, Sabo and Trikaniya, remained closed in compliance with the government directive, while the residents marked services in their homes. Pastor Femi Folorunsho of the Devine Life Church in Sabo told NAN that prevailing circumstances necessitated the need for everyone to observe self- isolation. “We told our members to observe services in their homes knowing that God accepts worship irrespective of location,” he said. Also, Rv. Fr. Christopher of St. Christopher Church at Romi said specific prayers to mark the Holy Week and the Palm Sunday had been transmitted electronically to all Catholics, while instructions stipulated compliance with the government directive. Catholics all over the world will remain in their house and mark the Palm Sunday as well as offer prayers for the healing of the earth,” he said. Mr. Thomas Ajiya, a resident of Barnawa, said considering the spike in COVID-19 cases in the state and the nation, it was only expedient that Christians mark celebration of any kind at home. “The Bible says our bodies are the temple of the Lord, as such one must not have to be at the church building before God hears your prayer. “We must leverage on this season and cry out to God for mercy over our lands,” he said. Mrs. Hannatu Garba, who lives at High cost, also told NAN that although most people were yet to reckon with the reality of COVID-19, the seriousness of the issue was beginning to sink in people’s senses. Many churches yesterday witnessed low turnout of worshippers for the Palm Sunday service in Awka, the Anambra State capital. Most of the worshippers maintained the required social distance of two metres for safety. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that most churches were monitored by priests in adherence to government’s directive, while other Christians worshipped online. At St Peter Catholic Church, Nkwelle-Awka, worshipers attended the 6am service, maintaining social distance. At St Faith Anglican Cathedral, a priest, who preferred anonymity, was seen ensuring that worshipers used the hand sanitiser placed at the entrance of the church. “All I am here to do is making sure that everyone that comes here washes his or her hands and uses this sanitiser,” he said. At Dominion Chapel, Awka fewer worshipers were seen entering the church devoid of the large turnout usually witnessed. Anthony Eigbe, a worshiper, told NAN that the low turnout was deliberate. “Proper spacing of about two metres necessitated the low turnout for us not to go contrary to the government directive,” he said. NAN reports that Bishop Paulinus Ezeokafor of Awka Diocese conducted the Palm Sunday service live on Anambra Broadcasting Service TV and radio stations for members to follow in their homes.  