 A chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and a former member of the House of Representatives, Dr. Muyiwa Oladimeji, has said it is appalling that despite the laudable strides of the Osun State Government in fighting the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Federal Government has refused to support the state despite its meagre resources. The Russia-trained medical doctor, who holds a PhD in Immunology and Nuclear Medicine, said the state government is doing well in containing the invasion of the disease through Ivory Coast, adding that the second lockdown is necessary if the battle will be won. “Osun State Government has been doing very well without fear of contradiction because Covid -19 is an enemy to all mankind and the way it came, the rapid response and the way Osun State blocked the invasion from Ejigbo should be applauded. I am talking now as a doctor since 1973, who has a postgraduate degree in Immunology. So I know what I’m saying. I was the one who handled the cocoa toxic waste for the Federal Government in the late 80s. “We must thank God for the way Osun in particular handled the matter. What is, however, appalling to me is that in spite of the invasion from Ivory Coast and despite the meltdown brought by Covid 19, Osun State is left on its own by the Federal Government to be handling this thing with no assistance from any source. I think this is unfair because if it had not been well handled, the whole of the Southwest would have had a problem and if the Southwest has problems, then, Nigeria would have been affected.  “I think that there should be some reprieve or lifeline to Osun to encourage them for the good work in handling the Ejigbo issue. Osun is not one of the oil producing states and for the government of Osun State to be doing what they are doing with the meagre resources at their disposal, I think they must be applauded,” he said. Dr. Oladimeji, who reiterated that his assessment is based on objective analysis, added: “I want to say this, I do not belong to the ruling party in Osun right now, but Covid-19 is not political, it doesn’t discriminate between PDP, APC or SDP, nor does it discriminate against gender or status. So it is a battle that we all have to face and that is why I am saying the current government in the state is doing a good job and they should be hailed and supported.” According to him, while the government must be congratulated on its method and approach to have reached the level it has, it must not rest on its oars, or else the state gets overrun. “This is why I think the second lockdown initiative is good because it will ensure any infected person is clustered and it will be easy for the government to do contact tracing. If the borders are open, you won’t have this opportunity. Yes, it is uncomfortable because people are hungry and are not getting relieved. This is why I am upset that we are not getting assistance from the Federal Government in Osun state,” he said.