 Deji of Akure, Oba Aladetoyinbo Ogunlade Aladelusi, Odundun II, has insisted that his domain of influence stressed to Akure North local government area. Oba Ogunlade said he remained the recognised paramount ruler that could appoint minor chiefs, Olus and Oloja in both Akure North and Akure South local government areas. The Akure monarch was reacting to comments by some traditional rulers in Akure North local government that his domain was only in Akure South local government. Trouble started when Oba Ogunlade appointed one Chief Boboye Ojo as the Olu of Eleyowo but the Oloba of Oba–Ile appointed one Chief Olomi Adesina Agunbiade. Oba Ogunlade, in a statement  by his spokesman, Adeyeye Michael, explained that the jurisdiction of Oloba of Oba –Ile is limited to Oba –Ile town in Akure North Local Government. He said the bifurcation of old Akure Local Government into Akure South and Akure North Local Government does not take away his power as the prescribed authority over minor chieftaincies in both local government areas. The Akure Monarch noted that Justice W. Akintoroye in a ruling delivered in March, 2018 affirmed him as the prescribed and consenting authority for the appointment of minor chiefs in Akure North. According to the statement: “In exercising his power as the prescribed authority, the Deji had appointed late Chief Arowolo Joshua as the 1st Baale and Olu of Eleyowo. Late Chief Awokunle was also appointed by the Deji as the Olu of Eleyowo until the appointment of the current Olu of Eleyowo, Chief Boboye Ojo who is the recognised traditional head of the community. The claim by Olomi Agunbiade is a mere attempt to distort history which can only exist within the figment of his imagination. “What more would Mr. Olomi Agunbiade need to come to reality with the fact that he remains an impostor and his utterances and attitudes are criminal in nature and punishable under the law. “From time immemorial, the entire Akureland had been under the hegemony of the Deji of Akure. By virtue of his said position, the Deji was the paramount ruler over the entire Akure land, as well as being the consenting authority. “His Majesty wishes to urge Mr. Olomi Agunbiade to desist from the criminal act of impersonation henceforth. “However, the security agencies had been briefed of the happening and an attempt by Mr. Olomi Agunbiade and his cohort to cause disaffection and forment trouble in Eleyowo community. “The Deji wish to alert the security agencies to keep eyes on Mr. Olomi Agunbiade especially at this critical time when we are still battling with how to prevent the spread of covid-19 in the State.”