 ON  April 8, Treasury House, housing the office of the Accountant-General of the Federation (AGF) in Garki area of the federal capital, Abuja, was torched by a fire that raged for about an hour before being put out by firefighters. Minister of State for Budget Clem Agba assured the public no financial record of government was lost in the inferno. Eight days later – that is, on April 15 – the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) headquarters in Maitama district of Abuja went up in what was officially tagged ‘a minor fire incident,’ but which firefighters had to be invited to battle down. CAC Registrar-General Abubakar Garba was reported saying there was no loss of document or lives in the fire, and that all vital records of the commission remained intact. Just two days after that – namely on April 17 – an annexe of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) head office housing the Election and Party Monitoring (EPM) department and the Media Centre, also in Maitama district, was gutted by fire that was soon snuffed out by firemen. INEC National Commissioner and Chairman of its Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, said the fire only did minimal damage and was not extensive as to affect administrative or technical operations of the commission. And last Tuesday – April 21 – the Jos, Plateau State capital, branch of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) recorded a fire outbreak that was swiftly contained, averting a major incident. CBN Corporate Communication Director Isaac Okorafor said no damage was done to the bank’s records while essential staff on duty at the time of the incident were unscathed. Meanwhile, fire outbreaks have not been limited to government buildings. On the same day that the CAC incident happened, fire swept through the popular Dugbe market in Ibadan, Oyo State capital, destroying goods estimated at millions of naira. Unarguably the most tragic incident of all was on the day after that – April 16 – when fire blazed in an Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) camp in Ngala local government area of Borno State and left no fewer than 14 persons dead. Two days earlier, there was a fire incident at another IDP camp in Mafa council area of Borno State, in which some 700 shelters were destroyed, though, thankfully, no life was reported lost. Regarding all these recent fire outbreaks in government buildings, electrical faults were cited as suspected causes pending thorough investigation. An electrical spark was attributed with the fire at Treasury House, while a power surge in one of the outer units of a split air-conditioner was blamed for the CAC complex inferno. INEC said preliminary investigations indicated the remote cause of the fire incident at its annexe to be connected with electrical issues, while the CBN explained that the fire at its Jos office was traced to an air conditioner installed in the inverter room on the second floor of the building. Even the Dugbe market fire was linked to a spark at a welder’s shop. Although cynics have argued that it is preemptive to proffer likely causes of the fire incidents when holistic investigations are yet awaited, there is good reason to worry over the integrity of electrical works in most of Nigeria’s public buildings. Electrical contractors typically see their task as casual job deliveries to access contracted sums, rather than long term security and safety-guarantee projects; hence the inadequacies in wirings, which down the line produce sparks that ignite fire incidents. There is need for strong due diligence on electrical works in all public buildings, to forestall fire incidents. For buildings already in use, there may be need for painstaking reexamination of the electricals, and rework where uncovered defects are gross. Owing to the Covid-19 lockdown, most offices – public and private – are presently shuttered. A recent report by Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty (AGCS), a global insurance firm, said there was high likelihood outfits would suffer fire outbreaks under the circumstance because many of them closed shop at short notice and their premises are now deserted. “Negligence when decommissioning buildings and production facilities brings risks for companies. Mothballed factories or offices are by no means safe from fire or other hazards – in fact, such risks can be exacerbated when premises are idle or largely unoccupied,” the report said inter alia. This analysis may partly explain some of the recent fire outbreaks, and organisations may need  to go back and do proper decommissioning of their facilities while lockdown lasts. It is reassuring that officials of affected organisations have all said no document of critical importance was lost in the incidents. But it bears emphasising the need for electronic storage of official documents such that mishaps to hard copies, advertently or inadvertently, would not efface documentary records. This should be another takeaway from these latest experiences.