Osagie Otabor, Akure  The Unity Forum of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ondo State has dismissed allegations raised by some of its supposed members as tissues of lies. It said those who termed themselves as Foot Soldiers of the Unity Forum were playing politics of lies and mudslinging at a odd time. The Unity Forum is one of the groups within the Ondo APC rooting to stop Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu from getting a second ticket of the party. Speaking under the auspices of Professionals in Ondo Unity Forum, Engr. Ralph Adetimehin said the so-called ‘Foot Soldiers’ were not members of the group Engr. Adetimehin stated that the seven man Adhoc Committee set up by the Unity Forum for the sole mandate of selecting a unified governorship aspirant for the forum has since submitted its sealed report. Adetimehin said all its members, leaders and governorship aspiratnts did not make verbal or written protest as regards the composition and membership of the committee. “It is on the basis of the general acceptability of the Adhoc Committee that prompted all the Gubernatorial Aspirants to attend the screening exercise as scheduled by the committee. “The Adhoc Committee has since interviewed, interacted, and reviewed the presentations of all the aspirants and has concluded its assignment. In line with the term of reference given to the committee, we are aware it has submitted a sealed report to the Special Purpose Committee for its consideration as soon as the mood of the nation improves. “We would like to also inform the public that from our findings, those behind this mischief and lies belong to two classes. The first class are those non members of the Forum who by sympathy have prefered aspirant they believe will emerge, they have suddenly developed fear that their preferred governorship aspirants are not likely to emerge. “Therefore, these few individuals must splash mud of lies and allegations against the members of the committee who were carefully selected and approved by all the aspirants based on verified parameters. The other class are the few individuals who are already getting set to defect to the PDP and are afraid of the rising profile of the Ondo APC Unity Forum. “They are ready to sponsor some willing allies in the first group, who have been conquered by hunger and fear, to destabilize Unity Forum before they take their leave to PDP where their hearts now belong. We are aware of the huge investment deployed by their sponsors to prosecute their devilish mission. The public is hereby put on notice that they are poised to spit more lies in the days ahead in preparation for their defection to the PDP. “Our forensic investigations have revealed the sponsors of these few agents of destabilization. We wish to assure the public that in due course, we shall unmask their identities. The public is hereby advised to treat their noise as tissues of lie and absolute falsehood, it should accordingly be disregarded.”