 The rhythm goes thus; ‘Parents! Listen to your children…..Children! ‘We are the leaders of tomorrow…… Tomorrow! ‘Try and pay our school fees……School fees! ‘And give us the best education…… Education! The above is in memories of an ancient school rhyme which were being used to singing and chanting on assembly grounds. It always gave us that joy and motivation to do better. It rang in our ears that we were meant to be the leaders of tomorrow, with a promise to give us best education. Back then we always imagined things would work out fine when we get there, we were being gingered to study and work hard to become great leaders of tomorrow. We were being told how education lay the path to success.  However, it never dawned on us that we would keep on having repetitive leaders right from then we till now. That same tomorrow now seems to be unreachable! Unknown to us that the leaders we used to have never wanted to let go of their rosy seats for us. Unknown to us that we won’t derive the best education further by our teachers/lecturers. Unknown to us that the government shows less care on our education. We were not told that our education sector will only produce a graduate with a certificate, while education will produce a product with something else to produce. So, our teachers simply lied to us that good cumulative grade point average is what the society needs. So, they lied to us right from kindergarten that we must study hard to have good results but we ended up realisng that some not-too-good students had better results than us simply because they knew someone or better still greased some palms to get to the top. We grew up to experience bumps and inconsistencies in the education sector. It all started from the JAMB/SSCE examinations, challenges in gaining admission into the tertiary institutions, and countless strikes by teacher and lecturers in public schools across Nigeria. We grew up to realise that corruption has become endemic, and the education sector is not insulated. We grew up to understand that it takes who you know or how ‘loaded’ your parents are to secure admission into school and with a course of your choice. We grew up to understand that most of our leaders are unable to defend their certificates because they were fraudulently acquired. And unfortunately, we grew up to notice that the key to the success padlock has already been changed. After burning countless night candles to successfully earn a degree, a graduate dumps the credential or use it if probably to do a low-paying job, to survive. It’s high time we changed the lovely rhyme or having the educational system totally restructured for the generations to come. Gone are the days when what you knew would propel you to the top. The scenario has since changed. Today, it’s all about who you know and the places with which you find yourself. Bring back the education we used to know. Bring back our rhyme to reality. A.A Zubair, a 300 level student of Public Administration report….. end 