Ikeja Electric (IE) and Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC) have said they will comply with the proposed free electricity supply policy when the National Assembly ratifies it IE management stated that it supports the National Assembly on the proposal on free electricity for two months as part of Covid-19 palliative for customers. ‘’However, it is important to point out that at the moment, it is only a proposal and is still undergoing stakeholder reviews on its feasibility. It has not been approved by the Government as a stimulus package or palliative. As such, the ability of the DisCos to implement this proposed palliative is subject to the stimulus package being passed by the National Assembly and signed into law by Mr. President. “We urge all our customers to continue to pay their utility bills as usual, while on our part, we shall continue to serve and put our customers first during this difficult period,” it added. Also, EKEDC clarified the misleading reports that electricity distribution companies (DisCos) would be supplying free electricity to their customers for two months. It said: “At present, the National Assembly is promoting a proposal to the Federal Government for the implementation of palliatives to  ease the difficulties being experienced by Nigerians due to the COVID-19 pandemic. “The proposal contains many laudable initiatives, including the provision of free electricity for two months with the Federal Government picking up the electricity bill for this period. “We hereby clearly state that distribution companies are fully in support of this proposal and willing to play our role in making it a practical reality. If approved, this proposal would also provide a very welcome and timely stimulus to the economy. “This depends on the success of the proposed stimulus package being passed by the National Assembly and signed into law by Mr. President. Accordingly, until the stimulus package is passed, we encourage our customers to utilise our online channels in paying their bills. “We reaffirm our commitment to discharging our continuing responsibility of distributing and supplying electricity to our esteemed customers. We anticipate your understanding and cooperation as we combat the deadly fallout of this pandemic and urge you to adhere to the measures advised by medical and government authorities to mitigate its effect.”