If the Federal Government lifts its second lockdown order on April 28, the Lagos State University (LASU)  leadership will fix a new date for its 24th Convocation,  which its Vice Chancellor, Prof Olanrewaju Adigun Fagbohun, will be supervising for the last time. In this report, ADEGUNLE OLUGBAMILA, chronicles the achievements of the Professor of Environmental Law, who was appointed in January 2016.  The Lagos State University (LASU) had put on hold its 24th Convocation owing to the outbreak of the Covid-19.   Expectedly, more than 8,000 graduates are to receive their degrees and diplomas for the 2018/2019 academic session at the event. The Vice Chancellor of the institution, Prof Olanrewaju Adigun Fagbohun, had announced that he would be holding the convocation for the last time since his appointment in January 2016. More exciting, however, Fagbohun said, is that the university would be turning out 76 First Class graduates, the highest in its 36-year-old history. Addressing reporters on the sidelines of the convocation briefing, the professor of Environmental Law, beat his chest that the university would defend the integrity of the first class recipients, as well as others. Fagbohun noted the high quality performance of the university and the immense support the institution receives from the Lagos State government. “Our students will compete favourably with any students elsewhere. Make no mistake about it, if you don’t struggle to get these students into your employment now, you will be the one missing them later,” Fagbohun began. “I am not just saying this. We have reasons for saying it. “One, the Lagos State government is supporting our students with the ‘Ready-Set-Work’. Two, our Career Development Centre is one of the most robust in Nigeria. Right now, LASU is going into artificial intelligence and robotics, regardless of any department. It is for the entire students. We shall provide them with the best of skill. We are challenging other schools to bring their students forward. We are not afraid.” Besides, Fagbohun said the institution is also preparing a brochure which would comprise profiles of all students who have made the school proud across academia, sports, and socials, among others, over the last four years. Once ready, the brochure would be distributed all over the world free, as a testimony of the fact that ‘good times are now here.’ Thankfully, Faghohun said the government is similarly supporting graduates desirous of going into entrepreneurship with a start-up capital. Unlike before, he said the institution is now happier that potential employers now visit the school on regular basis, ostensibly to poach outstanding students interested in taking up appointment in their various companies. Further, Fagbohun said the institution, once synonymous with crisis, now enjoys peace with no single industrial crisis with him on the driver’s seat. He identified open-door policy and constant communication as the twin factors in the attainment of peace in LASU. “What I would say has been the greatest challenge is the very same thing you see in every other university community-miscommunication and lack of sincerity of purpose. When those two factors are in place, 99 per cent of issues would be resolved,” he said. He continued: “So, the way we have been managing communication in LASU is that at every point in time, we leaders across academic and non-academic have always been talking to ourselves and exchanging information. The moment we pick any contending issue in the public, we immediately call on the specific department and inquire the correct information on it. Once it is clarified, such issue will naturally douse. “This is what has been happening in the last four years, and I’m happy that the entire university community joined in this crusade. We often make a joke that as a stranger, once you set foot in LASU, you don’t need to come to management, just pick anyone you like, student or worker, and ask about situation in this institution. Though we cannot say we are perfect. We are also learning as we go along.” And as his five-year tenure winds up in January, the vice chancellor said he would only express appreciation to the various staff unions for his ‘modest achievements’. He holds a special gratitude to the media which, according to him, often engages the institution in constructive criticisms, before going to the press. Nevertheless, Fagbohun said he had no inhibition as regards continuity, adding that those who would take the baton from him hold the university’ dreams dearly, and would ensure its legacies are sustained. “I must say I have no fear in my mind (about continuity),” he said. He continued: “The difference in what is happening before and now is just that there is a vision beyond Lanre Fagbohun. It is a vision owned by the university community, and I’m sure they will protect it. That is why we instutionalise some of the things that we have been doing from time to time. If you walk up to me and say, “Mr VC, please can you do this thing for me’? I will simply ask you to put in your letter which will go to the committee that is in charge. “Also, when this administration started in 2016, we were faced with two options because of the way the university was at the time. One choice was to go with a few individuals and use their template to run the university. The other choice was to go with the generality of the university and use our agreed template to run the university. We chose the latter; and that is why today, if the VC is not on ground, the university continues to run. “As I said earlier, these project and visions are owned by the university. That is the reason we don’t have dull moments here. You cannot even know whether I’m around or not around because the university works round the clock.” 