As the lockdown continues in Lagos and some other states in Nigeria, how are the writers spending their time during this period and what are ways they are reinventing themselves? Writers under the auspices of the Nigerian Centre of PEN International, aka PEN Nigeria, are interrogating proactive ways at a special online rendezvous on how to make the best out of the stay home order, reports EVELYN OSAGIE  Since the 29th of last month, Lagos, alongside Ogun State and Abuja, has been placed on two weeks lockdown by the pronouncement of the President owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. This was one week after Lagos was shut down by the state government. With the increase in the number of affected persons, the lockdown was extended for another two weeks. This move has not been without its negative impacts on the creative community, especially writers. Given the apprehension occasioned by armed robbery and other insecurity issues, forcing many residents to adopt the duties of night guards, starving people staying up all night to fight off marauders, no doubt this period has been particularly traumatic, especially for writers. As a special intervention meant to create an opportunity for interaction oriented towards enlightenment and entertainment, PEN Nigeria through its Free the Word WhatsApp platform dedicated to creative works and critical essays, held a special online rendezvous on “COVID-19 and the writer: coping in a lockdown”. The event, which is the first of its kind in the country, was a colourful congregation of creatives in and outside Nigeria, journalists, students, aspiring writers and some seasoned medical professionals, specially invited to enlighten us on issues pertaining to our health, including mental health, particularly in view of the pressure – physical, psychological, economic, etc. – under which we carry out our responsibilities. “This period has been particularly traumatic for writers who are known to be hypersensitive to chaos, discomfort and claustrophobia, a situation has exposed many of us, writers, to extreme boredom and depression, observed the President of PEN Nigeria, Folu Agoi. While the event fielded four panels, Pen Nigeria’s online event was moderated  by Pen Nigeria General Secretary, Daggar Tolar; DianaAbasi; Ralph Tathagata and Taofeek Olatunbosun. The panelists included Dr Tony Marinho, Dr Kilani H. Taiwo, Dr Toyin Salawu, Ayo Oyoze-Baje, Adewale Maja-Pearce, Marita Banda from Zambia, Akeem Lasisi, DianaAbasi and Wendy Nnadi, among other participants. But how are the writers spending their time during this lockdown and what are ways they are reinventing themselves. These and other concerns made the conversation.  Coping in a lockdown  “The first week of the Corona virus lockdown was particularly traumatic for virtually everyone in the state, especially writers who are mostly naturally hypersensitive to chaos. Many of us spent the entire week tracking breaking news and reading up on the new virus, a pandemic about which very little was known, even by medical professionals,” began Agoi. “By the second week of the lockdown – a lockdown which, as someone put it, might be more likely to be a marathon race than a sprint, some of us had almost become world experts on viruses; and with the slogan ‘Stay at home!’ gaining currency, boredom had started creeping in, with depression tagging along, a dangerous trend which, if not arrested on time, might turn out to be more devastating than the virus itself. This is not a one-off event. We hope to collect materials for a follow-up to “Silver Lining” – An Anthology of Nigerian Literature (edited by Akachi Adimora-Ezeigbo and I). The next edition will be hosted via Skype, Zoom call or any other digital platform. He called on the government to cushion the excruciating impact of the Coronavirus lockdown particularly on creative writers and other components of the creative community who have already spent about one month in confinement,” he continued. On his part, the PRO of First Technical University, (Tech-U) and poet, Akeem Lasisi, in his submission entitled “Nigerian writers at the mercy of Coronavirus lockdown”, argued that the Nigerian literary industry has for long been under a lockdown. He noted that: “We have been enjoying our freedoms of association, movement and socialising etc, yet the environment in which we operate is extremely harsh. Ours is a literary industry where the reading culture is very low, where paper and many other printing materials are imported as all production outfits are dead and long buried. “But this is not to say that there is no blessing in disguise for poets and other writers. The lockdown provides more time to think and write. So, some damn good works can rise from the ash of the scourge. The lull has also further established that we need to cultivate online writing adventures more than ever before…As for me, I am not composing many poems during this lull. I am making some drafts while also prospecting for ideas. I also try to enjoy and tender existing poems in a collection of tributes I hope to get out soon. One of the poems I sent to this platform alongside this write-up is one of them and it is for acclaimed film-maker, Kunle Afolayan.” For Dr Marinho, “The lockdown has brought new life to the earth of our birth and will bring cleaner air, rivers, oceans, seas, and reduce refuse ‘making even our dustbins hungry’. The cost is a social and business one. The question of providing for writers crops up and of course will not go away. My experience with writing is that I am not good enough to live by it and wisely in my case, sacrificed myself on the altar of taking another profession in my case medicine, in order to feed my family. As we complain about poor medical services, we must be up to date with advances on the home front in Nigeria” Founder of Leading Lady with G-Factor, Wendy Nnadi, gave a simple guide on how to stay creative this period: “Wake up – breakfast, exercise/yoga, meditate on what gives you inspiration, write down what you see/hear, pick up a book/go online and read, go back to what you wrote in the morning and develop it”. “Writing under lockdown or self-isolation in the face of this pandemic may feel both impossible (due to lost focus or urgent priorities) and a necessity. As a writer this is a good time to sit back and interact with your inner being, your imaginative eyes and birth something great in the form of a poem, a book, a painting etc.” Literary world can make a difference  Before this pandemic, she noted that some great authors have written much about the pandemic. “As writers we can start writing about hope in this season, we can write about history and how men survived during pandemic such as this. We can go deeper in the prophetic realm and God can give us something to write about the situation. Let’s not relent, let our pen keep speaking,” Nnadi added. In the same vein, Agoi stated: “COVID-19 is much more than a health crisis. This pandemic has the potential to create devastating social, economic and humanitarian crises. Experience with other outbreaks has shown there must be coordinated and integrated approach to urgently and effectively respond to the pandemic. Everyone has a role to play.” Emphasising the importance of the social media at such a time as this, in her piece, entitled: The Role of the Writer in a Worldwide Lockdown, the Association of Nigerian Authors (ANA) Interim Chairman of Lagos branch, DianaAbasi, observed that creativity must be shared to have impact and heal. She said: “Thanks to Instagram live and Facebook live, Book chats no longer require convergence of many in one physical location, Ballerinas in Russia inspire the world with dance routines shared on social media pages, and artists share their art and creative process on these same platforms too. When this is over, our works will have toughened us, redeemed us from our pain, and given others reason to be irrepressible. Let us stride forward courageously with the word as our sheath and sword! Artists worldwide have risen to the occasion with creative modes of sharing their art with the world. In this global village we have become, we stand together – though remotely, this pandemic is our common enemy, but our survival is a common goal.”