  TWENTY five years after leading Houston Rockets to two consecutive NBA titles, Coach Rudy Tomjanovich has commended Hakeem Olajuwon for his all-round play which won the Rockets the title in 1994 and 1995. Tomjanovich, who reached out to the Nigerian-American Superstar on Twitter when he (Tomjanovich) took part in the NBA Together initiative, said no one would be talking to him if Olajuwon wasn’t in the Houston Rockets’ team when he got the coaching job. “I loved coaching Hakeem Olajuwon, because he was such a great player, such a willing student of the game,” the legendary coach said when he was asked about coaching Olajuwon. “He was so versatile that he did just about everything on the court. On defense, he was a shot blocker and intimidator, and he also pressured the guards out on the floor when they came off the pick and roll. On offense there was nothing he couldn’t do. He was good inside, he was good facing up. Just truly a superstar player and I was blessed to have that opportunity.” “If he’s not on the team when I got the job, you’re probably not talking to me right now,” Tomjanovich added. As a mark of respect for his former coach, Olajuwon has also accepted Tomjanovich’s invite to present him to the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame during the enshrinement ceremony scheduled for August 29 in Springfield, Massachusetts. Olajuwon said: “I told (him) I feel so honoured. It’s my honour that he thought of me. As you know, our careers paralleled. We accomplished something that’s so special together. He could have chosen anybody on that team, but to choose me, I feel privileged and honoured.” Tomjanovich and other members of the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame’s Class of 2020, also include Tim Duncan, Kevin Garnett and the late Kobe Bryant. Olajuwon played for 20 consecutive seasons in Houston, first collegiately for the University of Houston Cougars and then professionally with the Houston Rockets before joining Toronto Raptors in 2000 and retiring in the fall of 2002. 