An aspirant of the All Progressives Congress(APC) in Edo State, Pastor Osagie Ize- Iyamu, has announced the opening of two helplines for residents of the state in need of food materials to reach his campaign organisation for fast dispatch. He also commenced a statewide distribution of food staples and other helpful materials targeted at the most vulnerable. Pastor Ize- Iyamu announced the numbers to be 07046373027 and 08114046290 while releasing a lorry load of food materials headed for all 64 wards in the six local government areas of Edo North on Friday as others meant for Edo South and Edo Central zones were being loaded. He expanded the distribution of hand sanitisers and informational materials on the novel coronavirus disease in the state with the production of greater quantities with his wife, Professor Idia Ize- Iyamu. They reached out to centres housing special needs residents to make donations aimed at cushioning the effect of the economic disruption already witnessed in the state. Ize- Iyamu explained that the immediate objective of his recently appointed campaign Directors was to ensure effective, non-partisan and quick distribution of the food items and other materials to a target of 1000 families across the state. “Let me say clearly that we are doing this not for politics. We are doing it because there is a compelling need at this time to do it. “Our target is1000 families, and our plan is that every part of the state, in every ward, we should be able to touch a certain number of families,” he said. He appealed to the State Government to set up food banks in rural communities and centres where the poor can get food in a safe and conducive process to prevent starvation during the restriction period. He also An aspirant of the All Progressives Congress(APC) in Edo State, Pastor Osagie Ize- Iyamu, has announced the opening of two helplines for residents of the state in need of food materials to reach his campaign organisation for fast dispatch. He also commenced a statewide distribution of food staples and other helpful materials targeted at the most vulnerable. Pastor Ize- Iyamu announced the numbers to be 07046373027 and 08114046290 while releasing a lorry load of food materials headed for all 64 wards in the six local government areas of Edo North on Friday as others meant for Edo South and Edo Central zones were being loaded. He expanded the distribution of hand sanitisers and informational materials on the novel coronavirus disease in the state with the production of greater quantities with his wife, Professor Idia Ize- Iyamu. They reached out to centres housing special needs residents to make donations aimed at cushioning the effect of the economic disruption already witnessed in the state. Ize- Iyamu explained that the immediate objective of his recently appointed campaign Directors was to ensure effective, non-partisan and quick distribution of the food items and other materials to a target of 1000 families across the state. “Let me say clearly that we are doing this not for politics. We are doing it because there is a compelling need at this time to do it. “Our target is1000 families, and our plan is that every part of the state, in every ward, we should be able to touch a certain number of families,” he said. He appealed to the State Government to set up food banks in rural communities and centres where the poor can get food in a safe and conducive process to prevent starvation during the restriction period. He also called on people of means in the state to join in the fight against the disease by reaching out to the vulnerable as he is doing.