The power suply chain remains intractable along its various segments; be it generation, transmission, or distribution. Overcoming the challenge calls for proper funding and overhauling of various sectors, writes AKINOLA AJIBADE. Like a complicated affliction, the power sector challenges have defied solution, a development which has left it in a state of coma for years.  Expectedly, successive governments have tried to revive the sector, but to no avail. More worrisome is that virtually every part of the sector is facing one challenge or the other, making it less attractive to investors. Also, the value chain – generation, distribution and transmission – is fraught with problems. Not only has this resulted in poor output, it has further increased the woes of the sector. The industry has been battling problems such as poor funding, infrastructure deficit, obsolete equipment, dearth of skilled workers and, more importantly, shortage of gas, which is the feedstock for thermal plants. Against this backdrop, stakeholders advised the Federal Government to overhaul and increase funding to the sector to enable it record growth. According to them, the trio of the power generation, distribution and transmission firms would operate well when their operations are overhauled and well-funded, noting that the recent poor output of the sector would not arise if the Federal Government had fixed the sector. The Nation’s investigation shows that the electricity generation firms, distribution firms and Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) have not performed well. Findings revealed that the output of the three institutions was not impressive enough by April, this year,  as evident  in the data from the System Operator (SO), a department of the TCN. The sector, according to the data, had gas constraints on April 2, 3 and 4, which impacted on the generation, distribution and transmission of electricity. Operators’ perspectives The Executive Secretary, Association of Power Generation Companies (APGC), Dr Joy Ogaji, said the problems  were multi-faceted, adding that they affected transmission, distribution and generation. Speaking on the phone, she affirmed that thermal power plants have enough gas to produce electricity as evident from the 5,000Mw of electricity, generated. Ogaji, however, lamented that this resulted in unused or stranded electricity of 1,000 Mw. “You would know that non-availability of enough natural gas is not the only problem of the power sector as Nigerians have been made to understand. The poor distribution network and transmission lopsidedness are also part of the problems that are besetting the growth of the sector,’’ she said. According to her, the sector had gas constraints prior to the production of 5, 000Mw in the second week of April, adding that output of the three key operators in the value chain and TCN was not encouraging on April 2, 3 and 4. Giving an insight into the activities of the operators, Ogaji said the power generation and distribution firms as well as TCN were unable to perform at optimally in the first few days of the month due to some issues. Analysis of the Data Going by the data that was made available to The Nation by the System Operator (SO), a unit of TCN, the power generation companies were short of gas, which can provide a total 10,362.57Mw on April 2, 3 and 4. On April 2, 3 and 4, the firms were short of gas, which could only produce 3,393Mw, 3,478 Mw and 3,491.5Mw. Also, the 11 distribution companies (DisCos) and the TCN were unable to distribute and transmit 5,7007Mw and 3841.7Mw  during the period. Ogaji said the development was expected in view because the sector is deficient in the transmission and distribution. This, she said, is contrary to the belief in some quarters that gas shortage is the only problem in the sector. Ogaji said: “At present, the GenCos are not complaining about scarcity of natural gas as they have enough gas to produce electricity as evident by the generation of 5000Mw last week. There are other problems, which the sector is grappling with. These problems are in the transmission and distribution in the country.” Stakeholders’ opinions The problems in the sector would be solved once the stakeholders, including the Federal Government, are proactive. According to the former Director, Centre for Energy Studies, University of Port Harcourt, Prof Wunmi Iledare, an overhauling of the sector is inevitable. The government, Iledare said, should empower the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) should be given powers to deal with those who cause any infringement, stressing that when this happens, operators would sit tight. Also, the Executive Director, Research and Advocacy, Association of Nigerian Electricity Distributors (ANED), Mr. Sunday Oduntan, said the DisCos should not be blamed for the problems, adding that every aspect of the industry must be looked into by stakeholders. He said the DisCos were improving on their operations despite their lean purse, stressing that the sector needs to be well- funded to solve its problems. He said the sub-sectors are in dire need of capital, advising the government and financial institutions to support them for growth.