A Veteran politician and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain, Prof. Terhemba Shija, in a shocking move has announced his resignation from the Party . Professor Shija, a University Don has being in PDP since 1999 where he maintained absolute royalty. In a letter dated April 8, 2020, and addressed to the ward chairman, PDP, Nyimagbagh Ward, Vandeikya local Government Area, Vandeikya, the erudite Professor explained that his resignation is on personal grounds. The letter which was exclusively obtained by The Nation, recalled that Shija in the mass Exodus that hit the party in the 2014, he had stood firmly as a resilient and committed member of the party. He further explained that having spent the last twenty years or more in loyal service to the party, it was time for him to move on and pursue some other goals beyond what he feels the PDP can offer him. While wishing the party well in it’s future endeavours, Shija said he holds no ill feelings towards it and its members. But The Nation investigation revealed that the Professor of English and Ex House of Representative member may be heading to the All Progressives Congress (APC). Shija, worked with the Benue leader of the APC, Governor George Akume, as the first man to be in charge of Local Government and chieftaincy affairs. Shija , a very popular grass root politician who is always at home with every one is rumoured would view for the 2023 governorship position on the ticket of APC. The Nation also gathered exclusively , Senator George Akume, who had knack for springing surprises in Benue politics may have had talks with professor Shija, to dump PDP for APC. The zoning also favoured Shija, who hails from Jechira and in particularly Vande- Ikya local Government area, popular called, ” KUDA Hot” zone. Since he announced his resignation from PDP, his judges quarter residence located on Gboko road has been a Mecca of sort from various political groups and individuals who are in solidarity with his rumoured governor political ambition.