 Tailors in parts of Kaduna are making brisk business following the compulsory use of face masks in public as one of the preventive measures against spread of COVID-19, the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports. Gov. Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna had on Sunday in a statement, extended the quarantine period by 30 days and also made the use of face masks in public mandatory. A NAN correspondent who visited some tailors around Kaduna metropolis on Monday, reports that local tailors were counting their gains with massive production and sales of face masks. Some of the tailors told NAN that production of the face masks was a blessing in disguise as it would make up for their long stay without patronage and provide a source of income. Mr Michael Eze, a tailor residing around Television area, said he produced about 10 face masks daily and each sold for N200. “The mask is easy to produce because it doesn’t require much material. Although, it doesn’t costs much. The income is enough to cater for our needs. “Today alone, I’ve sold masks worth N2,000 and that is fair enough,” he said. Mr Yacham Peter, a tailor, resident at Unguwan Pama, said that he had been producing and selling face masks before the state government made it compulsory, saying that the pronouncement was a blessing. “Not that one is praying for the pandemic to persist but at least, while we help the people to protect themselves from being infected, we make brisk business too. “The locally-made face masks are cheaper and better than the conventional ones because they are washable and can be used for a long time,” he said. Mrs Larai Musa, who also produces face masks at Narayi, said that people preferred the locally-made face masks because it afforded them material of their choice while others preferred inscription on it. “The ones that carry inscription of your choice are sold for N300, while the plain ones are sold N200. “I am able to make not less than 10 to 15 face masks daily,” she said. Mr Umaru Lemu, a resident of Shagari Estate, said he patronised a local tailor and bought face masks for members of his family. “The preference for the locally-made face masks are obvious as they are washable, besides the fashion sense attached to them,” he said. (NAN)