 SOMETIMES the Nigerian showbiz industry is a family affair. This week’s array of showbiz stars have a few things in common. Some are hot, others are fresh and many attract admiring glances at most social events. They are some of the entertainment industry’s biggest stars. And despite the fact that they are siblings, they are doing pretty well in their chosen path. Here is a look at some of our favourite and famous celeb siblings!  Dakore Egbuson-Akande & Timini Egbuson Though Nollywood actress, Dakore, is the more popular of the pair, her brother, Timini, is an accomplished actor as well. He became notable in 2013 after he played Tobi in the television series Shuga. Timini Egbuson is an award winning Nigerian actor, model and presenter.  Femi &Tope Adebayo Femi and Tope followed in their father’s, Veteran actor Adebayo Salami’s footsteps. They are both A-list actors. Oga Bello, as their father is fondly called by many of his admirers, is one of Nigeria’s most successful and accomplished veteran actors. Femi, though a lawyer, is an actor, director and producer. While his younger brother, Tope Adebayo, is also a successful movie director and actor who studied at the University of Ilorin.  Sola Kosoko-Abina & Bidemi Kosoko Sola and Bidemi are the daughters of superstar actor, Prince Jide Kosoko. Sola acts in  and directs movies. Bidemi is also an actress. Both are stars in their own right. The two women, who are both theatre arts graduates, have grown into beautiful, mature women and powerhouse actresses.  Kunle, Gabriel, Aremu & Moji Afolayan Kunle, Gabriel, Aremu and Moji Afolayan are the children of the late cinema icon, Ade Love, who dominated the big screen in the 70s and 80s.  His children, Kunle, Moji, Gabriel and Aremu are stars in the movie industry. Kunle, a movie producer and director of note, is known to create blockbuster movies. The highly talented and sought after four have made the world theirs just as their dad did.  DJ Cuppy and Temi Otedola DJ Cuppy and Temi Otedola are the offspring of businessman, philanthropist, and former chairman of Forte Oil, Femi Otedola, DJ Cuppy schooled in United Kingdom, but that didn’t stop her from performing and later making her way up in the entertainment world in Nigeria, Africa.  DJ Cuppy is quite popular on the music scene and has a large following on social media. While her younger sister Temi is a fashion blogger and social media personality who recently joined the film industry. Fred, Zack & Ruke Amata The Amata family is like a factory producing some of the nation’s biggest producers, actors and directors. The Amata brothers were born into the film industry. Their late father was a famous Nigerian filmmaker John Amata. The Amata siblings, Fred, Zack and Ruke, have kept the family’s flag flying in the movie industry for years.  Don Jazzy & D’Prince Nigerian singer Charles Enebeli, aka, D’Prince, is Don Jazzy’s younger brother. Michael Collins Ajereh, popularly known as Don Jazzy is a Nigerian record producer, singer, songwriter, and entrepreneur and the co-founder of the now defunct record label Mo’ Hits Records in 2004. Following the closure of the aforementioned record label, Don Jazzy set up Mavin Records.  DBanj & K-Switch You already know about the Tongolo (Koko) master-Oladapo Daniel Oyebanjo, known by his stage name D’banj, a Nigerian musician, singer, songwriter, rapper, record owner and entrepreneur. His equally handsome artist brother Kehinde Oladotun Oyebanjo, popularly known as K-Switch, is also a bundle of talent.  Ninilola & Teni Makanaki Nigerian singer and songwriter, Niniola Apata, known professionally as Niniola, is the elder sister to multitalented and free-spirited award-winning Nigerian singer, songwriter, and entertainer Teni Apata, popularly known as Teni Makanaki.  AY Makun & Yomi Casual Multi-award-winning Nigerian actor, comedian, actor, writer, director, MC, radio and T.V presenter Ayodeji Richard Makun, widely known as AY, and his clothier brother, Yomi Makun, are very popular people in the showbiz industry. AY has been a raging force in the comedy industry pulling mammoth crowds in his shows like no other at home and abroad. His brother Yomi, the brain behind the popular Yomi Casual fashion label, equally styles scores of celebrities.  KCee & E-Money One of the most successful Nigerian musicians and songwriters, Limpopo cronner Kingsley Okonkwo, popularly known as KCee, is the older brother of Nigerian business mogul Emeka Okonkwo aka E-money.  Kcee dominated the air waves with his dance-hall music for a long time though quiet for sometime now, he is still a force to be reckoned with. While his brother E-Money is the life of the party at any show.