Justina Asishana, Minna  The Niger State Chapter of the National Association of Proprietors of Private Schools (NAPPS) has appealed to the state government to include its members in some of the palliatives measures to alleviate the adverse effect of COVID – 19 pandemic on the society. The State President, Femi Alalade made this known in a letter addressed to the Chairman of the Niger State Task Force on COVID-19, Alhaji Ahmed Ibrahim Matane and the Commissioner of Education, Hajia Hannatu Jubrin Salihu. The Association, in the letter obtained by The Nation, appealed to the government to make the palliative both in cash and kind to its members adding that tax waivers would go a long way to ameliorate the sufferings of the members. “We hereby appeal to the Niger State Government through the Ministry of Education to consider private school owners access to some of the palliatives in cash and kind to members. These will enhance the offset of staff salaries, welfare, and school operational cost. “The Niger State internal revenue service should be prevailed upon for waivers, modalities on tax reduction and or abort taxes within the period under review (COVID-19 pandemic). “It will be appreciated if possible, to collapse all the State and Local Government taxes as one and for other tax collection agencies to be put on hold.” The Chairman noted that although the sudden closure of schools both public and private by the government was vital and perfect in curtailing the spread of the Coronavirus, it has also brought untold hardship on the proprietors. “The sudden act prevented some parents from paying school fees thereby resulting in untold hardship on proprietors which include Payment of debt on stationeries and other instructional materials, Settlement of outstanding bills on logistics and day to day running of the school, Payment staff salary for March and April 2020 and Educational levies and Taxes both at Local and State level. “It is pertinent to note that some schools are servicing repayment of the loan from banks and other financial institutions and will face increment in
interest rate. It is on this premise that we seek assistance to also access some of the palliatives measures to alleviate the adverse effect of COVID – 19 pandemic on the society in general and members of the National Association of Proprietors of Private Schools (NAPPs). The Association then commended the efforts being put on by the state government to prevent the spread of COVID-19 pandemic in the state.