Two  former students of Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto (UDUS), made their alma mater and indeed Nigeria proud by winning European Union (EU)-sponsored Erasmus Mundus Scholarships for their Masters programme. The scholarships, valued at 48,000 pounds  for each recipient, would avail the beneficiaries the advantage of studying jointly in five universities across three European countries. ABDULRASHEED HAMMAD a 300-LEVEL student of Law  reports:   It was not a mean feat! It was an honour to themselves, their alma mater and the entire country.So it was for the duo,Hameed Sodiq Ayobami and Abdulwahab Olanrewaju alumni of Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto (UDUS), who won the European Union (EU)-sponsored Erasmus Mundus Scholarships for their Masters programme. The scholarships, considered one of the most prestigious in the world and valued at 48,000 pounds sterling (for each recipient  in Third World countries), were clinched by the duo for their Masters programmes in Vaccinology, and Soils and Global Change. It will avail recipients an opportunity to study jointly in five universities across three European countries – France, Spain, and Belgium. Sodiq, who hailed from Ibadan, Oyo State, was a  2019 graduate of Veterinary Medicine of UDUS with a cumulative grade point average (CGPA) of 4.86. At undergraduate level, Sodiq bagged five different awards during the last convocation. They include: Overall best student Faculty of Veterinary Medicine; Best student in Veterinary Pharmacology; Best student in Veterinary Surgery; Best student in Avian Medicine; and Best student in Theriogenology. On the other hand, Olanrewaju who hailed from Kwara State, was a 2018 graduate of Agricultural Science of UDUS with an outstanding CGPA of 4.79. Like Sodiq, he also emerged the best graduating student of his set with specilisation in Soil Science. As a shining star in his undergraduate days, Olanrewaju won the MTN Foundation Science and Technology Undergraduate Scholarship award for four consecutive years (between 200 to 500 levels). Speaking with CAMPUSLIFE, Sodiq recalled how the journey for the scholarship started. According to him, he got the link through his mentor, a graduate of Ladoke Akintola University Ogbomoso, who once won the scholarship for his Master’s and PhD programmes. Having gone through the organiser’s website, Sodiq said he was reluctant to apply, because of its stringent procedures. “I doubted myself because of the challenging stages- test, interview, and all; coupled with the fact that I was to compete with core medical students from around the world,” Sodiq began, “I studied Veterinary Medicine; I always felt these other scholars would have a more in-depth knowledge of medical sciences than me. “So, after going through the site, I felt it was too challenging to win.They’re looking for medical doctors,veterinary doctors, pharmacists and biochemists from all over the world, with only 22 slots available. Unlike other regular scholarships he had won in the past, Sodiq said Erasmus Mundus Scholarship would require that a potential recipient sits for a test on six subjects-Cell Biology, Molecular Biology, Physiology, Biochemistry, Immunology and Virology. By fate however, Sodiq and Olanrewaju were among the 22 shortlisted candidates of the 905 that applied globally. Sodiq continued: “The organisers conducted an examination after which they selected 173 highest scorers out of about 905 candidates worldwide. Then we wrote an essay which was also graded together with our transcripts and reference letters. They then slimmed the number down to the best 72 candidates. “Afterwards,the skype video interviews were conducted for the 72 of us for further engagement on Immunology and Virology which eventually produced the best 21. I ranked seventh worldwide, first in Nigeria and second in Africa.” While admonishing undergraduate students to be more committed and dedicated, Sodiq equally suggested that students association on campuses should organise orientation programmes for brilliant colleagues from time to time, so they could explore various scholarship opportunities. “I would like the student’s associations to be organising orientation programmes for First Class students on campus. Many of us lack the orientation. I also learned all about scholarship after graduation. I realised other students from elsewhere had the orientation before graduation and it makes the process easier for them,” he recalled. On his part, Olanrewaju said he was not expecting the opportunity despite all the disappointments and rejection. “I have no doubt that someday my efforts will pay off. I have done my part leaving everything to Almighty God but I didn’t know which I will be winning,” he said. He continued: “I have applied for as many as 28 scholarships and got many denial letters. Although I also have a fully funded offer from King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals in Saudi Arabia; yet, I remained persistent and consistent. “ Olanrewaju implored the undergraduate students to choose mentors and relate with friends of like minds. “Try all your best to relate well with your lecturers. They will be the one to write a recommendation letter for you which will go a long way in describing your character to the scholarship committee,” he advised. Olanrewaju’s mentor Dr Kelechukwu Onwukamike, expressed gladness over his mentee’s emergence. Onwukamike who has a Ph.D in Organic and Polymer Chemistry, and who is a research fellow at a blue-chip drug/pharmaceutical company, said the recipient was deserving of the honour because of his passion, enthusiasm and undying spirit. “I helped to correct his motivational letter and guide him throughout the application process,” Onwukamike recalled. “Today, I’m so happy and celebrating him because he won the prestigious Erasmus Mundus Master which is actually a double Masters programme. “I will encourage whoever wants to be like him to understand the amount of sacrifices he has made and to come to terms with the fact that once you identify an opportunity, you don’t let go. You have to be resilient and give it all your best. This is an example of what Olanrewaju has done,” he added.