Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) 2nd Vice President , Shehu Dikko ,  believes the new contract to be offered Super Eagles’ coach Gernot Rohr will allow the German  to consider more local-based players for  the national team. He said the idea of relying solely on foreign-based to make up the Super Eagles will be a thing of the past in  the proposed new  contract. “Honestly to demand that Rohr as the head coach of the national team  spend more time in Nigeria by living here as the contract envisaged should be a win-win situation for both parties and indeed Nigeria football,” explained Dikko. He continued:  “The objective is, once he is here, he should be able to go round along with his assistants to see as much as possible the domestic matches and properly document the best players he can see. “The  NFF will  once in a while, be able to arrange a camp for him where he can bring in the best players he has documented and work with them for some days where he can be able to asses them closely as well as impart some his ideas to build confidence and trust in them.” Dikko, who doubles as  the Chairman of League Management Committee (LMC) which is the official body overseeing the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL),said the plan could be incorporated into the domestic football calendar to accommodate the camping for selected local players that will join the main Super Eagles. He added: “”For example if we play a league games by weekend, we can be able to get the players to camp by Monday and work with the coach till Friday and then return to their clubs for the next weekend. So at least they have like five good days of intensive work. “If say we do this every four to 6 weeks, the coach will be able to find a lot of decent talents which will give him more options when putting together the main squad. “We are certain there would be surprises once the domestic players know that they have equal opportunity to compete for shirts against their foreign counterparts; this will also help us to have a decent CHAN team available.”