 As the country battles to contain the spread of coronavirus pandemic, the Nigerian Dental Association (NDA), the professional body of  dentists, has raised the alarm that its members are vulnerable to the rampaging virus because of peculiarities of services they render to the public. According to President of NDA, Dr.  Evelyn Eshikena, dentists suffer a high risk of exposure to COVID-19 because they are exposed to saliva as well as aerosols, droplets and splatter which are usually generated during dental procedures. The risk is, particularly, higher when handling covid-19 infected asymptomatic dental patients, she said. With reports of active transmission of covid-19 by individuals with no symptoms, NDA said it becomes very likely that an asymptomatic patient can be brought to a dental clinic with dental emergency such as severe toothache, trauma to oro-facial structures, bleeding, abscesses/facial space infections, temporo-mandibular joint dislocation, head and neck malignancies, failed or broken dental restorations, orthodontic emergencies, among other complaints. Unsuspecting dental practitioners attending to such individuals with no signs, symptoms or relevant history of covid-19 infection are dangerously exposed to hazards,  Eshikena said. This may end up becoming an effective means of further spreading the virus. Because of this, NDA has called on the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19, state governments, especially Lagos where over 50 per cent of the nation’s dental facilities (both private and public) are located, to urgently come to the aid of dental professionals. The NDA boss said the assistance should be in the form of providing basic personal protective equipment (PPE) to dental facilities (both public and private) to enable practitioners sustain the delivery of emergency dental services and prevent the spread of coronavirus through such procedures; supply to all private and public dental clinics other relevant items like infrared thermometers, alcohol-based hand sanitisers, liquid hand wash, gloves, face masks, face shields and essential dental equipment and consumables like dental hand-pieces with anti-retraction valves, micro-motors, high-volume saliva ejectors, rubber dam etc. The NDA said further that protective items for private dental clinics can be channeled through it (NDA) and Association of Private Dental Practitioners of Nigeria (APDPN), while government at all levels could supply to public dental facilities through the ministry of health. The body also called for improvement in hazard allowance and suspension of tax deductions to enhance welfare packages and approve life insurance policy for all categories of healthcare providers who, in their line of duties, come in contact with both asymptomatic and confirmed cases of covid-19 infected patients. It also asked the government to implement a structure for more incentives for our colleagues deployed to provide care at the isolation centers. “The Nigerian Dental Association appeals to both federal and state governments to extend the stimulus packages, grants and palliatives to private dental practitioners whose dental clinics/businesses have been adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. The urgent need for government intervention has become inevitable, as the nation cannot afford further depletion of the already inadequate dental care facilities available for our teeming population. To all healthcare providers and particularly; our worthy ambassadors rendering humanitarian services at the various isolation centers, we are very proud of you. By God’s grace, we shall win the battle as we hope for normalcy in the not too distant post-COVID-19 future,” Eshikena said. Ever since the first confirmed case of COVID-19 was reported in Lagos State, on February 27, there has been serious concern  on the level of preparedness of relevant agencies, health care institutions and the healthcare workforce to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. Other issues of major concern include the low morale, inadequate welfare and safety of healthcare providers, who across all cadre and specialties fall into the category of frontline caregivers and at very high risk of contracting the dreaded covid-19, the professional body said. While commiserating with families who have lost loved ones in the battle against COVID-19, NDA said it is particularly sad when healthcare workers lose their lives in their bid to save others. “We feel, particularly, pained and traumatised when lives are lost, especially colleagues who are cut in their prime during active service to humanity. Globally, it is the same scenario, with staggering number of different categories of healthcare providers risking their lives and those of their loved ones while trying to save the lives of others.” A protocol has since been released by the association for dental clinics to curtail the transmission of coronavirus among dental practitioners, dental healthcare professionals, dental patients and consequently the general public. Part of the recommendations was for dental clinics to drastically scale down activities and attend to dental emergencies only, using personal protective equipment and observing standard universal precautions at all times. It was also recommended that dental clinics, especially private  ones that are unable to secure the basic PPE or COVID-19 test kits, should shut until adequate arrangements are made for such essential materials. According to NDA, an appraisal of the situation one month after the recommendation revealed that over 80 per cent of private dental clinics have shut down due to inability to procure the requisite safety kits. “With near total collapse of dental care nationwide, dental patients  unable to access the few operational private and public dental facilities are now grappling with varying degrees of discomfort, while dental clinics are faced with precarious economic situation, which may lead to permanent closure or downsizing of dental workforce resulting in  job losses for  dentists, dental technologists, dental therapists, dental nurses, dental surgery assistants, dental technicians, dental administrative and other support staff, if this pandemic is not contained soon. “The global community is in turmoil and Nigeria is not left out of this desperate bid to contain the ravaging virus, especially with the recent trend of frightening statistics from the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). ‘’However, this fight becomes lopsided and portends grave danger to our people, if an integrated approach is not adopted. This approach will ensure that emphasis is not only placed on coronavirus and respiratory/infectious disease experts, but also on other specialties and areas of healthcare needs/ailments ravaging our populace,” she said. The NDA also commended the efforts of the PTF on COVID-19, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), federal and state ministries of health, the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) and other affiliate associations, governments of the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), private and corporate donors of funds and materials, medical and dental practitioners and media practitioners who are working hard to keep Nigerians informed on this pandemic.