 Toba Adedeji, Osogbo  An Osun State High Court, sitting in Ikirun on Thursday sentenced two men identified as Elijah Oyebode and Jelili Raji to death by hanging for the murder of a student of Uniosun. The duo was first arraigned in court on 14th November 2017 alongside Yusuf Ajibade (28). The prosecution counsel preferred three count-charge of conspiracy, murder, and accessory, contrary to Sections 324, 316 and Punishable under Section 319 and 322 of the Criminal Code Cap.III Laws of Osun state, 2002, respectively. During the trial prosecution counsel called five witnesses and tendered several exhibits before the Court while convicts testified by themselves. Prosecution counsel, Mr. Kareem Adekilekun who appeared along with Kemi Oyolola, early told the Court that “On the 22nd December 2016 Miss Rofiat Damilola Adebisi, a 400 Level student of Osun State University, Ipetu-Ijesa Campus boarded a Golf Car with Registration number, Lagos FKJ 636 DL driven by Mr. Elijah Oyebode.” However, On the 23rd of December, 2016 the body of Rofiat Damilola Adebisi was later found by the roadside along Egbeda/Iragbiji Road. Yusuf Ajibade was said to have been arrested through the deceased iPhone 5 which he sold to Quadri on the instruction of Elijah Oyebode. “Elijah Oyebode in his statement said Jelili Raji, asked him to supply him a maid and given him a charm to touch any lady, he intended to bring for him and the lady will not argue with him, Elijah handed over Rofiat Adebisi, a 400-level-student of Uniosun to him at his shrine and paid him the sum of N10,000. “Elijah also confessed that he used that charm to touch Rofiat while she was tried to put her luggage in the car boot. The Police Officer attached to the State Criminal Investigation Department, Adeyeye Simon testified against the trio, he said, “Elijah Oyebode was a commercial driver, he was plying the route of Akure/Owena Road. Elijah and Yusuf Ajibade took the (deceased) Rofiat Damilola Adebisi to Jelili Raji house’s after Elijah have had sex with the deceased. He also claimed that the lady died at Jelili Raji house while Elijah Oyebode and dumped the body of the Rofiat Adebisi (Deceased) along Egbeda /Iragbiji road. Another witness from the Department of State Security Service identified as Olatomiwa Alade, said that a data report was obtained from DSS Headquarters Abuja while the deceased phone was traced to Kolapo Quadiri which alleged that he bought the phone from Yusuf Ajibade, who acquired the phone from Elijah Oyebode. Adekilekun told the Court that the confessional statement of all the accused has been shown to be true and has also been corroborated by the evidence of Adeyeye Simon a Police Officer. Justice Falola said prosecution counsel has proved his case beyond a reasonable doubt and found Elijah Oyebode and Jelili Raji guilty of conspiracy and murder. Counsel to convicts, Suleiman Bello pleaded with Court to temper Justice with mercy. Justice Falola Hereby sentenced them to death by hanging while Yusuf Ajibade was acquited from two counts charge murder and conspiracy also convicted on third for receiving stolen property and sentenced to two years imprisoned.