 THE National Assembly will today resume plenary after about five weeks of break as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Senate and the House of Representatives had in March suspended plenary for two weeks in a bid to prevent the spread of Coronavirus disease. Both later extended their break in conformity with the lockdown of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Lagos and Ogun states as directed by President Muhammadu Buhari on March 29. The Clerk of Senate, Mr. Nelson Ayewoh and his counterpart in the House of Representatives, Patrick Giwa, confirmed the development in statements. Ayewoh in his statement titled: “Resumption of Plenary Session”, said senators are expected to sit in plenary by 10am prompt on Tuesday. He added that officials and senators’ aides are to stay at home, but can only be allowed into the chambers when officially requested to do so. Ayewoh said: “This is to inform distinguished senators of the Federal Republic of Nigeria that the Senate will resume plenary on April 28. “Distinguished senators are to with this notice expected to sit in plenary, on April 28, at 10am prompt. “Officials and senators’ aides are to work from home and they will be notified when needed in the office for any special assignment.” Giwa said: “This is to inform members of the House of Representatives that the House will now resume plenary on April 28, at 10.00 am. “Members are advised to take note of the new date of resumption, please. “The Covid-19 guidelines approved by the Federal Government and Nigerian Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and additional guidelines developed by the House will be sent to members’ pigeon holes for collection on resumption. “Officials and members’ aides are to work from home and be notified when needed in the office for any special assignment.” It is not clear the number of days the two chambers will sit. Sources at the National Assembly said the resumption of plenary was meant to enable the lawmakers consider and approve urgent national issues that might affect governmental affairs adversely if left undone. The Nation learnt that the lawmakers on resumption will consider President Muhammadu Buhari’s request for the downward review of the N10.594 trillion 2020 budget in view of the precipitous fall in the price of crude oil at the international market.