A lot of youths are transforming waste management into profitable ventures. One of them is Mrs. Olamide Ayeni-Babajide, the founder, Pearl Recycling. She started the company in 2016 after she noticed the impact of wastes  on the environment. In 2012, she travelled to United Arab Emirates (UAE) for  an official duty, where she bought a wall décor. On closer examination, Ayeni-Babajide found that the beautiful object was made from  corn husks. It caught her fancy. From then, she began to think of what to do with wastes, how to empower women, build a product from waste of international standard and keep the environment clean. Two years later, she started a waste recycling business as a hobby. She eventually went into it fully in 2016. She uses everything from tyres, bottles, newspapers, magazines, straws, and plastic cutlery to wood, unused CD tapes and even sea-shells and turn them into tables, chairs, and home décor, among others to beautify homes and offices. She prefers the Ottoman Table. Made from recycled tyres, the object is reportedly one of the company’s most popular items. She makes eco-friendly products, such as panelled mirrors and decorative furniture from items like wood, straws and other materials that people have thrown away. To help the society, she is equipping Nigerians with the skills to identify valuable discarded waste and build businesses out of them. So far, she has trained over 250 women. Another woman changing lives is Olabanke Banjo, Creative Director, Cyrus45 Factory, a recycling company that transforms used vehicle tyres into furniture and beautiful artworks. In 2016, she was staying with her elder sister in Lagos, where she   saw their neighbour trying to get rid of a huge pile of tyres. Immediately, the thought about how to make things out of waste came. Like every  startup, the first few months were challenging. After overcoming a lot of hurdles, the business is now a success story.  So far, Cyrus45factory has upcycled about 500 tyres. One of Cyrus45factory’s goals is to minimise the damage caused by  old tyres. The Founder, Greenhill Recycling Limited, Mrs Mariam Lawani, is an educator turned waste manager. She started from her house garage. She creates value from waste. These include plastic bottles, water sachets, paper, aluminum and cartons. The startup encourages residents to keep their household wastes, such as clean empty plastic bottles, aluminum beverages, can, and old newspaper for recycling.  Her organisation collects them and rewards the households with incentives to encourage the culture of recycling. For her, wastes, such as plastic, aluminum cans, water sachets and cartons could be exchanged for groceries, household materials or  school supplies. The company’s recycling initiative has helped in curtailing indiscriminate waste disposal in Isolo Local Council Development Area (LCDA), Lagos. It recycles about five tonnes gathered from 800 subscribers in the locality monthly. Another entrepreneur transforming plastic into profit is Bakumor Yolo. His company, De-Rabacon Plastics Enterprise, took home the Shell LiveWIRE Outstanding Achievement Award as part of the Top 10 Innovators 2018 awards. Shell LiveWIRE is a Royal Dutch Shell Social Investment programme. De-Rabacon Plastics Enterprise received $10,000 and a plaque for his firm’s achievements. Based in Yenagoa, the Bayelsa State capital, De-Rabacon Plastics  helps to address the negative impact that waste plastic has on the environment and health. The company’s  solution is to collect and recycle tonnes of plastic waste daily, transforming them into a wide range of commercial products. They include pavement blocks, construction bricks, pipes, drinks packaging, furniture, shopping bags, and jewellery. The company’s aim is to create wealth and employment opportunities within society, and since its inception, it has worked with the local community and the Ministry of Environment, running workshops to enable youths to start their enterprises creating products from recycled waste. Since starting the business five years ago, supported by training, mentoring and seed funding from Shell Nigeria, De-Rabacon has grown, employing 26 staff members, and creating employment opportunities for another 32  through its start-up training programme. In addition, the business has helped some 700 homes to benefit financially from recycling their plastic waste, and has sponsored environmental sanitation clubs in secondary schools to enhance the vision for a ‘greener and more sustainable environment’. Another startup is RenewCycle Energy, whose Chief Executive/Founder of RenewCycle Energy is Chibunna Ogbonna. The firm provides reliable, affordable and clean energy using solar energy solutions and waste recycling exchange. He was inspired to participate in mitigating climate change through waste management and renewable energy solutions. He saw an opportunity to provide solutions to alot of solid waste pollution and epileptic power supply. Lagos’ Apex Lion Club President Mrs. Cynthia Saka wants the government to support entrepreneurs to invest in the establishment of community waste recovery sites, sorting centres and terminal markets for the recovery of renewable resources. This, according to her, would trigger the development of a large number of waste recovery firms, which provide jobs for Nigerians.