It was an outpouring of condolences and solidarity messages for President Muhammadu Buhari and the Nigerian government on Saturday as nations and individuals join in mourning Mallam Abba Kyari, the late Chief of Staff to the President. The Presidency, in series of statements, signed various by both the Special Adviser to the President, Femi Adesina, and Senior Special Assistant to the President, Garba Shehu, announced all condolence messages, both local and international, sent to show solidarity with President Buhari. Among those who sent messages of condolences to President Buhari were former President’s Olusegun Obasanjo and Goodluck Jonathan. The President also received telephone calls from President Nana Akuffo-Ado of Ghana and President Muhammadou Youssoufou of Niger Republic. According to the former Commonwealth Secretary-General, Chief Emeka Anyaoku, “Abba Kyari was a true and immeasurably committed patriot who gave all he had in the service of our country, Nigeria.” The President of the African Development Bank, Dr. Akinwumi Adesina, said: “For you personally, Mr President, this is a deeply personal loss… of your close confidant…associate…and friend.” Dr. Adesina told President Buhari that, “As the Coronavirus pandemic ravages the world and Africa, may God grant you greater strength and wisdom in our collective battle against this virus.” On his part, the former Senate President and Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Chief Anyim Pius Anyim, described Mallam Kyari as “a hardworking, loyal and dependable Chief of Staff who discharged his duties with uncommon commitment and diligence.” From Labour Unions, the former General Secretary of Textile Union and Vice-President, Industrial Global Union, Comrade Issa Aremu, noted “the remarkable statesmanship” of Mallam Kyari in promoting diversification and industrialization in the country, stressing that he was also a key player in the oil and gas industry. Writing on behalf of the Governing Council and entire membership of the National Institute of Marketing of Nigeria (NIMN), the President and Chairman of Council, Tony Agenmonmen, said that Mallam Kyari, “served Nigeria with passion, diligence and dedication.” He also received calls of condolences from ex-President Yayi Boni of Benin Republic and two former Nigerian Heads of State, Generals Yakubu Gowon and Abdulsalami Abubakar. President Buhari also received similar messages of condolence from the embassies of friendly countries including Egypt, Chad and Liberia. Messages were also received from Governors Nasir El-Rufa’i of Kaduna State, Yahaya Bello of Kogi State, Professor Babagana Zulum of Borno State, Abubakar Bagudu, Kebbi, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano State; former Governors of Katsina, Sa’idu Barda, Zamfara Abdulaziz Yari and Abdulfatah Ahmed of  Kwara as well as the former Senate President, Ken Nnamanni, the Sultan of Sokoto Dr. Sa’ad Abubakar 111 and the President of the Christian Association of Nigeria, Rev. Samson Ayokunle. The Emirs of Kazaure, Najib Hussaini Adamu, Kebbi, General Muhammadu Ilyasu Bashar (rtd), and that of Machina, Alhaji Bashir Al-Bashir Bukar; APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the Chairman of Zenith Bank, Jim Ovia, President, Dangote Group, Aliko Dangote and the Executive Secretary of the Lake Chad Basin Commission, Ambassador Mamman Nuhu were among the early callers. Calls to the President were also received from Sheikh Dahiru Bauchi, former Ministers, Senator Udoma Udo Udoma and Gen. Ike Umaru Sanda Nwachukwu; Senators Monsurat Sunmonu and Kabiru Marafa as well as Pastor Tunde Bakare. President Buhari also received condolence messages from Abubakar Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State on behalf of the Progressive Governors Forum,Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State on behalf of the Northern Governors Forum and Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State on behalf of the Nigeria Governors Forum as well as Governor Abdulrazaq Abdulrahman of Kawra State and Senator Umar Ibrahim Kurfi.