  ALL Progressives Congress (APC) National Leaders Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and his wife, Senator Oluremi, have tested negative to COVID-19. The former Lagos State governor, his wife and their aides submitted themselves to COVID-19 tests at the weekend, following the death of his Chief Security Officer, Alhaji Lateef Raheem. However, while test results for Tinubu, Senator Oluremi and other aides were negative, the results for one aide were positive. A statement from the Tinubu Media Office signed by his media adviser, Tunde Rahman, said the particular member of staff who tested positive has been isolated in accordance with the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) guidelines. He said further contact tracing and COVID-19 tests were being conducted by the NCDC on the relatives and possible contacts of the aide. Shortly after Raheem’s demise, NCDC medics took samples from his body for testing to determine the actual cause of death. According to the results, the deceased tested positive. In the statement titled: “Outcome of Civid-19 Tests”, Tinubu emphasised the reality of the pandemic, warning that no household is insulated. He cautioned against stigmatisation, which he described as a disservice to the battle, stressing that openness and transparency are required to defeat the disease. The former governor warned against fear, advising those showing symptoms and people who may have come in contact with the infected to go for test. Tinubu also advised Nigerians to observe social distancing and other public health measures to protect themselves. The statement reads: “COVID-19 is a real and present threat. Those of us who discount it or claim it is a fabrication do a grave and dangerous disservice to the public well-being. “Likewise, those who stigmatise people who may have been stricken by the virus also do a disservice by casting blame on the innocent and discouraging people from taking the COVID test. “We cannot overcome this challenge by acting like it does not exist or by trying to conceal that someone may have it due to social shame. The culture of denial is counter-productive and will do great harm in our current situation”.