 TO be shy is not a sin and is not something to be ashamed of. Some people have acquired the skill to be bold in everything, some are not so lucky, being shy doesn’t equate to be stupid, it just means you are more reserved in expressing yourself. Many people often struggle with shyness when experiencing their first relationship. Shyness is something that can develop with a plethora of reasons. The truth is that once both partners are comfortable with each other, shyness will gradually disappear. Stress can be attached to the beginning of any relationship which may become shameful to either of the people involved. Shyness can be overcome. It just takes practice and patience and finding someone willing to commit and understand you. Your body language should be open: Keeping your legs and arms uncrossed is a great way to be at ease with yourself. People who like folding or crossing their arms or legs may be intimidated by a stranger or visitor. When your partner is communicating with you, ensure that maximum attention is given to them. It helps you to become comfortable and confident to reply to them. Another great approach is by making eye contact. It will help your partner convey simple and direct communication skills to you in return. Understand the difference between self-esteem and shyness: Self-esteem is your personality and strength both at home and social gatherings. Shyness may be caused as a result of not being confident over certain issues or activities. Shyness often grows if you allow it. For this reason, it is a good idea to determine the basic difference between self-esteem and shyness. Once you can attack shyness from a standpoint of strength, it will eventually disappear. Lean forward when communicating: Leaning forward is a position that most confident people take when communicating. When you show a forward position, it may eventually intimidate the other party. Taking this position will always make you look and confident in any relationship. When your partner is try to put something across your direction, use the tactics of forward leaning to counter the action. It will even make them to step back and respect your stance. Asking questions: Some do not have a good idea to run a relationship from the standpoint of asking questions. If you are shy to communicate with your partner, then always try to ask questions. Asking questions will help you to be part of the discussion. It can help to get rid of the fear of making mistake in the next step. Ensure to ask questions on the topics your partner is currently discussing. It shows that you understand what they are saying and wants to be a part of the discussion. Introduce new love stories: One of the best things that can help make a relationship stronger is being engaged. If you want to overcome shyness, then plan loved stories upfront. Ensure that the stories are unleashed immediately when you start talking to your partner. It will help to keep you engaged in the process of overcoming shyness. Another thing you should know is making your stories streamlined to your current relationship. It helps to put the other partner in a rat race of respect. If you really want to show your partner true confidence, then bring loved stories that will advance the partnership. Using this method will help to build strength, confidence and natural ability to get rid of fear. Understand the difference between shyness and low self-esteem :[1]Plenty of shy people are very comfortable and happy with themselves, and have healthy levels of self-confidence. Don’t think that just because you’re shy, there’s something wrong with you. Your partner chose you because they liked your personality, and your shyness is part of that. Even if it’s something you want to work on for your own sake in the relationship, never forget that you can be confident and powerful even if you’re shy. Be up front about your shyness from the beginning: Studies have shown that discussing your shyness-related anxiety can lessen the effects of it, and experts suggest that showing vulnerability is actually a good way to increase trust and intimacy between partners. Especially in new relationships, it’s very important to have a conversation about your shyness at the outset; this will pave the way for easier conversations down the road that will make your relationship a lasting one. There’s certainly nothing to be ashamed of, so be open and honest about how you’re feeling when you feel yourself tensing up. Plan out important conversations ahead of time: Allow your significant other to talk as much as they like: If your significant other wants to talk, then let them and just practice being a good listener. This will allow you to learn more about your significant other and it will help to deepen the connection between the two of you. It will also take some of the pressure to talk and come up with interesting things to say off of you. This is not to say that all mentioned above are the only formula but they can go a long way. I wish you all the best.