 Troops of the Operation Lafiya Dole, have foiled a combined attack by the Boko Haram and Islamic State of West African Province (ISWAP) terrorists on Buni Gari village in Gujba Local Government Area of Yobe State. Many of the insurgents were killed in the operation, while catchment of arms including Gun trucks, General Purpose Machine Guns (GPMG), AK-47 Rifles, among others, were recovered. According to a statement by the Coordinator Defence Media Operations, Major General John Enenche, “the gallant roops of Sector 2 OPERATION LAFIYA DOLE in a subsidiary operation named OPERATION KANTANA JIMLAN at about 181830hrs April 2020 in a clinically executed operation responded to a Boko Haram/ISWAP attack on Buni Gari Village in Gujba Local Government Area of Yobe State. “During the decisive operation by the troops of Sector 2, over Ten terrorists were neutralized. Several weapons were captured which include : One Gun truck, One Duska Anti Aircraft gun, Three GPMG, One PKT gun, Three AK 47 rifles, Large cache of ammunition, ammunition links and assorted types of hard drugs. Troops morale and fighting efficiency remain high.” It added that, “during the fire fight which was won by our gallant troops there was no casualty and no loss of equipment on our side.  The Armed Forces of Nigeria remain resolute and highly committed to end the Boko Haram insurgency. The general public is requested to continue to provide timely and credible information for the enhancement of our operations.” Meanwhile, in a separate statement, Enenche, informed that the Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal Saddique Abubakar, will be meeting with Air Officers Commanding Operational Commands, as well as the Commander of the Air Task Force of Operation Lafiya Dole. According to the statement, the Chief of Air Staff will also meet with Air Component Commanders of the various Theatres of Operations across the Country “to work out strategies for enhancing NAF’s support for all Internal Security Operations”. This was coming after the Air Component of Operation HADARIN DAJI dispelled bandits’ attacks on Kurechi and Qurzan Maikuka Villages of Dutsin-Ma Local Government Area of Katsina State. The statement disclosed that “this occurred when a Nigerian Air Force (NAF) Agusta 109E (M) helicopter, which was providing close air support to troops of the Land Component operating West of Gusau in Zamfara State, was redirected to Kurechi and Qurzan Maikuka following reports of an armed bandits’ attack on civilians at the two communities. “The helicopter arrived the scene and engaged the bandits, neutralizing some of them while few others escaped with injuries. Thus, the 2 communities were rescued as a result of the operation.”