 LAGOS has always held a fascination for me. The sculpture masterpiece by Ben Ekanem of the warrior Queen Amina of Zazzau straddling a horse, sword in hand, at the National Theatre, Iganmu had quite a hold on the visiting schoolboy back in the 80s. So did the iconic theatre itself. And so too did the awesome waves that ceaselessly pounded the Bar Beach, attracting enchanted visitors as well as small-time pickpockets and budding magicians. And what about the intricate colonial architectures overlooking the marina, and the stocked libraries where you momentarily got lost in the world of books before it hit you that you were very far from home? Lagos was bold and loud, buzzing with its teeming crowd. In those days the molue was not just a mass carrier; it had a life of its own, complete with all manner of hawkers selling everything from shaving sticks to medicine for all ailments. In the daytime the city was a wonder. At night it was another world crawling with seekers of bodily and sensual pleasures, at Ojuelegba and at Obalende and elsewhere. Since Monday night it has been another Lagos, one locked down by a presidential announcement owing to the onslaught of the coronavirus or Covid-19. No movement in the city except you are a medical worker, media person, food seller, military personnel or you are in law enforcement. And you had better be on duty otherwise you’d be treated like any other person flouting the stay-at-home order. As this piece was written on Friday, there were 190 confirmed cases of the coronavirus in the country, 98 of them in Lagos, 38 in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. Because your columnist falls into one of the exempt categories, he saw Lagos in broad daylight not quite looking like the good old Lagos. The roads were all but deserted especially on Tuesday. It was a rare reality. Nothing of the sort has happened in the city for decades. BRT lanes under construction, and even streets, became makeshift football pitches. The cacophony of car horns was absent. What you saw from time to time was a roadblock mounted by various uniformed persons. At one checkpoint, three soldiers, one a woman, sat on a bench so close to one another that I wondered if they did not care about social distancing, one of the measures we are asked to strictly observe in order to keep the coronavirus at bay. Truth be told, not everyone stayed home. Quite a few women displayed sundry edibles by the roadside. Even some hardy commercial bus drivers hit the road with their conductors and seemed to know how to get past the guarded checkpoints. Still, they were few and far between. By Wednesday and Thursday more people were on the road, among them commercial motorists, their buses filled with passengers. There were also foodstuff sellers. Again, it wasn’t the typical business day. But there was one intriguing development. On Thursday night, the roadblocks vanished on one particular stretch. I thought about ladies who offer bodily pleasures and feed therefrom. As the lockdown lasts they will either fall back on their savings or starve. Or their patrons might smuggle themselves to their districts and abide there till the storm blows over. I equally thought about the street urchins or area boys who are part of us and seem to get by from what they can grab every day. With the rest of Lagosians at home, how are the boys coping? Do they observe social distancing or keep their faces away from their colleagues when they sneeze or cough? Do they wear face masks or check into hospital when their temperatures do not feel right? For the rest of us, hand washing has become a way of life, so much that someone joked the other day that by the time this whole thing is over our hands would have sufficiently whitened. We greet with the elbows now, smile from afar and bow. These days everyone knows that they are permitted to cough perhaps just once. Any prolonged business will be rewarded with rebukes. Every sneeze is suspect. But we are Lagosians and Nigerians, tough as a nail. We have seen tough times before and we overcame. This time we will also overcome.   