 A HOSPITAL without ambulances cannot be a hospital in 2020. Nigerians should jeer and not cheer long-denied corrections in the health system. The ambulance and fire brigade siren should replace the politicians’ sirens on our roads.  Ambulance delivery and not donations but just catchup with normal health facility standards worldwide. Nigeria lowers standards in everything except political Salaries and Perks, SAPing Nigeria dry! Only permanently renouncing of 75% of the salaries and perks SAPping the country dry and also renouncing the undeserved titles of Excellency, Distinguished and Honourable by NASS and state political officials will help calm the masses. COVID-19 records deaths approaching 80,000, infections 1,500,000 and with around 300 cases and approaching 10 deaths/40 discharged in Nigeria.  Costs at world country and individual level are unquantifiable but in $10trillions+. With perhaps a N500billion federal fund added to the individual and corporate support, how do we avoid ‘COVID-19 Corruption’? Already everything from masks to spirit to infra-red thermometers have gone through the roof in costs. The Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) and Nigeria’s microbiologists should issue ‘Guidelines for Specifications for Production and Recycling’ [yes, Recycling] of Personal Protection Equipment, PPE’. Infected hands are never cut off but always recycled – washed in soap and water, rinsed in methylated spirit. Nigeria does not have enough PPE. Medical professionals must energise recycling or go naked into the Corvid -19 War. Re-use personal PPE. This recycling cannot apply to active COVID-19 wards, unless high heat, chemical hose-down facilities are available. Recycling is for peripheral medical centres dealing with other medical cases. We work in a Nigeria with a culture of low capacity medical facilities, you are not in the NASS now. Soon there may be no trustworthy equipment. Trust what you recycle. Your family depends on your ability. Do the math: 20 ancillary staff, nurses, and doctors=20-100 masks, 20-100 pairs of gloves and 20-100 aprons/day x week x months. No facility in Nigeria has ever been given has that quantity of disposal equipment. Every request for disposable equipment was reduced or cancelled. RECYCLE PLEASE.  And when in public, in the market, at the petrol station, in the shops, please use a mask of any description, even your harmattan scarf. If you cannot give infection, perhaps you cannot get infected! The danger of virus spread during use of transport like the confined space of the 16 passenger danfo or the spittle from the mouth of the speeding Okada rider talking backwards threatening to or actually entering the passengers mouth.  Always wear a mask of good homemade quality. The life you save may be your own. Who is making ventilators and PPE and the needed masks and visors to protect the eyes from direct spray or the hand touching the face? Even before COVID-19, we, health professionals, worked in often appalling conditions. Regular theatre microbiological checks are infrequent and infections are followed back to source in wound infections in operated patients. Unfortunately, because of persistent failing in the purchase, preparation and dispersal of PPE, dealing with COVID-19 crisis means we must highly professionally standardise recycling. Though social distancing seems to be the way forward, a lockdown in Nigeria with 80% of without work or working as fragile daily paid persons will precipitate unrest unless masterly managed. Nigerians in authority are usually not master managers. They failed at ID cards, voters register, IDP camps, refugees from Bakassi to name a few spectacular failures with costly consequences for the country and the citizens. From vulcanizers and mechanics-there are few cars reducing punctures and breakdowns, news vendors- no one can afford papers, Buka food sellers- no assembly, nightclubs from under bridge and under tree to hotel based clubs-closed, transporters -local and interstate drivers, conductors and motor touts-travel restrictions-closed motor parks, domestics- asked to stay away to avoid infecting host families, air-transport-touts, bag carriers, petrol attendants closed stations in some cases. And we can go on and on from event managers, photographers to the corner food seller denied an income from selling to now non-existent workers to the army of proud women who specialise in inspecting the estate and neighbourhoods’ dustbins and rescuing recyclables like glass, plastic, left-over food. They receive financial help from many dustbin owners. Unfortunately, even the dustbins are hungry, with too little in them. The time of discarding items out of hand is passed as all containers may be reengineered for reuse especially with perpetually poor master management of the falling value of the currency which used to be $1.5 : N1 when I started work in 1975 and is now $1.5 : N600ish in 2020.  Add the devaluation of life itself as high-handed uniform authorities brutally enforce and we have created the pepper soup of rebellion. The recently purchased 2020 series NASS utility vehicles must also be renounced. They will be waving a red flag before a ‘hungry and angry’ bull. These, with much better masterly management of so far poorly managed government backed ‘Covid Poverty Alleviation support scheme delivering food and finance directly using all registered and some unregistered artisan, blue collar, social, widows, religious and neighbourhood youth associations, may save Nigeria from the spark that will lead to anarchy. These are perilous times. Arrogance is a disaster at this time. Humility, even false humility, on the part of the leadership and middle classes is the only way out.  Watch the Covid Victims’ temperature. Watch the citizens’ temperature.  Anyone with a car, could be and will be a victim.