Jide Osuntokun  When Nigeria became a sovereign nation in1960, expectations were high not only in Africa but in the world at large. The reasons for this was the size of the new nation and its considerable natural resources of oil and gas, tin and columbite and agricultural produce particularly palm oil, groundnuts, cocoa, cotton, hardwood timber and its potential large market to absorb industrial and consumer goods from the West. In the Cold War era, its large population was an asset which the West could count upon. Unlike the much-troubled Congo which crashed into chaotic independence, Nigeria with its relatively large middle class and highly educated elite, presented the picture of stability and gradualism even in its march towards independence which was not marred by revolution or any form of rebellion or general industrial protest or what Kwame Nkrumah called “positive action “ in old Gold Coast ( Ghana). The West also saw the emerging conservative political leadership in Nigeria much to its liking as contrasted with the radicalism and socialist tendencies of Kwame Nkrumah and his large African following. In spite of whatever differences the political leadership of the West saw in the ascendant conservative political leadership in Nigeria  and the radical political tradition growing around Kwame Nkrumah of Ghana, there were areas of convergence of policies such as demand for fair trade and the end to colonial rule but particularly the end to racial humiliation of Africans on their own continent as represented by the apartheid regime in South Africa and white settler regimes in Southern Africa, and France’s brutal killings of Algerian Arabs justly struggling to be free. The style was of course different but the goal was the same in the two camps of African nationalism whether perceived as conservative or radical. When Nigeria became independent, the entire Southern African half of the continent from Gabon, Central Africa, Congo Brazzaville, Belgian Congo, the  Great Lakes region of Burundi, Rwanda, Uganda, Kenya, Tanganyika down to Mozambique, Nyasaland, the two Rhodesias (North and South), Angola, Southwest Africa and South Africa were all under settler regimes of the British, Belgian, Portuguese and apartheid South Africa. The question of independence was a forlorn hope but many Africans realized that keeping quiet at the injustice and humiliation was not an option. The precipitate granting of independence to the Belgian Congo was also a poignant lesson about the desirability for preparation and gradualist approach which was what the political leadership of Nigeria under Sir Abubakar Tafawa Balewa championed. At independence, Sir Abubakar decided to be his own foreign minister for a while. During that time, he enunciated the guiding principles of Nigeria’s foreign policy. On October 7, 1960 on Nigeria’s acceptance as the 99th member of the United Nations at the 15th regular session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA), Sir Abubakar said among other things, the setting out of the enduring principles which have guided Nigeria’s foreign policy since then. He said:  It was the desire of Nigeria to remain friendly with all nations of the world and to participate actively in the work of the United Nations. Secondly, Nigeria, a large and populous country of 35 million had no territorial ambitions or any expansionist intentions. This was a sobering statement to allay fears of small neighbouring states of Niger, Dahomey, Chad and the Cameroons where there were substantial irredentist populations of people of the same ethnic groups with Nigerians. Thirdly, he said Nigeria would remain a member of the British Commonwealth of nations but “…nevertheless, we do not intend to ally ourselves as a matter of routine with any of the power blocs”. This was an indication that Nigeria wanted to remain positively non-aligned to assure critics at home who feared that the British were still pulling the strings of their Nigerian puppet regime. He continued that Nigeria working with other African countries will work for the progress of the continent and help to bring other African countries to what he called “… responsible independence”. He made allusion to the fact that Nigeria got its independence without bitterness or bloodshed and felt all countries still chaffing under the burden of colonialism and racial domination can learn from the Nigerian paradigm. He dealt at length at the precipitate granting of independence by Belgium to the Congo without consultation and adequate preparation before independence was foisted on the people the result of which was the chaos the whole world was faced with. He boldly stated that Africa must not be made a theatre for world power contestation and ideological struggle between the communist and the capitalist powers. Without saying how it could be done, he said African solutions must be found for African problems. He suggested a United Nations-supervised elections in the Congo from local government to national government level. He suggested that it may be necessary to consider a federation or confederation to preserve the unity of the country. He regarded the idea of the Congo being considered as a United Nations Trust Territory as some big powers were suggesting as retrogressive. He was however receptive to an active role of the United Nations for maintaining law and order while local administration settled down with United Nations expert advice. He suggested that Nigeria was prepared to assist with a technical team and administrators and called on other African countries to offer such assistance that they could muster. He was soon to send troops to the Congo on the United Nations request. In this way, Nigeria got sucked into the problem of Southern Africa. On one occasion the prime minister said: “On the question of colonialism and racial discrimination, I am afraid that Nigeria will never compromise”. He recognized as Harold Macmillan the British prime minister had opined that the wind of change was blowing across Africa and that colonial powers must recognize this before it became a hurricane and that independence for African countries was inevitable.  He knew his country was to get engrossed with the South African situation following the Sharpeville massacre of March 1960 even before independence. Public opinion would force the government whether it liked it or not to take a strong stand on the issue of apartheid. Sir Abubakar while welcoming political independence said this was not enough unless it was accompanied by economic development. He asserted that “economic weakness is evident in a new country open to every kind of pressure and results in other countries depriving its people freedom to choose a form of government which they feel suits them best. Spreading political propaganda or more insidious infiltration through technical assistance can virtually rob any underdeveloped country of its freedom I, therefore feel that if the advanced nations of the other continents are really desirous of seeing the new African states stand on their own feet and make their own  particular contribution to the peace of the world and to the happiness of mankind, they should make a real effort to desist from fomenting trouble in any of the African countries. The best way for them to assist us in reaching maturity is not by ideological propaganda, in whatever form it may be disguised, but by helping us genuinely with really good will, to develop our resources and to educate our human material up to those standards which are necessary for proper development”. Sir Abubakar was naive to expect moral preachment would sway big powers and former colonial powers from following whatever they consider their national interests in Africa irrespective of what Africans want. In his long speech  at the United Nations, he identified the haphazard partitioning of African territories by the European colonizers and even before the inviolability of colonial boundaries became an abiding principle in the charter of the yet to be formed Organisation of African Unity, he said “… The colonizing powers of the last century partitioned Africa in haphazard and artificial manner  and drew boundaries which cut across former groupings. Yet, however artificial those boundaries were at first, the countries they have created have come to regard themselves as units independent of one another. We have seen them all seeking admission to this organization as separate states. It is therefore, our policy to leave those boundaries as they are at present, and to discourage any adjustment whatsoever. I hope that this policy will bring about an atmosphere of trust and that if each country is given proper recognition and respect as a sovereign state, it will be possible to have effective cooperation on all matters of common concern to us”. He recommended consultations on non-political matters such as coordination of transportation and communications systems, research and education. He was far sighted in suggesting educating young people especially at universities together across national boundaries and he felt this would make stationing of troops at each other’s borders unnecessary. He said: “I must say I do not rule out the possibility of eventual union. But for the present, it is unrealistic to expect countries to give up their sovereignty which they have so recently acquired, and I am quite sure that it is wrong to imagine that political union could of itself bring the countries together. But on the contrary it will follow as a natural consequence of cooperation in other fields”. He continued: “In the fullness of time, as political relations develop and there is more consultation between the states of regional groupings, then political union may well be a natural result, but it would be wrong either to impose it or seek to hasten the process unduly”. Even though the idea of friendship with all nations sounded good at independence, it soon dawned on the prime minister that each nation must do whatever it must do to defend its national interest. In April 1960 when Nigeria was still under colonial rule, France exploded an atomic device in the Algerian desert. Many Africans protested to no effect. In December the same year just two months after Nigeria’s independence, France again tested another bomb without caring about the radioactive fallout on West African countries. By this time Nigeria was forced to protect its people by breaking diplomatic relations with France in January 1961. This signaled to the whole world that where its interest was threatened, Nigeria would take strong measures considered necessary. The severance of diplomatic ties was extended to French shipping and trade with Nigeria. Again, following the declaration of South Africa as a republic in October 1960, the prime minister, Dr H.F Verwoerd went to London in March 1961 to seek Commonwealth acceptance of his country as a republic within the Commonwealth. Nigeria led the opposition to South Africa’s continued membership not because it was a republic, after all India was a republic, but because of its racist policies. Nigeria was joined by all African members and India and South Africa was humiliated out of the Commonwealth. The die was cast; from that time onwards, Nigeria’s position on dismantling the racist regime in South Africa became unshakable. The strategy adopted was to use the United Nations forum to mobilize world opinion against South Africa. Secondly, Nigeria decided to support the African National Congress (ANC) financially. This strategy was refined to include supporting all liberation movements in Southern Africa which included those in Mozambique, Angola, Southern Rhodesia, South West Africa (Namibia) so as to weaken South Africa economically and to isolate it. This was the plan and even though Sir Abubakar did not see the evolution of the plan, but he set the stage and others followed after him. The last public engagement Sir Abubakar had was to chair a Commonwealth conference on Rhodesia in Lagos a few weeks before he was assassinated in 1966.  