 COACH of Wikki Tourists Usman Abd’Allah said there should not be any qualm should Plateau United be awarded the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) title if the 2019/2020 season is inconclusive due to the  Coronavirus pandemic. Plateau United were on top of the table when the NPFL matches were suspended after MatchDay 25  and Abd’Allah said the organisers of the league (League Management Company) can apply the ‘doctrine of necessity ‘ to determine the season’s champions. “Coronavirus has made so many things difficult and not only football,” Abd’Allah, a graduate of football coaching and management from Le CREPS de Montpellier in France, told NationSport. “Of course, it also affected NPFL; if we couldn’t complete the season as a result of COVD-19 and it’s concluded at this stage; I think we can conclude that Plateau United who were on top of the table (before the league was suspended) should be declared the champions. “I don’t have objections to that but I’m speaking personally; and I mean in my personal capacity and not as coach of Wikki Tourists.  Having said that, the LMC should only declare Plateau United winners if only there’s an urgent need to submit the list of teams that will represent Nigeria on the continent.” With  international and continental football  in a state of  comatose, Abd’Allah said the LMC should  take a decision after due consideration of  CAF calendar post COVID-19:“We don’t  even know what will happen to CAF competitions as a result of COVID-19 . “This is a global problem and we don’t know what is going to happen to both FIFA and CAF calendars which will invariably affect our own football calendar but if need be, the first four or three teams should be handpicked to represent the country in continental competitions if  we can’t complete the season.” The UEFA-A licensed Abd’Allah  said his side would be ready  to contest when the league suspension is called off, adding  his immediate task is to ensure that the floundering Wikki Tourists maintain their status in the NPFL. He explained: “First and foremost, my  target  with  Wikki Tourists is to secure  our place in the NPFL;   from our present position (Wikki Tourists are 15th on the log)  we are not far away from relegation and  at the same time, we are not even far away from grabbing a ticket for continental competitions. “Positions of teams  will only  matter when the league is about two matches to the end of the season   and it’s then we can begin to worry about our situation. “But for the moment, I have been on regular contact with the players by giving them advices and the kind of training  they should be doing   in order to keep them fit ahead of the resumption,” he added.