Justina Asishana, Minna  An early morning bandits attack in Erena in Shiroro local government area of Niger state has left two people dead and about 2,000 cattle stolen. Many people were injured in the attack where over 100 bandits were said to have invaded Erena and its environs shooting sporadically and brandishing dangerous weapons. The attack occurred at about 7 am on Sunday morning. During the attack, most of the villagers ran into the bush for safety and after the attack, they headed to Gwada to take refuge at the IDP camp in Gwada, a development that has increased the number of Internally Displaced Persons from Shiroro Local Government Area in Niger state. The Internally Displaced Camps in Niger state last week had a total number of 3,600 people, the majority of whom are women and children. The IDPs camps are located in primary schools’ premises in Kuta, Bosso, and Zumba and the number has further increased with the attack on Sunday by the bandits. A breakdown of the profile made available by the Desk Officer of the Kuta IDPs camp, Yusuf Bala Kuta showed 294 women, 858 children, and 56 males while those presented at Bosso IDPs camp by the Desk Officer, Usman Jagaba Bosso showed the presence of 1,184 children, 237 females, and 157 males. Meanwhile, the Senator representing Niger East Senatorial district, Senator Mohammad Sani Musa has called on the Federal Government to as a matter of urgency set up a permanent Military Base in Shiroro, Munya, and Rafi local government areas to help stem the tide of banditry. Responding to the renewed attacks by gunmen in both Shiroro and Rafi local government areas which have left at least nine persons dead, properties destroyed and many kidnapped, the Lawmaker said that the federal government cannot afford to turn deaf ears and close its eyes against the wanton killings of the people in his Constituency. He urged President Muhammadu Buhari to give a matching order to the military to immediately establish a base each in the three local government areas. “The on and off operations by security agencies in the affected communities cannot solve the problem. The bandits know when troops are around and when they are not. As soon as they know the troops are withdrawn, that is when they strike. So, the solution is to establish a permanent base for the military in the areas. Their presence no doubt will scare off the hoodlums and consequently stem the tide of criminality.” Sani Musa appealed to both the Federal and State government to beef up security in the state to ensure that the people do not suffer double losses. Senator Sani Musa further called on both the National and State Emergency Management Agencies to provide adequate support to the displaced persons, in terms of food, healthcare, and other basic amenities while stressing on the need for water, hand wash detergents and sanitizers to also be made available for this he IDPs.