Bolaji Ogundele, Abuja  The Presidential Task Force (PTF) on the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) Pandemic has said despite progress so far made to combat the spread of the infection, the country had yet a long ground to cover. The Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) and Chairman of the (PTF), Mr Boss Mustapha, who stated this on Monday at the daily media briefing by the PTF in Abuja, also said the situation in Kano State was being closely monitored. The SGF whose speech opened the day’s briefing, re-echoed the charge to all Nigerians to take responsibility for the fight against COVID-19, noting that much more success would be achieved when advisories already issued and other preventive measures were seriously followed. “Over the last four weeks, we made appreciable progress but we are not yet out of the woods because a lot more is required to be done. “Nigerians at all levels must take responsibility for our actions, adopt behavioural modification, ensure compliance with advisories and provide guidance to our followers and youths. “The PTF has continued to assess the situation nationwide and an appropriate Report has been submitted to Mr. President for decision making. “It is expected that once a decision is made, the President will address Nigerians on further measures to be taken, later today. I urge all Nigerians to be on the lookout for the broadcast. “The PTF shall continue to pursue the strategy of aggressive testing, detection, isolation, contact tracing, care and management. Similarly, non-pharmaceutical measures will be enhanced”, he said. On the situation in Kano State, Mustapha said the PTF, in active conjunction with the state government, was following developments up closely, being guided by the Federal Ministry of Health and other development partners. “The situation in Kano is being addressed very closely by the NCDC in strong partnership with the State government and guidance by the Federal Ministry of health as well as support from our development partners”, he said.