The Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) has pledged its support to its member states in the fight against the Coronavirus pandemic (COVID-19). In a statement by its President, Dr. Jean-Claude Kassi Brou,  ECOWAS says it will continue to monitor the evolution of the pandemic in the world, particularly in the West African sub-region. The Commission noted that  by April 5, the 15 member states were affected by the pandemic with 1,739 confirmed cases of contamination, 55 deaths and 328 persons who have recovered. It said 95 per cent of deaths are patients with morbid conditions. Reaffirming its solidarity with member states, the ECOWAS Commission said it welcomed the measures to contain the spread of the pandemic and care for the sick. It reiterated its commitment to supporting member states in the fight against the pandemic, noting that the West African Health Organisation (WAHO), its specialised health Institution responsible for coordinating the response at the regional level, has drawn up a Regional Strategic Plan with member states. “To address the emergency at hand, ECOWAS has made available financial support from its resources, in addition to assistance from international partners, for the purchase of medical supplies and equipment essential for the fight against the pandemic,” the Commission noted. WAHO has purchased and dispatched to the 15 member states, 30,500 diagnostic test kits; 10 000 Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) (Coveralls, Aprons, gowns, gloves, goggles, boots); 740,000 prescription tablets (Chloroquine and Azithromycin). Also, orders have been also been placed to acquire for Member States, the following items: 240,000 diagnostic kits; 240,000 extraction kits; 250,000 viral sample transport equipment; 285,100 PPE; 268,1000 masks for medical personnel (, surgical masks, full face masks); 120 ventilators and litres of alcohol gel and disinfectants. He said the WAHO is working with the specialised services in member states, to deploy personnel and epidemiological surveillance and data collection tools, strengthen the capacity of  laboratories and train technical personnel. ECOWAS further noted that it is working with WAHO to continue both internal and external resource mobilisation to increase the availability of medical materials and equipment to prevent, monitor and combat the pandemic. This is expected to expand its scope of support to supplement member states’ efforts, it added.