 The crew of popular TV sitcom, ‘Jenifa’s Diary’ and other Nigerian celebrities have reacted to the arrest and prosecution of Funke Akindele-Bello and her husband, Abdulrasheed Bello for violating the coronavirus lockdown directive in Lagos. Main characters of the popular TV sitcom have rallied support for the lead character while others queried the actions of the government. One of the major characters, ‘Adaku,’ played by OAP, Omotunde Adebowale-David aka Lolo 1, noted that Akindele-Bello is a responsible personality but not infallible as a human. She wrote, “I know you are a responsible person but not infallible as a human Funke Akindele. I am happy she is allowing the law to take its course; that shows she is law-abiding. All this will pass! Now I see plenty of media in court nothing like social distancing, there is traffic in lekki who are the people in those cars? People are exercising on the road in Gbagada, what can I say …….world people. We need to take heed, the numbers of infections are growing even though we have plenty of recoveries. God help us through these times.” Another character from the TV sitcom, ‘Cordelia,’ played by Paschaline Alex expressed her support for the entertainment power couple saying, “We gat you, God gat you. Funke Akindele Bello, We know you are a responsible person but not without flaw as a human that you are. This was just a flaw. All this will pass. We Love you” Continuing, the actress said, “My problem now is that the same court that is charging her, has a crowd right there at the court. Everywhere pressmen, lawyers, etc Why aren’t they also observing social distancing too? Same reason she is being charged to court for. “Right now, there is traffic in lekki as I write, are they all observing social distancing? Buses are filled with passengers, are they also observing social distancing?” Alex queried. Another character from Jenifa’s Diary, ‘Sam,’ played by Jide Awobona has lent his voice to the plea list. He wrote, “I plead with the authorities to Temper Justice with Mercy. Stay Strong, this shall pass” Joining the crew, Femi Branch, the Vice President of Actors Guild of Nigeria, AGN and one of the characters in Funke Akindele Bello produced web series, ‘Aiyetoro’ expressed his view on the arrest. “Sending love to both of you at this time JJC Skillz and Funke Akindele. I have worked with you both and understand how sceneone production works. I also lived in the camp for a while during the shoot of Aiyetoro and probably would have been in this same situation if the lockdown had occurred then. Please let us not be too quick to judge people. Lagos State government should please temper justice with mercy if only on account of the number of lives these two have touched and continue to touch. All shall be well,” he wrote.  Meanwhile, other Nigerian celebrities have joined the Jenifa and Aiyetoro crew to react to the arrest and prosecution. Actress Uche Elendu said, “Please release her, I don’t have any excuses to make for her because the law is simple, No Social gathering but her humble and sweet spirit doesn’t deserve this arrest. We are sorry on her behalf, please. Continuing, Elendu wrote, “She explained and apologised please listen and forgive, at least people ate food at the party, the people that clustered people to share 2 packs of indomie in the name of Quarantine relief were not arrested, Please forgive her. Love you, Funke, this will pass surely.” Reacting with a picture of Funke Akindele and herself, Omoni Oboli wrote, “We live and we learn.” Regina Daniels’ mum, Rita Daniels, also joined a list of celebs reacting to Akindele and hubby’s arrest. She wrote, “We are pleading for forgiveness. Please have mercy on them. They’re truly and totally sorry. God is your strength, stay strong.” Akindele-Bello’s colleagues like Chiege Alisigwe and Esther Kalejaiye also added their voices to the plea while advising the actress to remain strong. Guinness Book of Record holder, Kaffy the dancer also lent her voice to the entertainment couple’s arrest. “I wish the same energy can be used by Nigerians to bring down corrupt leaders, embezzlers, etc. I wish the lawmakers can use the same energy for those who broke the law and twisted its arm sooo badly, killing our entire system. To make matters worse, the crime she was arrested for committing was committed while trying to try her or the law that she broke that is making her face the law broken while she was being made to face the law. Funke Akindele is well, to err is human. Popular comedian Ayo AY Makun reiterated that Akindele-Bello will rise again. He said, “Yes, no one is above the law but I wish those of you who called out Funke Akindele can do the same with your countless oppressors in government. Even when the sky is filled with clouds, the sun still shines above. Funke will rise again.” In the same vein, Akindele-Bello’s colleague, Yvonne Jegede said, “she will rise. This will pass. God will continue to cover her. It is a sad time. My love to you and the family this time.” 