Restrictions imposed by Coronavirus pandemic have raised concerns over Edo and Ondo states’ governorship elections as the Independent National Electoral Commission’s outstanding directives suggest it may not shift the September and October dates, reports ‘DARE ODUFOWOKAN, Assistant Editor Contrary to the position of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), that the Edo and Ondo governorship elections slated to hold on September 19 and October 10 this year respectively, will not be altered against the background of the raging Coronavirus pandemic, there are indications that the commission and other stakeholders may eventually have no choice than to shift the dates earlier scheduled for the polls. According to a release by the commission last February, the governorship elections has been fixed for September 19th in Edo State while the election will hold on October 10 in Ondo state. Similarly, the commission announced that primary elections and nomination of candidates by political parties in Edo state should hold between the 2nd and the 27th of June while the same exercise is slated for July 2nd to July 25 for Ondo. But checks by The Nation in the two states revealed that many of the stakeholders, including political parties and gubernatorial aspirants, are doubtful of the possibility of the dates fixed by INEC. According to Chief Oluwole Edema, a chieftain of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ondo State, the party is worried that the outbreak of COVID 19, as well as the lock down ordered in the state by Governor Rotimi Akeredolu may make it impossible for most political parties to conclude their primaries by the stipulated date. Edema also confirmed that many of the political parties in the state are of the same opinion: “We are members of the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) and I can tell you for free that many of the political parties in Ondo are worried about the possibility of meeting INEC’s deadlines. Any party that desires a rancor-free primary election will agree with me. And once the primary elections are not concluded by the scheduled dates, there will be a need for an extension,” he said. Concerns like the above are mounting as a result of the pandemic which has already seen about 200 cases spread in Lagos, Abuja, Ogun, Bauchi, Enugu, Benue, Rivers, Oyo, Edo, Ekiti, Osun, Akwa Ibom and Kaduna, according to the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). While Edo State now has 4 confirmed cases of COVID 19, Ondo is yet to record a case. But Governor Akeredolu has already ordered a lock down of the state as a preventive measure, bringing most, if not all political activities, to a halt. Already, the Ondo State Independent Electoral Commission (ODIEC) has postponed indefinitely the local government elections billed for April 18, 2020, in the 18 council areas of the state due to ravaging Coronavirus. Yomi Dinakin, Chairman of the Commission, disclosed this in Akure, Ondo state capital, while speaking with journalists, saying that the 10 political parties had agreed to the postponement because they could not hold any campaign rallies. According to him, political parties argued that they complied with the directives of Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu ban on political rallies and gatherings. On a new date for the election, Dinakin said the Commission would monitor state government activities and announcements. Dinakin expressed optimism that the federal government would also postpone the implementation of its policy that all local councils in the country must have elected officials by May this year. But amidst the doubts, INEC recently insisted that the Edo and Ondo governorship elections will go ahead as scheduled. Last week, the National Commissioner and Chairman Voters’ Education and Information Committee,  Festus Okoye, said INEC is not contemplating, planning or thinking of shifting, postponing or in any way tampering with or adjusting the timetable and timelines for the conduct of the Edo and Ondo governorship elections. “The Commission is confident that the health authorities and the Nigerian people will contain and overcome its present health emergency before the commencement of major activities relating to the conduct of the Edo and Ondo governorship elections scheduled for 19th September and 10th October 2020. The two major activities in Edo and Ondo states that involve a large congregation of persons will commence in June 2020. “The conduct of the two elections is constitutionally circumscribed with inbuilt mechanism for adjustment within the confines and ambit of the constitutionally circumscribed timeframes. We assure the nation that the processes and procedures for the conduct of the two Governorship elections are on course and there is no cause for any form of anxiety. The Commission is not thinking of or contemplating any shift or postponement of the two elections,” says Okoye. But another observer, Country Manager of Free Voters International (FVI), Dr. Pius Ewujare, said INEC cannot be serious with its position, citing the fact that even the electoral commission recently suspended regular activities in its offices nationwide as a response to the COVID 19 pandemic. “How can the same body be grandstanding about going ahead with the elections as planned? It is obvious that no matter how soon the situation returns to normal, we will all need more time for the election to hold,” he said. “INEC has last month stated that its regular activities have been temporarily suspended following the outbreak of the pandemic coronavirus. It was the same Okoye who announced that the move was in compliance with the federal government directive. He said the suspension will be effective from Tuesday 24th March 2020, in its headquarters and offices nationwide for 14 days in the first instance. “He specifically added that the regular quarterly meetings with stakeholders, namely: political parties, Civil Society Organisations, the media, security agencies and all other meetings, have been suspended until such a time when normalcy returns. He also added that INEC will no longer monitor the conventions, congresses, conferences or meetings of political parties until further notice,” Ewujare recalled, insisting that INEC itself is unprepared for the polls. Chairman of Edo South APC Stakeholders Forum, Comrade Monday Igbinoba, while speaking to The Nation on Friday, said there is no way the election will hold as scheduled in Edo State. He warned INEC to be cautious of its statements saying the commission must consider the mood of the nation over and above any constitutionalism. “These are not normal times. We are in an emergency and nobody can predict when all these will end. It will be wrong of INEC to be creating anxiety by insisting there won’t be a shift. We all must be flexible,” he warned. Speaking further, he noted that primary elections are not the only things required in an election. “No political party wants to nominate a weak candidate or a candidate with issues. There is need for the aspirants to move around and meet both the party leaders and the members. Can that be done now? The answer is no. So, INEC must understand that everything is on standstill and lockdown nationwide now. And Edo State is not an exemption,” he added. Speaking recently at a function in Abuja, INEC’s Chairman, Professor Mahmood Yakubu, also appealed to political parties to adhere strictly to the schedule for the nomination of candidates for the governorship election in Edo and Ondo states. “As stated earlier, the end of tenure of governorship elections in Edo and Ondo States are holding later in the year. Given recent experience with some governorship elections, political parties need to do more to avoid the conduct of acrimonious primaries or failure to observe due diligence in the screening of their candidates, resulting in protracted litigations and eventual determination of the outcome of elections by orders of court. “I wish to draw the attention of political parties to two critical dates in the timetable released by the Commission a few weeks ago. Party primaries for the democratic election and nomination of candidates for the governorship election in Edo State must be held from 2nd to 27th June, 2020. The date for Ondo State is 2nd to 25th July, 2020. The Commission will not extend the dates. We will also rigorously monitor the primaries and where necessary, apply sanctions as provided by law,” the INEC helmsman said. Meanwhile, it appears that in spite of the earlier hard stances by the leadership of INEC, current realities within and outside the commission may gradually be forcing a change of position as regards the conduct of the governorship elections, especially in Edo State. Findings by The Nation revealed that at one of their online meetings, INEC discussed the possibility of a shift in the schedule. Reliable sources within the commission revealed that the suspension of activities is largely at the root of the likely change in stance. “Before the elections proper, there are so many things INEC usually do to ensure a successful process. Of importance are the sensitisation programmes. These are as important as casting the ballots. With the current situation and the suspension of activities by INEC, it will be impossible to carry out any of these. And even when the situation returns to normal, we will still be needing some time to get our acts together and prepare to do the needful,” an official of the commission said on Friday while speaking to The Nation.