Even as strident opposition continued in some quarters, to the offer by China of 15 medical experts as well as essential health equipment to help Nigeria in her ongoing efforts to contain the spread of the COVID-19 global epidemic, the team arrived in the country on Wednesday to carry out their assignment. The Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) and the National Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) contend that the assistance of the Chinese experts is unnecessary, as Nigerian medical experts have so far proven capable of handling the pandemic. According to the NMA President, Dr Francis Faduyile, “Our stand has not changed and we still insist that there is nothing that they (Chinese) want to offer that can improve what we have on the ground”. Although he said his association was not opposed to the donations, the NARD President, Dr Sokomba Aliyu, said “We do not need their hands as we are not overwhelmed and can take care of our patients.” The doctors’ unions have also raised the legal issue that the Chinese medical doctors cannot practice in Nigeria without being registered by the appropriate professional regulatory bodies. While some have questioned the propriety of bringing in personnel and equipment from a country that was the first hotbed of the pandemic, others have queried the motive of the Chinese in offering the assistance saying they could pose some unspecified threat to the country’s national security. We believe that much of all this is really making a mountain of a molehill. The whole world is gripped by the COVID-19 pandemic. Health systems of even the most advanced countries have been stretched beyond capacity.  As at April 12, 109, 691 people have died worldwide, out of 1, 787, 766 Coronavirus cases, according to a CNN realtime tally. Countries across the world are seeking and receiving assistance from those willing and able to help. Surely, Nigeria cannot be an exception. True, the rate of infections and fatalities has been relatively low in Nigeria despite our fragile healthcare infrastructure. Yet, this should not spur any undue hubris especially as we are still gradually ramping up our capacity to test more widely for infections and thus more accurately gauge the degree of the viral spread in the country. It certainly makes little sense for Nigeria to sit back and seek external assistance only when the crisis has spiralled out of control. Although no one wishes that to happen, no opportunity to help enhance our capacity to respond must be spurned. That would be nothing but misplaced patriotism. It is undeniable that the equipment offered the country by the Chinese, which include 16-tons of test kits, at least 50 ventilators, disinfection machines, disposable medical masks, medications, rubber gloves, protective gowns, goggles, face shields, infra-red thermometers among others is a welcome addition to our growing arsenal against COVID-19. As the first country to face the fury of Coronavirus, China has successfully scaled back its  offensive and life is gradually returning to normal in that country, which lost over three thousand lives to COVID-19. That is why many countries are benefitting from her invaluable experience and Ngeria should be no exception. This is especially as the China Civil Engineering Company (CCECC), which is handling several infrastructure projects in Nigeria, is bearing the cost. The acceptance by the Nigerian authorities, of expert help from China in this regard, certainly does not question the competence and capability of Nigerian medical professionals. But our health experts can certainly profit from the experience of the Chinese in combating COVID-19. It is noteworthy that the Chinese personnel immediately began two-week quarantine on their arrival in accordance with globally stipulated protocols. Furthermore, they will not practice or treat patients in Nigeria, which would have been a breach of regulatory guidelines in the country. They have only come as technical advisers to our health workers. In offering this assistance, the Chinese are also acting in their self-interest. They have invested massively in infrastructure construction across diverse sectors of Nigeria’s economy and would surely want the country to quickly recover from the Coronavirus crisis. We think the conspiracy theories are far-fetched.