The ECOWAS Youths Council (EYA) has donated relief materials to vulnerable and poor residents across South West states to mitigate the effect of the coronavirus lockdown. The association noted it had partnered with some international organisations to put smiles on the vulnerable. The beneficiaries, as mapped out across the six states, include the poorest of the poor, aged and widows. The group, in a statement, by its Director of Public Affairs, Ojo Eniafe, said: ” Nigeria being the country of His Excellency Ambassador Ologun William Seun Emmanuel, the chairperson of EYC was not left out of the clarion call for humanitarian service. ” His excellency today, partnering with international humanitarian; Ambr. Samson O. Bolarin, ECOWAS youth council (EYC) ambassador and also designated ambassador representing IIMSAM in the Federal Republic of Nigeria, IIMSAM an Inter-Governmental Organisation Observer to the UN-ECOSOC placed smiles on the faces of over 750 people in Nigeria. “The first phase of the relief was marked to begin in Southern Nigeria. South West region haven being badly hit by COVID-19 received the first attention. ” Across the six states in Western Nigeria, Ekiti state(Ikere) ; Ondo state(Akure, Oda and Emiloro) ; Lagos state (Okokomaiko) ; Ogun state (Ijebu mushin) ; Osun State (Owena) ; Oyo state (Adgbayi area of Ibadan) the relief materials and palliatives were shared.” It also called for serious concerns and support for the needy, especially at moments where there is lockdown with a need for further extension. Eniafe, said tge group, which engages in regional humanitarian services, has been supporting governments in various efforts to contain the deadly coronavirus disease. “The EYC equally with the aid of health experts and members of the NVG COVID-19 organisation in some of the states visited as well as other private medical youth volunteers, engaged in massive sensitization in local dialects to ensure maximum understanding of COVID-19. ” With the commitment of young, energetic and able bodied youths in Africa, who are ready to be effective tools to sensitize and ready to join the advocacy for hygienic life style, we are optimistic that the predictions on the terrible hit of the virus in Africa can be contained. “But government and private organisations and persons have a lot to do to support these teeming youths,” he said. The group commended the front line workers of COVID-19, saying ” it is imperative to appreciate our health workers who day in day out are putting in so much efforts and courage to confront death.” Eniafe also appealed to all Africans to follow the laid-down health tips by government and relevant agencies to stop the spread of the virus. “We insist that personal hygiene, social distancing, healthy life style would do more to save Africans and the world at large from this pandemic, ” he stated