  SOME Lagos residents have raised concerns over the absence of policemen on major roads and streets. The police came out full force two weeks ago following the presidential directive that Lagos, Ogun and the Federal Captial Territory (FCT) be locked down, but they appear to be losing steam. Their absence coincided with cult clashes and armed robbery attacks around the Lagos-Ogun border communities. As the attacks spread to other parts of the state, such as Ikorodu, Ikotun, Oke Afa, Agege, Egbeda, Abule Egba, Meiran, Alakuko, Alagbado, Ijoko, Ogba and Ojodu Berger, there were complaints that the police have allegedly abandoned residents to their fate. It was gathered that from Mushin to Abule Egba and back, there has been no police presence in the past three days. All the checkpoints mounted by the police have been discarded while those on patrol were hardly visible at nights. Similarly, those who ply Ikorodu road from Oshodi as well as from Mushin to Idimu shared similar concerns, urging the Commissioner of Police to address the situation. “They (police) have abandoned the road and left the people to be at the mercy of hoodlums. This is the third day running that I have complained about the lack of police presence on the road, especially at nights. “From Mushin to Abule Egba, there is no single police checkpoint in the night and the patrol teams are nowhere in sight. “The police seem to have abandoned their duty to enforce the lockdown,” said a resident. Similarly, another resident raised alarm over the lack of police presence from Mushin to Idimu. She was surprised that from the time she left the office around 10:30pm on Tuesday till when she got home, she did not see a single policeman or roadblock. “Even the roadblock in front of Ikotun Police Station had been removed. I did not see a single police operative anywhere and that is really scary considering that these hoodlums are everywhere now. “The police need to be visible. Their presence gives a sense of security and safety to people. They should not abandon us at this time,” she pleaded. Denying that the police have abdicated their responsibilities, spokesman Bala Elkana said they had to dismantle roadblocks since they were doing more of vehicular patrols. “Our policemen are moving around everywhere. They cannot pin down on the roads when they need to pursue criminals trying to disturb the peace of Lagosians. “Also, those complaining should not be afraid because we have men at major entry and exit points enforcing the lockdown. The police are working round the clock to keep Lagosians safe,” he said.