  A NEGATIVE twist to the coronavirus pandemic was established on Thursday that some people who tested positive have refused to be taken to treatment centres. The patients have opted to stay at home for treatment, it was leant. This breach of protocol of infectious diseases in Abuja, has forced the Minister of Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Muhammad Bello to threaten invocation of relevant laws to enable him mandatorily evacuate recalcitrant patients to treatment centres. Bello noted that COVID-19 patients staying at home posed great risks not just to their families, but also immediate communities. The minister said community transmission of the virus pandemic has been identified in Mabushi, Gishiri and Utako districts where massive testing will henceforth be conducted. The minister said: “Since we have begun to witness community transmission of the virus, it is imperative that we must do everything within our powers to stop the spread; even if we have to compel such persons to go to treatment centers. ” In order to prevent further spread of the virus within the communities, it was resolved that massive testing will be carried out in areas where community transmission has been established, including Mabushi, Gishiri and Utako.” His spokesman Anthony Ogunleye issued the statement. The minister said the decision to forcibly move the patients was taken yesterday at a meeting of the FCT COVID-19 Emergency Response Team and the management of the Federal capital Development Authority (FCTA). The meeting was attended by Minister of State (FCT) Dr Ramatu Aliyu, FCT Permanent Secretary, Mr Chinyeaka Ohaa, acting Secretary, Health and Human Services  Dr Mohammed Kawu, among others. The minister said the response team encouraged all residents to wear face masks when in the public and encouraged them to make their own face masks from clothes and wear them always. Bello praised the frontline workers in the fight against the virus and called for the cooperation of all residents of the territory. He urged residents to obey all laid down measures, including observing social distancing, constant hand washing, observing stay at home directives and maintain respiratory hygiene. The  meeting also reviewed the current situation of the COVID-19 pandemic in the FCT and the measures taken to contain it. So far, a total of 263 workers made up of 66 doctors, 103 nurses, nine pharmacists, 15 laboratory scientists and 70 others have been trained, while 337 others are slated for training. The FCT has the highest number of cases after Lagos.