As Nigerians brace for an indefinite extension of lockdown declared by President Muhammadu Buhari in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Lagos and Ogun states, ADEYINKA ADERIBIGBE writes on the pains of the clampdown on motorists.   THe picture went viral penultimate week of the Rapid Response Squad (RRS), the Lagos State crime bursting outfit, arresting some motorists at the Ketu-Alapere in the mainland. Among the vehicles arrested were two loaded interstate buses which were headed for Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. The passengers were discharged and the vehicles impounded at the Alapere Police Station. With the inevitable indefinite extension of the lockdown over the coronavirus, transportation may continue to be greatest casualty as the government seeks the masses’ voluntary compliance to contain communal transmission of the dreaded pandemic. Since the nation recorded her index case on February 27, via an Italian expatriate, who traversed Lagos and Ogun states on a business trip, the nation has moved within six weeks has recorded 318 cases. Lagos has grossed over 120 of the cases, becoming the nation’s most burdened state. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) last Saturday said Nigeria has recorded 318 cases; 70 have recovered and were discharged, while the number of deaths has climbed to 10. Painfully,  the disease has spread across the nation’s six geo-political zones with Kano, joining neighbouring Katsina as at Sunday as an index case was captured at the newly flagged off Aminu Kano Stadium isolation centre. America’s leading coronavirus research centre at the Johns Hopkins University Whiting School of Engineering agreed with the Nigerian figure, adding the total number of confirmed cases worldwide last weekend stood at 1,779,099, while 108,770 have died and 402,709 have recovered. Determined to arrest the rocketing figures, the federal and state governments across the country have announced lockdown, restricting movements to only people on essential services. In states, such as Lagos and Ogun, the leadership of the transport unions have assured of their members’ compliance. This is even as the governments through various avenues have continued to engage them on the need to partner them for the containment of the disease. There is no doubt that transportation is key to grounding the states and achieving the projections of flattening the curve of the pandemic whose rise is worrisome. Until the presidential lockdown, public transportation had remained chaotic with many routes in major urban cities recording the same over-crowding (overloading), despite the social distancing mantra. While this has abated as most roads are deserted as a result of the lock-downs, what is prevalent is that people still flout the stay-at-home order as many have resorted to trekking as public transportation becomes extremely scarce on the roads as a result of the clampdown on their operation. An Anambra State official raised the concern of communal transmission via this channel of transportation at the weekend. Fielding question on a national television on Saturday, the official said free movements of people living in border communities may continue to promote community transmission of the dreaded disease despite the prevention of public transportation. In states, such as Lagos and Ogun, there are recorded movements of the people, fuelling concerns whether any further extension of the lockdown would bear any meaningful fruit. For instance, our correspondent observed that last week, virtually the roads were busier than they were the previous week when President Muhammadu Buhari announced movement restriction in Lagos, Ogun and Abuja. Not only are the roads busier, even the markets were. People stormed the markets and available spaces were crowded out with traders and customers without any consideration for social distancing or personal hygiene that could protect against the ravaging virus. Also observed were apparent breaches by public transporters as okada (commercial motorcycle operators) and tricycle operators stormed the streets for passengers. The Federal Roads Safety Corps (FRSC) Marshal Dr Boboye Oyeyemi said moral suasion remains the only way to achieve maximum compliance of the motorists, especially tricycle drivers and okada operators. Felicitating with Christians on the just-concluded Easter celebration, Oyeyemi urged motorists to continue to adhere to the maximum safety and health standards amid the rising cases of COVID-19 in the country. He said his men would continue to enforce the directive on overloading of vehicles and mandatory adherence to social distancing directive as the country continues to battle the pandemic, emphasising that attention would be high on Lagos, Ogun and FCT where the presidential lockdown was imposed. A safety expert, Patrick Adenusi, however, said notwithstanding Oyeyemi’s determination to join hands with other security operatives to enforce the stay-at-home order, Nigerians must see the need to comply if they desire to see the nation overcome the ravages of coronavirus. Adenusi, founder, Safety Without Borders, said even those who must be on the road at this critical times must adhere to the conventions and protocols of the World Health Organisation (WHO) on the virus. He advised them to avoid touching any handrails and surfaces and to carry hand sanitisers wherever they might go and wear gloves and face masks anytime they are entering a crowded place to avoid being contaminated by anyone who might have been exposed to the virus. For him, the best form of transportation to adopt at this time is walking or biking, adding, however, that nothing compares to staying at home and avoiding any crowded places that may promote exposure to the disease. He said: “More than anything, please avoid overloaded buses, and  crowded areas.” For Adenusi, this is not the right time for drivers and owners to think of the bottomline (profitability) as everyone must be driven by the urgency of the emergency situation into which the nation has been driven and join hands to prevent further spread. “I think drivers and their conductors should see this period as one of sacrifice. If they must go out at all, they must ensure that they leave two seats in the bus per row,” he said. He urged the governments to do a lot of advocacy to drive the urgency of this demand, adding that if the government could ensure their buy in compliance would be easier. He said the earlier the drivers and operators agreed to support the government at this unusual time the better as observance of social distancing, as being urged by the WHO is an elixir, should there be the need to move out from your home, to prevent further transmission. “The earlier we all comply, the better. It may be the only way out of this dreaded virus and the more we continue to flout the order and come out for one reason or the order, either as a result of boredom or economic reasons, the more we increase the risk of detecting new cases and the more such happens the longer we would all stay away from work as government must mop all traces of this dreaded disease from the society,”  he said. He urged that the government must back the FRSC in insisting that post-coronavirus, no bus in Nigeria carries more than three passengers on a row. “It is clear that if they had been observing this three passengers per row, it wouldn’t have been difficult to ask them to knock out one passenger in an emergency situation like this, but it was proving difficult because they have been allowed to be carrying four and they see taking off two passengers as a challenge.” He said coronavirus has also brought to the fore the need for personal hygiene as well as the promotion of this etiquette in public places, especially at motor parks and bus stops in the country.