Nigerian singer, Bright Ukpabi, better known as Mr. Dutch has fed thousands of Nigerians through his foundation, Mr Dutch Foundation to cushion the hardship of the Coronavirus pandemic occasioned by the lock down imposed by the Federal Government of Nigeria. The“Keys to My Heart” crooner was able to achieve this through his “COVID-19 Food Relief Programme” to four States of the federation, namely, Lagos State, Imo State, Edo State and the Federal Capital Territory. His “COVID-19 Food Relief Programme” fed thousands in both Island and Mainland areas of Lagos, Owerri, Benin and Abuja. “We have been able to feed more than 50 thousand people, although we were not really counting numbers of people but in some locations we reached out to 2 thousand people, some places were about 1 thousand while some locations were 5 hundred people. We went to different areas and States, distributing food, sometimes, we collaborate with restaurants to make the food and distribute to people everyday, we get the restaurants, send money to them, they prepare the food and package it while the volunteers takes it and distribute to people,” he said in a chat with Nation. “Sometimes I participate in sharing the food too. I was at Obalende area and we fed almost 4 thousand people on that day. We cooked in the morning and afternoon, we wore our masks and gloves and made sure we implemented the social distancing. We have been doing this to help people in the little way we can. We also look forward to having more sponsors and volunteers to join us,” he added. The singer revealed he did not achieve all by himself, he said he had a lot of help from sponsors who contributed money to the course and volunteers to make the mission possible while also observing all the rules of the lock down. He explained, “When I posted online I saw a lot of people who wanted to volunteer but we needed sponsors first before volunteers. We also didn’t want to go against the government policy of staying at home and social distancing. We just organised volunteers and avoided any mistakes. If you watch our video you would see that we observed social distancing between people and between us.” The “Antidote” crooner also explained how he was able to set off the programme in four different States almost at the same time. “I wasn’t physically present in all the locations so what I did was, to post online and request for sponsors and volunteers, some people sponsored with cash while some living in the States volunteered and distributed food, wearing our vest and polo, confirming we are an NGO so the police allow them to distribute it to people in the street. Although I didn’t participate in all the locations but I organized volunteers from different States and our representatives in those States did the follow up,” he said. In the event of extension of the lock down Mr Dutch has promised to continue to feed the poor and maintained there are plans to reach out to more States of the nation. “We are looking forward to reaching out to Abia State, Ogun State, Benue State and other States of Nigeria,” he said. Mr Dutch is an accomplished singer with hits like ‘Antidote’, ‘Better Soup’ and ‘Eno Finish’ featuring Burna Boy. His first song of 2020 is “Keys to My Heart”, a song dedicated to lovers on St Valentine’s Day.