 Consolidated Hallmark Insurance Plc has secured regulatory approval to extend its N1.056 billion rights issue for one month. The extension was due to the disruptions caused by the Coronavirus pandemic. The offer period for the rights issue, which was scheduled to close on Wednesday, April 1, 2020, has now been extended till Friday, May 1, 2020, according to regulatory filing at the weekend. The extension of the offer period was approved by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Consolidated Hallmark Insurance is seeking to raise N1.056 billion in new equity funds through the issuance of 2.03 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each to existing shareholders at 52 kobo per share. The rights issue had been pre-allotted on the basis of one new ordinary share of 50 kobo each for every four ordinary shares of 50 kobo each held as at close of business on February 3, 2020. The net proceeds of the supplementary issue will be used to strengthen the balance sheet of the insurance company.  Consolidated Hallmark Insurance, a general business and special risks insurer, provides insurance coverage across several sectors including aviation, oil and gas, marine cargo and hull business and other non-life insurance underwriting including motor, fire and special perils, goods-in-transit, engineering insurance, amongst others. Insurance companies are in a hot race to raise new equity capital to meet new minimum capital requirements for various insurance functions as directed by the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM). NAICOM had in May 2019 released new capital requirements for insurance businesses with a 13-month compliance period for operators to shore up their minimum capital base to the required level. The minimum paid-up share capital of a life insurance company was increased from N2 billion to N8 billion, non-life insurance from N3 billion to N10 billion, composite insurance from N5 billion to N18 billion while re-insurance companies were directed to raise their capital base from N10 billion to N20 billion. NAICOM had extended the deadline for the recapitalisation to December 31, 2020.