 It is stale news  that Chinese doctors are  in Nigeria. What may be breaking news is if they came along with the African Black Ant (ABA), a nutritious and immune powerhouse, which some Nigerian men have been taking for erectile dysfunction. The ABA may be in the medicine chest of Zimbabwe whose president has asked orthodox doctors to allow herbalists treat Coronavirus disease side by side with them. Two weeks ago, this column suggested that, while doctors may be panicking and combing the ends of the Earth for pharmaceutical drugs to fight the viral pandemic, the solution may very well be on their lap, shrouded from their view by intellectual sophistry and arrogance. That may be what is playing out now in some countries. In the United Kingdom, Nigerian celebrity Sumbo Wright could not go to hospital because facilities were congested and would be patients were asked to stay at home. She called a pastor in Canada who gave a prescription of natural medicines which took her off the danger corridor. Back home in Nigeria, the ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, has told the nation ewe akoko, the Yoruba name for new boulda laevis, can kill the virus. The Igbos call it (ogirisi), the hausas (Aduruku) and the efiks (oniok). Before the Ooni spoke,  many people in Southwestern Nigeria protected themselves the way their forebears battled epidemics such as small pox, chicken pox and measles. Besides using garlic, thyme , bitter kola, lime and lemon, Tagiri (Christmas melon) is now a common feature in many Yoruba homes. Some people who were lucky to find any to buy in the herbs market have planted the seeds at home. It is common to find this melon in sitting rooms, bedrooms, kitchens and even in the premises. Traditionally, Yoruba believe that epidemics are spread by demons and that Tagiri keeps them away.  African black ant  If I invite you to dinner and you have a beautiful dinner and evening and, afterwards, I inform you the soup you licked was spiced with African Black Ant powder, how would you feel? In China, edible black ant (polyrhachis vicina Roger) is widely used in tonics and medicines. The first time I encountered it, the black ant was presented for erectile dysfunction and some prostate challenges. Later, it surfaced in a Nigerian network health product for immune boosting. The qualifications of Aba as I call it, for immune function are the results of a series of experiments to access its suitability for this job. Some were caged in a mound of refined sugar with nothing else to eat. This was to find out if Aba would become diabetic. Aba consumed the sugar, grew bigger and reproduced and was not diabetic. Next, Aba was thrown into a den of bacteria and, later, viruses. On each ocassion, it came out unscathed. That led researchers to examine its chemical composition and this was what one of the nutritional studies on this ant said it was all about. According to www.researchgate.net: “This study determined the nutritional composition of the black ant, which included minerals, Amino acids, superoxide dismutase (SOD), vitamin E and total acid. Results showed that the ant powder contained 77,000 I U/100g volatile oil, 6.0g/100g moisture, 1.6g/100g total acid and 6.3g/100g Ash. There are 18 Amino acids, of which, glutamic acid, glycine, aspartic acid, alanine, leucine, proline and tyrosine were predominant. Among the 16 minerals, k, ca, p, mg, Fe, Mn, and zn were predominant. More than 20 organic components were identified, the main ones were 19-octadecenoic acid. Six of the compounds found, i.e hexadecanoic acid, ethyl ester, linoleic acid, ethyl oleate, oleic acid and cholesta-3, 5-diene, have not been reported previously. The results indicate that p.vicina Roger is rich in nutrients and is a potential ingredient for health food”.  The website goes on:  “Vicinia Roger had been used as a nutritional ingredient and processed into tonics or health foods in China. What comes out clearly from the analysis of body parts is that the whole insect is rich in essential nutrients. Since the insect is well endowed with essential zinc, it has several-fold eight health benefits to human body. Zinc is important in regulating immune system, relaxing fatigue and anti aging as allowed to by when et Al (2006) and Tang et Al (1995). The American zinc association reports that high concentration of zinc is in the prostate gland and semen. The association also asserts that zinc is effective in managing the immune system. Of course, there is evidence that insects’ chittin can significantly reduce serum cholesterol levels and can provide anti bacterial and anti viral effect. The availability of the key food nutrients in the insect justifies the folk tales in high demand for endangered insects’.” Www.amazon.com presents the black ant as an energy provider. It says: “The benefits of black ant extract are increased feeling of energy, stamina and mental clarity…black ant extract is also packed full of nutrient containing vitamins B1, B2, B12, D and E plus calcium, phosphorus, iron, magnesium, selenium and zinc. Infact, ants contain the highest amounts of zinc in all known organisms”. Beyond the Aba, no fewer than 80 major clinical trials are going on in China to fish out which protocols are best fighters against Coronavirus. The World Health Organisation (WHO) is reported to not yet be satisfied with the methodologies as many of them have no controls, and as WHO would like the procedures simultaneously examined by researchers globally. China is adjusting to WHO’s master plan, and have tried stem cell from menstrual blood without significant impact as yet. They have tried as well two HIV medicines from the Western world which prevent viruses from replicating. In Alternative medicine, selenium does this. This mineral is a component of superoxide Dismutase (SOD), one of the body’s three basic antioxidants, which is plentiful in Aba  Zimbabwe As mankind labours for a conquering vaccine, Zimbabwe has  decided to not keep its eggs in one basket. The government has legally empowered herbalists to treat coronavirus infections. Orthodox doctors say the government should stick to World Health Organisation (WHO) standards below which they believe herbalists are operating. The WHO appears caught in the middle because it defines Traditional  Medicine as…”The Healing Art of a people, explicable or inexplicable”. The health ministry delivered a letter from the president to the COVID 19 treatment centre in the capital, Harare. The centre was to work with a herbalist who claimed he had a cure for coronavirus infections. Tribert Chrishanyu, leader of Zimbabwe’s herbalists, thanked President Emerson Mnangagwa, saying that herbalists have been treating symptoms of disease similar to COVID 19. In any case, he said, they were able to consult with spirit mediums who could give them a clue. But the head of Zimbabwe’s public health physicians, Dr Nyika Manachi, said his side could not take chances with unproven traditional medicine. He believed that “something went wrong somewhere” and the ministry ought to address whatever it was. Zimbabwe’s traditional medicine appears better developed than Nigeria’s. In one project to source herbs for new drugs, no fewer than 45 species from 25 plant families have been assembled as samples from different parts of the country through the help of traditional healers. These plants have been identified at the Harare botanical gardens and approved for export after screening for their bio activities.  Ewe akoko  This is a herb placed on the head of royals in Yoruba land at their coronation as a symbolic sign of authority. The Igbos call it Ogirisi, Hausas Aduruku and the efiks, Oniok. In South Western Nigeria where the Yorubas live, many pristine proverbs remind them to either set traps for danger that is afar or confront it there rather than let it come home to roost. So, they are arming themselves with all sorts of traditional medicines they believe can prevent coronavirus infection or improve their immunity against it. It was in this light that Ooni of Ife , Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, monarch of Yoruba ancestral town of Ile Ife dropped the hint last week the Ewe Akoko (Akoko Leaves) was a possible cure for coronavirus infection. The plant, known as New Bouldla Laevis, has been well known for helping to resolve female fertility questions. The Urhobos call it ogiriki, the Edos (ikimi), the TIV (Kontor), and the ibibio (itomo). The leaves  and the bark are useful in many therapies which range from headaches, vision challenges, heartburn, chest pains, diarrhoea, uterine contractions, painful menstruation, inflammation and arthritis to skin problems, cough, toothache, malaria fever, constipation, dysmenorrhea (painful menstruation, epilepsy and cancer, among other conditions. COVID 19 is a new disease infection. The Ooni must have his reasons for suggesting to his people that they can fortify themselves against it with Ewe Akoko  Tagiri Here comes yet another herb for keeping infections away. By last week, it was almost impossible to find it in any market.  I must confess that I do not know how it works. My testimonial, therefore is…”The healing art of a people, explicable or inexplicable”. Until last week, when I knew Tagiri or Christmas melon by yet another name, countelope melon, I would have taken a fat bet that it was inedible, because I hadn’t seen anyone eat it. This melon has a high water content which makes it good for rehydration, especially in hot weather. It is blessed, also, with such antioxidants as selenium, beta carotene, vitamin c, Lutein and Zeazanthin, choline. Tagiri or cantelope melon, may not be eaten by many people in this part of the world because it is used more for psychic defence in epidemics. But it has its well known uses in poultry to fight bacterial and viral diseases. One of these diseases is Newcastle disease which attacks chickens of all ages . Vertinary doctors say it controls or prevents this disease. For this purpose, poultry farmers clean up and cut tagiri into pieces, and then ferment the pieces in water for about seven days. Thereafter, the liquid is filtered from the chaff and added to drinking water of the birds. This way, many farmers have saved money on drugs and made their birds organic, reduced mortality and improved poultry health.  Awopa Here comes another great herb popular in Yoruba land. Its active ingredient(s) gave rise to Quinine, an anti-malarial pharmaceutical drug which was popular in Nigeria till about the 1960s when the malaria parasite, falciparum, developed immunity against it. Seye Kehinde of City People Magazine brought Awopa to international limelight when he interviewed Mrs Sumbo Wright, a London church minister, who developed Coronavirus infection, was told there was no bed for her in hospitals and, then, resorted to self-medication on herbal therapies…and became cured. She told Seye Kehinde: ” I had flu like symptoms that were deteriorating by the day. I had used all sort of remedies to boost my immune system and also treat the supposed flu all to no avail. I was getting worried and, sensing that time was not on my side, rang the dedicated NHS line 111 but couldn’t get through as they are inundated with calls. So, I braced it and called the GP surgery to speak to my personal doctor who was not around on the day. I was quite desperate as I had lost my sense of taste and smell. So, I was desperate to speak to any doctor. The receptionist took my details and, within minutes, a doctor called me back to do a telephone assessment. She confirmed my worst fear which a naturopath had also confirmed the day before. I broke down. I suffered most of the symptoms…we had already been told not to come to the hospital. Even the doctor said there was nothing they could do because it was not already in my lungs…and they didn’t really have any remedy or a vaccine. The day before I spoke with a doctor, my spiritual daughter in Nigeria sent me a message to find out how I was doing and, told her my symptoms and that I suspected I might have contracted the virus. She immediately put me in contact to a pastor cum naturopath by the name Deji Alabi who resides in Canada. I immediately started self isolation. Panic induces stress, and stress affects your immunity. Nature has blessed us in our part of the world with some natural herbs such as Cinchona which is Quinine in its original form. Our leaders need to collaborate with naturopathic practitioners to aid research because I believe creation and medication go hand in hand and neither can exist without the other. The following herbal remedies helped me combat the deadly virus.( They were) prescribed by a doctor certified and gifted in naturopathy…Cincinoma (QUININE) otherwise known as Awopa in Yoruba(half a teaspoon to be taken orally every six hours. Tonic water with Quinine to be sipped regularly; 3,000mg of vitamin c every six hours or intravenously by a qualified medical specialist. Lots of hot fluid nebulised two to three times daily and inhaled steam through the mouth…Garcinia kola (bitter kola otherwise known as orogbo in (Yoruba) just one to be chewed daily because of high caffeine content and to prevent blood clot as advised by Dr Deji. Also, for the cough, chop garlic and ginger with honey to be taken on empty stomach orally…Boil turmeric, ginger, lemon and honey. The lemon and the honey to be added in the cup when you want to drink it”. The lesson from the prophetess and Nigerian London celebrity is that herbs can help us get out of trouble. As of the time of her infection, she had some underlying health challenges which may have weakened her immunity and prolonged the time for immune boosting. While we should listen to our doctors, we should not feel helpless and hopeless. First and foremost, your health is your personal responsibility, not the government’s or your doctor’s. In this regard, everyone has a direct link with his or her creator who had prepared the table for the nurture of the human body and its maintainance with the right kinds of foods and drinks in health or sickness…long, long before mankind set foot on this earth.  Black seed  oil This is one of the oils in the survivor herbal medicine chest of Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde. The governor was honest, humble and blunt last week when he said his coronavirus infection was cured by some herbal mixed grill which his doctor gave to him. We do not know if the herbal prescriptions were primary medications or adjuncts to pharmaceutical drugs. Whatever they were, the governor’s message on his discharge from isolation suggested that some of our doctors were broad minded and becoming holistic in their practice. Governor Makinde’s prescriptions were carrots, black seed oil, vitamin c and honey. I would like to suggest that only carrots from organic farms be used. Many doctors and healers have used organic carrots successfully in organic carrot juice facts. One of them was the well respected Benard Jensen. Dr  George Malkmus, author of Halleluyah Diet, also cured his stomach cancer on organic carrot juice fasts. Carrots provide the body with large amounts of beta carotene, a precursor of vitamin A. That means the body converts beta carotene to vitamin A as needed by the immune system, the eyes, the skin and the mucus lining of the body, including those of the nasal cavaties, the sinuses, the throat, the wind pipes and the lungs. But the body cannot store too much of it at a time without harm to the liver. The health industry has got round this problem with water soluble vitamin A or solubilised vitamin A which one may take in much larger quantum than the fat soluble variant without trouble. This is a good idea because some people, especially hypothyrodics, do not easily convert beta carotene to vitamin A as needed. Otherwise, one may take huge amounts of beta carotene without worry. An only case where this has been contraindicated was in a study of smokers. The more beta carotene they took, the worse their lung troubles got. Even then, this study was faulted on a number of grounds. Smokers may, therefore, wish to seek the advice of their doctors before they embark on huge beta carotene dosages. In high dosages of beta carotene therapy, it is advisable that other carotenoids be added to the therapy. These are available as “mixed carotenoids” pills.  Black seed Oil  This oil gained currency in Nigeria about 10 years ago  when Muslims learned Prophet Mohammed (May the Peace of Allah be upon him) took the seeds regularly. So, it became a regular feature among Islamic products, including rosaries, sold after  Jumat services. Black seed oil has many health benefits which include anti-inflammatory properties. This makes it good for asthma, bronchitis, rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory stomach conditions. In coronavirus infection, inflammation occurs in diverse tissue along the respiratory tract. The oil may be combined with CBD oil, Curcumin 2000x, a proprietary formula in which curcumin, an extract from tumeric, has been modulated with cayenne, another anti-inflammatory, to be, as the literature says, 2000 times more potent as an anti inflammatory than a natural curcumin. Black seed oil addresses as well, high blood cholesterol and elevated blood pressure which may be underlying health challenges in persons who easily succumb to Corona virus infection. How the Chinese used vitamin c to defeat Corona virus infection in their country is already addressed in the  Coronavirus posts in www.olufemikusa.com. 