 Governor of Lagos State and the Incidence Commander of the COVID-19 outbreak, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has announced the discharge of five more patients from the Infectious Disease Hospital, Yaba. The governor announced this on his official Twitter account on Sunday. He said “Today, I am happy to inform you that five more patients comprising two males and three females including a 10 year old girl tested negative twice to Covid-19 and have been discharged to reunite with their families. “This brings to 29 the total number of patients who have fully recovered and discharged from our facility at Yaba” The governor however announced the death of another patient,saying “It is however sad that the State has recorded another death, bringing to two the total number of deaths from COVID19 in Lagos State. “Although, there is a strong indication that the State is winning the battle against the disease which is ravaging several countries across the world but we need to remain steadfast and aggressive to curtail the spread. He continued “I need to state that the result of tests conducted by our health workers on the recovered patients is a confirmation that they pose no threat to the community”. The governor however admonished Lagosians against stigmatization, “I will like to use this opportunity to advise Lagosians against stigmatizing the discharged patients as this act could bring feelings of shame, hopelessness and despair. We need to do all we can to support them in whatever form to get over the memories as soon as possible” The governor showed his gratitude to the health workers in Lagos state. He said “I wish to thank our frontline health workers who are taking good care of the patients, members of the Lagos State Health family and the Emergency Operation Centre for their kindness and flexibility in managing the patients and checking the spread of the disease. “As the disease ravages countries all over the world, Lagos State will continue to do the needful in terms of responding to emergencies in an effort to ensure the health and wellbeing of our people. We will do our best to make sure that other patients at the facility receive the best of care and attention so that they can return home to join their families and the community soonest” “Sanwo-Olu said in order to contain the spread of the disease, social distancing must continue  to be observed, He said” Let us remain indoors and shun the temptation to breach the presidential restriction that has been placed on our state so that the gains recorded so far are not eroded. “You should regularly and thoroughly wash your hands with soap and clean, running water and where water is not readily available, an alcohol-based hand sanitizer can be used, he admonished. He however pointed out how some youths still engage in sporting and related activities which he described as unfortunate as it could jeopardize the efforts and the laudable intention of the lockdown. I therefore advised Lagosians to adhere strictly to instructions so that together the battle can be won together. 