Ogun Governor Dapo Abiodun has expressed optimism the state would record zero case of coronavirus pandemic “soonest” given the commitment of its health workers to combat the virus. Abiodun, who vowed the state would leave no stone unturned to prevent further infection, said that Ogun has  only three active cases being treated by doctors and other healthcare workers in one of Isolation and Treatment Centres. The Governor spoke in Iperu, his home town while addressing reporters. He noted the state was spending judiciously to ensure that coronavirus does not spread into the communities. According to him, Ogun government has installed the first State fully-funded Molecular Laboratory in the country at the Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital, Sagamu. According to the Governor, the facility is awaiting the accreditation of the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) for it to commence full operation while a second Molecular laboratory, donated to the state, would also arrive next week. Abiodun said: “Ogun State has been able to manage the pandemic effectively so far and surpassed the global average for tested cases and transmission. “The global average is 1 positive case to 3 new infections. In our case, it is 1 positive case to 1 new infection. But, even with the relatively lower number of positive and active cases, we will leave no stone unturned to prevent further infection, spread and death from the dreaded virus. By the grace of God, we will record a zero number of cases soonest. “On our part, we will continue to ensure the welfare and wellbeing of all the people of Ogun State and those who have made our dear State their home. This period of COVID-19 will not be an exemption. “We appreciate the serious health need to curb the spread of the virus and prevent those who have not contracted the virus from contracting it. But there is also the important need to strike a delicate balance between public safety and welfare of the citizenry. ” Ogun State residents will have a window of relaxation from the renewed 14-day lockdown in the State will be Monday (20th April),  Wednesday (22nd April) and Friday (24th April, 2020). “The period of relaxation will be between the hours of 7am and 2pm on each of these days. This means that citizens are expected to remain indoors on April 18, 2020; Sunday, April 19, 2020; Tuesday, April 21, 2020 and Thursday, April 23rd, 2020 as period of the lockdown. “Let me also re-emphasise that while the window of relaxation is being observed, all interstate and international borders of our dear State will remain closed. As usual, all personnel on essential services will be given access to perform their duties. This window of relaxation of the lockdown will be reviewed from time to time. “I enjoin our people to scrupulously spend the window periods to restock on food items and conduct essential businesses during the period of the extended lockdown. “We must understand that we cannot afford to be complacent or lower our guards, even as we maintain this delicate balance between people’s welfare and healthcare.”     