To provide stable electricity to COVID-19 isolation centres, the Rural Electrification Agency (REA) has handed over four solar hybrid mini-grid plants to the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Lagos and Ogun states. According to its Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Ahmad Salihijo Ahmad, the donation was part of the agency’s support to the fight against COVID-19. The donation was in line with the intervention and palliative measures of President Muhammadu Buhari, and the Minister of Power’s directives on the role of REA in complementing the Federal Government’s efforts on Covid-19, he said. The REA chief also noted that the agency had outlined measures towards containing Covid-19 by providing emergency electrification of COVID-19 health centres across the country, collaboration with development partners on accelerating disbursement to qualifying developers as well as engaging the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), through the Federal Ministry of Power, towards inclusion of energy firms under the Covid-19 intervention programme of the bank. Ahmad reiterated REA’s support in containing COVID-19 and commitment to the electrification of unserved and underserved areas across the country. He said: “The REA being the implementing agency of the Federal Government for the electrification of unserved and underserved areas across the country, hereby provides and handover this 53.1KWp solar hybrid mini-grid at the University of Abuja Teaching Hospital Covid-19 Isolation Centre. This project is one of initial four solar hybrid mini grids implemented by the REA at COVID-19 health facilities. The other three are 25KWp solar mini grid at the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) Public Health Laboratory in Lagos, 20KWp solar hybrid mini grid at 128 Bed Ikenne Isolation Centre and 10KWp solar Mini hybrid mini grid at 100 Bed Iberekodo Isolation Centre in Ogun State. Implementing these projects will provide clean, safe and reliable electricity to enable our health workers thrive towards the fight against this Covid-19 disease.” The representative of NCDC, a Deputy Director, Mrs Babatunde Olajumoke, said: “We applaud this generous gesture by the Rural Electrification Agency of providing these solar hybrid mini grids to Covid-19 isolation centres and the public health laboratory in Lagos State. This will truly help our health workers in containing the spread of Covid-19 in the country.” The recipients of the solar mini-grids and representatives of the health facilities thanked the Federal Government and the REA for the gesture.