 The board of Fidson Healthcare Plc has assured shareholders that ongoing expansion and business growth initiatives would continue to strengthen the performance of the healthcare company in the years ahead. Addressing shareholders at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) in Lagos, Chairman, Fidson Healthcare Plc, Mr. Segun Adebanji, said the company has continued to strengthen its operating facilities through expansion and retooling. According to him, old machines and equipment have been replaced with modern ones as the company repositions through business realignment and useful industry collaboration in order to take advantage of the growth opportunities in the market. “We are currently expanding our capacity utilization through increased production and contract manufacturing for other notable companies in the industry,’’ Adebanji said. He pointed out that the company has also continued to leverage on its World Health Organisation (WHO)-certifiable factory as it recently entered a partnership with GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) that will see it manufacture for GSK’s West African operations going forward. He added the strategic partnership and other market penetration strategy and cost optimization were some of many initiatives to sustain growth and return value to shareholders of the company. He noted that with the conclusion of the company’s rights issue earlier this year, the company has already taken steps to improve its financial structure in line with the purpose of the new capital raising, which was aimed at refinancing expensive debt and working capital funding in a bid to improve margins. At the meeting, shareholders approved payment of a dividend per share of 15 kobo. The company’s turnover rose by 15 per cent from N14.06 billion in 2017 to N16.23 billion in 2018. Profit before tax however dropped to N160.9 million in 2018 as against N1.6 billion in 2017. The decline was attributed to increased cost of sales margin from 49 per cent in 2017 to 61 per cent in 2018 and 92 per cent increase in finance cost. 