 N-Power beneficiaries under the National Social Investment Programme (NSIP) have appealed to the Federal Government to pay their stipend for March. They appealed to the Minister of Humanitarian, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajiya Sadiya Farouk, to pay the March stipend to enable them put food on the table during the Covid-19 lockdown. A beneficiary in Lokoja, Kogi State, Mr. James Abayomi, said the non-payment of their March stipend had brought hardship on them during the Covid-19 period. He urged President Mohammadu Buhari to intervene urgently. He commended the president for initiating the programme, saying it has really helped them a lot. Another beneficiary, Abdullahi Umar, decried the recent development in the delay in payment of their monthly stipends, especially under the new Humanitarian Ministry, and urged the minister to address the challenges headlong.  According to him: ”Our stipend did not use to delay when the programme was under the Office of the Vice President. We are appealing to the minister to address the issue once and for all. ”Asking us to stay at home without paying our March stipend is impacting negatively on us, especially celebrating the Easter on an empty stomach’. ”The prompt payment of March 2020 stipend of N30, 000 each to about 500, 000 beneficiaries, would have been one of the most effective stimulus packages for Covid-19. But, uptil now, we have not been paid. The Unit Head of the N-Power Programme in Kogi State, Femi Bolaji, appealed to the beneficiaries to exercise patience, assuring them that their March stipend will be paid soon. ”When I reached out to Abuja Office to get update last week, I was informed that the March 2020 stipend will be paid soon. The ministry enjoined us to encourage the volunteers to exercise some patience,” he said. He therefore appealed to all Npower beneficiaries in the state to exercise patience, as the minister and her team are working round the clock to ensure payment of the March 2020 stipend paid.