 In 2018, over 200 people reportedly died in Nigeria over disputes bordering on land and cattle rearing between farmers and herdsmen. These crises were dominant in the North where agriculture plays pivotal roles. Over 3,500 deaths were recorded between 2015 and 2018, and about 10,000 deaths since the beginning of the Fourth Republic, predominantly in the Middle Belt, including Plateau, Bornu and Taraba states. These sad occurrences have left our economy in recession. Hundreds of people have been displaced, no thanks to the rampant crises between the herdsmen and farmers. The sudden explosion of this menace last year was due to the expansion of agriculturists. Not to dwell on the figures of lives and properties lost in this battle, it is no more news that Nigeria’s borders have been closed. Shut since last August, the country is getting accustomed to an impoverished economy in the guise of making our local products acceptable and better. On the contrary, the gains of our grains are not enough to feed a mouth, not to talk of a family in a nation of over 180 million people. Our cash crops don’t yield cash in this turbulence but remain leftovers of this agricultural weed. Our pastures are turbulent; the inhabitants are at the stake of disappearing in the surge of mindless herdsmen and older cousin – Boko Haram. Our green land has become a scarlet red field of spilled blood and littered bodies like a corn field razed by a wildfire. Our country has become a distilled nation of criminality and corruption. While we are still making  plans on improving our internal security, governors of the Western region had proposed a regional security outfit codenamed ‘Amotekun’, to assist the Police in fighting insecurity. Little did we know that a greater challenge was looming. First case of Coronavirus was recorded on February 27. The NCDC revealed that the case is an Italian who works in Nigeria and returned from Milan, Italy to Lagos on February 25. The Italian was later released by the Lagos State Government on March 20, after being given a clean bill of health. Ever since the white man brought the virus, the number of infected people has been on the rise and still counting. As at Tuesday, the number has reason to 1273 while 239 have been discharged and 40 deaths recorded, according to NCDC. The Federal Government has  banned social gatherings, including the lockdown of Lagos, Ogun and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) as a further measures to contain the virus. Businesses, schools and religious institutions have been shut. Transportation is restricted and social distancing is advised. Despite contributions from government, industries, religious organisations and philanthropists,   there are reports of uneven distribution and politicisation of relief materials. Hunger pervades the land. Out of anger, citizens have taken to the streets to protest insincerity on the part of those whose responsibility is to distribute the relief packages to citizens. “If the Coronavirus doesn’t kill us, hunger will”, that was the song on the lips of frustrated Nigerians who disobeyed government orders of staying indoors. They said nowhere was safe anymore; ‘’staying home without food is unsafe’’. Businesses have crumbled, robbers are wreaking havoc and community thieves are making life a living hell for people. Promising future leaders are threatened by this virus. There will be no future leaders if nothing is done to curb these disruptions in our economic and social  life. It is, therefore, essential for any government that believes in breeding future leaders to prioritise the citizens. The questions on the lips of Nigerians are: Will this country get back on her feet if it ever gets out of this pandemic? Will we ever be able to strengthen our down-sloping economy? Will our administrators ever be accountable? So, many questions have been asked and the people hope thatn the government will not fail them in this turbulent time. 