  GOVERNORS, ex-military President Ibrahim Babangida, Labour and Employment Minister Chris Ngige and the International Press Institute (IPI) on Sunday joined others to commiserate with President Muhammadu Buhari over the death of his Chief of Staff, Abba Kyari. Kyari died on Friday of complications from COVID-19 at the First Cardiology Consultant Hospital in Lagos. Gen. Babangida described the late Kyari as a very dedicated, conscientious, forthright, roundly qualified, astute and patriotic servant of Nigeria. According to him, as Chief of Staff, he preoccupied himself with always standing by you as a loyal staff, a friend and an adviser, who always answered the call to duty. “He was ready to always render you the necessary support in line with the policy principles and objectives of your administration. “I have no iota of doubt that Kyari had performed all his tasks creditably to your absolute satisfaction believing in his capacity and competency, he was honest, simple, humble and transparent. “He was always putting the people, the nation and your good self first in all his actions and duties,” he said. Speaking under the aegis of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF), governors regretted Kyari’s death and commiserated with President Buhari and the deceased’s family. The governors spoke in a letter written on their behalf by the NGF’s Chairman, Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State. In a separate statement, Sokoto State Governor Aminu Tambuwal said: ” The death of Mallam Abba, no doubt leaves a huge vacuum not only in the office he occupied but it also leaves us with a lot to think about in terms of the contagious and debilitating effect of this global pandemic. “As we ruminate over the swiftness of this pandemic, we in Sokoto state, extend our heartfelt condolences to President Muhammadu Buhari, the family of the deceased as well as the people and government of Borno state over this great loss.” “We pray fervently and earnestly for the repose of his soul, make heaven his abode and give President Muhammadu Buhari and the beloved family of the deceased the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss.” Katsina State Governor Aminu Bello Masari said Nigeria has lost one of its finest citizens, whose lifetime was devoted to the service of the fatherland. He said: ‘’ No amount of eulogy could quantify the value added by the deceased to the development of the nation, which spanned various facets of human endeavour, including banking, journalism and administration at the highest level.” Borno State Governor Babagana Umara Zulum said the late Kyari was a good man misunderstood by many people. His message reads: “I was really shocked by the news of his demise. I last spoke with him exactly weeks ago and he was in good spirit. I share the grief of his immediate family, His Excellency, Mr President and the Presidency as well as his larger family, the people of Borno State.” Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni described the death of the Chief of State to President as a huge loss to the nation. Buni, in a condolence message, said the country would miss and remember Kyari for his commitment to good governance. “He was an astute administrator and a great patriot who dedicated his life to the service of the nation,” the governor said. Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike, in a statement by the Commissioner for Information and Communication, Paulinus Nsirim, described Kyari as a patriot, trustworthy, humble and caring leader who contributed immensely to the development of the country. He said the death of Kyari was a great loss not only to President Buhari but the entire nation. Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki, in a statement, said he received the news of the passing of Abba Kyari with sadness. “Having associated with Abba Kyari for over two decades, I found him to be a complete gentleman, very intellectual and a true Nigerian patriot. “He was a forthright man, who was resolute in his conviction and loyal to any cause he believed in. I admire how he stood with President Muhammadu Buhari through thick and thin. I, therefore, express my personal condolences and that of Edo people to President Buhari, who we know will also miss Abba Kyari greatly,” Obaseki said. Ngige deeply touched Ngige also expressed his deepest sympathies for the immediate family of the late presidential aide as they mourn his demise. He condoled with the deceased’s mentor, Mamman Daura, the Kyari clan of Bama and the government and people of Borno State. In a statement by his media aide, Emmanuel Nzomiwu, the Labour Minister said: “At our future Federal Executive Council (FEC) meetings, the highly critical beneficial contributions of the late Chief of Staff, Malam Abba Kyari on fiscal and monetary issues, implementation of government policies and programmes, will be greatly missed. “He was a very highly educated and knowledgeable person, having garnered a lot of experience in the public and private sector as a very highly skilled and exposed manager of human and material resources. “Hearing about the death of the Chief of Staff deeply saddened me. He was a patriotic and selfless Nigerian that devoted all his energy, experience and potentials to the service of our great nation, Nigeria.” IPI mourns a colleague The IPI, the global network of editors, media executives and Communication experts, said it received with shock the passing away of the Chief of Staff. The group, in a statement signed by its leadership in Nigeria, Kabiru Yusuf (Nigerian chapter), Wada Maida (Executive Board member), and Raheem Adedoyin (Secretary), said: “We mourn the loss of this statesman, an accomplished journalist, an astute public officer and a decent human being. “We recall with nostalgia, the immense contribution of late Kyari to the successful hosting of the 2018 IPI World Congress in Abuja. “We beseech the Almighty Allah to grant the deceased Aljanah Firdaus and to grant President Muhammad’s Buhari, the Government of Nigeria and the Kyari family, the fortitude to bear this irreparable loss.” CAN commiserates with President Buhari on Kyari’s death The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) commiserated with the President on the demise of his Chief of Staff. The CAN President, Revd Samson Ayokunle, said this in a statement by his Special Assistant on Media and Communications, Pastor Adebayo Oladeji, on Sunday in Abuja. Ayokunle, in a letter of condolence to the President, said that the association was grieved that late Kyari contracted the virus abroad while on official duty. Ashafa: Kyari lived the life of a patriot Senator Gbenga Ashafa, in a statement, commiserated with the Kyari family, Buhari and the entire country. “Mallam Abba Kyari’s life was a masterclass in loyalty and fidelity to the Nation. Definitely his contribution to this administration would continue to be a reference point for commitment to the goal of reviving the fortunes of our dear country Nigeria. “Clearly, He lived the life of a patriot,”  Ashafa said.