 FIVE persons have been confirmed dead after being crushed by vehicles in separate accidents in Lagos. The deceased, four of whom are members of two families, died on the spots at Sangotedo, Ajah and Ojodu in Isheri areas of the state Tuesday morning. It was gathered that the Sangotedo accident involved seven members of two families who were jogging around 6:30am. The Nation gathered that a saloon car on top speed suddenly skidded off its lane, entered one-way and knocked the seven joggers to the ground. It was learnt that four of the victims- two from each of the families- allegedly had their heads crushed and died on the spot, while the other three were rushed to the hospital. However, another account of events claimed the other three siblings had gone to the bus stop to visit and help their mother shade fresh tomatoes before the accident occurred. Although eyewitness accounts claimed that all seven persons were killed in the crash, the police clarified that three persons survived and were receiving treatments at the hospital. The police also dismissed claims that the other three siblings were at the bus stop to help their mother sell Tomatoes, adding that all the victims had their joggers and sports shoes on. At Ojodu Bus Stop, witnesses said a car also on top speed swerved in an attempt to avoid collision with an oncoming vehicle only to ram into an old woman and two siblings standing on the road. “I was on my way to work. It was around 10:30am when I saw a horrible accident. The accident occurred shortly after police checkpoint. “A car was coming on top speed and when it got to the junction, it almost collided with another vehicle. The driver swerved and in the process applied his brakes. “That was how he rammed into commuters standing at the bus stop. I saw people hit. One of them was at the road side badly injured in the head a female child fair wearing a top and shots,” said a source. Confirming the accidents, police spokesman Bala Elkana said the two drivers were arrested and currently in police custody. He said the siblings involved in the Ojodu accident did not die, confirming that the old woman who was standing with them died. “I confirm that there were two accidents. That of Sangotedo involved seven persons. Four of them are from one family and the other three from one family too. They were jogging when a vehicle lost control and hit them. “Two siblings each from both families died while the others are receiving treatment in the hospital. At Ojodu, an old woman was killed but the two young siblings who were affected are receiving treatment in the hospital also. “The two drivers are in custody and investigation is ongoing,” he said.