 Super Eagles  coach Gernot Rohr  has agreed to a pay-cut in the face of  dwindling fortune as a result of the Coronavirus pandemic as part of his solidarity to  the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) in this troublesome period. The German  coach, who was on a reported $55,000 salary  as per the last contract renewal in 2019, has reliably  informed his employers  of his willingness to a pay cut  as both parties dally over  a new contract. NFF 2nd Vice president Shehu Dikko  said  the 66-year-old former Bayern Munich  is  eagerly looking  forward  to the  extension of his  contract  and  it was just a matter of time that all issues  surrounding the contract will be sorted out. “Both parties are mutually on the same page,” assured Dikko. I can tell you as the extension contract is being prepared, there  is an ongoing conversation between the parties to smoothen any rough edges or red flags which I believe there is none so far. “This is  in addition to the conversation that took place prior to commencement of the extension contract preparation.” Though the final contact paper to be tabled before Rohr is still in the works since it involves inputs from various departments of the NFF including technical, legal, legal committee , strategy committee , Technical Committee  and Executive committee.  Yet Dikko said everything  was on course, adding the coach  is pained that the NFF  would presumably lose income following the suspension of football activities as result of COVID-19. He said: “In fact even within this ongoing conversation, Rohr agreed to offer a pay cut for the next few months in view of the COVID -19 impact to the economy as a form of solidarity to NFF and the sponsors. “The only thing left is to agree the actual percentage of the pay cut and actually this conversation was even before the England Manager Gareth Southgate did the same in England. “So this clearly shows you the cordial relationship between the NFF and the Rohr contrary to what a section of the media portrays. “So both parties are hopeful to cross this bridge soonest and just like it was  done before so that  all focus on the job at hand,” added Dikko who doubles as the chairman of the League Management Company (LMC)-the body in charge of the Organisation of the domestic professional league.