 To thanks to the raging coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, the entire world has been thrust into unusual times and Nigeria is no exception. In addition to severely limiting to varying degrees the movement of people within their territories, most countries have also shut their international borders, bringing our globalised universe to a virtual standstill, all in a bid to contain and obliterate the insidious virus. One of the consequences of this unanticipated development for Nigeria is that the country’s leadership elite, most of who are used to jetting out of the country for medical care in the most advanced countries abroad for even the most elementary ailments, can no longer indulge in that luxury, at least for now. They thus have no choice but to make use of the negligible and very expensive private hospitals or the few elite public health centres that are relatively better equipped and staffed than the vast majority of dilapidated, derelict and virtually collapsed medical facilities across the country. This unfortunate scenario is, however, turning into a blessing in disguise as necessity, the fabled mother of invention, is birthing vigorous research initiatives in many of our tertiary teaching and research institutions, as solutions are sought for various dimensions of the crisis. Shortly after the first COVID-19 index case was identified in the country on February 27, for instance, a collaborative effort by the Redeemers University (RUN), Ede; the College of Medicine, University of Lagos; the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and the Nigerian Institute of Medical Research (NIMR) achieved the sequencing of the first genome of the virus. Acknowledging this contribution, which helps gives insight into the DNA of the virus, and is important for vaccine development, the Director-General of the World Health Organization (WHO), Dr Tedros Ghebreyesus said, “Thank you @mcdegov and the government of Nigeria for the swift and transparent way you have shaped the COVID-19 sequence from the country’s first case. This is an important act of solidarity and an important step in stopping the coronavirus from spreading further”.  The Vice-Chancellor, Obaafemi Awolowo University, (OAU), Ile-Ife, Professor Eyitayo Ogunbodede, says the institution is intensifying its Department of Pharmacy’s already running research programme into finding remedies against viruses, and particularly the coronavirus in Nigeria’s natural products. On his part, the Rector of the Federal Polytechnic, Ilaro, Mr. Olusegun Aluko, announced the invention by the institution from locally sourced materials of a ventilator that costs less than one million naira. Similarly, the Dean, Faculty of Engineering, Bayero University, Kano, (BUK), Professor Salisu Dan Azumi, says the school is working towards producing ventilators for use by isolation centres in Kano. From the Abia State University, Uturu, has come the report of the development of a Geographical Tracking Device and COVID-19 Risk Map that uses static and dynamic data to anticipate areas and degrees of risk, as well as extent of spread, to facilitate proactive planning and response. A number of other institutions have also taken initiatives such as the production of sanitisers and hand washing machines, personal protective equipment as well as engaging in research towards finding vaccines and cures. Some of these efforts may appear somewhat elementary and claims of achievements will naturally be subject to tests of scientific validity and practical applicability. Yet, for a country that has so long neglected adequate investment in local research to find indigenous solutions to local problems, this new enthusiasm in this regard is laudable and must be encouraged. One lesson of the coronavirus pandemic is that we can no longer afford to deride and snub local research initiatives and solutions as circumstances may make the imported alternatives we have so much confidence in simply unavailable. Local solutions may at first not march sophisticated international standards but will improve with the necessary patronage, encouragement and use over time. This coronavirus has brought us an opportunity to invest in the development of local technology and expertise which we must not squander. We must seize the opportunity to correct all the shortcomings that have been killing research and development efforts in the country.