To strengthen its network and improve power supply across its network, Eko Electricity Distribution Plc (EKEDP) investments in infrastructure has resulted in significant improvements in power supplied to its customers. According to EKEDP’s Head, Corporate Communications and spokesperson, Godwin Idemudia, the company embarked on projects focused on reinforcing its network’s stability to safeguard the power supply to customers. He stated that residents under its Lekki Business District were the initial beneficiaries of improved infrastructure. According to him, EKEDP is set to deploy a 15MVA, 33/11KV Mobile Power. The transformer, which is meant for emergency situations (as a temporary solution), is to ensure the supply of electricity to areas experiencing a power outage due to failure of the existing Power Transformer – pending its repair. In addition to the Mobile Power Transformer, EKEDP has also acquired fifteen 500 KVA transformers to ease the load on current transformers and cater to network expansion. Investments have also gone into the rehabilitation and maintenance of 11KV and 33KV Feeder lines across Lekki and its environs. Idemudia said: “Power supply in Lekki has improved significantly and will only get better as numerous upgrades to our infrastructure are underway”. He also pointed out that the deployed equipment utilises the latest technological advancements and adheres to the best global safety practices thus ensuring improved power supply and enhanced customer satisfaction. Idemudia praised the customers for their continued support and urged them to fulfill their obligations by paying their bills on time to enable the company embark upon more investments in infrastructure. “The projects are evidence of the company’s commitment towards improved customer satisfaction and they are targeted to all areas within its operational network in order to make electricity more accessible and effectively distributed.” He advised customers to adhere strictly to the directives of the Lagos State Government focused on containing the spread of COVID-19.