Union Bank of Nigeria on Tuesday announced additional donations totalling N300 million as part of its multi-pronged approach to tackle the spread of Coronavirus in Nigeria. As part of the Private Sector Coalition Against COVID-19, Union Bank contributed N250 million into the fund set up by the coalition to raise N120 billion to fight the outbreak in Nigeria. The bank also made a further donation of  N50 million to the Lagos State Covid-19: Emergency Food Response programme which was set up to support low income families who will be directly impacted by the state-wide restrictions in place to limit the spread of the disease. Lagos State has the highest number of Covid-19 cases in Nigeria. The bank had last week made an initial donation of N50 million or $130,000 into a $500,000 fund set up by 54gene, an African genomics research, services and development company working closely with the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) to fight the Coronavirus. Chief Executive Officer, Union Bank of Nigeria (UBN), Mr. Emeka Emuwa, said the fight against Covid-19 requires all hands-on deck with close collaboration between the public and private sector. “Union Bank is committed to supporting Nigeria’s response to ensure the country avoids a pandemic. We will, especially, be looking to support ordinary Nigerians who will be disproportionately impacted economically at this time,” Emuwa said. Meanwhile, Union Bank has introduced a 24-hour toll-free customer service line as part of proactive efforts to ease banking worries during public restrictions to contain Coronavirus pandemic. The multi-lingual customer service line, which allows customers to call the bank’s contact centre at no cost, was launched yesterday as part of the bank’s efforts to ensure it provides seamless banking services as the country responds to the Coronavirus pandemic. Speaking on the new service, Executive Director and Head of Retail and Digital Banking, Union Bank of Nigeria (UBN) Plc, Mrs. Lola Cardoso said the bank’s goal as a trusted partner to its customers is to ensure that they don’t have to worry about banking during this time. “A toll-free number will allow our customers call us free of charge to resolve any banking issues they may have without worrying about cost. We believe this kind of support is crucial for our customers during this difficult period,” Cardoso said about the new number, 0800 700 7000. According to her, through Union Bank’s robust digital banking channels – UnionOnline, UnionMobile and the USSD code *826#, customers can continue to enjoy uninterrupted banking services round the clock, despite movement restrictions in certain Nigerian states owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. She said the introduction of the new toll-free customer service line reaffirms Union Bank’s commitment to the provision of simpler, smarter banking services to its teeming customers.