 THESE are trying times no doubt. Nations that pride themselves as infallible are humbled. Medical science appears lagging in catching up with scourge that ravages human race. From the powerful United States of America to the queen’s land of Britain, Italy, Spain and Africa, leaders maintain unusual sobriety in the face of Coronavirus that neither respect class nor nobles. Leaders are challenged to protect lives and then livelihoods. The interventions from governments across the world have been inclusive involving both the legislature, judiciary and other critical institutions in the society. In Nigeria, the legislative leadership of the House of Representatives led by Hon Femi Gbajabiamila has been proactive in responding to the pandemic. The House of Representatives on Tuesday, March 24, passed the Emergency Economic Stimulus Bill, 2020 to cater for the imminent economic fallout that will be caused by raging pandemic. This indicates that the leadership of the House was forward-looking and aligned with global norm. In the United States for instance, the government dangled carrots before citizens to state home. Families in distress received fat cheques while companies get government’s support to stay afloat during the most challenging period of the century. By initiating the Stimulus Bill and not waiting for the executive, the House of Representatives has demonstrated patriotism and love for other country-men. Afterall, that is what responsible leadership is all about. It is also on record that the leadership of the National Assembly on Wednesday, March 25, about 24 hours after adjournment, engaged some top government officials in the executive arm and approved the release of N6.5billion for the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), N10BN for Lagos State, as part of efforts to address the issue of Covid-19 pandemic. In solidarity with the people in this challenging time, the members of the House have also agreed to reconvene despite their adjournment to consider measures at containing the spread of the virus. Not done. In a rare display of humanity and love, the members of the House committed their March and April salaries as contribution to combat COVID-19 pandemic. The lawmakers out-gave federal ministers who were only willing to part with half of a month salary. The Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, while announcing the gesture via social media on Tuesday, said the two-month salary donation would be independent of the contributions by individual lawmakers to alleviate the hardships being faced by their constituents “at this time of national emergency.” To ensure that billions that had rolled in to halt the spread of the virus in Nigeria, Gbajabiamila also disclosed that as part of the House legislative duty, the green chamber would monitor the distribution and usage of cash and the material donations. The speaker is also desirous of alleviating the sufferings of the people at the grassroots across Nigeria. He charged the nation’s apex bank, the Central Bank of Nigeria to give cash grants to 774 LGAs. He said, “We have in the House of Representatives jointly committed to contributing 100 per cent of our salaries for the next two months to the fight against COVID-19 in Nigeria. “Our contribution will support provisions for the welfare of frontline medical professionals and health workers and other interventions, to provide for the wellbeing of all Nigerians through these trying times. “Accordingly, I have directed the Clerk to the National Assembly to see to it that all members’ salaries are transferred to the National Relief Fund for this month and the next. “This is independent of ongoing individual efforts by members to alleviate the suffering brought on by this virus and to improve the living conditions of citizens in their various constituencies. “The House also calls on the CBN, as part of its policy measures in response to the COVID-19 outbreak, to immediately direct cash grants to the 774) LGA administrations in the country to provide food and other essentials to at-risk individuals and communities.” “After this is over and moving forward, we must do everything in our power to ensure that we will never again come upon a moment such as this, as ill-equipped as we are now. “The transmission of this disease at a scale for which our systems are not prepared is our biggest present threat. We alleviate that threat by self-isolating. The bad news of this disease is that everyone is a potential victim, but the good news is that everyone is a potential solution. “Keep in mind that if we do not rigorously follow these self-isolation guidelines, all our other efforts will at the end of the day come to nothing. “Let this be for all of us, a time for introspection and prayer, a time to commune with God. Let us spend time with our children. Study, write, meditate and exercise. Do whatever you must to get through this period but do it at home. “We are at war and our mission is first to survive, and then to overcome. “These objectives require that we act in unison and remain laser-focused on the challenge at hand. The Speaker also met with the Minister of Power, Sale Mamman, the management of the National Electricity Regulatory Commission and other top government officials in response to the outcry of Nigerians on poor power supply during the lockdown. Gbajabiamila said that the lawmakers, in every way they could, would continue to support the efforts “to ensure that our people make it through this difficult time with dignity and peace of mind.” He said, “None of us living in Nigeria today has ever experienced a time such as this. At this moment when our determination to succeed is surpassed only by our recognition of the dire consequences of falling short, we are hopeful that our best efforts will be enough. Today, we have a legislative arm which does not just stand akimbo when the nation is in dire strait.  