 As part of its Corporate Social Responsibility, aptly called school roof renovation project, PlusWorld Roofing Limited, has inaugurated the roof it renovated at the Diamonds Mine School, Ogba, Ifako-Ijaiye, Lagos. Plusworld Managing Director Mr John Igbaifua, who handed over the project to the school proprietor, Mrs. Romoke Aderibigbe, said the project was part of the company’s way of impacting the society and ensuring that pupils learn under a very conducive environment. He said the firm planned to renovate 1,000 public schools across the country, adding that Diamonds Mine School was a part of fulfilling that vision. He said: “The renovation we carried out here is part of Plusworld’s 1k (one thousand) school project. The 1k school project, which was conceived by all members of my team, is part of our mission to restore one thousand school’s roof within the next five years.” Igbaifua praised his partnership with Diamond Minds and called for its replication “so that we can restore as many schools as possible within the shortest possible time.” He said the paint used in coating the roofs was eco-friendly and would enhance learning as the school’s interior would be cooler. “Apart from the fact that this coating has transformed the colour of the roof, it also has an electrosmetic property, which means it has a rubber like property, that seals permanently, All those tiny holes caused by ultraviolet rays of the sun, which might lead to bigger problems like roof leaks etc. Because the property is also ray reflective, it throws back harmful these ultra-rays, making the inside of the house cooler.  You now have a brand new roof that its life time is going to be prolonged,” he said.  Beyond the repairs, Igbaifua said the firm had project, YouHub club, through which pupils would learn to carry out minor repairs in their environment. “We have the YouHub project which teaches little kids how to do little things in the house and we equally teach them about the environment. This is just our own way of giving back to the society,” he said. Thanking Plusworld for the project, Mrs. Aderibigbe said the school was more beautiful. “We never believed the roof of the school was so dirty until the Plusworld team came and started washing it. When they finished, we were stunned because the school now looks more beautiful. It is like Plusworld has given us a new roof. All through the exercise we never experienced any disturbance to learning activities and since they finished, our classrooms are cooler than they used to be,” she said. One of the pupils, Daniel Chinedu, said he was happy about the changes. “Now the roof is very neat and wearing a new colour and I am more comfortable now than before. Now we are safer, we can learn more without any fear of any leakages,” he said.