Governors Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano State, his wife Prof. Hafsat Abdullahi Ganduje, and his colleagues in Anambra Willie Obiano and former Ekiti State Governor Ayodele Fayose tested negative for COVID-19. Receiving the reports at the state House, on Thursday, Governor Ganduje enjoined Nigerians to continue to pray for divine intervention and to adhere strictly to the tips from health professionals especially on staying at home and regular hand washing with running water. Ganduje reiterated his commitment in making sure that the directive given by the state government on boundary closure is strictly observed. But the Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom and his Deputy, Engineer Benson Abounu, who voluntarily submitted their samples for Coronavirus test awaits the result. Ortom who challenged others to go for the test said “knowing your Coronavirus status is not a death sentence.” But in Anambra, it was jubilation yesterday as the  Governor, Chief Willie Obiano, made a public appearance, after 14 days self-quarantine. The Governor said three more samples of suspected cases had been sent to Irua, Edo State for testing, while the state awaits the results of two samples. Obiano, further announced that he would Commission the 250 bed isolation centre in Mbaukwu today. But while Ortom awaits the result of his test, the former Governor of Ekiti, Ayodele Fayose, announced that he has tested negative for the virus. He said he had submitted himself for voluntary testing for the coronavirus which came out negative. Fayose said he was delighted to be adjudged free of the virus and asked more Nigerians to go for test while praying for victims. ”I took a Covid-19 test yesterday because of my perceived exposure in the last two weeks I just got the result which is negative. ”Notwithstanding, I will remain indoor like other Nigerians and I encourage more people to go for the test and remain at home in line with government directive,” Fayose was quoted as saying. A former Deputy Governor in the state, Prof. Kolapo Olusola-Eleka, also urged every Nigerian to pray against the pandemic. Eleka who was not specific whether he too has had any cause to go for the Coronavirus test said: “Prayer changes things. Ernest prayers will change our situation for the better. Senator Binos Yeroe, of Adamawa South District has challenged all public officials to present themselves for the test. Senator Yeroe, at a press conference in his house, said he was certified negative of the coronavirus pandemic. He said he had gone for the test after isolating himself for 14 days as his an example for other public officials on the way to go during the coronavirus epidemic. He stressed that he submitted himself to the process even when he knew that he had no prior contact with anyone that had tested positive. Meanwhile, Kano State government confirmed that 22 of the 25 suspected COVID-19 persons have tested negative to the dreaded disease. The State Commissioner for Health Dr Aminu Ibrahim Tsyanwa, who confirmed this at a news conference held in the state, said while the results, from the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) showed that 22 tested negative, the remaining three other persons are being awaited. Kano is one of the states across the federation with no record of the dreaded COVID-19 disease.  Dr Tsyanwa said the state is already collaborating with the NCDC for the establishment of laboratory centre to conduct test for the disease. In Ondo State, two suspected cases were also also declared negative yesterday. The two who were from Ondo town and Akure, the state capital, were said to have come in contact with confirmed cases. Ondo State Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Donald Ojogo, said the two suspected cases came out negative today.