 Parents and guardians of Fountain Heights School have being advised to protect their wards by maintaining good etiquette which is lacking in the society at large. Etiquette Consultant Mrs Morenikeji Olutunji, who had a session on etiquette with parents and guardians during the schools ‘parents evening’, said this. She said: “Etiquette is not only about how people behave, it also teaches us about safety tips on how to relate, so we don’t transfer germs from one person to another. Basically, I will just say that you keep your privacy, etiquette teaches that and it works with what is going on now.” She said etiquette which is about values, is the missing thing in the society.  She underscored the need to sensitise the general public. “It is like the traffic light that keeps us humans from crashing into one another so we need to know what is acceptable and what is not acceptable.  Etiquette has a code for handshake; we know we are humans and we do human things, so we always say to people to keep your right hand free from touching stuff, from blowing your nose and coughing, use your left hand for that because you use your right hand to shake hands, touch items and exchange items. “Your culture maybe different from mine and vice versa but etiquette is like the base that guides us to help us understand that we should treat each other as humans irrespective of our cultures. It makes everybody feel at ease with each other at social events or places generally,” said Morenikeji. Proprietor Fountain Heights School, Mrs Adebimpe Delano, said the event organised yearly for parents and pupils, was inspired by lowering of standards in the country. “In the primary school we have etiquette classes all the time and in the secondary school, once a term and those finishing school in SS3  also receive etiquette classes,” said Delano. On how to create the awareness across other  schools around she said: “We usually have Science Week and during that week, we invite other schools and we look for issues to talk about. When next we are having that, we are definitely having etiquette,” she said.