 Nigerian actor Williams Uchemba through his foundation has donated relief materials such as cash, and food items to over 5000 people residing in slum communities in Lagos state. The Nollywood actor was seen on his recent Instagram post distributing items and sensitizing the community about hygiene guidelines to prevent the spread of COVID-19. “With the help of God for the past two weeks, we @williams_uchembafoundation have been reaching out to the people in the slums to provide them with food, water, and funds during this pandemic. We initially projected to feed 1000 people but we are almost done with that number and have more people still not fed, so we have increased the number to 5,000 people. I believe partnership solves all problems that is why I want to thank and appreciate each and everyone that has in one way or the other been actively involved in making this happen either through service, donation, or partnership. I want to thank my brother @falzthebahdguy for also taking up the #givechallenge and contributing funds to buy more foodstuff for the people in the slum, and @chiomagoodhair did not only bring some foodstuff but volunteer with sharing it to the people. I believe this is what is in the heart of God and together we make sure hunger doesn’t kill our people.  “Any partnership/donation or contribution will go a long way, any amount will really go a long way for someone,” Uchemba posted on his page. He also thanked Mavin’s boss, Don Jazzy for supporting his foundation. “A few days ago I started the #1millionnairachallenge and the idea is for people that have the capacity to give 1 Million Naira (either worth of foodstuff or cash) to people around their localities to help them survive this very trying times especially now that the lockdown has been extended to another two weeks to help reduce the rate of hunger especially in areas that people don’t know exist. And in a few minutes, @donjazzy took up the challenge and sent his funds towards feeding more people in the slums. It’s never about the money, it is always about the heart to know the pain people in the streets are feeling and I must say that @donjazzy is the real MVP????. #1millionnairachallenge”. Uchemba’s first movie production and first international film of 2020 for Netflix with the title ‘Slay’ is still in the works 