Want a taste of governance by muscle-flexing and its dramatic collapse, at the sight of harder(?) muscles? Hop on the next jet to Nyesom  Wike’s Rivers, and see, in full technicolor, the swaggering rise but woeful crash of melodrama, when simple, routine dialogue could have done the trick. It’s the euphonic tale of eating crow, after a loud crow! In two short weeks, the Wike Triumphant Army against COVID-19, out for enemies of Rivers smuggling in the disease, announced the capture of such implacable enemies. First, were pilots from a private aviation firm, that flew oil workers into Rivers, against local imperial authority.  Well, the central government might rule the aviation waves.  But terra-firma, everyone knew the undisputed emperor! So, the captured pilots and crew bitterly found out: the muscle-flexing Rivers authorities, with the governor himself leading the prowl, snatched them, right from the proverbial lion’s den — a military base, under the control of same federal authorities.  That feat was grandly announced, via a state-wide broadcast: Wike wins Round One! Pronto, the “captured” were trotted to a magistrate’s court, which promptly ordered detention, pending bail proceedings.  That prompted compulsory isolation, according to Rivers COVID-19 emergency procedures — hardly a crime, except that the pilot and aviation workers union growled, warning Wike to beware of victimizing its members on legitimate duty; and giving stiff notice of a strike. Then, second: another highly publicized capture of oil workers, in a Toyota Coaster bus, inwards Rivers from the neighbouring Akwa Ibom State.  Again, the imperial local authorities had triumphed over deluded federal authorities, and their insistence that even as COVID-19 ravages the land, oil workers must keep the economy buzzing. Again, for the captured oil workers, marched to isolation centres, the Rivers law must take its course, as the governor roared, on state media, bawling to all that the fight was in him; and there would be no retreat, no surrender, until “enemies” importing COVID-19 into Rivers, were worsted. Wike wins Round 2?  Hardball wished! A few days later, all that macho had vanished — like dew, at the earliest sight of the morning sun!  First, the pilots were granted bail (face-saving?) — apparently after some belated dialogue, that could have averted all the empty thunder and dramatics. Then PENGASSAN — Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria — the oil union that, with Frank Kokori’s NUPENG (National Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers), came onto its own in the classic June 12 face-off against the Sani Abacha dictatorship. To the PENGASSAN roar came the Rivers moan: the Exxon-Mobil 22 were to be released without charge, according to Rivers Attorney-General, Zaccheaus Adangor.  To return the favour, PENGASSAN called off its strike notice. See the futility of governance by muscle-flexing and allied dramatics, when quiet dialogue would do?