SIR: The Electricity Corporation of Nigeria (ECN) was the first statutory power supply organ created and run by the federal government. Electricity was before this is a section of a government department. So, if today, April 2020, power supply is epileptic and erratic as we used to say, it would not have been a rare phenomenon. But today, again in April 2020, power supply is almost completely off from our life and space. I have been told, and sometime tend to believe the story; the situation is ‘the same’ throughout the country. But this would not be true as it will not have done justice to the near total neglect and deliberate punishment of Ekiti people by the Big people, man and woman who hold the sword of Damocles over our heads from Benin City. For long, and as much as I can remember, we have suffered some benign neglect from power suppliers, but the present people in Benin City – the Benin Electricity Distribution Company (BEDC), are of a different dye. In some of the past, we used to have power supply for a few hours of the day. This was so regular and fixed that we had successfully fixed our minds on this deliberate arrangement to inflict undeserved permanent punishment on a whole people, but events and developments of the last two to three months have forced us to accept more realistic, if bigger punishment from the Benin Big people. The new power supply to Ekiti-land forces us to accept supply for a few hours- sometimes, four hours in alternative days. Yes, in the year 2020, Ekiti people are forced (really, we have no option) to have power supply four to five hours every 48 hours; that makes almost two consecutive days. In other climes, this would be unthinkable as the people would have asked questions which the Big People at Benin would have answered, not in words but in positive action. Whoever at whatever level decided to plague our people, yes, our people with this privatization rogue, may God forgive them. We beg the Almighty God to help persuade our masters in Abuja to take possession of all power supply machinery and relive us poor Ekiti people from the strangulation of the Big people domiciled in Benin City. To put it simply, ‘one day on, the next day off’ is brutish, cruel and uncivilized. I have been told by many people who know better than me that any complaint about the Big people and the sacrosanct company based in Benin City is a waste of time as their hands and legs are tied together with some Big and powerful people in Abuja. But if this were so, will this equation remain for life until Jesus comes? One day, there will be a Pharaoh who won’t know a Joseph, that time, ‘the come shall come to become’. But before we refer to K.O Mbadiwe (of sweet memories), we are going on our knees to beg the Benin Big people, particularly the Biggest Woman in the trade to remember the poor people living in the enclave called Ekiti State . God will hear our prayers! 