 Ex-Big Brother Naija Housemate and Actress Venita Akpofure says she consented to her role in “Unmarried” series currently streaming on Showmax because she believed so much in connecting with women. Akpofure, in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Thursday in Lagos on Thursday, said women needed to trust each other more for a solid support system. NAN reports that “Unmarried” series explores the relationship between three women  and the challenges they face in their respective love lives. Venita, who plays Nengi on the show, is a working-class woman whose seemingly perfect world suddenly turned upside down. According to the lead actresses in the series, “I am a firm believer in connecting with women and this kind of script is very relatable and a lot more common than the society likes to present.” “It has always been my prerogative to be part of that voice that speaks to them so when called for the script, I was really excited about it. “Women need to trust each other more because in that way it’s easier to create what can be a foundation for a solid support system,  be it an organisation or a personal relationship,” she said. She told NAN that it was difficult to trust another woman in an environment where society placed so many restraints on you as a woman, but by and large women were adapting to it. The actress described her participation in the Big Brother Naija as a personal journey of rediscovery “For the Big Brother Naija experience, personally, I was on my own personal journey of rediscovering myself and that was the best thing for me, you can’t put any money on that. “Also, the option of having more opportunities in terms of business, especially in my line of work, is one of the good things that has come from my time in the house.” She said the worst thing about being an ex-housemate was having to deal with thousands of opinions on what you should be doing, what you should look like, especially with being a single mother of two, it was not fun. “They like to take my matter to town but I’ve been in the industry for quite some time so I’ve developed a certain layer, I would like to think. “But once in a while, I’m a troll too, I like to troll people who come for me, am as human as any of those behind the keyboards so it is what it is. “Since coming out, I launched my beauty line, Ivie Lux. I also auditioned for something pretty big and I’m waiting on feedback for that, on the whole I just want to progress and expand and the best way is to remain consistent,” she said. Akpofure said she looked forward to going back to movie set after the entire lock down as content creating had taken most of her time because she had been reconnecting and reaffirming some bonds she had not kept for long. (NAN) Akpofure, in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Thursday in Lagos on Thursday, said women needed to trust each other more for a solid support system. NAN reports that “Unmarried” series explores the relationship between three women and the challenges they face in their respective love lives. Venita, who plays Nengi on the show, is a working-class woman whose seemingly perfect world suddenly turned upside down. According to the lead actresses in the series, “I am a firm believer in connecting with women and this kind of script is very relatable and a lot more common than the society likes to present.” “It has always been my prerogative to be part of that voice that speaks to them so when called for the script, I was really excited about it. “Women need to trust each other more because in that way it’s easier to create what can be a foundation for a solid support system, be it an organisation or a personal relationship,” she said. She told NAN that it was difficult to trust another woman in an environment where society placed so many restraints on you as a woman, but by and large women were adapting to it. The actress described her participation in the Big Brother Naija as a personal journey of rediscovery “For the Big Brother Naija experience, personally, I was on my own personal journey of rediscovering myself and that was the best thing for me, you can’t put any money on that. “Also, the option of having more opportunities in terms of business, especially in my line of work, is one of the good things that has come from my time in the house.” She said the worst thing about being an ex-housemate was having to deal with thousands of opinions on what you should be doing, what you should look like, especially with being a single mother of two, it was not fun. “They like to take my matter to town but I’ve been in the industry for quite some time so I’ve developed a certain layer, I would like to think. “But once in a while, I’m a troll too, I like to troll people who come for me, am as human as any of those behind the keyboards so it is what it is. “Since coming out, I launched my beauty line, Ivie Lux. I also auditioned for something pretty big and I’m waiting on feedback for that, on the whole I just want to progress and expand and the best way is to remain consistent,” she said. Akpofure said she looked forward to going back to movie set after the entire lock down as content creating had taken most of her time because she had been reconnecting and reaffirming some bonds she had not kept for long. (NAN)