Several quoted companies have opted to conduct their annual general meetings (AGMs) through proxies as directors seek to circumvent restrictions on public gathering and movement imposed by governments as part of containment strategies for the Covid-19 pandemic. A review at the weekend indicated that most companies that have so far made regulatory filings for AGMs had indicated that the meeting will be conducted through the use of proxies. The adoption of AGM by proxy came after The Nation exclusively reported that inability to hold AGM may stall payments of more than N600 billion dividends. Companies that have published notice of AGM by proxy included Access Bank, United Bank for Africa (UBA), Fidelity Bank, FBN Holdings, Transnational Corporation of Nigeria (Transcorp), Africa Prudential, Transcorp Hotels and FCMB Group. Lagos State, Nigeria’s main economic centre and traditionally most favoured state for AGMs and Federal Capital Territory (FCT), the political centre, are the epicentres of the Coronavirus pandemic and are undergoing lockdown and restriction on public gathering due to Coronavirus pandemic, automatically closing down large-group assembly like AGM. The average number of shareholders for a quoted company is more than 1,000 and it is estimated that at least 20 per cent of shareholders attend AGM. Besides, representatives of regulatory authorities, professional advisers, independent observers and the mass media also usually attend AGM. The rules on proxy allow shareholders to appoint personal representative or to appoint the chairman of the board or any presiding official or any of the directors of a company to act for them. The rules also allow shareholders to vote on the agenda or resolutions of the meeting ahead of the meeting date by indicating their vote on the proxy form. Access Bank, which has scheduled its AGM for April 30, 2020, said shareholders may mandate either the chairman of the bank, Dr Ajoritsedere Awosika or its group managing director, Mr Herbert Wigwe to stand in as their proxy. Shareholders are expected to submit their proxy forms indicating how they intend to vote on the proposed resolutions for the meeting. FBN Holdings stated that any shareholder that is entitled to attend and vote at the AGM has been advised to select from a list of nine persons including chairman of the holdco, Dr Oba Otudeko; managing director, Mr UK Eke; managing director of First Bank of Nigeria Limited, Dr Adesola Adeduntan and shareholders’ representatives including, Sir Sunny Nwosu, Mr Boniface Okezie, Mr Matthew Akinlade, Mr Gbenga Idowu, Brig. Ikwe (rtd) and Mr Adebayo Adeleke. Transcorp requested shareholders to appoint a proxy of their choice from the list of three nominated proxies including Mr. Tony Elumelu, Mrs. Owen Omogiafo and Mr. Chike Anikwe. Fidelity Bank stated that attendance at its April 30, 2020 AGM “shall only be by proxy and shall be limited to a maximum of twenty-five people, the maximum crowd size currently permitted by Lagos State Government, the host city for the meeting”. CAC recently issued guidelines on the conduct of AGM through the use of proxy as part of measures to circumvent the disruptions created by the Coronavirus pandemic. CAC, in a statement, stated that companies can take advantage of Section 230 of the Companies and Allied Matters Act (CAMA) on the use of proxies to hold their AGMs. Under the guidelines provided by CAC, companies shall obtain the approval of CAC before such a proxy-based meeting is held and such application for approval can be submitted to CAC’s head office in Abuja or any of the branch offices in any of the states. Such a proxy-based meeting shall only discuss the ordinary business of an AGM as provided in Section 214 CAMA while CAC shall send representatives as observers to the meeting. The company shall be guided by the provisions of its Articles or CAMA as regards to a quorum. However, for the purpose of determining quorum, each duly completed proxy form shall be counted as one. According to the guidelines, notice of meeting and proxy form shall be sent to every member in accordance with the requirements of CAMA and the companies will be required to provide the CAC with the evidence of postage or delivery of such notices after the meeting. “All the members shall be advised in the notice that in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, attendance shall only be by proxy with names and particulars of the proposed proxies listed for them to select therefrom. The invitation shall be issued at the companies’ expense as well as the stamp duties which shall be prepaid by the company.  The proxies need not be members of the company,” CAC stated. Nigeria’s largest financial institution, Guaranty Trust Bank (GTB) Plc, was the first to conduct its AGM under the proxy arrangement. President, Association for the Advancement of Rights of Nigerian Shareholders (AARNS), Dr. Faruk Umar, said the restrictions have necessitated that companies should find creative way to ensure shareholders receive their dividends without necessarily breaching the provisions of the extant laws. Founder and Managing Partner, Imperial Law Office, Afolake Lawal said the Covid-19 crisis has led to an unprecedented situation that requires creative approach to balance the responsibilities of the boards of directors to shareholders with the dictates of extant laws. According to her, companies can also explore the full extension provided by the Companies and Allied Matters Act (CAMA) as companies have a 15-month period between AGMs, so most companies with December year-end can still push their AGMs forward further for three months, and still be within that timeframe. “And if the situation requires, you can expect that some boards will make representations to the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) for a further three-month extension to hold their AGM. Boards can also approach the courts to give further direction on when it will be appropriate to convene their AGM, in view of the impracticality of holding one within this period. We have guidance from the combined reading of sections 213(1)(b), 223 and 379(2) of the Companies and Allied Matters Act on how to navigate the present realities,” Lawal said.