The House of Representatives has insisted on its resolution that the government grants Nigerians two months of free electricity as part of palliatives for the COVID- 19 pandemic. Spokesman of the House, Benjamin Okezie Kalu, said in a statement that the House was not in agreement with the Minister of Power that the privatized nature of the sector was a challenges to providing free electricity for all Nigerians. The statement reads: “The House is aware of the statements attributed to the Honourable Minister of Power, Alhaji Saleh Mamman, where in response to calls by the leadership of the House for the government to provide 2 months free electricity for Nigerians during this period of the COVID-19 pandemic, he cited high costs as well as the privatized nature of the power sector as challenges to providing free electricity for all Nigerians. “While these excuses are debatable, most concerning of all was his argument that the provision of free power would benefit only the rich to the exclusion of the 80 million Nigerians who are not connected to the national power grid. “It is trite, and has even been acknowledged by the World Bank, that at this critical moment, energy access for Nigerian households, health facilities, and other vital public services is fundamental to mitigating the most devastating impacts of COVID-19 and ensuring a rapid economic recovery for the nation. “It is not in doubt that the economic conditions occasioned by the pandemic has made it harder for low-income customers and businesses to pay their electricity bills, threatening them with disconnection. “Therefore, while acknowledging efforts of the government and the Minister in ensuring an improvement in the supply of power, it is imperative that the government takes steps to ensure the access and affordability of electricity for Nigerians regardless of class. “As at April 26, 2020, according to a policy tracker by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) on key economic responses which governments are taking to limit the human and economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, several economies, including Ghana, Burkina Faso, Chad, Congo, Gabon Georgia, Togo, Guatemela, Guyana, Indonesia, Ireland, Lao P.D.R., Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Pakistan, Peru, Qatar, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Slovania, Solomon Islands, Thailand, Timor-Leste, UAE, Vietnam, Montenegro, Bolivia, Egypt and Bahrain, have included in their stimulus packages, elaborate policies to ensure energy access to their citizens including partial or complete cancellation of electricity tariffs. “The call by the House for free electricity for Nigerians is borne of a realisation that similar measures have become necessary to alleviate the suffering of Nigerians as we try to battle and emerge from this pandemic. “We therefore maintain that it is unconscionable to the over 100 million low- and middle-income earners in Nigeria whose income has been affected by the pandemic, to deprive them of this electricity tariff reprieve for fear that it would benefit the rich who do not constitute up to 10% of Nigeria’s population. It amounts to a disturbing case of punishing the majority for the sake of the few.”   