The Ogun State Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP’s) candidate in the 2019 governorship election, Senator Buruji Kashamu, has said that the former chairman, Chief Adebayo Dayo, was removed for allegedly trying to sell the party’s structure. In a statement yesterday in Lagos, Kashamu alleged that Dayo met a businessman at a hotel where he attempted to sell theparty’s structure to him. He alleged: “We have the evidence of the meeting at Equity Hotel, Ijebu-Ode. What the purported buyers should realise is that they have been scammed, as Dayo has no power to transfer the structures of the party to anyone. How can anyone think that he can sell a political structure comprising many interests and major stakeholders for a mere N100 million?” Chief Dayo has, however, denied the allegation, claiming that it was Kashamu’s group that tried to bribe him with N10million to write the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) that the party’s delegate congress had been conducted.  But Kashamu denied offering the embattled former chairman bribe, saying there was no reason for that since he had been financing the party in the state over the past 10 years. Kashamu said: “No one is against the reconciliation of aggrieved members, but the question members of the party continue to ask is: How could Dayo claim he was trying to reconcile anyone when he did not have any meeting with any stakeholder or any of the party’s executive committees at the local government or ward level and carried nobody in the state Executive Committee along before signing his contract with the purported buyers. “What is more intriguing is: how will someone who calls himself PDP chairman want to sell the party to people who still have a binding and subsisting three-year agreement with the Allied People’s Movement (APM) in Ogun State? The agreement was publicly announced on March 7, 2019. They have just done a year and the agreement will lapse in 2022. These elements have neither repudiated the agreement nor have they formally returned to the PDP.”