 I guess the best way to start this letter is to ask after your family. I assume they are keeping safe as you are busy keeping Abuja safe in this time of Coronavirus in your capacity as the head of the Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA) Taskforce on Coronavirus. Your job is just starting because Coronavirus is still humiliating our nation and the big powers in the world, such as America, Russia, Italy, and China. The figures are rising scarily as the days go by. In the beginning, the figures were increasing at a low pace. Now, the figures are jumping at a rate that shows the severity of the problem at hand. I have seen you visit churches, I have seen you visit mosques, and I have seen you talk sense into men who ordinarily should not wait for you to do the right thing. I have seen you quote from the Bible and the Quran to justify your shutting down of mosques and churches. I have seen you stop a wedding and get the pastor arrested for breaking regulations. You quote the Quran as though you are a Moslem but the blood of Jesus flows in your veins. At a time like this, I can’t but thank God that we still have men like you who are capable of leading aright. The conviction with which you do your work tells me that there is still hope for our nation. Amid men and women whose interest is just how to line their pockets with our commonwealth, you are doing your job with uncommon diligence and I sincerely believe a bigger assignment is in the offing. On Sunday, your team arrested the General Overseer of Jesus Reign Family Church, Pastor U Uden, for violating order on places of worship. The church, which is located not too far from the popular Cedarcrest Hospital, was in crowded session when your enforcement team arrived. While your team waited patiently for the pastor to conclude the worship, he carried on as though he was unaware of the danger in what he was doing. I love the way you humbled those pastors and imams, they need to know that the Church or the Mosque is not really the buildings housing them, but the hearts of the men and women who gather in His name. These so-called men of God have, for years, deceived our people claiming to be acting on God’s order when beneath the claims is their needs and greed. Your team also closed some churches for violating the restriction order and a popular pharmacy in FCT for operating below the required standard. Over 23 neighbourhood mosques and prayer grounds were shut in the highbrow districts of Maitama, Wuse, Garki, and Asokoro. I saw a video where you were addressing security operatives on the first day of the lockdown of Abuja and you subscribed to the ‘Indian Strategy’ if need be. This strategy, which involves beating defaulters, you admitted was somehow, and hoped it would not get to that stage. But safety, you seemed to imply, trumps all. My brother, getting our people to do the right thing is difficult. Part of the problem is religious leaders, who are flying all kinds of kits. For instance, some people are saying COVID-19 is a punishment from God. Some others say it is the devil at work. Some also believe they are immune to the virus because they have dark skin. My dear brother, you must have seen poor people saying it is the disease of the rich and that God is punishing them for being unfair to the world. They are excited that the rich are getting a dose of their own drug and are forced to stay home and endure the nonsense we call the health system. You must also have heard the theory that the blazing African sun has the power to kill the virus. This kind of thinking sure makes your task difficult because people will take unnecessary risks such as going to the mosques, churches, and markets- all because they believe God or devil is only out for the wicked rich. My dear brother, our nation is one where trust is dead. People no longer trust those in authority and I am at a loss whether to blame them or not. I am sure you must have heard people say the Kaduna and Bauchi index cases are claiming to have the virus because they want to get the billions being donated for their states. The social media is awash with such claims and an army of e-rats are taking them as gospel truths. This line of thinking takes away from the severity of the situation and makes the task of men like you difficult. Can we really blame the people given the kind of nation we live in? We live in a nation where the few privileged ones have stolen us blind and we appear helpless. They buy cars they do not need. Their garages beam with Rolls Royce, Cadillac, and Limousine, which the roads they fail to fix make it difficult to drive. They acquire Bentley Continental GT, which costs some £120,000; Mercedes-Benz Maybach 62, which costs no less than €407,000 and lavish £600,000 on a fleet of armoured Range Rovers, only to use them as decorations for their underground garages. Their wardrobes brim with hundreds of pairs of shoes, designer wears and they have vaults with currencies running into millions, which if they live for the next 100 years, they will never finish spending. Cobwebs have taken over rooms in many of their mansions in different cities of the world. Many of them made their money in government; they have squandered on homes money enough to give us hospitals of world-class standard and universities that can rival Harvard. They epitomise the saying that there is enough for everyone’s need but not for everyone’s greed and their lifestyles have made the people have little or no faith in our nation. As I conclude this letter, I have a passionate plea: when your men do their work, being civil should be given a priority. Overzealous security men always target the poor who are already suffering under the jackboot of the rich. The poor in our nation are in millions, the rich are in hundreds. I believe the people who are likely to come out to look for what to eat, and may fall foul of your enforcement team, are the poor who rely on what they earn each day. It is easy for America and countries in Europe to enforce the stay-at-home order because they have a functional credit card system. People can afford to stock their homes with foodstuff and other needs using their credit cards. We have no such system here, and even the palliatives that the government has come up with, in my view, are mere tokenism. I look forward to writing to you again. Accept my warmest regard. And please: Stay safe. May you not fall a patient of the pandemic you are fighting tooth and nail to curb.  