Eight months after returning the verdict nullifying the All Progressives Congress (APC) victory at the April 2019 Zamfara governorship election, the Supreme Court turned down the application by the party to review its position. While not contesting the main judgment, APC’s lawyer, Chief Robert Clack (SAN), said the apex court ought not to consequentially upturn all the elections in the state, thereby granting victory to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidates. The Supreme Court judgment followed the earlier position in turning down applications to review judgments by the court on the Bayelsa and Imo State gubernatorial elections. However, as Chief Clack averred, while the conclusion in the three matters were the same, the material facts were different. The Zamfara case, unlike the other two, centred on validity of the APC primary election in the state. Former Governor Abdulaziz Yari and former Senator Kabir Marafa had split the party down the middle, making it impossible to have a unified primary. The parallel elections, and consequent ratification of Mukhtar Idris of the Yari faction as authentic consensus candidate by the national secretariat, sparked the crisis. At the Appeal Court, Yari won the battle to get his candidates enrolled for the election. This subsisted until the election was held and won by the APC. At that point, the pre-election matter was still pending at the Supreme Court, eventually culminating in the 24 May 2019 verdict; and the 27 March 2020 reiteration of that verdict. A number of issues — legal, political and ethical — arise from that decision. The Supreme Court was too quick to point out that it would remain faithful in applying its power as the final court of justice. The lead judgment, delivered by Justice John Okoro, described the application as a gross abuse of court processes, frivolous and vexatious. Justice Okoro said the court lacked the jurisdiction to review its own judgment, except as regards clerical errors. This is a dangerous philosophy that could uproot the foundation of justice in the society. The primary duty of the judiciary is to promote justice.  Every other thing is secondary. While the Supreme Court is superior in the hierarchy of courts in the land, it is not infallible. Its supremacy should relate only to the fact that no appeal could lie to another court from a decision it has reached.  But to say its attention should never be adverted to any matter once  judgment is delivered is to imply that the justices of that court are omniscient, an attribute of only the Supreme Being. In the Zamfara case, Chief Clarke said he was not contesting the verdict that APC mishandled its primary election and should be punished.  But he argued that the consequential order that the PDP candidate, who was not joined in the suit by Senator Marafa, should be the beneficiary, was beyond comprehension.  He insisted that should be reversed. Besides, if the judgment had been limited to the governorship election, 13 members of the House of Assembly, who emerged unopposed at the primary and whose election were not contested, would not have, willy-nilly, been made to lose their seats. It is indeed illogical that a candidate for governorship who won by 534,541 votes, to his opponent’s 189,152, could be handed the mandate. Democracy is about the peoples’ choice. By the votes, the Zamfara electorate had rejected the PDP candidate. Judicial decision to transfer the mandate was therefore manifestly wrong. In one fell swoop, because party bureaucrats could not resolve an internal dispute, the Supreme Court upturned the Popular Will concerning the entire political landscape of Zamfara State. The governorship, Senatorial, House of Representatives and state Assembly polls were all nullified. Going forward, the Supreme Court, legislators and the executive should come together to ensure the law is not made antithetical to the delivery of justice. One way to ensure that is ensuring all pre-election matters are settled before elections. Besides, the Supreme Court could be supreme in making determination, but when its attention is drawn to obvious miscarriage of justice, it cannot be too late to effect a correction. No institution is perfect — not even the Supreme Court.