A Nigerian, Benjamin Ola-Akande, Ph. D has been appointed the 9th President of Champlain College, USA. The Chair of Champlain College Board of Trustees, Charles Kittredge, in a statement, said: “Dr. Akande is an agent of change and a visionary leader with a global perspective. “His enterprising mind set and commitment to student success will be essential as he leads Champlain College in an evolving higher education landscape. “We look forward to welcoming Dr. Akande to Champlain and supporting his work to advance the College’s strategic position and build on the strength of our distinctive academic offerings.” Trustee and Chair of the Presidential Search Committee, Neale Lunderville, in another statement, said: “I want to offer my sincere gratitude and heartfelt appreciation to each of our committee members. “Their extraordinary efforts over the past many months produced a strong result: Dr. Akande will be an exceptional President for our exceptional College.” Dr. Akande currently serves as the Assistant Vice Chancellor for International Affairs–Africa and the Associate Director of the Global Health Center at Washington University in St. Louis. Prior to this new appointment, he served and held important positions in academia, business and non-profit organisations, including: member, Advisory Board of FDC Fundação Dom Cabral, the top ranked business school in Brazil, Dean and Professor of Economics (2000-2015), Walker School of Business and Technology, Webster University and the 21st President of Westminster College; Vice Chair, Board of Argent Capital Mgt. LLC, a $4 billion asset management company, member of the Danforth Plant Science Center Leadership Council, member, Board of Enterprise Bank & Trust ($5 billion assets), a Director of Ralcorp Holdings, Inc., a $5 billion publicly traded manufacturer of high quality private food labels; member, boards of the Saint Louis Art Museum, The MUNY, Missouri Charter Public School Association, and Forest Park Forever, etc. Akande, in his acceptance statement, said: “I am humbled and honored by the opportunity to lead Champlain College during this period of great transformation and even greater opportunity. While the challenges we currently face as global citizens are daunting, they also sharpen our focus and urge us both individually and as a community, to lead from wherever we are. “The commitment to educating adaptable thinkers, daring change-makers and inclusive innovators who shape professions and inspire communities is what sets Champlain College apart. “I look forward to taking this journey with you and thank you for the trust you have placed in me to further Champlain College’s mission together.”