Everistus Onwuzurike, Chief Executive Officer, Eleo Watches Nigeria has said most entrepreneurs are not making enough money in their businesses as they should because they are either not solving enough problems, or they are solving the right problem the wrong way and for the wrong people. He made this know during an interview session over on Saturday. According to him, money is the reward for solving problems and to be able to solve enough problem, and the right problems for people, you must master the art, not only of solving specific problems but also of knowing what a good and quality solution should be. He said: “As an entrepreneur, you are solving specific or diverse problems for your customers; your ability to provide solutions to diverse problems is a potential for more income. That is why at Eleo watches we don’t just solve the solution of providing quality and affordable wristwatches to our customers but we also solve the problem of helping our customers repair or service their old wristwatches and also giving advises where and when needed.” The wristwatch boss advised entrepreneurs to think of value chains they can add to their businesses to help create and add more value and income to their businesses. Highlighting the objectives of his company, Everistus noted that Eleowatches is committed to delivering durable wristwatches for majority of Nigerians seeking an affordable alternative to highly priced timepiece. He strongly believes that one doesn’t have to break the bank to look stunning, and same goes for owning a quality and beautiful wristwatch. Speaking on his future plans, he mentioned that they are planning on having their own wristwatch production factory so that wristwatches can be produced locally here in Nigeria. He mentioned that there is a master plan for this business which is time sensitive and they intend to conquer the fashion industry which is a viable industry by becoming a hub for quality and affordable “made in Nigeria” wristwatches. On how he stays motivated, he said he always put the big picture in front of him. He also explained that the big picture is to own a wristwatch brand of his own soonest. “The big dream is to be a hub for quality watches. As an entrepreneur, I don’t frown at my losses; I am not always discouraged when I lose out in a business. I believe I am the only entrepreneur that celebrates his losses. I do this because it paves way for me to get better and improve in areas that made us lose. “According to John Maxwell, sometimes you win, sometimes you learn.” He said.