The federal government has directed all private healthcare facilities, with capacity to manage the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) disease, to seek government’s certification to do so. The Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), who is also the Chairman of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on (COVID-19), Mr. Boss Mustapha, gave the instruction during Wednesday’s daily press briefing in Abuja. Mustapha also explained that all the emergency isolation and treatment centres so far put up by the PTF were also subjected to the scrutiny and certification before they became operational. He noted that the restriction order on movements and activities by the federal government had entered its 10th day, adding that President Muhammadu Buhari would be advised subsequently on steps to be taken further in the efforts at containing the pandemic in the country. He also informed that the PTF expected the delivery of some aids in form of equipment and other technical supports from various groups and agencies, including the United Nations (UN). While noting that the activities of the task force would continue to be guided by transparency and accountability, he disclosed that the task force, working with the Accountant-General of the Federation, had published the accounts into which donations towards the anti-COVID-19 efforts would be directed. “​The expansions of the infrastructure for treatment is important. However, private hospitals that have capacity to manage COVID-19 cases shall seek certification by the Committee of Infectious Disease Experts assembled by the Federal Ministry of Health for standardization and safety of frontline staff and other patients. “It may interest you to know that all emergency isolation and treatment centres established by the PTF have also undergone this process in view of the danger posed by this infectious disease. “Today is the 10th day of lockdown of Lagos and Ogun States as well as the Federal Capital Territory. As expected, we will continue to evaluate the impact of the restriction order on the spread of the virus and level of compliance. “The President will be appropriately advised within the coming days on the next step to take. Again, I feel compelled to underscore the importance of collaboration with the PTF by Nigerians. “Our compliance with the directives and orders given is in the best interest of humanity and to save lives. “I am pleased to inform you that the PTF working in collaboration with the Accountant General of the Federation have concluded and published details of accounts into which donations by well-meaning members of the society and corporate organizations can be channeled. “I must emphasize that transparency and accountability shall remain the hallmark of all transactions under COVID-19 activities. “Ladies and Gentlemen, within the coming days, Nigeria shall be receiving equipment and other technical support through the United Nations System, as well as other donors. You will be adequately briefed when such deliveries are made,” he said.