With four or five small packs of noodles safely tucked under his left arm, the man, probably in his 70s, hurried off, one unsteady step after another. Then he stopped, looked back at the sizeable crowd of downtown Lagosians still scrambling for their own free noodles. He started praying and thanking the kind non-government organisation. About 3pm in locked-down Lagos, the baba had just seen his first meal of the day. He called out to someone to ask for N20 with which to buy a plastic bag for his prized consignment. Then he disappeared. Elsewhere in the state, and across the country, similar scenes have been taking place in varied capacities, with government, NGOs and private citizens throwing in what they can to feed a small segment of a 200m-strong population. I hear that sometimes when the scramble is over, some have come away with enough cups of rice or beans or whatever is shared, to make a meal for two or three. It may well count for something. Before the coronavirus and the lockdown it necessitated, the handdown scramblers and most Nigerians struggled to make ends meet but these Covit-19 times surely have made things a lot tougher. Yet, if you look back and beyond our borders, you will see how blessed we are. Sometimes you read, and see moving images of desolation in far-off lands, of tsunamis sweeping off coastline towns, of hurricanes named after humans wreaking havoc across nations, flooding towns and cities, washing vehicles parked in garages into the sea, knocking down trees and powerlines, to say nothing of the lives, human and non-human, that are lost. Yet, your country is spared. The earth quakes and falls in, bringing structures and everything else down, and making nonsense of painstaking architecture, but you and your people only hear about it. Even cold temperatures cause problems when they become too cold and freeze. But Nigerians do not worry about freezing weather or any of such natural disasters. In these parts it is called grace or unmerited favour, as the spirituals like to term it, or just good old good fortune. God loves this country, we say, but we still have our homegrown catastrophes. Our politics is not the cleanest, and sometimes blood flows freely. We say we love our God but against His laws we fall on one another in the name of God. We reach for one another’s throat over a piece of farmland lying on the border with the next community. Beyond the tragedies Nigerians create, they are largely spared the destruction that ravages the world from time to time. Which was probably why we and our leaders prefered to play the spectator and commentator as the coronavirus broke in December and ravaged Wuhan, China. We fell back to our good-fortune mode and typically saw the deadly virus as a Chinese palaver, not a possible pandemic that it has turned out to be. And while we were massaging our good fortune the Chinese, in just over a week, built two state-of-the-art hospitals, a phrase we have fallen in love with, to our shame, for when we knock up a clinic, we call it state of the art. The Chinese also promptly converted their sport stadiums, gymnasiums and exhibition centres to hospitals. They saw a deadly virus and reckoned they must respond urgently and comprehensively, not that they had no hospitals before the outbreak. And they are hospitals with drugs, other medicaments and personnel to man them, not empty buildings begging to be used. In Nigeria, worshippers are largely uncomfortable with the lockdown imposed in not just Lagos, Abuja and Ogun but now across the federation. Why? Because they prefer to look up to the hills from where comes their help. And why is that? Because their country has essentially failed them. Whereas the World Health Organisation recommends at least one doctor to 600 people, Dr Francis Fadiyile was lamenting only last December that there were only 42,000 medical doctors in a country of over 200 million souls. This is because Nigerian doctors have been fleeing their country due to appalling pay and other stifling existential challenges. As at Friday morning,the NCDC, the country’s centre for disease control, said there were 288 confirmed Covid-19 cases in Nigeria, with just over one-fifth of the number discharged, and seven deaths. That’s not bad considering Nigeria’s huge population, but it is still worrisome because infection rate is rising as test results come out. On Thursday morning, the figure was 275 of infected cases. The experts have been warning that we might have a very bad case on our hands as many Nigerians defy the stay-at-home order. Should that happen, the available hospitals and medical personnel will be too stretched to make any difference. The country will need a lot of help and plenty prayers.