 Pestilence is so common. There have been as many plagues in the world as there have been wars, yet plagues and wars always find people equally unprepared. When war breaks out people say ‘It won’t last’. It’s too stupid” wrote Albert Camus in his book “La Peste” (The Plague). We expect that the COVID-19 threat will eventually fade, just as Ebola and Zika did. However, the social-economic impact will be felt long after the virus fades. If there is any take away from the current crises that has impacted businesses over the whole world, it is the importance of having a clear and well understood Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity (DRBC) strategy in place. Many would think that DRBC only comes in place when natural disasters like earthquakes, floods, or storms occur but the truth is that a virus like COVID-19 can be as disruptive and destructive as any of these natural disasters, if not more. This should start with awareness, then a dedicated team which is supported by standard operating Procedures (SOPs) and telecommunication infrastructure to maintain the business information flow and provide access to corporate information to all employees anywhere and at anytime. What is DRBC? DRBC simply means Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity. A Disaster Recovery (DR) plan is a documented set of actions to be taken before, during, and after a disaster that may destroy part or all of the resources of a business, including IT equipment, data records and physical space of an organization. Organisations cannot always avoid disasters but having DRP and preventive measures are essential for minimizing potential damage, getting things back on time and continue business. Business Continuity (BC) Plan is the process involved in creating a system of prevention and recovery from potential threats to a company. The plan ensures that the personnel and assets are protected and are able to function quickly in the event of a disaster. It is generally conceived in advance and involves the input from key stakeholders and personnel. While DRP is concerned with restoring normal business operations after a disaster takes place, BCP is concerned with keeping business operations running. It is therefore important for Insurance companies, Brokers and industry players who want to continue in business to have a sound DRBC plan in place. Note: In order for a business continuity plan to be successful, all employees, even those who are not in the continuity team must be aware of the plan. Finally, as the practitioners in insurance sector plan for business continuity after the COVID-19 pandemic, my advice is that the following possible future challenges in the insurance sector should be put into consideration.