The All Progressives Congress (APC), UK chapter has expressed deep sadness over the death of its Publicity Secretary, Philip Ilenbarenemen. A condolence statement by Dr. Philip Idaewor, Chairman APC, UK said late Philip impacted many and contributed immensely to the pro-democracy landscape, describing him as a “true Nigerian patriot and nationalist”. “Philip Ilenbarenemen until his death continued to play a leading role in the promotion of the historical brotherhood and peace among Edo people. He remained the Editor-In-Chief of the Edo Okpamakhin Newsletter. “He deployed his journalistic skills and training in the pursuit of political freedom and democracy in Nigeria as an active and key player in NADECO abroad during the famous Nigeria June 12 struggle. Philip was not an activist without the courage to engage in the process. He sought to become actively involved in the process of putting into practice what he preached through active participation in party politics once he was convinced of a platform that he felt represented his political vision for Nigeria. “He was an anchor broadcaster on Radio Kudirat “I wan talk to una” programme and a constant face in protest visits and marches in the UK during that era. He was to later to become a founding member of the Pro-National Conference Organisation (PRONACO) in Europe, seeking to further contribute to the struggle for political justice. “He was the Publicity Secretary of APC UK Chapter and led many initiatives to blunt the effectiveness of the international campaigns of the then ruling party in Nigeria to paint the then-new and emerging APC political party and her leaders in unsavoury colours.” The party prayed for the repose of his soul and that the good Lord will grant his soul eternal rest. “Sleep well, my brother. You have fought a good fight. You have done your work and whilst we grieve and mourn your sudden departure we commit to keep your memories alive to the pride of your family who you have left behind.” Dr. Idaewor added.