The President of Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC), Comrade Quadri Olaleye, has impressed on all tiers of government both at the federal, state and local government levels the need to provide succour for workers to cushion the adverse effects of the coronavirus pandemic on livelihoods. He spoke with TONY AKOWE. Impact of coronavirus on businesses The issue of coronavirus is affecting everywhere not only Nigeria and a lot of businesses have closed down. We are doing our own assessment as leaders of the trade union movement. I can tell you that the impact is so much and we can see that. A lot of the hotels are asking their staff to go back home because of lack of customers. Business owners are asking their staff to go home because there are no customers especially the airlines whether local or international. They have been badly affected. I’m sure it has also affected the banks because people will not be able to pay their loans and mortgages. So, it has affected everybody. Expectation as workers Our expectation as workers is that government should come to the aid of the people. They should look at how to reduce the effects on business owners by providing financing for business owners to continue to run their businesses so that we don’t start losing people as a result of redundancy. We expect government to declare a state of emergency and budget some amount of money to rescue businesses, especially people in the entertainment industry as well as the transport industry. Government should do something to assist businesses. Many will not be able to pay their loans. Making a case for palliatives It is the responsibility of the federal government to ask the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to assist every business that has been affected. It is not only affecting Nigerians, but also advanced countries. A lot of people will be losing their jobs as a result of coronavirus and some have already lost their jobs. It also affects the finances of the union because when movement is curtailed, I don’t know how you intend to get money from people. Our appeal to both the federal and state governments is to provide support to all those businesses. I think it’s time when government should think of reducing some taxes to encourage business owners to continue to run their businesses. But government is not talking in that area. In a situation like this, one of the ways to encourage people is to give them tax holidays as a result of the epidemic. So, we are going to take a step towards that and discuss with government to see how to give tax holidays to encourage business owners so that we don’t plunge more people into unemployment in the country.