 “WE did not sleep last night,” lamented a lady who lives in Aboru, a suburb of Lagos. “Residents banged on every door asking people to come out and keep watch against robbery attacks.” She told The Nation that  the residents were awake all night, making bonfires and keeping an out for robbers. It was gathered that the residents believe the police seem incapable or unwilling to protect them. The lady who spoke anonymously said neighbouring communities had been attacked, and that on hearing that the hoodlums may come to their area, they decided to defend themselves. Robberies have been reported in Iyana Ipaja, Agege, Abule Egba on the Lagos mainland, and in several suburbs of the city. Such attacks have increased since the weekend nearly two weeks after President Muhammadu Buhari declared a lockdown in Lagos, Abuja and Ogun states to check the spread of the coronavirus. There are reports of widespread robberies, shoplifting, vandalism and in some cases rape in these parts of the city. To counter the attacks, residents armed with axes, machetes, pickaxes, clubs, and saws, among others, are making all night bonfires at almost every street in places that have been attacked, or where they fear that robbers might soon attack. The situation instilled fear in people on essential duty, some of whom ran into the vigilant residents on their way home last night. In some cases, the vigilantes harassed innocent citizens, leaving residents wondering whether they were saviours or tormentors. One of such essential duty workers said there were bonfires almost every 20 to 30 metres with armed vigilantes manning every checkpoint. Crowds of between 100 and 200 residents were seen at almost bus stop on the Abeokuta Expressway yesterday afternoon armed with machetes, bottles, saws, different types of axes, shovels, and clubs, among other weapons. At Cement Bus Stop, policemen were also seen with them without any form of clash. The vigilant residents were said to be sending a signal to the robbers that they were ready for them. There were reports that hoodlums were finding fewer and fewer victims to attack due to the lockdown which has kept most Lagos residents indoors. So they decided to attack them in their homes. Residents of Agege, one of the places attacked, have cried out to the state government and security agencies to rescue them from hoodlums. Tension started in the area over the weekend following attacks by suspected cultists who went from street to street robbing and raping innocent residents. The attacks in Agege were a  spillover of last week’s assault on residents and traders at Abule Egba, Alagbado, Meiran, Alakuko, Ijoko and Sango, among others by armed gangs numbering over 200, that has left at least four people feared killed. Pockets of robbery incidents were alleged to have taken place simultaneously at Olusanya Adenire, Pen Cinema, Oniwaya, Orile-Agege, Dopemu and Agbotikuyo on Sunday, as the hoodlums armed with guns, bottles and cutlasses dispossessed their victims of cash, food and other valuables. Most of the residents who raised alarm on social media, said they were under siege both during the day and at night as the hoodlums showed no mercy on their victims. The residents also lamented that police abandoned them to their fate while the robbers wreaked havoc overnight, a development that forced youths and local vigilantes to arm themselves with sticks and cutlasses to fight the hoodlums. Some of the robbers arrested by residents were beaten and forced to eat fresh peppers before they were handed over to the police. Police spokesman Bala Elkana said the youths were responsible for the panic, adding that the Commissioner, Hakeem Odumosu, has ordered the arrest of anyone found on the streets. 