Wealthy individuals, banks and other organisations are coming to the aid of federal and state governments by donating materials and hefty sums to fight coronavirus, reports Associate Editor ADEKUNLE YUSUF Amid fears that the economic situation of the country may hamper efforts to fight coronavirus, corporate organisations and affluent individuals have entered the fray, donating billions to help in containing the spread of the pandemic in Nigeria. The Federal Government led in this regard by approving an immediate release of a N10 billion grant to boost the fight against the spread of coronavirus. In a statement, President Muhammadu Buhari said the money would be released to Lagos State, Nigeria’s commercial centre, which has the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. “This grant will enable Lagos increase its capacity to control and contain the outbreak, while also supporting other States with capacity-building,” he said in a tweet. Buhari said further that he acted based on extensive briefings he had received on the state of the nation as it relates to the Covid-19 pandemic. “The immediate release of a N10 billion grant to Lagos State, which remains the epicentre of the Covid-19 outbreak in Nigeria. This grant will enable Lagos increase its capacity to control and contain the outbreak, while also supporting other states with capacity-building.” He also approved N5 billion special intervention fund to the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), the country’s leading national public health institution. Besides leading efforts to control other infectious diseases, the NCDC has been at the forefront of the coronavirus pandemic, collating numbers and responding to suspected cases of the virus. “The immediate release of a N5 billion special intervention fund to the Nigeria Center for Disease Control to equip, expand and provide personnel to its facilities and laboratories across the country,” Buhari said. As if that was the cue many were waiting for, well-to-do individuals and corporate organisations joined in donating billions to assist the country to defeat coronavirus. The Chinese billionaire and founder of Alibaba, Jack Ma, was the first to make global headlines with his donation of essential medical supplies to fight the coronavirus pandemic in Nigeria. He donated 20,000 test kits to Nigeria. His effort was seen as an example of how private businesses can utilise their assets and resources for social good amid a devastating outbreak that shut down the global economy. The business moguls were also not left out. Preparing for the worst, the Central Bank of Nigeria, on behalf of the Bankers’ Committee and in partnership with the private sector led by Aliko Dangote Foundation and Access Bank, has galvanised corporate organisations in Nigeria and abroad to forge a united front with a view to assisting Africa’s most populous country. This has given birth to the Nigerian Private Sector Coalition against COVID-19 – an initiative created out of the urgent need to combat the unfolding COVID-19 crisis before it spreads all over the country. The objectives of the Coalition are mainly to mobilise private sector thought leadership and resources, help in creating general public awareness, education and buy-in and provide direct support to private and public healthcare’s ability to respond to the crisis. So far, though the Coalition may not have realised over N120billion it seeks to procure all needed equipment, materials and all infrastructure needed to fight this pandemic, its efforts are already yielding positive results that can support government’s efforts. An account has since been set up at the CBN to receive both local and foreign currency donations. The United Bank for Africa (UBA) led the pack with a donation of over N5 billion, through the UBA Foundation, to catalyse a comprehensive pan-African response to the fight against the Coronavirus (COVID-19) global pandemic. The donation is to provide the much-needed support to Nigeria and 19 other African countries, by supplying relief materials, critical care facilities, and financial support to governments. A breakdown of the support showed N1 billion will go to Lagos, N500 million to Federal Capital Territory (FCT), N1 billion to the remaining 35 states in Nigeria, N1.5 billion to UBA’s presence countries in Africa. The pan-African bank has also committed to funding a medical centre in Lagos, with beds for isolation and ICU facilities, to be managed and operated in partnership with Heirs Holdings’ healthcare subsidiary, Avon Medical Hospital. In addition, UBA has promised to provide a free telemedicine platform, which is physician-led, to provide direct access to medical advice to citizens – in compliance with social distancing requirements.  This, the bank said, will provide direct access to medical advice for up to 450,000 citizens every day. “This global pandemic must bring citizens, governments and business leaders together – and quickly. As we see a rapidly increasing number of cases of the coronavirus in Nigeria and Africa, the private sector has to work hand in hand with various governments in stemming the spread of the global pandemic,” Tony Elumelu, UBA chairman said in a statement. In terms of amount donated, the Mike Adenuga Foundation (MAF), founded by Dr. Mike Adenuga Jr. followed with a donation of N1.5 billion to support Nigeria’s fight against the coronavirus pandemic. A cheque of N500million has since been presented to Lagos State and N1billion to the FG. Several affluent players in the private sector, including Femi Otedola, Abdulsamad Rabiu, Herbert Wigwe, Segun Agbaje and Dangote, Africa’s richest man, Jim Ovia, FirstBank Plc Chairman Mrs. Ibukun Awosika, Nigeria’s richest woman Mrs Folorunso Alakija and her husband have contributed N1billion each to support the government in containing the pandemic. According to the Federal Ministry of Finance, the following banks and corporate bodies have helped the cause of containing the pandemic: Zenith Bank (N1billion), Access Bank (N1billion), GT Bank (N1billion), Keystone Bank (N1billion), First Bank (N1billion), UBA (N2billion), Sterling Bank (N250million) and NNPC (N11billion). Already, Lagos has taken delivery of a 110-bed isolation facility on the Lagos Island, where COVID-19 patients can be managed and treated. The facility was conceived and built by Guaranty Trust Bank (GTB). The project, which took days to construct, is sited on the main bowl of the Mobolaji Olufunsho Johnson Stadium in Onikan. The isolation facility is equipped with world-class equipment and medical supplies that would aid Lagos to deliver adequate care to those infected with the disease. Individuals, such as former Defence Minister Gen. T.Y. Danjuma (N1billion), former Vice President Atiku Abubakar (N50million), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu (N200million), Tuface Idibia (N10million), Akaninyere Adiaka (N100,000), Psalmist Ekpedeme (N100,000) and Ben Legacy (N500,000) have assisted in the fight against coronavirus. Religious bodies and other organisations have embraced the idea by donating fund and materials to save the country from the vicious virus. Members of the upper and lower legislative chambers have also pledged to support the fight with a fraction of their salaries. Obviously impressed, President Buhari has commended the philanthropists for not abandoning Nigerians in their hours of need. “President Muhammadu Buhari has saluted the public-spiritedness of wealthy Nigerians and organisations for standing up to be counted in the battle against the Covid-19 pandemic,” according to a statement released by Femi Adesina, the special adviser to the President on media and publicity. With over 764,768 confirmed coronavirus cases and still counting, there is no doubt that the world is in an emergency mode, with authorities racing against time to stop the spread of the pandemic that has claimed more than 36,000 lives worldwide. In Nigeria, which has recorded 139 confirmed cases of coronavirus (as at Tuesday afternoon), fears of possible escalation of infections are rife. To prevent the spread of the vicious virus to the community level and avert a huge public health crisis, Buhari has embraced similar measures employed by many countries with mass infections. On March 29, he revved up anti-COVID-19 fight by announcing a lockdown in Lagos, Abuja and Ogun for two weeks. With the announcement, Nigerians have been directed to stay at home as all travels are banned, borders closed and offices remained under lock and key – though with exemptions given to essential service workers. Before that, as a proactive measure, Federal Government has set up a Presidential Task Force for the Control of coronavirus. Similar to that adopted for the HIV epidemic in the last two decades, the Task Force, as advised by the WHO, is a multi-sectoral inter-governmental team comprising the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) Boss Mustapha as Chairman, Dr. Sani Aliyu as National Coordinator, Ministers of Health, Interior, Aviation, Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Services, Education, Information and Culture, Environment, Directors-General, State Services, Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and WHO Country Representative. Travel restrictions have also been put in place to keep potential carriers of the virus from high-risk countries out of Nigeria. All international airports and land borders have been closed for four weeks to prevent further imported cases into the country. The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) has also made its fleet available to the Task Force on Covid-19. This, according to NAF, would enable a better coordinated and more effective response across the country.