 The All Nigeria Confederation of Principals of Secondary Schools (ANCOPSS) has lauded the Minister of Education Mallam Adamu Adamu for directing management of tertiary institutions nationwide to transit into virtual learning, as well as electronic broadcast (in primary and secondary schools) and as an alternative to traditional teaching while the stay-at-home lasts. ANCOPPS, which is the umbrella body of all secondary school principals nationwide, has also thrown its weight behind the continued lockdown order by the Federal Government in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. In a nationwide broadcast on Easter Monday, President Muhammadu Buhari, again ordered the continued lockdown of Lagos, and Ogun states as well as the Federal Capital Territory for another 14 days to ensure the authorities effectively contain the pandemic. In a goodwill message to members, National President of ANCOPSS, Mr Anselm Izuagie, expressed concerns over the impact and implications of coronavirus on tertiary and particularly secondary education in Nigeria, especially at a time when students are supposed to be writing external examinations. Izuagie assured authorities of members’ readiness to assist in seeing the end of the pandemic.  Lauding governments for transiting while the lockdown prevails, Izuagie further appealed to governments to, as a matter of urgency, take the entire teaching fold into reckoning with respect to palliatives. It said: “ANCOPPS commend the federal and state governments for exploring other alternative teaching and learning methods like virtual learning as well as radio and television educational broadcast, to remedy the situation for our students at this period of lockdown. This step is already operational in Lagos, Osun, Edo while other states are also keying in. We enjoined our members to engage their respective state governments on this alternative. “ “ANCOPPS is also admonishing parents to take advantage of this programe and ensure their children remain studious and committed while observing the lockdown.’’ Izuagie called on members to carry out personal hygiene and help in educating parents by disseminating vital information from government and other relevant organisations to put the spread of the virus in check. The body expressed appreciations to various donors, calling on members to use ANCOPSS common platform to share information on the pandemic across their zones. 