The death of Mrs. Phebean Ajibola Ogundipe, on 27 March 2020, marks the transition of one of Nigeria’s best-known educational personalities. Co-author of timeless classics like the Practical English series and New Practical English for SSS (both with P. S. Tregidgo), Brighter Grammar 1-4 (with C.E. Ekersley and M. Macaulay), she has arguably had a greater influence on the language-learning outcomes of more Nigerian students than any other author. Born in 1927, in Esa-Oke, in the present-day Osun State, Mrs. Ogundipe’s life mirrored the strong interest in western education which was to become the main driver of development in the Western Region. She was educated at Queen’s College, Yaba, the Institute of Education of the University of London, and the University of St. Andrews. Returning to Nigeria, she taught at Queen’s College, Ede and later became Senior Education Officer and subsequently Inspector of Education in the old Western State. She then went on to become principal of Adeyemi College of Education, Ondo. Working in these influential positions, she was able to oversee the entrenchment of the free education policies inaugurated by Chief Obafemi Awolowo and helped to ensure that they contributed maximally to the overall development of western Nigeria at the time. The maintenance of the very high standards for which many schools were famous was her ultimate responsibility, and the global renown that many students went on to attain is testimony to her success. At the national level, Mrs. Ogundipe was a Deputy Chief Federal Adviser on Education and was National Secretary for the United Nations Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organization (UNESCO). In 1979, the Federal Government duly recognized her sterling contributions to educational development when it awarded her the national honour of Officer of the Order of the Niger (OON). But it is as an author that she truly came into her own. The publication of Practical English in 1972 was a momentous event, marking as it did the emergence of English Language texts better-suited to addressing the peculiar challenges of students learning English as a second language. Generations of Nigerians were beneficiaries of the meticulously-designed exercises in grammar, lexis and structure, and comprehension that the series contained. Since many of the comprehension passages were drawn from Nigerian novels, it also served to introduce many students to indigenous literature as well. The success of Practical English was followed by Brighter Grammar in 1983 and New Practical English for SSS in 2007. These books were the standard teaching texts for English Language in the nation’s primary and secondary schools, and further cemented her reputation as an outstanding educationist and writer. Mrs. Ogundipe is a pre-eminent symbol of an era in which education was truly valued and the vital importance of teachers acknowledged by all without reservation. The outpouring of sympathy at the announcement of her passing testifies to her lasting influence on generations of Nigerian students who are sincerely grateful for what she has done for them. In this regard, it is vital that the country embark on comprehensive measures to restore education to its pride of place. Nations like Japan, Singapore and Rwanda are clear testimonies to the transformative power of education; Nigeria’s own Western Region witnessed some of the most rapid progress anywhere on the African continent because of the premium it placed on education. One of the most important things to be done is to ensure that the country’s top brains are less tempted to leave for greener pastures. Nigerian intellectuals and professionals can be found almost everywhere across the globe, paradoxically strengthening the development of industrially-advanced societies, even though their own country is desperately in need of their services. The fact that Mrs. Ogundipe had relocated to the United States where she is buried speaks volumes about the livability of the nation she had served with such distinction. Her contributions to national development must be immortalized. An educational institution or a national monument could be named after her; professorial chairs should be endowed in her name; prizes for teaching must be established in her honour. May her immortal soul rest in peace.