The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has warned candidates and parents to be wary of fraudsters calling for the upgrade of scores for this year’s unified tertiary matriculation examination. The board gave the warning through its anti-corruption and transparency unit (ACTU). According to JAMB, score upgrade has never been done before, noting that the board would not condone it. In its weekly bulletin by its Head of Media and Information, Dr. Fabian Benjamin, on Sunday in Abuja, the board noted that the call for score upgrade remains a scam used by fraudsters to defraud candidates and their parents. The board advised candidates and their parents against such act, adding that parents/candidates should be ready to face the full wrath of the law when caught. It reads: “The Anti-Corruption and Transparency Unit of the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board wishes to advise parents, guardians and candidates in particular that there is nothing called ‘JAMB score upgrade.’ “This has never existed and will never be condoned by the board. “Parents/guardians and candidates alike are to note that the so-called score upgrade is simply a scam perpetrated by fraudsters to deceive unsuspecting and gullible candidates, their parents or their guardians as the case may be. “Therefore, any parent/guardian/ candidate that gets himself/herself involved in such a fraudulent act is doing so at his/her own peril and should be ready to face the full wrath of the law when caught.” Meanwhile, the board has directed candidates with any challenge or complaint arising from the UTME to its ticketing platform. The board noted that such complaint or enquiries would be addressed through the ticketing system. JAMB said it has resolved four thousand cases since the Federal Government ordered a lockdown of Lagos, Ogun and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. The board said its workers have been attending to candidates’ complaint from home since the lockdown. It added that the printing of original results slips and changing of programmes and institution would resume once the lockdown is lifted by the government.