 The term, ‘new normal’ has gained traction in the international media. It is used to depict what would become: the new normal way of living, because of the corona virus pandemic, otherwise known as COVID-19. The experts who use the terminology try to explain to the rest of us that life as we lived it would not return to its normal, for some time to come. I guess these experts are correct, in talking about ‘new normal’ time. So, it may be right to refer to ‘the old normal’ and ‘the new normal’, to distinguish between the two different epochs of ‘normality’. This is more so, as the wave of the pandemic shows no sign of abatement, in our country. In other places, the warning is that there could be a new wave of the pandemic, unless a permanent solution is found. Thankfully, on the bright side, there is the potential that a vaccine could be found, sooner than later, to deal with the dreaded enemy. But until then, the challenge is how our country’s men and women can be able to adjust to this ‘new normal’. Let’s examine a few instances. By this time in the old normal, a new school term has just started. Being the third term for the primary and secondary school students, when promotional exams are done, both parents and pupils would be on their toes, to ensure that necessary preparations are in place to secure promotion. The new normal, is that lessons and classes are going to be by virtual means, for some time to come. Some schools are already taking steps to start classes through the social media platforms, and other online learning applications. For the affluent schools, they may adopt personalised online applications. Of course, the new normal may not be as effective, as the old normal, but regardless, this means that online studying is going to be the new normal for some time to come. For the parents, the challenge would be how to get the resources to acquire the necessary gadgets, and of course buy the data, for their wards to participate in the online learning programs. The parents who are not internet savvy, or are usually put off, by these gadgets, may have to adjust to the new normal, by joining the bandwagon, to learn the new technologies and its applications. Unless, a miracle happens, and a vaccine against COVID-19 is discovered, and made available worldwide expeditiously, pupils may end up undergoing most of the third term’s lessons, tests and examinations via the virtual media. So, how can our government help to reduce the burden of the students and parents, who are locked down, and unable to fend for themselves, talk less of spending their scarce resources to buy the necessary gadgets, including data? Unfortunately, data is very expensive in our country, unlike in most developed countries, where data is cheap or even free. So, is there a way the government can help reduce the cost of data, so as to reduce the burden on parents and their wards? That would be a big challenge, especially with most of the state governments likely to go into recessions, as the monthly revenue from Abuja, is already in jeopardy, with oil prices going into negative overdrive.  But the job of the government is to find answers to difficult challenges, and so making data cheap add to the list of their challenges. It goes without saying that the above scenario also applies to the post-secondary students, whose demand for data and appliances would even be higher than their juniors in lower levels of education. Perhaps, in addition to making cheaper data available, the ministries of education in the states may have to collaborate, to teach the primary and secondary classes, using television and radio. Another ‘new normal’ of general importance, particularly for a developing economy like ours, would be the loss of jobs. Yes, that daily chore from which people earn their living, pay bills and solve other problems, is seriously in jeopardy. Most likely, what most people engage in as work may go into coma, for some time to come. Even the news medium is threatened. While there is a massive reduction in advertisement, the daily activities of government and the actions and inactions that generate news, have all slowed down. Those that will be hardest hit are the small businesses, which cannot afford to transit to the new normal of rendering businesses through the virtual means. The small scale law firms, hospitals, laboratories and similar businesses may face the challenge of transiting to the new normal. Of course, these small scale businesses are also employers of labour, and as they go down, their employees would also go down with them. So, many people are going to be unemployed soon, and so parents may not be in a position to pay their bills. That means that hospital bills, school fees, food bills, and several other bills would be threatened going forward. In planning to bail out the big businesses like the airlines, hotels, construction giants, government should also plan to help the small businesses. Amongst the unemployed, the hard hit, are the daily wage earners. Many of them are already in terrible condition because of the stay-at-home order. This writer is afraid that the ingredients for the long feared “revolution” are now at our doorsteps. The core-northern states that have, over the years, allowed the ill-fated almajiri system to fester, are now facing the challenge of containing the offspring of that duplicitous system. The privileged few, especially those in government, who earn humongous income and outlandish allowances must come to terms that all the indices indicate that such earnings in the face of the huge deprivations for the greater majority, is now untenable. Unless the new normal, gives way to the old normal quickly, the future does not portend good for many, in the midst of economic challenges faced by the majority of citizens. Clearly, the private sector leaders see the dangers ahead, and they have been helping out the way they can. The Lagos state government wisely started the open kitchen for the youths, and other state governments may have to imitate such programme to starve the challengers faced, especially by those who rely on their daily income to feed. Of note, COVID-19 has forced everyone to stay within the country, when the social superstructure may give in, to the economic, social and political mismanagement spanning several decades. Should there be a slip in managing the challenges, and there is a breakdown of law and order; legislators, professionals, billionaires, and many Nigerians, may end up as refugees. 