‘If herbs can do the magic in treating Coronavirus, we should not stop people, who choose to, from using those roots under the claim that there is no known cure for the disease’ HEARD of any war without firing a shot? The Coronavirus conundrum easily passes for one. It has been a war like no other since the outbreak of the pandemic last December. It is a disease which China, the index country, thought it could handle in its own way  and bring relief to the first set of cases. Its decision turned out to be wrong and the Asian country has yet to recover from it. China hates to be in the limelight for the wrong reasons; no self-respecting country does. Now to be known as the epicentre of a deadly disease like Coronavirus otherwise known as COVID-19 increases the shame. Little wonder that, for long, it did not want the world to know what was going on in Wuhan where the virus originated from until people started getting infected in their hundreds and then thousands. The rate at which people were contracting the virus was alarming not only in China but also outside the country. The enormity of the pandemic was driven home when people from Wuhan began to export the disease to other parts of China. The authorities quickly moved to restrict movements in and out of Wuhan to avoid the spreading of the virus. This has become one of the measures adopted worldwide to contain COVID-19. Sadly, despite the enormous resources being spent on research into the virus, there is no known cure for it yet. Eventhough, many have lived to tell the Coronavirus story, how they overcame the disease seems to be shrouded in secrecy. How were they managed? What drugs were they given? Did their survival have anything to do with their immune system? Was it about their age? These are some of the issues those searching for a vaccine for the virus must know in order to aid their work. In the search for cure, the medical world appears to be looking in only one direction. It believes that the problem can only be tackled well trained scientists.. There is no dispute about that really. Science, no doubt, is the way to go because whatever results that are eventually come up with must be verified for the sake of posterity. But is the world not neglecting something in the process? Herbs and roots discovered in Africa have from time immemorial come in handy in matters like this. Our ancestors used herbs in the treatment  of diseases with positive results. Why then is science shying away from looking at this potential of finding a cure for Coronavirus? I am not saying that scientists should not carry on with their experiments into Coronavirus, my argument is that they should not shut their eyes to alternatives, if any, no matter how crude. If herbs can work for Africans, they can also work for other people of the world since we are all part of the human race. What differentiates us from one another is the pigment of our skins. Aside from that, we share all other traits. Our blood is of the same colour red. There is nowhere on earth that we will find the blood that matches the colour of the human skin. Whether black or white, the colour of our blood will forever remain red. It is because the human race is one that we are working collectively to find a cure for COVID-19. The thing is as Africans we  should let our people’s voice also be heard in finding a cure for the disease. We can only do this by standing in defence of our home-grown solution to diseases like this. This is where our scientists have a job to do. Our forefathers have done their own bit in charting the path for us. They have shone the light and what is left is for us to follow the way.  We cannot leave this for foreign scientists who do not believe in such things. They never took herbs while growing up nor were they force-fed with brewed roots. Those of us who experienced such things and can attest to their efficacy should not be ashamed today to tell the whole world the power in local herbs and roots in treating ailments including COVID-19. We have heard the story of how Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde, who tested positive for Coronavirus,  was cured within a week with the use of local herbs, among other drugs. We should not wait for the World Health Organisation (WHO) before we do what is right by our people. If local herbs can do the magic in treating Coronavirus, we should not stop people,  who choose to, from using those roots under the claim that there is no known cure for the disease. Many of our doctors use these things in the comfort of their homes only to come out to despise these herbs, that is not good. We are where we are today because many of us lack the courage of our conviction. In finding  solution to the Coronavirus pandemic, our scientists have a major role to play and that is to sell to their foreign counterparts the efficacy of our herbs and roots. This is no time to keep quiet because we are in the midst of a war which if not well handled may wipe away the earth. The only consolation though is that God is merciful and He will not destroy the work of His hands. I am happy for a survivor, Oluwaseun Ayodeji Osowobi, who in her own words, “murdered” Coronavirus. But it was not an easy battle. She took 31 tablets daily – eight in the morning, 13, afternoon,  and 10 at night for the over two weeks she spent at the Infectious Disease Hospital (IDH), Yaba, Lagos, where COVID-19 patients are quarantined. Mostly, she said, she vomitted the drugs and had to be on oral rehydration therapy (ORT) to remain hydrated. Other patients can be saved the agony of swallowing such huge number of drugs daily all in the name of Coronavirus treatment, if they go for the local therapy, which has been found efficacious, but not scientifically proven. I insist that it is the job of our scientists to make that scientific proof happen and there is no better time than now for them to do so. As Queen Elizabeth said on Sunday in her address to Britain and the Commonwealth, “this is an increasingly challenging time… while we have faced challenges before,  this one is different”. So, the world must look for a different solution to the problem. If our scientists do not make their voices heard now, their foreign counterparts will come up with series of experiential drugs on COVID-19 and use Africans as guinea pigs to test them. Two French scientists are already thinking along that line. Although, WHO has kicked against such plan, saying: “Africa will not be a testing ground for any vaccine”. WHO described the scientists’ comments as “racist and a hangover from colonial mentality. It is a disgrace and appalling to hear during the 21st Century; to hear from scientists that kind of remark. We condemn this in the strongest terms possible,  and we assure you that this will not happen”. Much more than WHO’s assurance, what is required for this not to happen is for African scientists’ to take the continent’s destiny in their hands. Will they rise up and take the bull by its horns? Or will they allow their foreign counterparts to turn Africans into human guinea pigs?