 The Financial Reporting Council (FRC) of Nigeria has released  guidance for external auditors and highlighted key industry issues for consideration during the COVID-19 pandemic. The report came after it assessed the impact of the pandemic on audit of reporting entities in Nigeria and consultation with key stakeholders. The report was to enable operators  maintain high-quality audit in Nigeria. In a statement, the Council said it aligned with the measures by the federal and state governments as well as relevant agencies in containing the COVID-19; that it is concerned about the financial health of corporate entities as as their financial statements, especially during this difficult period. “The guidance directs practitioners to demonstrate flexibility in their work pattern, which includes work from home arrangements, use of video/telephone conferencing, and electronic evidence. However, auditors should apply alternative procedures if they are still not able to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence as a result of differing levels of infrastructure in the country”.  “If auditors are still not able to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence, then they should consider modifying the opinion on the financial statements in line with ISA. The audited financial statements containing the modified opinion must then be brought to the Council’s attention in accordance with the provisions of the FRC Act. “Where the impact of Covid-19 is, in the auditor’s professional judgment one of the most significant matters having an impact on the audit of the financial statements, including those which had the greatest effect on: the  audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit; and directing the efforts of the engagement team, then the auditor considers reporting this as a key audit matter for entities mandated to report key audit matters”. It  believes that more time may be required to document, review audit engagements due to some measures taken by federal and state governments, in collaboration with Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) to contain the scourge of COVID-19. FRC has, therefore, classified the situation into three major audit categories, such as Audit of 2019 Financial Statements, which have been completed, audit opinion issued and report already released to shareholders. No impact of COVID -19. Only accounting issues in first-quarter reports and onwards.