Bothered by spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Presidential Flood Relief and Rehabilitation Committee, set up in 2012 by the Federal Government and led by the President of Dangote Group, Aliko Dangote, has given N1.5 billion to fight the virus. Announcing the donation after a meeting on Thursday, Dangote said it was imperative for well-meaning Nigerians to help the Federal Government in fighting the virus. He said: “The reality of the pandemic has set in now in Nigeria and all hands must be on deck to save our country from its attendant crisis. We need to sustain the momentum and ensure that we curtail the spread.” The mandate of the committee was to provide support for flood victims, and by extension, similar related disaster relief situation in the country. Present at the meeting were: Aliko Dangote, Tony Elumelu, Tunde Lemo, Karami Rabiu, Senator Florence Ita-Giwa, among others. Among those who backed the decision taken but could not attend the meeting were co-chairman of the committee, Dr. Olisa Agbakoba, Mrs Folorunsho Alakija, Prof. Sani A. Lugga, Hajiya Fatimma Wali-Abdurraham, Hajara Alkali, among others. The Federal Government in 2012 set up the committee to raise funds to provide reliefs for flood victims. At the fund-raising dinner at the Presidential Villa on November 8, 2012, eminent citizens pledged N12 billion. The Federal Government and Dangote made the highest donation of N2.5 billion. The committee had intervened in states with flood problems since its inception. Some of the top donors to the committee and the amount donated so far are: Aliko Dangote, (N2.5billion), Jim Ovia, (N1 billion), Tony Elumeleu (N500m), Florounsho Alakija, (N500m), Prince Arthur Eze, (N480million), Nigerian Governors’ Forum, (N150m), Flour Mills (N200m) among many others. Dangote in a goodwill message on the occasion of his 63rd birthday, last week said: “If we all work together to combat this virus, then there is light at the end of the tunnel. “All hands must be on deck to help fight the coronavirus pandemic, and every gesture of support from other stakeholders outside government and the business community in Nigeria and Africa, would go a long way to help tackle this global dimension issue, with its impact felt all over the world,” his message read in part.