 The Nigerian Navy, Forward Operating Base (FOB) Ibaka, Mbo Local Government has intensified patrols along the borders of Akwa Ibom and neighbouring countries to check the influx of migrants. Commanding Officer of FOB, Capt. Peter Yilme, made this known in a statement in Uyo. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports  that the state government had called on the Navy to intensify patrol along the Atlantic shorelines to contain the COVID-19 challenge in the area. Yilme said that the daily patrols of Navy gunboats from the jetty to checkmate all forms of illegallities around its area of operations had yielded results. “The patrols will continue to check and prevent all forms of illegalities and also stop illegal immigrants from the Cameroon and neighbouring countries from gaining entry into the state until the COVID-19 threat is over. “It is pertinent to state that so far, FOB Ibaka patrol effort is yielding necessary results as travel restrictions within the water ways has reduced influx of migrants into Akwa Ibom, particularly within FOB Ibaka area of operations, ” he said. According to him, the call is one of the measures to check the influx of foreigners and reduce the chances of Coronavirus infection in the state. The FOB boss noted that with intensified patrol efforts of the Navy, rice smuggling into the state had been stopped, adding that the efforts would be concentrated and sustained. He commended the Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Adm. Ibok Ette Ibas and the Flag Officer Commanding Eastern Naval Command, Rear Admiral David Adeniran for supporting and providing logistics required to ensure patrols and other assigned tasks of the base were sustained. “In compliance with directives from Naval Headquarters received through headquarters, Eastern Naval Command and to maintain restrictions on movement on the water ways, our gunboats cast off from own jetty daily for patrol. ”This will help to checkmate all forms of illegallities around our area of operations, as well as to show presence,” Yelme said.