The Nigerian Shippers Council is championing the provision of the scanners at the ports to boost efficiency, writes OLUWAKEMI DAUDA .  To the Executive Secretary, Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC) Mr Hassan Bello,  deployment of scanners at the seaports would boost efficiency, reduce the spread of the Coronavirus pandemic and uphold social and physical distancing. Thus, after the lockdown, the  NCS chief said,  the Council and other government agencies would ensure installation of scanners to reduce contacts and the time spent on the clearance of over 1.5 million containers at the ports yearly, it was learnt. The seaports and land borders have been without scanners for many years,  thereby exposing the country to danger, sub-standard products and unregulated drugs imports. “While we want the port to work for us to get medicine, food, raw materials for our factories and other essential cargoes, the uppermost concern is our health. Therefore, we can not compromise the health of port workers. It is better for us not to open the port for us to have transmission of this coronavirus pandemic. “Our main concern is to contain and prevent the spread of the virus and we have to operate within that line. But overall, we have been trying to maintain that line. Within that limitation the port has been open and moving smoothly “If we have scanners people will not be gathering, social distancing would not even be a thing in the port. But we are working with the Customs. Customs are ready to deploy scanners. Customs is also leading in e-Customs. The e-Customs thing have solve a lot of problems in the port. But one thing is that we have to come together and guarantee everybody that our ports must be e-ports. There must be real authomation we have been calling for,” Bello said.  Nothing to cheer because of agents Findings revealed that there is nothing to cheer for importers and exporters at the Lagos ports, where about 80 per cent of the maritime trade occurs and other ports across the country. The infrastructure is shabby. Cargo clearance is frustrating as it is being done being by human agents. A maritime lawyer and University Don, Dr Dipi Alaka, said some consignments left the port undetected because of the non-availability of scanners. According to him, “busy ports like Apapa and Tin Can, need four scanners each, but  they have no scanners.” Investigations revealed that the only scanner at Apapa port works for few hours and is given many hours to cool off before it is put back to work. Lack of functioning scanners has made the ports stressful place to do business. There is no doubt that the country lacks the required scanners and security instruments for easier examination of cargoes and detection of dangerous goods. The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) in 2013 inherited about $120 million scanners from Cotecna, SGS Scanning Nigeria Limited and Global Scan Systems Nigeria Limited, the former service providers. These scanners prior were not in good working condition; rather, they continued to rot away. Virtually, all inherited scanners had broken down, thereby making cargos to be examined physically. Prior to the termination of the contract of the service providers, in 2013, Cotecna, which operated at the Apapa premier port claimed to have handed over $70 million worth of scanners in good condition to the Apapa Customs Command. The machines, findings revealed, were installed at various Customs locations, such as Tin Can Island Port, Port Harcourt Area One Command, Onne Port, Seme and Idi-Iroko borders. But as at 2017, the various Customs locations were littered with non-functioning scanners. But hope were raised last week when Bello said the government agencies were collaborating to ensure that some cargo scanners are delivered at the ports after the lockdown. The Comptroller-General of Customs, Hameed Ali, had assured that the proposals had been submitted to the Federal Executive Council (FEC), assuring that the all-important facility would be delivered in “few months”. It was learnt that Customs was making moves to acquire scanners, but the procurement has not been completed. The decision to replace the scanners followed the collapse of scanners in the ports, which were transferred to the Nigeria Customs Service in 2014/2015, thereby resulting in physical/manual inspection, prolonged cargo delays, and the payment of rent and demurrage by importer/licensed Customs agents and attendant serious security threats. Indeed, NCS has dumped the multi-million dollar inspection machines, and has returned to 100 per cent manual examination of goods. Containers spend weeks at the seaports over delayed clearance, such that containers that were supposed to be cleared in few days spend about 22 days or more. Implications on non-functioning scanners The implication is that the NCS and other security agencies are now compelled to work harder if they must achieve desired goals. They now have to unstuffed consignments, and do what is called 100 per cent physical examination.  This process is very slow; it is time consuming, and it is stressful. According to the Vice President Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents ( ANLCA), Dr Kayode Farinto“We are presently in a regime that I will call physical examination where all containers are opened. All containers are checked because the scanners are not functioning. This is cumbersome and slow. It is also imperfect.” 