From every corner of the world, the coronavirus pandemic is affecting millions of people. The world literally had to stop in a bid to combat this deadly virus and it has placed companies and the world economy in a perilous position. Governments worldwide have been putting a lot of effort and work into bringing an end to the pandemic, but it has become clear that they can’t do all the work alone and as such need the help and support of the people. This realization has necessitated private companies in Nigeria to form an initiative called Coalition against COVID-19 (CACOVID), to aid the government to fight against the virus. This initiative is born with a need to unify against the Coronavirus and some key players in the private sector such as Dangote Group, Access Bank, Zenith Bank, Guaranty Trust Bank, UBA, MTN, KPMG and many others, have taken the lead in the fight. Taking into account the spread of the virus, especially in Lagos which is the hub of commerce in Nigeria. The aid rendered by these private companies will go a long way in curbing this virus. The mission of CACOVID was set to meet the immediate needs of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control in combating the virus. A couple of these needs include sensitization of Nigerians on how to protect themselves during this period, and also to curb the fake news sent through various social media platforms. Also due to the rapid rise in cases, a need for equipment to aid the medical practitioners at the forefront of these cases. The equipment range from masks to ventilators, personal protective equipment (PPE), gloves and most importantly the creation of isolation centres where victims to the virus will be treated and testing equipment to detect those that have the virus. They also came up with personnel to aid in logistics and communications of the helpline, and also training centres to help educate people who would help treat the sick. This journey to eradicating coronaVirus is an individual and collective journey, people need to obey the lockdown, maintain social distancing and stay healthy. Collectively, we need to come together and do everything needed during this period.