Nicholas Kalu, Abuja  The Inspector-General of Police, IGP Mohammed Adamu, has called on members of the public to immediately report any security agent taking bribes from unauthorized persons to allow them move freely during the lockdown. The lockdown, which only permits movement for those on essential duties, extended by President Muhammadu Buhari for a further two weeks on Monday, aims to tackle the spread of the coronavirus disease known as COVID-19. The lockdown is in force in Lagos and Ogun States, as well as the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja. Adamu who spoke during the Presidential Task Force briefing in Abuja on Tuesday, said, in deploying security agents to enforce the lockdown there was a standard operating procedure to ensure that those not supposed to move are not allowed to move, while those allowed are given unfettered access, with, respect to rights of citizens. He said in situations where they go beyond their mandates to receive bribes, members of the public should report such as their civic responsibility report such, so actions can be taken prevent them. Adamu called on the public to report any other form of misbehaviour by security agents, as well as activities of criminals taking advantage of the lockdown, immediately to the Police Public Relations Officers in the various state commands. The IGP said contact numbers would be provided to the public. He pointed out that livestock and other agricultural produce are part of essential items to move free. He said security personnel had masks and other protective gears, but they were not enough. The police boss said they had to liaise with various state governments to get provision from them in respect to these items so they could effectively do their jobs. He said security has been reinforced residential homes, markets, shopping malls and banks to ensure they are not vandalized or attacked. Adamu said due to reports of activities of criminals in Lagos and Ogun, they have deployed special intervention squads to deal with the situation, while ensuring that the policemen adhere to the Force’s Code of Conduct. He warned criminals that are using the opportunity of the lockdown to go commit crimes in all part of the country to desist. He said all resources have been deployed to ensure that criminals do not take advantage of the lockdown.