 Manufacturer of personal healthcare products and consumer goods, PZ Cussons, has said affordability of detergents/soap to wash hands is also a critical element in the fight against COVID-19 pandemic. The Chairman, PZ Cussons Foundation, Prof Eyitayo Lambo, who spoke during the donation of soap to over 40,000 people towards controlling the spread of the pandemic in the country in six cities across the country, said it was on this realisation that the Foundation in collaboration with Foundation for Refugee Economic Empowerment (FREE), took the step to promote healthy living. FREE is a UK and Nigerian charity that aims to provide high quality, timely, accountable, and inclusive humanitarian assistance to displaced persons towards enabling them to return to normal and sustainable productive lives. Lambo said: “We have since learned that one of the simple ways to stay protected against the coronavirus is by consistent handwashing with soap. Sadly, however, not everyone can afford to do this.  ‘’So, the PZ Cussons Foundation has partnered with FREE to ensure that even the most vulnerable communities are catered for at such a time as this to support the on-going efforts to stem the spread and contain the virus in Nigeria. “The PZ Cussons Foundation has been a major advocate for proper sanitation and hygiene standards and has, for the past five years, partnered successfully with United Purpose in increasing awareness and understanding about the importance of handwashing with soap as an easy, effective, and affordable way to prevent diseases and save lives. We, therefore, encourage everyone to stay at home and stay protected by washing their hands with soap, among other preventive measures,” Prof Lambo said. Launched in 2007, PZ Cussons Foundation has been helping Nigerian communities by supporting projects in areas of roads, and other infrastructural improvements such as water, sanitation, health and education. The Foundation has completed over 100 projects in different parts of Nigeria.