NO decision has been taken on the proposed House of Representatives’ two- month free electricity for Nigerians, Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC) has stated. Its General Manager, Corporate Communications, Godwin Idemudia, noted that while the company supports the proposed intervention by the Federal Government, the details of the proposal are, however, still being worked upon by relevant stakeholders. Idemudia said the company cannot project the “two months” that will be covered by the palliative and the category of customers that will benefit from the intervention. He, however, urged its customers to continue to support the company, particularly its essential staff who are giving their best despite the challenge posed by COVID-19. Idemudia said: “Since the Federal Government’s stay-at-home directive commenced, we have been encouraged by your goodwill, kind commendation and feedback over the improvement in the quality of our service, particularly during this lockdown period. “The increase in supply enjoyed over this period is the result of the sacrifice, hard work and selfless commitment of our essential workers, who keep giving their best, despite the difficult challenges brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic, to ensure the comfort and safety of all our customers.” “We acknowledge the laudable collaborative efforts of the Federal Government and National Assembly to provide free electricity to Nigerians as part of its intended fiscal stimulus to cushion the effect and impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on Nigerians. “It is, however, important to note that while this is a welcome development, no decision has been reached on the proposal. For the avoidance of doubt, the two months of free electricity is a legislative proposal and is still under consideration by all relevant stakeholders. The details of the proposal are still being worked upon and we are unable to immediately project which two months will be covered or which category of customers will benefit from the proposed intervention.’’ 