A farmer in Ogun State, Mr. Kolese Womiloju (45) of Gbagba Elewure village in Odeda Local Government Area of Ogun state and his son, Taiwo Womiloju, 25, have been arrested by the Police  for hacking one Abubakar Sidi Usman,  a 32 – year – old herdsman, to death. Father and son were said to have first attacked the herdsman with a mystic ring laced with charm on April 22 which immobilised him and while he remained unconscious, they used cutlass to inflict many lethal cuts on him – And the herdsman died in the process. The suspects afterward, dragged the remains of the herdsman to an abandoned well near the scene of attack and dumped them there. It was learnt that the farmer and son had earlier warned the herdsman to pull his herds of cattle out of their area and desist from further grazing on their land but the victim, allegedly, failed to heed to the warning. In the ensuing argument, the suspects allegedly struck him with a charmed ring and rendered him unconscious before finishing him. The Police Public Relations Officer in the State, Abimbola Oyeyemi, who made this known on Sunday in a release, said the suspects were arrested by Operatives from the Odeda Divisional Police Headquarters. He stated: “The suspects were arrested following a report by one Usman Bello who reported at Odeda divisional headquarters that the deceased who was his younger brother and has a cattle settlement at Gbagba Elewure village has gone missing. Upon his report, search party was organised for him. “Later in the evening, the deceased corpse was found in an abandoned well. “The DPO Odeda division, CSP Ajayi Williams led his detectives to the scene where the victim was seen with a deep matchet cut all over his body. “Having confirmed that the deceased was murdered in cold blood, the DPO and his men commenced an intelligence based investigation into the case which led to the arrest of the father and his son who also live in the same village with the victim. “On interrogation, they both confessed to the killing of the deceased because they saw him grazing his cows around their farm. “They stated further that the deceased was warned to take his cattle away from the area and when he refused, he was beaten with a charmed ring which made him to be unconscious after which he was matcheted to death. “He was then dragged to an abandoned well about one kilometer to the place and dumped there.” Abimbola said the Police Commissioner, Kenneth Ebrimson, had already directed that the suspects be transferred to the Homicide section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID) for thorough investigation and prosecution. He noted that Ebrimson had also warned those in the habit of taking the laws into their hands to know that they were taking a risk as they  would not find it easy with the Command since jungle justice had no place in laws.