Late Monday evening in Bracody, on the outskirts of Abidjan, Cote d’Ivoire, I enter the darkness of a Nigerian nightmare. My taxi’s headlamps cast brilliant spokes of light onto swarms of people eddying through the night. My driver and guide, Dominique, turns off the ignition outside a decrepit bar. Together we alight and walk into the street, melding into the shanty’s nightly traffic. Few paces down the road, Dominique nudges me by the elbow, it was a mild gesture, a perfunctory prod, signalling a sudden detour off the busy street into a shed occupied by violent thugs otherwise known as “vagabonds.” Dominique approaches a gangly teen, with a deep scar on his face. He engages him in conversation, in a pidgin version of French. Two minutes into their conversation, Dominique walks up to me with the teen and introduces him. “His name is Yoofi. He will take us to the bitch bar where we will find your Nigerian bitch…Follow me closely behind. This is a very dangerous place,” he says, taking after Yoofi, into a pitch dark alley. I follow suit. In the alley, a rank smell knifes through the air into my nostrils. I take in a lungful at first sniff and it lands like a kick in my lungs through the belly. At the entrance to the alley, a noisy crew of vagabonds idle near the stall of a buxomly grocer; the latter sold acheke and deep fried fish. Uncooked fishes lay sprawled on a wooden slab, pot-bellied pikes, two-tone flounders and the smelts draped on each other, blubbery with roe. Marble cod and mackerel, sardines with their mouths open, still trying to eat, porgies with receding jaws hinged apart in a grimace of dejection, as if like cows, they had died under the jackknife. The rank smell of fishes flit into the dark alley, where shanty stink and noise mesh in the blackness and interlock. It takes a while for my eyes to adjust to the darkness. As they do, visions of eroticism filter into view. Girls of various physique: chubby, fat, slim; slender, athletic, sweat in a blanket of extreme poses. I forge ahead with my guide, ducking the frantic grasp of girls whose hunger and lust burned in the darkness, like seedy neon lights. From a distance, they look like vegetables of the deep, the Sheol-flowers of passion, merchandising lust, where the sun’s rays bow into darkness. Down the alley, twilight bounds softly on the part to Juliet’s spot. The teenager in skin-tight leggings and a transparent tank top, grabs my arm desperately. She whispers: “Come with me. I will give you a good time. I will give you jara!” There is an urgency to her need and vibrancy to her promise of a freebie, that stands her out amid the bevy of girls and women hawking sex on Bracody’s seediest boulevard. “Leave him alone, bitch!” screams Dominique, yanking her hands off my arm. “Come with me bro. Don’t let her give you the virus (Coronavirus aka COVID-19). You will find more girls in the bitch bar,” he says urging me down the alley, ahead of him. As we proceed, I glance back to see Juliet stare forlornly at our retreating figure. Instantly, I made a mental note to revisit her spot. Inside the ‘bitch bar’ The first time I heard Dominique mention the ‘bitch bar,’ I thought he was talking about liquor bars situated at an actual beach, or waterfront. But that night, as we strolled into the makeshift bar in Bracody, I understood that ‘bitch bar’ connotes a brothel or pub teeming with prostitutes, or commercial sex workers, if you like. Inside Ademeus Bar, arguably Bracody’s largest ‘bitch bar,’ a string of revellers and night-crawlers sit scattered across the open and closed sections of the pub. Yoofi leads us to sit at the extreme end, explaining that its best we sit there for easier access to the girls in the brothel bordering the bar. He draws out plastic chairs for us to sit and signals to a waitress who swiftly takes our order. Dominique and Yoofi engage in drawn-out conversation, in French; their exchange resonates like the intense haggling over beef between a consumer and butcher at Bracody’s nearby meat market. Soon after they reach a bargain, Yoofi gets up and leave. Dominique sidles up to me and says excitedly, “He has gone to call you some Nigerian bitches.” I learn that the bar isn’t packed to brim due to government warnings about the coronavirus pandemic; the girls and their customers fear getting arrested hence they have limited their enterprise to their doorsteps. Patrons have to visit them in their rooms or call their madame or pimp to gain access to gain access to them. “Nobody hear will catch the disease. We are not afraid of the virus. Folk don’t want trouble,” says Dominique. Eventually, Yoofi returns flanked by three scantily dressed girls; Chioma, 18, Gladys, 21 and Bridgette, 18. They are all new arrivals, he says. At introduction, the girls speak French to us and stare at us suspiciously. Dominique replies them in French, assuring them that we are harmless and they loosen up. I start up a conversation with Bridgette in Nigerian pidgin and few minutes into our banter, the trio completely warms up to us. “If na threesome you want, it will cost you CFA 75, 000,” says Chioma, who is apparently the most streetwise of the trio. “We will collect CFA 20, 000 each for the two sessions from midnight till daybreak. We will take CFA 5, 000 each for transport,” she says. Dominique attempts to beat down the price and after some fierce haggling, the girls agreed to take CFA 60, 000, that is, CFA 20, 000 per girl. Then they go in to bathe and prepare for the night. Twenty minutes later, their madame, Abigael, emerges from the brothel, picking her teeth. “Una well done o,” she says, walking past our table. Two minutes later, she walks past again flanked by two hefty men. “The bigger one is Jonnie, the other one is Prince. They are her bodyguards. They protect the girls and keep watch over this place,” says Yoofi. Madam Abigael walks up to us and states in Nigerian pidgin that the girls would no longer be able to follow us because of the coronavirus. She grumbles in French, to Yoofi, that she wasn’t sure about our identity. “Who knows if they are from those nosey NGOs or the cops,” she says in French. I try to disabuse her mind but she sneers at me and walks away. An enraged Dominique ventures further explanation stating, “We have good money to pay. Don’t be tripping like that woman!” but the thugs charge at us, threatening to “slice” us. Yoofi gestures to us to comply and offers profuse apology to the madame and her goons. He promises to take us to a bar run by a friendlier madame. As we step out of the brothel, the jagged edges of adjacent brothels’ roof tops hover above us like a canopy of darkness. They cast a shadow, framing a pattern of fear, hunger and lust reflective on the faces and the demeanour of the girls hustling along the alley. Walking along, twilight bounds softly on the path that leads back to Juliet’s spot. As we approach, I crane my neck to see the teenager but it was hard to view her through the swarm of frantic hands and heavily mascaraed faces calling for our attention, inviting us to a “good time.” Just when I was about to give up, Juliet darts out of the darkness and urges me to come with her into her room. As she leads me up the brothel’s cobbled corridor, I see a festering wound on her shoulder. I ask her how she got the wound and she replies, “I fell down,” rubbing the edges tenderly as if to reduce its sting. On entering her room, I tell her, “I am here to help you if you don’t mind. You could come with me, I will get you help.” In response, she slumps against the wall resignedly, and says, “My last room mate tried to escape with an NGO, and madame caused her to disappear. I have just 20 months left to repay my debt and I am free to work on my own…See this wound? I got it from the jagged end of a cudgel. My madame had me beaten for talking to a customer like you.” Then she switches to vixen-mode and says, “You can pay me now if you wish to do anything or leave me alone. I don’t want trouble.” As if on cue, her next door neighbour sounds an alert, shouting, “Wahala dey! Na talk dem dey talk o! No be fuck!” Juliet ushers me out of her room down an alternative route, stressing that her madame and pimp must not catch me with her. Two nights later, she opens up to me, stating that she was sold into slavery by her Aunt Chioma aka Tricia, who she hitherto believed was in Spain. “She was my mother’s younger cousin. She made us believe she worked as a nanny and hairdresser in Spain. When she came home three years ago, during the Yuletide, she was spending money carelessly. My mother was so moved by her seeming generosity that she suggested that I returned with her to Spain at the end of the holidays,” she says. But contrary to their expectation, Chioma wouldn’t help Juliet secure a nanny’s job with an American expatriate family in Spain, instead she sold her into prostitution in Abidjan, Cote d’Ivoire. “I suspected that things weren’t right when she took me on a road journey. Earlier, she told me we were travelling by air. She promised to pay for my air fare but advised mama to give her money to get me an international passport. She collected N120, 000 from mama claiming she would use it to quicken the processing of the passport. Its so sad. Mama had to borrow N118, 000 and add it to the N22, 000 savings she made from her petty trade in order to give Aunt Chioma the money. “I didn’t know of her lies until we got to Abidjan. She took me to a house in Bel Air and I knew immediately that I was in trouble. She lives in a slum. There were pictures of her on the wall and her clothes were carelessly strewn on the floor. My second night with her, she told me that the welcome party was over and that I had to work to earn my keep.” Chioma forced Juliet, then 14, into a mini gown and dragged her along on a nightly tour of the streets. That night, she sent her niece to collect a package from one of her male acquaintances in Cocody. “I didn’t suspect anything as the house looked decent but when I entered, and said I had come for Tricia’s package, the man pounced on me. As I struggled with him, Aunt Chioma came in with a much younger man. She sat down and smoked cigarette, watching nonchalantly as they gagged me and took turns to rape me. They made a video of it and she threatened to send it to people who knew me back home if I ever rebelled or told anyone about it,” says Juliet. Chioma eventually sold Juliet to a Madame Jane, at whose brothel, she currently hustles in Bracody. There is no escape for Juliet. At 16, she is forced to dress up and act like a 22-year-old. Sometimes, she is forced to act her age in order to please vagabonds and elderly clients with paedophilic tendencies. Then there is Precious, who was sold into slavery in 2018 by a former boyfriend, who promised to help her secure employment as a house-help in Netherlands. “He said I would be earning $600 per month and introduced me to the woman who would take me there and help secure the job,” says Precious. “Eventually, I met the woman through my boyfriend. He suggested that I took her offer. I had no choice; I had no job and I had to support my mother in taking care of my younger ones. So, I agreed to go with her and she made the arrangements for me to travel with her from Nigeria to Togo by road. She said we would board a flight to Netherlands in Togo. “After a long, tortuous journey through the land borders, I arrived in Abidjan only to discover that I had been deceived. The “madame” treated me to a welcoming party whereby I was forced to undress and subjected to brutal rape by two of her pimps and a bodyguard. “I was 15 and a virgin but they deflowered me. For three nights, I refused to eat and have sex with her customers and in response, my madame locked me up in a toilet. She denied me food and water for three days. She said she would kill me and that I would regain my freedom once I pay a “debt” of N480, 000, to cover the money she spent as my travel expenses. I didn’t how she came by that figure. I can’t run away because she made me swear an oath that I would develop leprosy and run mad if I did,” she said. As you read, Precious lives in fear of her madame, who brings a lot of men to have sex with her and her fellow captives, often without condom. Like Precious, 14-year-old Princess, who recently arrived in Abidjan via the land border, nurtures both outward and innate bruises, after she was raped by a quartet, who paid her madame CFA 100, 000 to lay with her for the night. “They force-fed her with hard drugs and atote, a local aphrodisiac often taken by many of the vagabonds and other patrons. She didn’t know what she was doing. She blacked out through her ordeal. I was privileged to be around when the pimps brought her back. They slapped her repeatedly to keep her awake as the thugs dragged her inside and dumped her on the floor of her room,” reveals Precious. As I attempt to speak with Princess, she recoils in fear, and a massive prostitute called First Lady attacks me. She yanks off my glasses and smashes it against the wall screaming: “Wetin una want. We no dey service Naija men. Make una carry una wahala go!” Further attempts to locate Princess proved abortive. The last I passed through the alley, a motley gang of thugs guarded the entrance to her unnamed brothel, which is identifiable by an amateur impression of the Nigerian flag, painted on its wall. “They have increased security since your last visit. They are looking for you,” reveals Yoofi.  Yaya…King of Bracody Gangs of thugs benefit from the misery of underage Nigerian sex captives. “They are the ones needing greater protection,” says Yaya aka King of Bracody. At 26, Yaya flaunts scars depicting a life of peril and interminable visits to the jail cell. He says, “I have been to prison over 16 times. Everybody knows me here. They fear Yaya. Nobody fucks with me. I am Yaya, King of Bracody. Nothing goes down here without my knowledge. All the Nigerian madames here, and their thugs fear me. They respect me.” What Yaya left out, however, is the fact that most of the girls would not touch him with a bargepole. “I will not let him touch me even if he comes here with a million francs,” says Loveth, a native of Auchi, Edo State. Loveth claims that Yaya is too violent, and to this, he responds: “I am a vagabond. I do what I have to, to survive. Everyone here is trying to survive. Just like I am doing. The real devils here are their madames. They pay me to silence stubborn girls. You know what I mean, the ones that are too troublesome,” he says. Before the sex trafficking business got more organised, Yaya and his gang made a killing by levying some kind of tax on the activities of the various traffickers, independent prostitutes and brothel owners. “I made about CFA 20, 000 in one night. But now things have changed. I am the only surviving member of my gang and the madames now do business with the police and people in government. They call me for the hardest work. The dirty jobs. I do some and l don’t do some…because I don’t wish to visit prison again,” he says. Asides Yaya, there are other thugs and enforcers working in Bracody’s underground economy. Oftentimes, their work takes them to seedier crannies in Abobo, Treichville, Markory. David, for instance, is a Ghanaian who has lived in Abidjan all his life, working as an enforcer for various club and brothel madames. In an encounter with The Nation, he reveals that while there is a lull in patronage at the ‘bitch bars’ in the wake of the Coronavirus pandemic, he still makes “cool money” transacting business with clients on phone. “Business has gone digital. If you need a good girl or two or three of them for instance, I send you their pictures and you pick the ones you want,” he says. The average pimp takes a percentage from the proceeds of the girls. “If I introduce a girl to you and she charges you CFA 20, 000 for the night, she must give me CFA 7, 500 of her earning. Some take CFA 5, 000, I don’t. I deal with high profile clients,” says Nos-P, a pimp and enforcer in Youpogon. Sex in the time of coronavirus  The hardest hit are the street prostitutes who have seen patronage dwindle and have lost their clients to the lockdown. “Things are not easy at all. Coronavirus has killed our business. We just dey roast,” laments Joyce from Akwa Ibom State. Corroborating her, Meredith, a native of Ebonyi State, says that patronage has dwindled since the COVID-19 pandemic became an issue in Abidjan. Although they both live in Port Bouet, they travel deep into Abidjan to hustle every night. They often shop for customers on the streets of Markory, Youpogon, Abobo, Atteccoube, Treichville, and Cocody. The Madames A madame is the most important person in Nigerian sex trafficking and often also the sponsor financing the journey. Madames order the girls and sometimes recruit them. They often lead the trafficking organisations and monitor the trafficking process closely, from recruitment to exploitation. According to Europol, the number of women operating as traffickers is increasing.  According to information dated 2005, madams in Italy were between 25 and 30 years old. In contrast, a 2007 study of Nigerian madams involved in the trafficking to the Netherlands showed that they were on an average 45 years old, had legal residence in the Netherlands, or were awaiting a residence permit based on a relationship or marriage to a Dutch partner. In Abidjan, the demography of the madames is more fluid, encompassing younger to older females. For instance, the youngest madame I encountered in my investigation was 22 and she runs a thin slice of a cartel that extends from Cote d’Ivoire’s metropolitan area to rustic, seedy communes. Her name is Cynthia. She is a native of Awka in Anambra State and she keeps a day job, working as a chef in Abidjan’s Angre region. In between meal orders, she assigns clients and subcontracts businesses to active girls on her payroll, via her smart-phone. These are the girls that have gained independence, having worked off their debts. Some of them are struggling to establish their own start-ups as madames and traffickers. Cynthia also keeps prostitutes across brothels in Bracody, Youpogon and Abobo. She gets paid a percentage of their daily earnings from the actual owners of the brothels, who take a fat share – about 50 per cent – of the girls’ proceeds. Cynthia takes 40 per cent and the remaining 10 per cent is spent on the feeding, clothing and medicals of the girls. The girls get to keep nothing of their earnings. “And we can’t even steal or siphon part of it away for our personal use because we are bound by oath,” according to Foluke aka Nancy, a popular call girl at Madame Tina’s brothel in Abobo. The Abattoir Some of the girls interviewed by The Nation revealed that they hardly get treatment when they fall sick. “My madame crushes painkillers in a local alcoholic beverage and forces you to drink it. And you must get well by force. If you don’t, you get thrashed, starved and gang-raped. The fear of this prevents anyone among us from feigning sickness or declaring a true ailment. And if you get impregnated by clients who refuse to use condom, you will get hauled to a dark room. We call it the abattoir; there, a quack doctor is invited to operate on you and abort your pregnancy. I know this because I had one such abortion performed on me when I got pregnant in July 2019. I knew what was happening but I hadn’t the strength to fight back. The doctor raped me before and after the abortion,” reveals Juliet. The abattoir is located at the crude end of a block of brothels, very close to Abigael’s Brothel in Bracody. All the madames had worked in prostitution in Nigeria, Abidjan, Bamako in Mali and other parts of West Africa and had worked their way up to the role of madame. Those that are still young among them, however, dream of travelling to Europe to engage in what they consider a more elevated form of hustle. The older ones are simply content with running the African end of the trafficking ring. The Nation findings reveal that most madames started as prostitutes. Some victims returned voluntarily to Nigeria after their debt was paid and some of them ended up as traffickers themselves. These ex-victims are allegedly the most brutal and vindictive traffickers. “They have been to hell and back, and survived. They have lost all human feelings. They would not mind pawning their blood relatives to the devil,” argues Perpetua Arikode, a former sex worker, and resident of Treichville, where she runs a local saloon and bureau de change. Victims often become members of the criminal groups exploiting them, ultimately assuming the role of “madame” in the exploitation of others. In turn, this cultural novelty reduces the likelihood that victims will cooperate with law enforcement, according to Europol. Nigeria is routinely listed as one of the countries with large numbers of trafficking victims overseas, particularly in Europe, with victims identified in more than 34 countries in 2018, according to the US State Department Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons. An estimated 80 percent of women and girls arriving from Nigeria – whose numbers had soared from 1,454 in 2014 to 11,009 in 2016—were potential victims of trafficking for sexual exploitation in the streets and brothels of Europe, claimed the IOM in 2017. The figures often leave out the sad, desperate girls kept as sexual slaves in brothels across West Africa. Many of the girls believed they were being taken to do lucrative work in Europe until they were dumped in care of menacing madames and thugs in brothels across West Africa. Then reality sets upon them with vicious fangs.