 News that a 68-year old woman recently gave birth to a set of twins at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), Idi-Araba in Lagos, is a complex manifestation of the modern miracles that science has bestowed on humanity, as well as the challenges that are inherent in such marvels. The woman, who was becoming pregnant for the first time ever, underwent in-vitro fertilization (IVF) and was subsequently referred to LUTH following gestation. She gave birth via caesarian section on April 14. Coming as it does at a time when Nigeria and the world are beset by the global tragedy that is the COVID-19 pandemic, the triumph of hope over despair that this story represents is only too clear. Many would consider a 68-year-old far too late to think of becoming a mother, especially a person who had never been pregnant before. Even in IVF circles, the age of 45 is regarded as the upper limit for IVF procedures, with live birth rates of less than one per cent for women older than that age. In essence, physical, psychological, medical and other obstacles were all overcome in arriving at this happy outcome. The woman and her husband have demonstrated a fidelity and commitment that have become increasingly rare in modern times. Not only did they not stop believing in themselves, they refused to be tempted by the many unsavoury alternatives available in today’s Nigeria, such as kidnapping and baby-purchase. The husband did not follow the well-trodden path of acquiring a new wife or a mistress; the wife did not abandon the man who stood by her during decades of infertility. This couple should be celebrated for holding so steadfastly to the principles of true love and unassailable marital fidelity.  Without their commitment to each other and their belief in ultimate victory over their circumstances, the scientific long-shot that was IVF treatment would not have been possible. This is a story of hope and persistence that would be remarkable at any time, but is even more incredible now. In other climes, a feel-good story of this kind would be the basis for the construction of a narrative of life, hope and triumph that would be carefully parlayed into a communal antidote to the negativity surrounding the COVID-19 pandemic. It is even more relevant in this country because it is a tale that crystallises the never-say-die spirit that is characteristic of the average Nigerian and energizes the citizenry to confront the challenges of the present with renewed faith and increased determination. Both the Lagos State and federal governments should seek to ensure that the needs of the family are fully taken care of, especially with regard to the post-natal care of the mother and the babies. The special circumstances of the birth require careful handling; LUTH, the Ministries of Health, and Youth and Social Development must ensure that no effort is spared to ensure their wellbeing. Philanthropic individuals and groups should also offer assistance to the family. Unlike the routine rehabilitation of those who have been injured or dispossessed, their support in this situation would actually represent the celebration of the deserved triumph of a couple whose courage has seen them through very very trying times. Nigeria must make the IVF option more affordable and accessible to the general public. Expertise and equipment should become more widely available in public health institutions so that it can become a viable option for childless women. If this is done along with commensurate improvements in the quality of child and maternal health, the country will become one in which heartwarming stories like this one are the norm rather than the exception. 