 KADUNA State has carried out 115 COVID-19 tests, out of which nine returned positive, the state Commissioner of Health, Dr Amina Mohammed-Baloni has said. She also disclosed that 174 secondary contacts exposed to the index case who happens to be the state governor, have been traced by the state in its bid to contain the disease. Addressing reporters yesterday, Dr Mohammed-Baloni said a testing laboratory has been activated at a private facility, with two others at Yusuf Dantsoho Hospital and Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital, Zaria, almost ready for COVID-19 testing activities. She confirmed that the state has treated and discharged six Coronavirus patients including the index case, Governor Nasir el-Rufai, who was discharged on Wednesday, with three active cases left. She added that the state has capacity to undertake 100 COVID-19 tests every day, once the testing kits and reagents are available, with the result coming out within four to six hours. She said since the index case broke on March 27, Kaduna State has engaged relevant stakeholders, activated an Emergency Operations Committee on COVID-19, which has been responsible for coordinating the state’s preparedness and response for COVID-19, and developed an incident action plan for the state. “The Infectious Disease Control Centre (IDCC), was upgraded in terms of infrastructure, specialised equipment and personnel to make it capable of managing COVID-19 patients that may need critical care. State investment and corporate social responsibility of organisations have made it possible to have an additional facility equipped and ready to admit additional 150 patients if necessary. “Very soon, the treatment centre would have its side laboratory to support the management of patients in its care. The Kaduna State Emergency Operations Committee meets daily, seven days a week, to review progress of the plan and other emerging issues. So far, over 22,000 people trained on various components of Covid-19 prevention protocol or its management.    