Every anniversary of the kidnap of the Chibok girls reminds Nigerians that an ugly chapter of our national life has not been closed. Of course, the tragic chapter can only be closed when the remaining girls in the custody of Boko Haram are reunited with their families. The same applies to the remaining girl in the Dapchi kidnap, Leah Sharibu. This year’s anniversary was observed by the Chibok community, who have been in pains since 276 female students were kidnapped in the area on  April 14, 2014. We condemn the Federal Government’s failure to send a delegation to the ceremony. While the main object of the federal authorities should be the release of the girls, it must continue to identify with the community, until all the girls are released. On its part, the state government duly sent a delegation, with foodstuffs and other items  to the grieving community. We commend this proactive support. Although the Federal Government has apologised for its laxity in sending a delegation to the anniversary, how has it kept faith with keeping the issue on the front burner of national discourse? That is even if its apology is accepted. Why has the Federal  Government failed to regularly brief the community and the nation on efforts to get the girls released? A scheduled interaction should be adopted, so that the grieving community would know that there are ongoing efforts to get their children back. President Muhammadu Buhari, in his reaction, noted that the leadership crisis within the ranks of Boko Haram has hindered the negotiation to release the remaining girls. We take this to mean that negotiation is still ongoing to release the remaining girls, even though, tragically, some of the young girls have been forced into early marriages, and some have even been forced to bear children for the despicable criminals. Notwithstanding, negotiations must be intensified, and the help of international organisations like Red Cross and Red Crescent sought, when necessary. We commend the Federal Government for the full scholarships awarded the girls that have been and are now studying at the American University in Yola, Adamawa State and urge the girls to take full advantage to liberate themselves from the evil plans of their abductors. Clearly, education remains the bedrock of freedom, and that is why the group abhors education, in other to keep the people, especially the women, in bondage, arising from ignorance. Those of them who are capable should be afforded the opportunity to enjoy post-graduate scholarships, to fully achieve their potential. The tragedy that befell the Chibok community signposts the fate of many other women and children in the bloody war with Boko Haram. Sadly, several thousands of women and children have either been kidnapped or displaced in the seemingly unending war. We note that recently, the Boko Haram was worsted by Chadian forces, and Nigeria’s Chief of Army Staff has also boasted that he had relocated to the North East and would not leave the area until the group was finally defeated. The success of the Chadian forces, even when our gallant troops have been less successful in recent times have raised questions, which include, whether there are fifth columnists within the armed forces, who are benefiting from the unending war? We urge the Buhari presidency to examine such claims, as our soldiers, by their usual exploits in other parts of the world, ordinarily have the capacity to rout the rag-tag army of Boko Haram a long time ago. While at it, they should upscale efforts to heal one of the greatest wounds of the war – freedom for the remaining Chibok girls.