 In its quest to support ongoing efforts aimed at containing the spread of the novel coronavirus across the country, Nigeria’s foremost brewer, Nigerian Breweries Plc has announced a donation of N600million to the federal and some state governments. The company, in a letter to Mr. Boss Mustapha, Secretary to the Federal Government and Chairman of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, said it was its own way of supporting concerted efforts by all tiers of government and other partners. The Company’s Managing Director, Mr Jordi Borrut Bel confirmed that the N600 million donation include a N250 million cash donation to the federal government, through the Coalition Against COVID-19 (CA-COVID), the private sector led special intervention fund managed by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN);  N250 million cash donation to seven state governments’ Task Force Against COVID-19. Lagos and Ogun States will receive the sum of N100m and N50m respectively being COVID-19 frontline states. While five other states of Kaduna, Oyo, Enugu, Abia and Imo will get N20m each and N100million worth of relief materials such as provision of five double-cabin vehicles for use by the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) in Abuja, Lagos, Ogun and Kaduna States.  This is to help meet their critical operational needs, especially contact tracing and movement of materials/personnel to isolation and treatment centres. The cost of fuel, maintenance and driver’s salaries will also be covered by Nigerian Breweries. Besides, Personal Protective Equipment such as face masks, 500 gowns and 141,000 units of hand sanitisers for nationwide distribution to our key state just as supply of malt, energy and soft drinks to the various Covid-19 NCDC centres nationwide. This will be done over a period to ensure steady support and to meet the nourishment needs of the centres during the crisis. Jordi Bel stressed that the company has already taken various steps to ensure that it continues to protect the jobs of its 3000 employees, while supporting its vendors/suppliers during this difficult period. He added that these contributions are in line with the company’s belief that public-private partnership is essential to overcome the threat of the COVID-19 virus. Cheque presentations have already been made to the Ogun and Lagos State governments with other states to receive their donations in the coming days. 