From classy, stylish to affordable, cool, and contemporary jewelry, Aisha Ochuwa offers it all. As a teen, Aisha was fascinated by the dynamism and aesthetics of the fashion industry, she wondered how a little piece of accessory could dramatically transform an individual and change the way they are perceived. All these fuelled her passion for jewelry business. As a businesswoman, Aisha seeks to help young people express themselves dramatically, as she
knows that every piece of accessory makes a statement. Undoubtedly, starting a business in the fashion industry is highly competitive and tasking. This is because it requires a high level of creativity, class, and sense of style to be able to stand out. To survive today, brands are required to combine accessible with advancement and the switch from the traditional way of doing business to a technologically inclined way has created a new path that adheres to the changes in consumer taste levels. The new consumer environment calls for high level of creativity, variety of styles, choices combined with cool and
affordable well-made pieces of jewelry. As these are the new rules of a progressive jewelry business. These advances seem to be of great benefit for the consumers who are delighted with having the freedom to choose from an unlimited and available beautiful and well-made pieces from the comfort of their homes and also have it delivered to them without lifting a finger. More so, because Aisha the creator of these pieces of jewelry being young herself understands the needs of the consumers, the consumers easily relate with her pieces. “I design and craft most of the jewelry myself,” Aisha said. Aisha was working as a corporate and commercial lawyer in one of the law firms in Lagos until last year when she decided to put a pause to the legal practice and venture fully into developing and growing her business as she was building the business gradually whilst she was practicing. “I was born with the business vibe”, Aisha said, “I studied law to acquire a strong legal knowledge to aid me in my business venture”. Leveraging her corporate/commercial expertise as a lawyer, Aisha founded the Everything Beautiful by Aisha Ochuwa (EBAO) brand in 2017 and she has grown the brand to enviable heights within the jewelry start-ups community overcoming the challenges of trust, shipping and logistics in less than 3 years and this can be attested to by just paying a visit and scrolling through her business page on Instagram at @aishaochuwa where you will find beautiful, captivating but yet very affordable fashion jewelry ranging from bracelets, waist beads to neckpieces, anklets, etc. She is currently transitioning her Social Media store to a fully functional retail and wholesale ecommerce jewelry marketplace at Aishaochuwa.com. This web project is being undertaken by the Web development Agency Breedskool.com.  For Aisha, the jewelry business has come to stay as she has in over the last three years poured her heart into it thereby growing the business to an enviable height by growing from selling door to door to amassing massive customer base on Instagram, having employees on her payroll, having more than 120,000 pieces of jewelry sold since she started selling online 3 years ago to currently developing a very standard online shopping website. “I want to make jewelry Millenials love and can afford, we will keep making changes and revising our designs until we have created a piece that our customers love ” she says So she, through the EBAO brand is also looking to create pieces that look beautiful and make a great statement, but also have the exact right amount of elasticity to feel comfortable on any part of the body, so that people can make it part of their everyday look and never get sick of wearing it. Evidently, the Everything Beautiful by Aisha Ochuwa’s brand can best be described as beautiful, affordable, original, and organic. She also provides mentorship to young entrepreneurs in the business and she goes further to sell her pieces of jewelry at wholesale prices to aid their business. Aisha offers advice for others considering starting a business. “pray, plan and remain consistent,” she says. “stay dedicated and always ask for help from people ahead of you!”