 GOVERNORS Nyesom Wike of Rivers State and Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State on Saturday backed down from their relaxation of the lockdown they had imposed on their states to stem the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. The governors and some of their counterparts in other parts of the country had given Muslims the go ahead to resume Jumat on Friday, and Christians the nod to celebrate the Easter services in their churches. But the relaxation orders had not gone down well with many who warned that they were not meant to serve the interest of the generality of the citizens. Information and Communications Commissioner Paulinus Nsirim said on behalf of government on Saturday that the decision to withdraw the concession followed “due consultations with eminent clergymen and well-meaning Nigerians.” He said: “The Rivers State Government has cancelled the concession granted churches to hold services with their full congregations. “This decision was taken after due consultations with eminent clergy men, well-meaning Nigerians and civil society groups. “For the avoidance of doubt, churches should stick to the 50 persons per service to maintain social distancing.” In a swift reaction on Friday to the relaxation order, the Catholic Bishop of Port Harcourt, Camillus Etokudoh dispatched a letter to all priests, religious and laity of diocese advising them to “continue to keep to the CBCN and our Diocesan Pastoral directives/guidelines for the celebrations of Holy Week including Easter Sunday till further notice.” He thanked Wike for temporarily relaxing the restrictions for the Easter but said that “in the face of the threats of Covid-19 and having prayerfully considered the implications of the risks to our expected crowded congregation on our normal Easter Sunday celebrations” it would serve the people better to stay at home. We have #LockdownOndo as you have all requested, says Akeredolu Governor Rotimi Akeredolu announced on Twitter that “We have #LockdownOndo as you have all requested. Now, once again, by popular demand, we have commenced the #FeedOndo Project.” Earlier in the day Information and Orientation Commissioner Donald Ojogo had, in a statement, said government had withdrawn the relaxation order following the discovery of a second case of coronavirus in the state. He said: “The Ondo State Covid-19 Response Team has reported that the second index case having travelled from Lagos to Ondo State must give the Government greater concern to avoid community transmission. “Against the backdrop of the above, the Ondo State Government has directed the cancellation of the special concession granted Churches across the State to celebrate the Easter Sunday/Service. This decision was taken after due consultations with the leadership of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN). “All measures and steps taken in respect of Covid-19 still remain in force. In particular, government has taken further steps to effectively man the boundaries in the light of reported cases of compromise and breach of the directive to close all inter-state entry points into Ondo State.” The latest patient is said to be a worker at the Murtala Muhammed Airport in Lagos State. He is believed to have stayed at Ijoka area, Akure on his arrival from Lagos. He was discovered on April 8. Government sources said he was immediately quarantined and his samples taken for laboratory test which was returned positive. His mother and three siblings with whom he had contact have been quarantined while others are being traced. Stay away from churches, Ondo CAN tells Christians In a follow up to the government announcement, the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) in the State asked Christians in the state to stay away from churches today. Chairman of the association, the Reverend Ayo Oladapo said Christians should hold Easter services at home. “In view of the present situations with the second index case of Covid-19 in the state, and in due consultation with all stakeholders, we have resolved to cancel the Easter Sunday Service,” he said.