A young nursing mother in her early thirties, Mrs Esther Frank, has committed suicide in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State. Mrs Frank, an indigene of Anambra State was said to have left a suicide note for her husband and two children, saying she was tired of the pressure. It was learnt that the deceased drank a bottle of sniper on Thursday. She was later found  lying  down unconscious in her room. by neighbours who  rushed her  to St Luke’s Hospital in Anua, Uyo, where she died. One of the neighbours, Mrs Iboro Etuk, told our correspondent  that  she and the deceased chatted  before the unfortunate incident. She said: “Mrs Esther Frank, is in her early thirties. She just graduated from the university, and is yet to go for her youth service. She is from Anambra State while her husband, Mr Frank is from Delta State but he is currently in Dubai. “She sent her three year old boy to come and stay with my children. It has never happened before. She told me, ‘I am going to buy something, please take care of my children’. “Before that, we both stood outside to buy pure water but since we didn’t see it, she went back into her apartment, while I waited outside. “When I heard her baby crying, I told her son who was in my apartment, to take me inside the house. There I saw her lying on the floor. I shook her and told her to pick up her son but she did not respond. “I ran out and informed the landlady and the other tenants. They came and saw the bottle of sniper lying on the floor. We rushed her to the hospital where she died. The landlady later reported the incident to the Police, ‘B’ Division. “When the landlady called her husband and told him his wife was dead, he exclaimed ‘What?’. According to her sister, she (the deceased) has been threatening to kill herself and had sent her husband a message threatening to kill herself. “The children are currently staying with my family. The baby cried throughout the night. I am now the one taking care of the baby. “The Police were here to investigate the matter. They are aware that we have taken temporary custody of the children,” she stated. The suicide note to the husband of the deceased read: “Please take care of my children please. I can’t take the pressure and lies you are telling again. I can’t take it, please it’s too much. You made everyone around me to hate me. Please forgive me, am sorry.” “Gerald please forgive me. Andre please forgive me. You guys are my life,” she wrote to her children. When the Police Public Relations Officer, CSP Nndum Fredrick was contacted, he said he was yet to be briefed on the incident. 