 Students of higher Institutions of learning have kicked against the proposed online classes in some institutions. They lamented that fluctuating network of the mobile services will be one of the hindrances to free flow of the idea. Some higher institutions mooted the idea of online classes in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, which warranted closure of campuses and declaration of sit-at-order by governments. The students, who speak to our reporter on the new idea of learning, said it was a welcome development but noted that not all students have access to data. They said those that have data are experiencing unstable network, which may hinder the flow of the interactive learning. A lecturer in Nigerian Institute of Journalism (NIJ), Mrs. Titilayo Soji-Oni, said the idea of online classes was just to make the students survive school academic calendar intact. She added that the students may only sustain the accurate academic calendar if the online interactive session was allowed. “We only know the day when the order for school closure took effect. No one knows when the school will be reopened,” she said, “How the future of the students will be a brighter one is one of the lecturers’ priorities because the on-line class is not an easy task. “Lecturers will exhaust data and time on-line during the process just to impact knowledge to the students,” she stressed. A student from Lagos State University (LASU), Rasheedat Salami, said she would be happy if her school could come up with that idea as she felt that she had been using her data on unnecessary chatting and downloading of unworthy substances. She added that despite the fact that she loved the idea, she was afraid of having examination online. “No one knows when the COVID-19 will be eradicated,” she said. A student of The Polytechnic, Ibadan, Kukute Emmanuel, said it was not a welcome idea at all as he thought most students could not comprehend while facing lecturers, saying that how would such students comprehend online. He lamented that one could also fail to attend the class as a result of power failure. A student of Nigerian Institute of Journalism (NIJ), Gbenga Adebayo, said it was a good idea but some students whose families are still struggling to feed its family members in this period of isolation may not have money to give to their wards for data. A student of Lagos State Polytechnic (LASPOTEC), Deborah Feko, said such idea has not been introduced in her school but students have used the students WhatsApp group to do interactive learning instead of posting or reading non academic materials online. “I pray that this Covid19 disappears in a short period so that students will return to school with academic calendar intact,” she said.