The trial on Friday at the Edo State Police Headquarters in Benin of the two policemen: Corporal Ozimende Aidonojie (F/NO.491112) and Constable Salubi Stephen (F/NO.516384), who fought in public on Wednesday and the video went viral, was quickly concluded and they were recommended for dismissal, to serve as a deterrent to others. It was gathered on Saturday from a senior police officer in Benin, who spoke in confidence, that the trial started on Friday morning at the police headquarters in Government Reservation Area (GRA), Benin and presided over by top police officers from the command, who did not waste time in coming up with their recommendations the same day. The source disclosed that immediately the trial was rounded off and the two errant policemen were recommended for dismissal, the Edo Commissioner of Police, Lawan Jimeta, was briefed and he subsequently informed the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu. The internal disciplinary action was ordered by the IGP, who declared that the show of shame was not in the character of police officers and men, who he said must be disciplined at all times, with unprofessional conduct not to be condoned. The Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO), Frank Mba, a Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), said on Friday night: “‪CPL Ozimende Aidonojie and PC Salubi Stephen captured in a viral video fighting shamelessly in Edo State have been tried and found guilty. They have been dismissed from the Force.” Edo police commissioner on Thursday ordered the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) of Ebelle Town in Igueben Local Government Area of Edo state, where the fight took place, to bring to the police headquarters in Benin, the two policemen who fought in public. The errant policemen, according to the viral video, did not conduct themselves well in public, with Jimeta expressing displeasure over the show of shame. Spokesman of Edo police command, Chidi Nwabuzor, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), said: “On the video that is trending on the social media, the information gathered from DPO, Ebelle Divisional Headquarters, indicates that there was an accident involving a blue Toyota Corolla car, with registration number: ABJ 369 EG and an unregistered Deylong motorcycle at Ebelle Town “Immediately, Ozimende Aidonojie and Salubi Stephen were detailed to go to the accident scene to do the needful, but unfortunately, when they got there, they engaged themselves in a physical combat and brought about the embarrassing video. “The DPO, on Wednesday, arrested and detained the two rank and file in the cell at Ebelle, though without recourse to the CP. However, the CP ordered him (DPO) to come to the state headquarters with the errant policemen.” Some of the residents of Ebelle, who watched the shameful scene, were overheard in the viral video calling on police authorities to severely discipline the policemen, for members of the public not to see their conduct as acceptable.