Leading Real Estate company, Revolution Plus Property has given out 500 bags of rice, 300 bags of beans, garri and noodles to some residents of Ibeju Lekki area of Lagos state. According to the MD/CEO, Revolution Plus Property, Mr Bamidele Onalaja stated that communities like Ise, Akodo Ise, Folu, Okin Ise and Lepia all in Ibeju Lekki area of Lagos state received about 10 real estate development companies like Flourish Royal Garden, Royal Haven Gaeden 1 and 2, Brooklyn Court 1 and Brooklyn Phase 2 , Dallas Court, Flourish Royal Garden Phase 2 and the latest development , Houston Park. Thanking the management and staffs of the Real Estate company, the Onise of Ise Town, Oba Abdulrasheed Adegbesan appreciated the gesture of the management and staffs of the company who came out at this period to fête the households with food at this time where everywhere is on a #lockdown in a bid to curb the spread of the dreaded corona pandemic. The Kabiyesi appreciated the company’s effort to feed the entire community, promising that the food would get to those needed it.  Also, some Baale and chiefs from other communities praise the efforts of the company for remembering and coming to feed them at this critical time of food shortage. Revolution Plus Company Limited is a foremost Real Estate Company in Nigeria with over 33 Estates developments in more than 4 states in Nigeria and still counting. Its International office in Dallas Texas had been doing great work , hence contributing to the development of the country. The ravaging corona virus has definitely impacted the economy and the livelihood of every strata of the economy. In a bid to help the government curb the spread of the virus, the company already donated cash gifts to the government of Lagos and Oyo States respectively to assist in providing help to the people of the States as part of the company’s corporate social responsibility. The company also enlightened the community on the importance of keeping safe during this corona virus pandemic, it was a gesture that the communities cannot forget.