The flag bearer of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the last governorship election in Ondo State, Mr. Eyitayo Jegede (SAN), has donated food items to alleviate the plight of the people, as many families complain of the escalating cost of food during the current restriction of movement imposed to curb the spread of the Coronavirus pandemic. Jegede, who made the remark in Akure, the Ondo State capital, after visiting various parts of the state advised well-to-do Nigerians to donate generously in aid of the masses because Coronavirus, otherwise known as Covid-19, is a global disaster that would inflict suffering on vulnerable groups. He went round to various parts of the state to donate food items to community leaders to cushion the effects of the restriction of movement imposed because of Covid-19. He said the disease caught humanity unawares and poses a lesson in humility and sacrifice. He said: “Coronavirus was not in any way anticipated or prepared for. But what is uppermost is the two-fold fact that while observing precautionary steps, the well-to-do citizens should rise in support of the poor and the vulnerable.” Jegede, however, clarified that his decision to assist the needy in the wake of the fight against the spread of the pandemic was not politically motivated. He added: “I’m not aware that Covid-19 has a political party, or belongs to an interest group. It’s like a plague threatening human existence. We should all realise that only the living can rule and be ruled, govern and be governed, and command and be commanded.” He appealed to fellow politicians to eschew violence and come together in bond, in the interest of the people. He said: “For instance, Coronavirus, however virulent, has taught us a bitter lesson that we actually live for each other. All over the world, thousands of souls have been lost, and our hearts go out to the families and friends of those affected.” A new group, Ondo Commoners Alliance (OCA), has expressed support for the governorship ambition of Jegede, describing his humanitarian gestures as unprecedented. Its leader, Abayomi Ogundaisi disclosed this while addressing some youths in Ikare, Akoko Northeast Local Government Area recently. Ogundaisi said for Jegede to have sustained a weekly hosting of the poor in his house for 11 years is an indication that he is truly out to serve the people and transform the lives of the less-privileged. The OCA leader said: “Or how many people in the political class in this state have ever sat down with the poor every week, listening to them and making efforts to solve their problems? Jegede has proved to be different, a special being, given by the Almighty to the people of Ondo State, to help transform their lives.” He said the group was formed with the aim of rallying political leaders, captains of industries, and other well-to-do indigenes of the state to come to the assistance of the less-privileged.