By Sampson Nnamka  Rector of Lagos State Polytechnic (Laspotech), Samuel Sogunro, has advised matriculating students to key into the institution’s computer education programmes, saying they were designed to aid national advancement. He also said technology is now central to every facet of human discipline including agriculture. Sogunro made this known at the institution’s 2019/2020 matriculation which held at its Ikorodu campus, Lagos. A total of 2,108 National Diploma and 800 Higher Diploma students took the oath of matriculation. “I want to urge you all to please embrace the compulsory Computer Education programme, which is a vital part of our academic programmes in the polytechnic, as well as the compulsory Agriculture course. We have a full-fledged Centre for Entrepreneurship and Skills Acquisition(CESA), which is well equipped for the training of students in various skills-sets and manned by competent personnel capable of stirring the entrepreneurial spirit in our students, “said Sogunro. He admonished the students to adopt the aforementioned initiatives, which according to him, were inspired by the Federal Government and complemented by the Lagos State government through its ‘Ready Set Work’ initiative. Further, Sogunro explained that personally the ceremony was significant for him as it marked the last matriculation he would preside over as the institution’s helmsman. He described his journey as ‘rough’.  “It has been very rough since 2016,” he lamented. “We have been on one issue that deals with staff welfare, especially money. I inherited two major issues from the previous administration-2010 retirees and Issue of CONTIS 16 migration”. He said the government has intervened by setting up a panel which is currently looking into CONTIS 16 migration. Recounting his achievements, Sogunro mentioned infrastructural development which includes School of Agriculture which, according to him, was the first to be set up in Ikorodu campus, courtesy of the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFUND). However, other schools like Mass Communication structures and others are in progress, he added. While congratulating the matriculating students, Sogunro urged them to consider themselves lucky to witness this year’s ceremony which he said, could not be conducted the previous year owing to industrial crisis.