The Organised Labour has warned states that have not begun the consequential adjustment on the new minimum wage to prepare for strike. It warned that after the January 31 deadline for the implementation of the new wage regime, any state that fails to do the needful would face the wrath of workers. TUC President Quadri Olaleye gave the warning in an interview with The Nation. The labour leader said TUC’s state councils had been mobilised to make governance impossible for recalcitrant governors. He said: “Once the grace period is exhausted, the congress should not be held responsible for the industrial action that will follow. “Our state councils have been mobilised to make governance impossible for recalcitrant governors. Let it be noted that it may not necessarily be on February 1, 2020. But we are prepared.” Also, Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) General Secretary Emma Ugboaja said the congress had set machinery in motion to receive and analyse reports from each state on the progress made on the minimum wage negotiations. “We are taking reports from our various councils and we are analysing the reports because they vary. We are not going to have a uniform response to all states. We will take each state based on the kind of report we get from that particular state. Once we finish analysing the various scenarios we have, we will roll out actions on each state according to the nature of discrepancy we are seeing in implementation.” “We have not extended the ultimatum and we are not doing that. The deadline is over, but we are only being sure that we do not hurt a process that has already been concluded or is being concluded. But we must fish out the exact places where we have clear challenge,” he said. Emphasising the need for governors to prioritise workers’ welfare, Ugboaja said governors use workers to get governance to the appropriate quarters. “If you don’t take care of them, you are not governing. It is not all about political projects of giving water and light,” he said.