By Odekunle Ayishat Lolade  Paramount ruler of Iseyin land, Oba AbdulGaniy Adekunle Salau, has appreciated American Polytechnic of Nigeria (APN) founder Dr Dare Akande, for siting the institution in the town. The monarch said it would open up the ancient town to commercial activities, adding that it would also boost science/technology in the town. The monarch spoke during the foundation laying of the institution at its permanent site at Wasinmi in Araromi Local Council Development Area of Oyo State. The monarch, who performed the laying of the sod alongside others, praised Akande for facilitating the location of the institution in Oke Ogun area. He prayed for its speedy take-off. Akande promised that APN would enjoy technical support and student exchange programme with four American institutions: Lewis University, New England College, Liberty University; Gannon University, and Sprot Shaw College in Canada. He assured that APN would change the education sector. Graduating students, Akande explained, would be well-equipped for the job market and future economic demand.  According to him, a large part of the institution’s 200-acre land would be designated as Industrial Park. He adding that this would create  employment opportunities and assist its students to start up as entrepreneurs, a development also Akande hopes would boost not only the economy of the state, but also  that of the country. He thanked Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde for his support to the education sector. He expressed his confidence in President Muhammadu Buhari’s initiative in the rail and road transportation. He unveiled the departmental structure of the institution, which includes: departments of Computer Science and Engineering; Automobile and Mechanical Engineering, Smart Manufacturing, Electrical Engineering (with Electrical Transformer manufacturing specialisation), Cement Manufacturing; Agriculture/Dairy Farming, Tourism and Cultural Heritage. At the event were Ayotunde Fatokun, who represented the Speaker of Oyo State House of Assembly, Debo Ogundoyin. Other lawmakers include: Olamide Olagoke Akinajo, Hakeem Adedibu and the caretaker chairman of Iseyin South LCDA, Raheem Ajibola as well as the Baale of Wasinmi, Adegokewere.