With his new appointment on the board of Times Higher Education, the world universities ranking organisation, the Vice-Chancellor of Fountain University, Osogbo, Osun State, Prof Amidu Sanni, knows how important funding is to a university success.  The professor of Arabic Language and Comparative Literature explains how the institution plans to make progress in this interview with sampson unamka.  Few universities are coming up every day but do not have enough students. What is the point establishing  more? There are many reasons  many of the universities being established cannot significantly help in reducing the number of applicants roaming the streets. Funding is a basic challenge, even for public institutions. The funding challenge has led to poor facilities and human resources. Many institutions cannot engage quality hands because they are not attractive in terms of facilities. There is something referred to as the carrying capacity of every institution. If your facilities can only cater for 40 students in a particular programme, you cannot admit 80. So, if we have about 200 people qualified, scoring above the minimum, it means about 160 would be denied admission due to space. And the major reason for this is because we politicise everything in this country. Rather than expanding existing facilities across major higher institutions, we would always want to allocate universities to every community as if they are drainage construction projects that must reach every village. There is a state in Nigeria that has about four universities but cannot effectively run a single one. But by the time a new government wanted to harmonise the universities, it became a serious political issue. There are so many private universities in Nigeria. What is Fountain University doing differently? By March, this year, I would be two years in office as the vice-chancellor of this faith-inspired university. Many people call us faith-based but we are not. Instead, we are simply faith-inspired and when we get to the areas of partnerships we have created, you would realise that Fountain University is like any other university globally. As an individual, I had my first degree from the University of Ibadan in 1979 and my PhD in Comparative Literature at the University of London. I have served as visiting professor at Oxford University, New York University, and as a scholar in Cambridge, and across other universities in Israel, Netherlands, Middle East, UK and America. But primarily, I was with the Lagos State University (LASU) from inception in 1984 until my appointment here. I have given this background to let you know how much of the experiences I have garnered over the years are currently being put into use at this institution. Within the last two years, we have redrafted a new master plan for the university, which has just been submitted to the NUC. Currently, we have a land space of 258.53 hectares and we are determined to maximise this. The truth is that modern universities are not built on massive landmass but technology. Our investment is in the area of technology. The new master plan is projecting nine colleges within the next 10 years with an enrolment population of 10,000 students and 714 academic and non-academic staff. How are you working towards achieving this? The first thing is that we are reviewing our curricula because the truth is that the reigning academic programmes of today will be largely irrelevant in the next 10 years. So our focus is on rebuilding our programmes and making them more practical-oriented. Even our students in Political Science classes must experience internship before graduation. Let them be posted to political institutions like electoral commissions, houses of assembly, political institutions but not political parties. Currently we have two colleges of Management Sciences, and Natural and Applied Sciences. We started with 11 programmes but about five others were added few years later. I can tell you that recently, the University Senate has approved 38 new programmes, cutting across Law, Education, Basic Medical and Health Sciences, Arts and, of course, Engineering.  We’re going to do this in phases because we need to put the materials, equipment and structures in place first. Before the end of 2020, we would have the College of Basic Medical and Health Sciences in place for our Nursing programme and other paramedical courses. Funding is a major challenge as you said earlier. How do you intend to raise enough funds for this? We understand this challenge and we are being creative about fund raising. Remember this university is owned by Nasrul-lahi-li Fathi Society of Nigeria with over 400 branches globally. We currently rely on fees paid by students which is the cheapest charged by private universities in Nigeria. But we have introduced Education Trust Fund, and we are working on a model tagged SSDN credit plan which will allow interested people to credit the university’s account by dialing codes or each time they recharge their mobile lines, certain percentage is credited to the university. Also, many philanthropists have taken up one project or the other and many of these will be inaugurated as part of our activities to mark the university’s weeklong convocation ceremony which is scheduled to hold next week. It is a weeklong programme. We have some hostels donated which are completed and a 5,000-worshipers-capacity mosque. It is also donated by a philanthropist. The government of UAE is also supporting and we are partnering other universities for exchange programmes. One of the institutions you are partnering is Catholic University of Belgium. Would issues of differences in faith arise? Let me shock you further, we are not just partnering the Catholic University of Belgium, we are also in partnership with other faith-inspired institutions in Nigeria, including Covenant University, Ota, Ogun State. At least, we all know the university is an offshoot of a popular church in Nigeria. We just sent our team there to understudy some areas of administrations. We have consistently said it that this university is only faith-inspired and not established to teach about Islam alone. For the Catholic University, we are partnering in the area arts and is purely academic. There are Christian professors working here and our chief security officer is a Christian. We are inspired by Islamic faith and we are guided by the Qur’an and teaching of Allah’s messengers. The truth is that the best contributors to knowledge of Islam and Arabic Language are non-Muslims. So, we partner individuals and institutions based on their knowledge and what they can offer our university in the area of academics. For instance, we have had the world renowned professor of History, Toyin Falola to deliver lecture here, and this year, a Professor of African Religious Traditions at Harvard, Jacob Olupona, will deliver the convocation lecture. 