From Obidike Okafor  Govement is a way of life on the continent, but no one uses the term ‘diaspora’ to describe African migrant groups who live in a foreign land within the continent. So in the group exhibition titled, ‘Diaspora At Home‘, the  Centre for Contemporary Art (CCA) and KADIST Paris engage the public in discussions on mobility within Africa. Initiated by curators Iheanyi Onwuegbucha(CCA) and Sophie Potelon (KADIST), the project consists of two exhibitions in Lagos, Nigeria and Paris, France  includes a programme of artist residencies in Lagos, an exhibition and a series of artist talks and conversations at CCA, Lagos. The artists who are of diverse backgrounds and from various countries from within and outside the continent but have connections and interests in Africa engage with the diverse mobility of peoples, objects, images, information and wastes. They also address the social consequences of such diverse mobility in Africa. Abraham Oghobase in interpreting the theme of the exhibition combines text, photography and a   sculptural installation while using the materiality of photography to explore movement and states of transitions. He evokes longing, loss, nostalgia, home sickness and even anger by merging a collage of pictures taken in Botswana and Ghana over the stencils of selected lyrics from two songs by the father of South African jazz, Hugh Masekela-Stimela and Been Such A Long Time Gone. The songs talk about how people travel to get to work (Stimela), or the longing for home in a faraway land (Such A Long Time Coming). Emotions linger in the hearts of the viewer long after they live the venue. For a work aptly titled ‘Waiting for A Caravan’, it just has that kind of effect on you. Bady Dalloul who is originally from Palestine but lives in France, is one artist who loves to adopt, modify and reinvent history. He takes historical facts in forms of maps, images and video to create fiction. So for “Diaspora at Home,” Bady  interviewed members of the Lebanese community in Lagos, Nigeria and created a “Bound Together”, three different Nigerian dresses made from hand printed fabrics in the form of commemorative textiles  to narrate the stories of these Middle Eastern families he met in Lagos, who are not able to return to their country, because they have found a means of survival in a new land. French artist, Chloe Quenum rench works with glass, metals, textiles and concrete, and with processes of staining, transparency and casting, so she was invited to activate her installation Châtaignes (Chestnuts) creating a landscape by scattering several fruits wrapped in clay with traces of an ocher tinted powder on the floor of the exhibition space. As if they have fallen from imaginary trees, the fruits are protected by clay, which is normally used to protect perishable things.   In the installations, she questions the origins of the fruits but also tries to recall the colonial history behind the global commerce of the items. In spreading out the fruits on the floor, she is also interested in the way the audience engages with the installation from multiple points of views. Cameroonian artist, Em’kal Eyongakpa, redefines space by putting his sound installation in the library of CCA, instead of the conventional space. The installation is a combination of field recordings of streams, rivers, lakes, oceans, water pipes and wind channeled through the air vent in Eyongakpa’s workspaces. This composition interacts and alternates with sound excerpts from the ongoing conflict in Southern Cameroon. For a space that silence is sacred, the library helps to amplify the issues raised in the sonic composition, and represents CCA’s willingness to convert the library to a place that goes beyond the books. Laura Henno, a French photographer and film maker, who for many years created works around  issues of secret migration, in the Comoros, Réunion Island,  Calais and Rome, offers up her documentary titled Koropa, the portrait of  a particular relationship between a  fisherman