The Coordinator of Continuity for Good Governance (CGG), a group within the Ondo State All Progressives Congress (APC), Olufisayo Falarungbon, in this interview with DAMISI OJO, says the chapter needs a consensus candidate for the governorship poll.  Why is your group insisting on a consensus candidate for the governorship election in Ondo State? Frankly speaking,consensus is not new in political process.It is an acceptable norm in a democratic setting. While some will argue for Direct or Indirect primaries; the earliest and most popularly acceptable form of choosing an incumbent as party candidates has been through consensus or affirmation. This mode is believed to be less rancorous and crisis-free. Even where there is crisis, it is always minimal. In 2019, President Mohammadu Buhari was adopted as the sole candidate as our great party – the APC – through voice affirmation. Although; there were aspirants who were interested in contesting for presidency, but the majority of party members were not disposed to any direct or indirect primaries because of the heat and tension generated by the exercise. At the end of the day, APC benefitted immensely from the matured way it adopted to pick the incumbent president as the Sole Candidate. This doused the ravaging tension that could have aided disunity and disintegration that could have eventually shaken the APC to its very foundation. Ondo State people have a peculiar approach to the second term syndrome. Different parties since 1999 and before have built on the option of “first refusal” to strengthen internal democracy and unity within. From Chief Adebayo Adefarati, Dr. Olusegun Agagu to Dr. Olusegun Mimiko, it was systemic adoptions. The Ondo State people believe in a party that is peaceful. A party that will not allow its activities to generate tension and violence of any form in the state. We are peace loving people. What is the level of acceptance of the present Akeredolu’s administration in Ondo state? The present administration in Ondo Sate enjoys tremendous goodwill of the people of Ondo State. The level of genuine initiative on infrastructure is a pride to party faithfuls across the state. Workers are paid as at when due unlike in the past. The Ondo State people no longer see politicians as pariahs because the Akeredolu’s government has initiated unprecedented dynamism in governance in the state to the extent that party faithfuls now enjoy the confidence of the people. Will consensus candidacy appeal to all aspirants? Primaries have led to the total disintegration of many political parties, and in some cases, it has led to electoral misfortune. Our chances as a party in Ondo State is very bright for the 2020 guber poll. The Governor has endeared himself to the people with his leadership style of spending the people’s money for the society. He has garnered the support of the majority with his transparent style of governance and bluntness on issues that are clearly meant to be.  The Ondo State people are not in the habit of changing a winning striker as it is the case in normal climes. His performance as a Governor in just two years necessitated the agitation from various interest groups and vast majority of our people in the state for Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu to be so adopted as the concensus candidate of the party to minimise the impact of avoidable bickering, tension and disunity among party faithfuls. The exemplary leadership style of our great party at the national level has given members of the party the requisite confidence to initiate processes that will better the lots of the party. This has encouraged all inclusiveness at all levels. This trait has been major impute that has propelled the unparalleled performance of Governor Akeredolu beyond targeted expectation. Do you believe Akeredolu can  emerge as APC’s candidate? It is crystal clear that Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu will win any primary – Direct or Indirect- hand fully because he enjoys the confidence of not only party members but the Ondo State populace. Primaries breed division among party members which  is  major thing of concern to stakeholders. The Ondo State people are looking up to APC and Akeredolu to continue to consolidate on the gains of the past two years. Anything short of that will not only dampen their morale; it will kill their enthusiasm and the good will which the party enjoys in the state. Changing a winning team does not portray any responsible trait of any coach or manager. The Ondo State voters know those they want and what they want. What is your group’s position now? It should  be on record  here that we are not holding brief for  Akeredolu.  We are only acting on the mandate of majority of stakeholders in Ondo State that believe in the success of our great party in 2020 Guber poll. We are genuine  party men and women, and our interest goes beyond  any  individual considerations. We only believe  in the party doing  the needful to assure our victory in 2020. We are die hard APC stakeholders that believe in the leadership of our dear President, General Muhammadu Buhari and our national leader, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu. We are of the belief that the National body of our great party should in its wisdom use its crisis management mechanism to assuage and settle whatever disagreement among the top echelon of the party in Ondo State; if any, to prepare us for the battle in 2020. There is no denying the fact that there are differences. This is politics and in politics we all disagree to agree How do you see the reconciliation efforts within the party as initiated by the National Working Committee (NWC) led by Comrade Oshiomhole? We commend the APC National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and the National Working Committee (NWC) members for the inauguration of reconciliation committee headed by Senate President, Ahmad Lawan to douse off the bickering and acrimony within the party in some states. We also appeal to our leaders and all the warring groups in Ondo state to key into and make use of the opportunity the reconciliation will present in order to foster peace, unity and progress among APC stakeholders. 