From Arogbonlo Israel  Odinaka Victor Kenechukwu may have been a victim of admission quota system. Like every other candidate, Odinaka, 20, sat for his Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) last year. However, he was denied admission into the University of Abuja (UNIABUJA) where he had hoped to study Medicine. In addition, Odinaka also did well at the university’s post-UTME scoring 33 out of 50 per cent. In the 2017 West African Senior School Certificate Examination Council (WASSCE), he emerged with distinctions in all the subjects registered. CAMPUSLIFE learnt there was no stated cut-off mark for JAMB by the school while post-UTME is slated for 50. Nonetheless, the leadership of the university which sympathised with Odinaka, said the 20-year-old candidate may have fallen a victim  of admission quota system. “At present, my son is at home depressed and very disappointed in the educational system,” lamented the victim’s father Mr Odinaka Hycienth. “It is so painful that after years of preparing for this, things are turning out this way. “What we want is justice because there’s no way we will allow such intelligent family member to pass through this trauma, and still come back to rewrite UTME.” However, the institution’s Vice Chancellor (Academics) Clement Alawa, said: “Merit is 45 per cent of the quota for Medicine. This score (33) does not guarantee merit admission. By our carrying capacity, admission into Medicine is 50 candidates. So, calculate 45 per cent of 50 for merit. The 36 states and FCT are the catchment areas for UNIABUJA. Catchment is 35 per cent of the admission. The scores from the Eastern stated are very high and this explains it. Meanwhile, the university has suspended admission due some irregularities noticed in the system. This was contained in a memo released to the Admissions Committee. The vice chancellor Prof Abdul-Rasheed Na’Allah, said committee did not meet up with JAMB guidelines for uploading all admissions on the central admission processing system (CAPS). The report reads in part: “It has come to my notice that the JAMB admission guidelines of uploading all admissions on CAPS have not been fully met. This is totally unacceptable.” “I hereby direct that all admission processes and payment of acceptance fees should be put on hold pending when all shortlisted candidates have been uploaded to CAPS. Also, subsequent admission exercise MUST follow this.” 