 The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) showed strength in Saturday’s rerun elections across the country. But erstwhile Chairman of House of Representatives Committee on Appropriation, Abdulmumin Jibrin, lost the bid to return to the House. The APC candidate lost to the PDP candidate, Aliyu Yako, for the Kiru/Bebeji Federal Constituency of Kano State. Yako, a former Commissioner for Local Government Affairs, polled 48,601 votes to beat Jibrin, who got 13,587 votes. The former House of Representatives leader Ado Alhassan Doguwa was declared the winner of the rerun election in Tudun Wada/Doguwa federal constituency in Kano. He polled 66,667 votes to defeat the PDP candidate, Air Commodore Yushua Salisu (retd.), who scored 6,400 votes. In Imo, APC candidate for the Okigwe North Federal Constituency, comprising Isiala Mbano/Okigwe/Onuimo, Ms Miriam Onuoha, defeated Mr Obinna Onwubualiri in the rerun. Returning Officer, Prof. Frank Collins of Nnamdi Azikwe University, said Onuoha scored 23,690 votes, to defeat Onwubualiri of the PDP, who scored 10,010 votes. Mr Uchenna Ubah of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) came third with 263 votes. PDP candidates won the rerun for Sokoto North/Sokoto South and Isa/Sabon-Birni Federal Constituencies of Sokoto State. Alhaji Abubakar Abdullahi of the PDP defeated the incumbent, Alhaji Bala Hassan of APC with 68,985 votes. PDP’s Sa’idu Bargaja defeated his closest opponent, Alhaji Sani Aminu-Isa of the APC with 44,490 against 41,048 for Isa/Sabon-Birni Federal Constituency. APC candidate for Abi/Yakurr Federal Constituency in Cross River State, Dr Alex Egbonna, won the rerun election held in two wards of Ekureku in Abi Local Government Area (LGA). Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) Dr Alalibo Johnson said Egbonna scored 29, 716 to defeat PDP’s John Gaul-Lebo, who scored 26, 036. A petition by the PDP candidate led to the court-ordered rerun. A rerun was also held for some wards in the state House of Assembly constituency seat in Abi Local Government Area. In the result announced by INEC for the Abi state constituency seat, PDP’s Davies Ettah scored 13, 349 to defeat APC’s Inah Iwara, who got 8,797. The re-run was conducted in 33 polling units in the state, out which eight was cancelled following the hijack of materials. The cancelled area had 5606 registered voter. The exercise was largely peaceful and recorded huge voters’ turnout. Former Cross River State Governor Liyel Imoke congratulated Egbonna and Etta on their victory. Egbonna is of the APC; Ettah is of the PDP. “Ultimately the elections were peaceful. Now that elections are over and I believe the better politicians won, we must all sheath our swords and unite for our common good,” he said. Imoke said while losers have the constitutional right to seek redress, he advised “that this matter not be pursued any further in the courts.” In Akwa Ibom, the PDP swept the Senate, House of Representatives and state Assembly supplementary elections in Essien Udim. The returning officer for the Akwa Ibom Northwest rerun election, Prof. Robert Dode of the University of Uyo, announced that Senator Christopher Ekpeyong of the PDP won. He said that Mr Ekpeyong polled 134,717 votes while Sen. Godswill Akpabio of the APC, who had earlier withdrawn, scored 83,820 votes. Also the returning officer of INEC for the House of representatives, Prof. Idara Akpabio of the University of Uyo, declared Mr Nsikak Ekong of the PDP as winner having polled 45,366 votes. Mr Emmanuel Akpan of the APC scored 22,757. In the State House of Assembly supplementary elections, the returning officer, Prof. Victor Ebong of the University of Uyo declared Esse Umoh of PDP winner, having polled 18,999 votes to defeat Mr Nse Ntuen of the APC, who scored 7,108. The rerun polls were ordered by Appeal court in Calabar for the Akwa Ibom North-West (Ikot Ekpene) Senatorial District, Essien Udim Federal Constituency and Essien Udim State Constituency. Akwa Ibom State’s Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Mr Mike Igini, praised security agencies for their role. He said in a statement: “The security agencies, despite the initial challenges did a commendable job with satisfactory professionalism, particularly in the full implementation of the designed model for securing the collation processes and centres. “This ensured that polling unit results were not compromised or swapped with pre-written results to supplant the will of the people.” In Bauch, Alhaji Awal Jatau of the PDP and Tata Umar of the APC were the major contenders in the supplementary poll for Zaki Constituency. Jatau polled 782 votes; Tata garnered 401 votes. The Returning Officer, Prof. Ahmed Kutama, said Jatau polled 15,405 votes to defeat Tata, who polled 15,307. For the Gamawa Federal constituency rerun election, the Returning Officer, Dr Abubakar Mohammed, from Federal University, Dutse, said Madaki Gololo of the PDP polled 21,223 votes. Isa Mohammad Wabu of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) polled 15,004 votes. Madaki Gololo of the PDP and 20 other candidates contested for the Gamawa constituency seat.