 PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday assured Nigerians that his administration will continue to make policies that will bring prosperity to all. The President gave the assurance while hosting awardees of the 2019 National Productivity Order of Merit (NPOM) at the State House in Abuja. President Buhari urged other Nigerians, especially the youth, to take a cue from the awardees, many of whom are industrialists, professionals and creators of jobs. The awardees, the President stressed, were recognised for their industry and ingenuity, adding that it is among the most prestigious honours that the Federal Government confers on those considered worthy. “The National Productivity Order of Merit is one of the highest honours our nation confers on its citizens. The process of selection is strictly based on merit. We shall continue to preserve this process to sustain the integrity and values of this great tradition. “The 2019 awardees are diverse and outstanding. We have captains of industry, technocrats, public servants, media practitioners, security officials and many more. Your tangible contributions towards protecting, developing and enhancing our country and its citizens are your lasting legacies. “I will take this opportunity to encourage our citizens, especially our youths, to emulate your actions as we continue to work together to build the Nigeria of our expectations. “As a government, we shall continue to focus on providing a safe and secure nation with policies and programmes that will bring prosperity to the masses. I am confident that this goal is achievable, if we put our differences aside and work together in the spirit of cooperation. “I am informed that the National Productivity Centre will, on an annual basis, organise forums for past awardees to come together and exchange ideas on how to encourage selfless service and commitment on our lives. “The task of nation-building is an enormous one. Our citizens must endeavour to become more productive. It is only through greatly increased productivity that we can create a big and prosperous economy. The awardees …are role models for all of us to emulate.” The Federal Government had conferred the NPOM Award on 25 deserving individuals and seven organisations drawn from all sectors of the economy. They include the Founder of The Tony Elumelu Foundation (TEF) and Chairman of the United Bank for Africa Group (UBA) and Heirs Holdings, Tony O. Elumelu, CON; President of Dangote Group of Industry, Alhaji Aliko Dangote; Chairman of Honeywell Group, Oba Otudeko; Controller GeneraL, Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Col. Hameed Ali (retd.) and multiple award winner, columnist, Chairman of The Nation Editorial Board and television host, Mr Sam Omatseye, among other notable Nigerians. Others include the Chairman of Channels Television, Mr John Momoh; the Chairman of Dozzy Oil and Gas Limited, Sir Daniel Chukwudozie; First Deputy President of Port Harcourt Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (PHCCIMA), Sir Mike Elechi; the Registrar of the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB), Professor Ishaq Oloyede and many others.