By Adegunle Olugbamila  Executive Secretary, Lagos State Technical and Vocational Education Board (LASTVEB), Mrs Aderonke Azeez, has urged every organisation to  acknowledge the role of its workers, saying every position, however huge or small, is capable of either making or marring an organisation. She promised that LASTVEB, under her watch, would remain committed to this organisational ethic as well as a reward scheme for outstanding workers. Aderonke spoke as the board celebrated a total of 20 retirees that signed off after a meritorious service. “We are celebrating these people today because of the sterling values they contributed to the system while in service. “From the least to the top, I want to say everyone’s roles have been significant and central to the success or failure. ‘’That is the reason  I always believe every worker’s role, regardless of their designation, should be acknowledged because this is key to the success of every organisation. Rather than feel sad for being out of service, Aderonke urged the retirees to always be happy. She continued: “Retirement is not a disease but a thing of joy. You should come out, smile, wear exciting faces, rejoice and form associations. “When I left the service, I never got bored. I was doing a consultancy job. I was having friends and attending functions. I had to improve more on my relationship with people. “Nowadays, people believe once you attain age 65, you automatically entered into a second phase of life, That does not mean you are condemned; rather you should begin life anew and be productively engaged but without much stress. Similarly, Head of Service Hakeem Muri-Okunola, celebrated and congratulated the retirees. “We have to celebrate you because it’s God’s grace that you are here. A lot of people started out with you but today they are no more,” said Muri-Okunola, who was represented by Mrs Bankole Boluwatife, of the Department of Post Service, Office of the Head of Service, He advised them to be more conscious about their health-stay off sugary substances, drink warm water every morning, engage in light exercises, and consume lots of fresh fruits and vegetables. In what seemed a comic relief however, Muri-Okunola admonished the male retirees not to be lured into another unplanned wedlock by some adventurous women whose aim is to be a ‘shareholder’ of their retirement benefits. “When you fall into such traps, you accidentally commit yourself into another marriage and bear ‘pension children’ (children to be tendered at old age),” he said, jolting everybody into bout of laughter.  The high points of the event were presentation of gifts and certificates by the board and office of HoS. The event also featured special recognition for five outstanding teaching, non-teaching staff and as well as students across the board’s five technical schools. Expressing his appreciation on behalf of others to the board, one of the retirees Olaolu Oguntuyi, challenged his former colleagues still in service to ‘set achievable goals’ for the board. According to  Oguntuyi, the aforementioned goals must be specific, relevant, measurable, achievable and time-bound. “Besides that, you also have to continue to do good, stay away from gossip and be dedicated. “Many of us retirees have a lot to thank the board because it helped us travel around the world for training, and we cannot put values on many of them. Oguntuyi said Federal Government was able to adopt two of LASTVEB initiatives-modern apprenticeship training programme (MATP); and Young Entrepreneurship Club (YEC), urging those behind to ensure its sustenance. Mrs Owagbemi Olufunmilola represented her husband Mr Gboyega the only retiree that passed on November last year. He was 59. “(Before his death), he always said he enjoyed the team sprit in (LASTVEB) which brought out the best in him. “He always told me one of his best moments was that as a teacher, he usually felt fulfilled anytime he came across some of his students that are now doing well in the society.” 