For some people they are of the opinion that couples who cohabit before marriage tend to have less-satisfying marriages and are more likely to divorce than couples who live apart before marriage. This I believe is a matter of opinion or religious belief. I am not here to tell you what is right or wrong, but share my view and experience on what I believe the effects of cohabitation can be for relationships. While I was in university, there was a couple who lived together for a few years. Unfortunately, the boyfriend was not even a student of the school. They professed to love each other. Meanwhile, the girl got constant beating from her boyfriend. At a point when she could not bear it, her brothers stepped in and tore the relationship apart. Will we say cohabitation in this case caused the break-up, or encouraged the beating and maltreatment she was receiving? Cohabitation has been a hot topic of conversation for many years and may remain so till man exists no more. In the 60s and 70s, a  few couples lived together before marriage. Today, research shows that  more than 60 per cent of couples cohabit before marrying. Numerous reputable studies, however, find that couples who cohabit prior to marriage significantly increase their risk for divorce. In case you have no idea, cohabitation is the state of living together and having a sexual relationship without being married. On the other hand, it is also suggested that times have changed from when cohabitation before marriage signalled higher chances for divorce later. More and more, it appears that cohabitation plays a smaller role in predicting divorce than it used to. Some people believe that cohabitation helps to stop more people from getting married blindly, testing the car engine before you zoom off. Some would argue against this point of view, especially when religion is involved. So does cohabitation harm your chances of marriage? Does it increase the risk of divorce? It is advisable for people to be cautious before they run out and encourage friends to cohabiting, because the truth is that even if you feel cohabitation is ok, it does not mean the negative effective will disappear. It will still exist and can affect people in a relationship. For example, smoking cigarettes was not only socially acceptable in the past. In fact, it was the cool thing to do for years. Then research revealed that smoking, and even second-hand smoke, causes lung cancer. While not everybody who smokes gets lung cancer, the risk was great enough to make people think twice. If a lifelong, healthy marriage is your goal, consider the evidence. There is more than enough of it to support that living together before marriage may put your relationship at risk. WHEN researchers ask cohabiters these questions, partners often have different, unspoken — even unconscious — agendas.  Women are more likely to view cohabitation as a step toward marriage, while men are more likely to see it as a way to test a relationship or postpone commitment, and this gender asymmetry is associated with negative interactions and lower levels of commitment even after the relationship progresses to marriage. One thing men and women do agree on, however, is that their standards for a live-in partner are lower than they are for a spouse. Sliding into cohabitation wouldn’t be a problem if sliding out were as easy. But it isn’t. Too often, adults enter into what they imagine will be low-cost, low-risk living situations only to find themselves unable to get out months, even years, later. It’s like signing up for a credit card with 0 per cent interest. At the end of 12 months when the interest goes up to 23 per cent you feel stuck because your balance is too high to pay off. In fact, cohabitation can be exactly like that. In behavioural economics, it’s called consumer lock-in. Lock-in is the decreased likelihood to search for, or change to, another option once an investment in something has been made. The greater the set-up costs, the less likely we are to move to another, even better, situation, especially when faced with switching costs, or the time, money and effort it requires to make a change. Cohabitation is loaded with set-up and switching costs. Living together can be fun and economical, and the set-up costs are subtly woven in. After years of living among roommates’ junky old stuff, couples happily split the rent on a nice one-bedroom apartment. They share so many costs and enjoy shopping for new furniture together. Later, these set-ups and switching costs have an impact on how likely they are to leave. Cohabitation is here to stay, and there are things young adults can do to protect their relationships from the cohabitation effect. It’s important to discuss each person’s motivation and commitment level beforehand and, even better, to view cohabitation as an intentional step toward, rather than a convenient test for, marriage or partnership. It also makes sense to anticipate and regularly evaluate constraints that may keep you from leaving. I am not for or against living together, but I am for adults knowing that, far from safeguarding against divorce and unhappiness, moving in with someone can increase your chances of making a mistake — or of spending too much time on a mistake. I am strongly of the opinion that The best time to work on someone’s marriage is long before he or she has one or is actually married and this means before cohabitation. I wish you all the best.