By Gabriel Amalu  The Enugu Electricity Distribution Company (EEDC) is playing a dangerous disco, and her customers are not amused. Ordinarily, when a disc jockey plays, the body gyrates in ecstasy, but the disco blaring from the EEDC, which is the monopoly in charge of electricity distribution in the Southeast, can be likened to a dance of death, and so the customers reject it. Instead of giving her customers pre-paid meters, it is removing installed pre-paid meters and reverting customers back to estimated billing. Yes, as strange as it sounds, the EEDC claims to be phasing out some of its pre-paid meters, and is replacing them with estimated billing. To achieve what is clearly an unconscionable business plan, the DISCO simply make it impossible for the owners of the pre-paid meters to re-charge when their token has finished, and if they want electricity, they must revert to estimated billing. According to EEDC officials, the concerned meters are not state-of-the-art and they have decided to phase them out. It is strange that while the Speaker of the House of Representatives Hon Femi Gbajabiamila, is campaigning for the criminalisation of estimated billing, the EEDC is forcing her customers back to estimated billing. Perhaps, they believe the speaker cannot muster the passage of the bill, or they have received assurances from the senate or the presidency that the bill will not see the light of the day? What is giving the EEDC the confidence to play such a dangerous disco for her customers? The governors of the Southeast and their representatives at the national and state houses of assemblies must rise up and defend their people. Agreed that electricity is in the exclusive legislative list in the 1999 constitution, but it is those who elected them into their various offices that are being exploited, by EEDC. So, they should speak-up and put pressure on the federal government and its agencies, to stop the abuse of monopoly in the region by the EEDC. They should not wait until there is a breakdown of law and order before they intervene. It is bad enough that the criminality of charging people for services not rendered is allowed by relevant authorities, but it will be a double whammy for those who have passed through the eye of a needle, to obtain their meters in the past, to now lose them, and again become hapless victims of state sanctioned criminal exploitation, called estimated billing. After all, it is the authorities that made distribution companies monopolistic, and so must stop them from criminalising such monopolies. Considering the difficulties customers go through to obtain meters, including paying huge bribes to officials of distribution companies, it is better imagined, the losses incurred by those affected by the withdrawal of pre-paid meters by the EEDC. There is no doubt that DISCOS prefer to give estimated bills, and that is why they have made it excruciating for customers to obtain the pre-paid meters. Using the estimated billing, the DISCOS do not bother about rendering efficient services, as they foist the costs on the customers. They do not bother about fishing out those who unlawfully tap electricity from their supply lines; they also do not bother about the loss of watts of electricity from dilapidated equipment; they do not worry about their rogue staffs who connive with dubious customers to connect illegally at odd hours. They simply lump the good, the bad and the ugly together, and share their cost and profit estimation amongst the consumers. Of course, such laisser-faire attitude to business promotes inefficiency, but instead of suffering the consequences, the DISCOS simply pass-on the incurred costs to consumers. It has also become clear that DISCOS choose not to supply electricity to areas where majority of customers are on normal pre-paid meters or estimated billing system, except in places where higher but clearly unlawful tariffs are agreed. In those places, the customers are cajoled to sign up to pay higher tariffs, in order to get steady supply, while those on regular pre-paid are denied electricity. For those on estimated billing, it turns a double whammy, as they are forced to pay for darkness, just for the few hours of supply in a month.  That is the criminality by electricity distribution companies, across the country that the amendment to the criminalisation of estimated billing bill championed by Hon. Femi Gbajabiamilla seeks to stop. Of note, during the Christmas break, some communities in Enugu State where compelled to pay huge portions of their estimated bills, with the promise that they would enjoy regular electricity supply during the yuletide. Shamelessly, after pocketing the payments, many of the communities were left in darkness, from the eve of the Christmas until after the New Year. In the midst of these glaring inefficiencies and gross abuse of their monopolies by the DISCOS, the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) empowered to stop such abuses in the sector, instead of being pro-people agreed to a tariff increase by April of this year. This column is happy that the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila and the Minority Leader, Ndudi Elumelu have both spoken against the planned tariff hike, until the amendment to the law criminalizing estimated billing is passed into law. I urge those affected by the criminal extortion for services not rendered, and all persons of goodwill to join in the battle cry, and ensure that no tariff increase takes place, until the amendment to the law criminalizing estimated billing has been passed and signed into law. If the NERC want to support the increment of tariff, it should first support the amendment to criminalize estimated billing. It is unconscionable on their part, to support the glaring criminality of extorting citizens for services not rendered. Again, the promise by the speaker that any increase must be cost effective and not based on the whimsical interest of the beneficiaries of the scam is welcomed. The speaker and the members should pursue the promised sequence of action with every vigour. First the passage and signing into law, of the amendment bill, before any increment in tariff, as approved by NERC. The extortion against Nigerians has no party colour, and so the bipartisan approach in the House is commendable. With respect to the removal of some pre-paid meters by EEDC, I also urge the NERC to compel the distribution company to stop. They can only replace a pre-paid meter with another pre-paid meter. It should be forward movement, not backward movement, more so when the intention is to bring more economic pains to the consumer.  