 Bayelsa State Governor Seraike Dickson; member of the House of Representatives Mr. Taiwo Kolawole; chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State Moshood Salvador; National Association of Niferian Students (NANS); and Interfaith Dialogue Forum For Peace (IDFP), on Monday backed the Western Nigeria Security Network code-named Amotekun. Also, Yoruba Leadership and Peace Initiative (TYLPI) flayed the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mallam Abubakar Malami (SAN), for unduly overheating the polity. The group said the minister was putting the nation on the boil, following his declaration that Amotekun is illegal. Osun State Muslim Community (OSMC), however, described Amotekun as “unconstitutional, confrontational and sectional.” OSMC in a communique issued after its delegates’ meeting and jointly signed by the President, Alhaji Mustafa Olawuyi and Secretary, Alh Hashim Olapade, said Amotekun was not acceptable to them. But the police in Ondo have warned that it would not condone any unruly behaviour by protesters during today’s peaceful demonstration by Yoruba pressure groups in the state in support of the Amotekun security initiative. Ondo State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Femi Joseph, said the command yesterday met with the coordinators of Yoruba World Congress (YWC) in the state on the need to ensure that hoodlums did not hijack today’s peaceful procession. Dickson said that the Southwest security initiative reflected in clears terms the inevitability of restructuring. The governor said that regional security mechanisms like Amotekun were necessitated by the politicisation and collapse of the centralized national security apparatus in the country. He noted that the politicisation and the over-centralization of security without an effective funding mechanism, and arrangement for professionalism had reduced Nigeria to an un-policed country. The governor described Amotekun as a component of the restructuring, which he had championed in the country in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Fidelis Soriwei. Dickson, who said that he was a strong advocate of the devolution of policing powers, added that the issues of control of policing powers were a critical component of restructuring. The governor further said that he had championed the crusade for restructuring more than any governor in the country and had taken the message to  all parts of the country, including two meetings with the President, to impress it on him to take charge of the initiative. He warned that if the country did not restructure now, there might be nothing left for Nigerians to restructure when they were ready and urged the President to take the lead on the issue of restructuring for Nigeria to survive. He said that every state in the Southsouth had some form of internal security mechanism to collaborate with the law enforcement agencies. According to him, Bayelsa under his leadership has the Bayelsa Volunteers, the State Vigilante, the Community Safety Corps, the Water Water Security, all backed by law. Dickson said: “This Southwest initiative, Amotekun, is a clear issue of restructuring. It is like the state and regional police that I have been calling for. “My views on restructuring are in the public domain and I have taken it to the President himself, unlike those who are running away from critical issues affecting our people.” He said that as governor, he introduced similar security mechanisms to respond to the destabilisation of his state. The Federal lawmaker, however, said Amotekun would succeed in curbing security challenges in the region if it assists the police with useful information. Kolawole, representing Ajeromi Ifelodun Constituency, said that government should be open to any initiative that could help in eliminating insecurity in the community. He said: “Insecurity can only be curbed by information sharing. We can only get information from the grassroots, neighbourhood watch and the community policing through the local languages. “Police are not spirits; if there is no information they cannot do anything.” According to the federal lawmaker, the police should take advantage of the regional security outfit to get information that would help them in investigations. Similarly, Hon. Salvador described Amotekun as a good idea capable of addressing the security challenges in the geo-political zone. The APC chieftain, who is also the National Treasurer of the Yoruba Unity Forum, spoke when he paid a courtesy visit to the Lagos Office of the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN). He, however, said for the initiative to achieve its desired objective of improving security in the region, it had to be done in the right way. Salvador, therefore, called on South West governors to approach their respective state Houses of Assembly to make laws to support the initiative. Salvador, also a former PDP Chairman in Lagos State, added that the debate about whether the security initiative was constitutional or not would not arise if the right laws were made to back it up. According to him, the problem of insecurity in the country is a serious issue which required result-oriented ideas to address it. National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) expressed solidarity with Amotekun, saying it would help to tackle security challenges in the Southwest. Southwest Coordinator of NANS, Olawale Kappo, told reporters in Lagos that “Amotekun” became imperative because of security challenges in the Southwest, which prompted a specially-designed security apparatus to save the situation. Kappo said NASS was aware of the Civilian Joint Taskforce Movement in Borno, which had also been assisting the military in combating Boko haram. “These security outfits carry ammunition which means the task force is the same thing as Operation Amotekun,” the NANS leader said. He also noted that about 23 states across the country currently have similar local security outfits. TYLPI, in a statement by its President and General-Secretary, Mr. Olusegun Ahmadu and Mr. Olufemi Adefemiwa, deplored the justice minister’s stance as insensitive, insincere and smacking of bias and double standard, when the federal authorities had kept mute and even continued to lend support to the formation and operation of similar security bodies such as the Hisbah and Civilian Joint Task Force (JTF) in certain troubled parts of the north. It dismissed the AGF’s allegation that the regional initiative breached the constitution as lame, hypocritical and vexatious, wondering: “Where was the Federal Government and the AGF when Hisbah operatives recently arrested a policeman in the north? Why would the same Federal Government that lent and still lends support to those outfits now find the constitution sacred?” Also, the IDFP said Operation Amotekun would help to address the issue of insecurity such as kidnapping, banditry and all forms of social vices in the zone. Co-Chair, Executive Council of IDFP, Alhaji Ishaq Kunle Sanni, who spoke at a press conference in Abuja, said what brought Amotekun were the demands by the people. In rejecting Amotekun, the OSMC said: “Osun State Muslim Community is in full support of existing security outfit for protection of life and property in Nigeria provided by the Nigeria constitution and the laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “The composition and establishment of Amotekun in the Southwest of Nigeria are unacceptable by the Osun State Muslim Community (OSMC). “We unequivocally condemn issuance of a certificate of birth, letters of recommendation from the church, deliberately silent about other religions. Osun State Muslim Community (OSMC) can never support a one-sided security outfit which may, later on, prove insecure for the general populace.” But the spokesman of the police in Ondo, Joseph, said the command was prepared to curtail any unruly act during today’s peaceful protest in support of Amotekun security outfit. He said although the group had the right to organise peaceful procession, especially with the mission to support the Southwest governors on the need for the regional security outfit (Amotekun), he maintained that the police would not condone any breach of the peace of the society. According to him: “We told them to comport themselves with decorum during the peaceful procession and not to allow hoodlums to hijack the exercise.We are ready to monitor the procession and ensure that there are no hitches.” The group in a statement issued by its Director of Contacts and Mobilisation, Mr Victor Taiwo, urged all Yoruba to join the protest march in all the state capitals of the six states. Taiwo said the protest would go a long way in sending signals to the Federal Government that the entire Yoruba people were in support of the new security outfit and legalise it. He added that the new security outfit would wage war against the spate of insecurity ravaging the zone when put in operation. The protest code-named: “Amotekun Solidarity Walk,” Taiwo said, would make all Nigerians know that Yoruba were speaking with one voice over the” Amotekun” security outfit and also give the Southwest governors the understanding that their people were behind them, regardless of political affiliation. YWC led by a Professor of History and Second Republic Senator, Banji Akintoye, has branches in all the six states of the Southwest.