Osagie Otabor, Benin  Crisis has hit the Edo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party over the January 15th date for its congresses. Some youths of the party have threatened to hold parralel congresses and primaries if the processes were biased. They warned the outgoing state executives led by Chief Dan Orbih against any plot to impose party chairman on the party. It was gathered that Senator Odion Ugbesia and Engr. Fred Okah are the two contenders to replace Chief Orbih whose tenure ends in March. The PDP youths said they raised the alarm because the party might lose its chances to win the Edo governorship election. Coordinator of the PDP youth under the auspices of PDP Youths for Justice, Alhaji Musa Kadiri, accused Chief Orbih of positioning Senator Ugbesia to take over from him as the State Party Chairman. Alhaji Kadiri called on the party leader, Chief Lucky Igbinedion, to intervene to ensure that the earlier agreement of no zoning principle is maintained. Kadiri stated that of Chief Orbih is allowed to have his way to install Ugbesia, ‘aspirants like Kenneth Imasuangbon, Gideon Ikhine who sacrificed a lot for the party will be schemed out of the race. Ugbesia and Imasuangbon hail from the same local government.’ He called on all PDP members to support Engr. Okah as the party Chairman. According to him, “We are saddened at the reports of happenings within the Edo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party as the party prepares for its congresses from January 15, 2020. “The crisis bedevilling the All Progressives Congress in Edo State coupled with the poor performances of Governor Godwin Obaseki has given the party a good chance to win the governorship election but the manner of the outgoing Chairman, Chief Dan Orbih is putting the PDP at risk. “The argument being put forward by some Edo PDP leaders are that aspirants in Edo Central cannot win governorship election. This is a fallacy to rig some aspirants out of the race. “We are by this briefing putting Edo PDP leaders on notice to avert pending crisis. “Uche Secondus should urgently intervene to prevent parallel congresses in Edo. All the aspirants need a level playing ground for the party’s primaries. “Edo South deserve the Chairmanship position as it has never held the position since 1999.” Chief Orbih who reacted through the State Publicity Secretary of the party, Mr. Chris Nehikhare, said the Edo PDP has no support group with such name. He described the group and Kadiri as faceless and unknown to the party. Nehikhare said the PDP local government chairman in Edo North and Edo South have gone to pledge support for Senator Ugbesia. His words, “They are faceless organisation and being sponsored by enemies of the party. “I can tell you that in the past three of four days, party chairmen from Edo North and Edo South have gone to pledge support for Ugbesia.”