Debutant Nigeria has a Herculean task in Group B as they begin their campaign today against former champion Australia at the 2020 ICC U19 Cricket World Cup at Country Club B Field in Kimberly,  South Africa. The Aussies only on Sunday lost their opening match by 3 wickets to West Indies. Drawn in Group B against three former champions – Australia, England and West Indies, a hopeful Nigerian side will be aiming for an upset as Peter Aho believes they are inspired to replicate their qualification feat in the tournament. Aho who was the man of the match in the final match against Sierra Leone which sealed Nigeria’s place at the World Cup is optimistic that the team will do well in South Africa. Like Aho, Isiaka Audu describes the win over Sierra Leone as a morale booster for the team in South Africa. “It was an unbelievable feat against Sierra Leone as there was a catch that was supposed to be taken but it was dropped and it went in our favour and we were really happy then Peter Aho played the last one and we all ran into the field crying and celebrating. Now, we are here at the World Cup,” Audu noted. According to the International Cricket Council (ICC), Nigeria will be aiming for a big scalp on their U19 World Cup debut as at least one of the three cricket powerhouses will miss out of qualification into the knock out stage. In the preview of Group B, the three former champions and a tournament debutant will come face-to-face for drama aplenty in the ICC U19 Cricket World Cup. Australia, England and West Indies – whose senior sides have all won the ICC Men’s Cricket World Cup – certainly have a tough test in store. All Group B fixtures will take place at Kimberley, with West Indies the next challenge for Nigeria on January 23, before rounding off the opening stage against England on January 25 at Diamond Oval. Before that, the opening match at the same venue will see two former champions face off as Australia take on West Indies. The Australian teens will be coached by Test greats Chris Rogers and Ryan Harris, with three of the squad already boasting contracts in the Big Bash League.