With Rois Ola  ARE you growing apart in your relationship? Or do you feel you are drifting away from your spouse? You are not alone. A lot of couple’s experience this disconnect. And so have I. But it’s how you respond and what you do about it that matters. Because the worry or fear of becoming strangers can easily add unwanted stress to your relationship. And the worst part is when your spouse denies that you are growing apart or is not even aware something is changing or has changed. I have and still see couples who had grown apart after years of being together and contemplated how they became so distant from each other. How did we ever get here? This is something couples must work hard against because the effects can damage what you have built together. One may ask why do couples grow apart? What could be the reason? Growing apart in a relationship doesn’t happen overnight. It happens slowly over a period of time, which could range from a few months to many years, eventually it will become obvious to first one person and maybe later the other partner. It can be the small everyday decisions you make or the fact that you stop doing little things like showing appreciation for your spouse. From my experience and several conversations even with other couples, the biggest reason for drifting apart from your spouse is because you stop life. And when life gets really busy, family conflicts, work obligations, health issues, loss of balancing friends and your marriage, etc. can also contribute to drifting apart from your spouse. There are so many signs and areas to drifting apart we can mention here today, but first let us start with the signs, which may be obvious to one or all parties involved. You may be drifting apart from your spouse, but might not know that is what’s happening. The signs below will show you whether you are growing apart from your spouse or not. You don’t feel like you can communicate with your spouse about everything because you may feel at some point, that  they don’t care about you. As such, you don’t take out time to schedule a time to just talk with your spouse. In addition, you feel like your spouse will not understand you, or what you may be trying to say, or be there for you physically or emotionally. They might even turn the conversation into a fight or argument, so why bother. Let’s save ourselves the stress. You are happier when you do things without your spouse. In fact, your spouse is pretty much the last person you want to share any exciting news with. You dislike them and don’t care about what they do. For instance, after the birth of a new baby, a lot of couple’s experience this disconnect because they find it difficult adjusting to the new change. Plus, all the new responsibilities that come with taking care of a new child, most especially the first baby. For some couples, this disconnect can happen in the sexual area of their marriage, while others may feel that their emotional connection is lacking. This is normal and can be addressed. Of course communication is key. A sexless marriage certainly shows that you are growing apart from your partner. The exception is when it is for health reasons. Otherwise, you are just roommates. The longer it lasts, the further you will grow apart. You may not have sex, have sex infrequently, have no real connection during sex, dread sex as a chore/duty or you are not sexually satisfied with each other sex is almost as important as food in any relationship, if the sex is not working it will create a crack in the relationship, if both parties are sensitive enough it can be fixed. All it takes is commitment and the will to make things work. You fight and criticize each other so often that you really don’t care to spend time with your spouse. You prefer spending more time apart than together, because every minute and every day is filled with exchange of words and battle. It tears you apart emotionally and physically. Your partner’s presence or anything they do irritates you, what they say, how they act, speak, move infuriates you or ticks you off. Whenever you receive a text message or phone call from them, you feel like they are disturbing you. in fact you get to a point where you can exist in your thoughts without them. You feel angry and sometimes want to throw the phone away. On some occasions, you even muster the courage to ignore their phone calls. And when they ask why, you lie about it. Some couples do not realize that Spending quality time doing an activity with your spouse is one of the things that helps you both get to know each other and to connect on a deeper level. So much so, you decided to stick to each other. The moment you stop doing things together, that connection begins to fade away, which will make you miss those activities.  For example, you used to eat together, but now, you don’t have time to enjoy a meal with each other. Another example is if you used to have a day off to watch a movie together and now you find a way to always get out of it. Another example is if you used to play a board, card, or dice game together, or some other fun activity, but now you don’t seem to have the time. those activities are gradually not existing again. You don’t have any memories to share together. Every relationship has an exciting stage and when you start drifting apart the excitement you once felt starts dwindling, you need to rediscover it. Make effort to rekindle the passion you had for each other when you first met. Your spouse is not giving you any attention or you are not giving your spouse any attention You both no longer have any common interest. And there isn’t much you can do about it. Your hope is gone and seeing eye to eye is now a thing of the past. You can’t even have normal conversations without a fight. Is it normal to grow apart in a relationship? The answer is yes. It’s sad and a phase a lot of people go through, but it is a phase that can be overcome, so don’t lose hope. As humans, we are naturally going to get pulled in different directions as we move through life. We are always growing and changing, change is constant in life. Our interests, priorities, strengths, weakness, what we like, what we don’t like, what we can tolerate and opinions also change over time. Your partner will not remain the same person forever, you will evolve through life and so will they. You simply have to be intentional and committed about choosing, learning, and discovering new things about your spouse. So you can grow together, and not apart. keep trying to understand those new things you like and the ones you may dislike or even hate. with good communication the ones that can change will change, the ones that can’t don’t sweat about it. In fact, growing apart in a relationship is probably one of the silent things that could destroy your relationship. Be intentional about doing everything you can to grow together with your spouse. Even if it is something small like giving each other a passionate hug or kiss every day. What to do if you have grown apart from your spouse In other words, is it too late to repair the damage done? No it is not, however there is work to be done.It may not be so easy. There are a few suggestions on what you can do to help the situation. The good thing is, if you and your spouse are on board to making changes in your marriage and are intentional about connecting with each other every day, you can change the situation before you grow too far apart. The simple things you can do Children are God’s gift no doubt, they also add more stress and consume more of our time. Children need so much of your time can make you and your spouse feel like housemates, instead of soulmates. That is why we intentionally purpose to spend at least thirty minutes every single day together just talking about life. Try to talk about what you both are interested in, new interests, what we are learning, goals, plans, our family, whatever we feel like talking about that night after our girls are asleep. And now, it’s one of the things to do every day so we don’t drift apart. Also, create interesting weekly and monthly activities to do together as a couple like watching movies, creating family budget etc. The truth is if both of you are not growing together in your relationship, you can’t be on the same page about your life together and this means you will also not have the same goals, aspirations or interests. You need to create these together. Find time because time waits for no one, communicate, express yourself in Love as much as possible. I wish you all the best!