Former Lagos Assembly member Lanre Ogunyemi has been elected as the Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the Centre of Excellence. He replaced former lawmaker Dr. Wale Ahmed, who returned to the State Executive Council as Commissioner for Special Duties. At a special congress of the party on Acme Road, Ogba, Ikeja, former Special Adviser on Rural Development Seye Oladejo was elected by popular acclamation as Publicity Secretary. Oladejo, a former Mushin Council chairman, replaced Comrade Joe Igbokwe, who was appointed by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu as Special Adviser on Drainage Management. Also, Abimbola Ladigbolu was elected as Assistant Legal Officer by accredited delegates from 245 -wards and pre-existing 20 local councils to replace Toke Benson, who was appointed as Special Adviser on Housing. The new officers were sworn in by the Legal Adviser of the chapter, Demola Sodiq, after taking their oaths of office. Oladejo reflected on his new assignment promising to be a loyal team player. Ogunyemi, who is a former Secretary of the Lagos State Alliance for Democracy (AD) under Chairman Abiodun Ogunleye, promised to serve with humility, fidelity and dignity. The congress, which was declared open by the party chairman, Tunde Balogun, who also read the report of APC activities in the state in the last one year, was witnessednby national APC leaders and Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) officials. At the Congress were National Legal Adviser Babatunde Ogala, Leader of Lagos State APC Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC) Prince Tajudeen Olusi, former Deputy Governor Idiat Adebule, Senator Ganiyu Solomon, Deputy Chairman Prince Sunny Ajose, Vice Chairman (West) Chief Funso Ologunde, Southwest Woman Leader Chief Kemi Nelson, Lagos APC Woman Leader Jumoke Okoya-Thomas and Chief Whip of House of Assembly Rotimi Abiru. Other party chieftains included Mrs Fausat Gbadebo, House of Assembly members Tunde Braimoh and Sunai Agunbiade, Mrs. Kehinde Babalola, Hakeem Bamgbola, former House of Representatives member Yakubu Balogun and former lawmaker Olasoji Oni. Balogun said the chapter adopted consensus in filling the vacant positions, adding the the Congress was organised to ratify their election. He said the option was constitutional as it derived from the party’s constitution. Balogun congratulated party members as he took stock, charging them to rededicate themselves to the cause of the APC. He said party officers under his leadership had demonstrated diligence, commitment and a deep sense of loyalty to the platform. Balogun said due to the pedigree of the party officers, who he described as some of the best politicians in the country, the chapter recorded victory in last year’s polls. He recalled that the State Executive Committee of the party met after the May 19, 2018 Congress to resolve issues arising from the exercise. He said Lagos APC adopted the direct primary for governorship shadow poll, stressing that the exercise was a resounding success. Balogun disclosed that the chapter had enlarged its coast to accommodate defectors from other parties. He stressed: “As the primary, a high rate of de-camping activities of notable individuals from other political parties was recorded into APC. We had the likes of Chief Remi Adikwu-Bakare and a host of others. Over 200 members from Accord Party and 1,000 members from the Southsouth Forum came to join APC before the 2019 general elections. “It is noteworthy that the Lagos PDP chairman, Moshood Salvador, decamped to the APC with a large number of members. Balogun said the APC campaign strategies yielded good results on poll days. He recalled that APC won the presidential Senatorial and governorship elections, adding that it also won 22 of 24 House of Representatives seats and 40 House of Assembly seats. Balogun added: “After the General elections had been won and lost, one would have expected political activities to cease. But, not so in Lagos APC as a lot of prominent members of the PDP decided to join APC. “Only recently, the likes of former Minister of Works, Senator Adeseye Ogunlewe, and his son, former House of Assembly member Tajudeen Shoro and Ramon Salawe from Lagos Island, the late Rafiu Tinubu’s group and supporters of the late Chief Semiu Kukoyi were all hosted to a welcome reception by Lagos APC.”