 Peak Milk from the stables of FrieslandCampina WAMCO Nigeria Plc will be the lead sponsor for the Abuja 2020 World Para-powerlifting World Cup. The tournament is scheduled to hold in Abuja between 5 -7 February, 2020 and will be hosted by Her Excellency Mrs. Aisha Buhari, First Lady Federal Republic of Nigeria. This para-powerlifting World Cup is a competition for male and female athletes is the qualifying championship to the Tokyo 2020 Olympics, where Peak will back the Nigerian para-powerlifting team, “The Unstoppables” to victory. #BeUnstoppable, Peak Milk’s campaign for the competition is in line with the brand’s purpose which enjoins all Nigerians to reach for their Peak. Chris Wulff-Caesar, Marketing Director, FrieslandCampina WAMCO said, “Peak’s #BeUnstoppable campaign is aimed at inspiring Nigerians to get up and achieve what they have set out to do regardless of what difficulties exist; and we are doing so by sharing stories of these remarkable athletes who have continued to break new grounds in spite of their physical challenges”. The #BeUnstoppable campaign is focused on encouraging and aiding athletes pursuing careers in professional sports, despite their physical limitations. Nigerian Paralympian are Nigeria’s most Internationally-decorated athletes with more than thirty medals recorded across Olympics, African, and World Championships. According to Wulff-Caesar, through the Unstoppable Team, Peak Milk is set to demonstrate what absolute nutrition can accomplish. The brand believes in the potential of all Nigerians, and will continue to encourage and nourish The Unstoppables to reach for their peak at the forthcoming Olympics and thereafter. It can be recalled that the contingent won  eight  Gold medals at the Rio 2016 Paralympic Games, and have maintained their impressive streak by recently winning 15 medals at the 2019 International Para lifting Games, among several others “The importance of nourishment can never be overemphasized in the contexts of resilience and vitality – which are key components to get up and go, each day. A healthy breakfast sets the tone for your day and even better, a Peak Breakfast guarantees you start and end your day well”, said Wulff-Caesar.