Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun has said that with communication components being mainstreamed into the state architecture, security arrangement will be near-perfect in the state. Abiodun noted that when completed, criminals would have no hiding place. Not only would the tracking devices ensure smooth communication among the security outfits in the state, they would also ensure that all patrol teams are where they claim to be. Prince Dapo Abiodun stated these while receiving the Assistant Inspector General of Police, Zone 2, AIG Ahmed Iliyasu, in his office. He said that his administration was on the verge of completing its communication setup which would avail security outfits in the state the opportunity to monitor activities of their patrol teams. He said: “We are on the verge of concluding the installation of communication equipment that will enable the Commissioner of Police; the Director, State Security Service; the Commandant, Civil Defence and all the rest of our law enforcement team, communicate with each other. “The communication equipment will not only allow them to speak to the patrol team, but also to determine their location at different point in time.” Abiodun also noted that his administration in collaboration with its sister states had met and came up with a joint patrol team that would see to issues bearing on armed robbery and kidnapping in the South West, adding that the security outfit named ‘Amotekun’ would patrol the six states of the zone. He added that his administration was also aware of the community policing initiative of the police aimed at making the community more secure, noting that his administration would do all in its powers to ensure the initiative was a success in the state. He said that his administration had all the confidence in the capability of the Assistant Inspector General of Police to succeed in his task of policing Ogun and Lagos states under his watch, adding that his administration would continue to do all in its power to support the police in the state Abiodun also noted that his administration was doing all in its power to improve on the living condition of men of the state’s law enforcement architecture by improving the conditions under which they work, adding that the Security Trust Fund was not just set up to buy vehicles, but to ensure that the vehicles were well fueled, managed, maintained and above all ensure that the welfare of the men to be assigned to the vehicles were well managed. In his remarks, the AIG, Zone 2 of the Nigeria Police, comprising Lagos and Ogun states, AIG Ahmed Iliasu, commended the governor for his concern for the security of the state, noting that since his emergence as governor he had improved on the security architecture of the state with the provision of basic security infrastructure for the use of the command in the state.