Gov. Dapo Abiodun of Ogun on Friday swore in 19 Commissioners and 16 Special Advisers, with a call on them to provide quality leadership for their ministries and agencies. In his address at the ceremony held at the Cultural Centre, Kuto in Abeokuta, the governor charged the appointees to consider their appointments as “call to service.” Abiodun urged them to work very hard to justify their appointment and to contribute their quota to the development of the state. He urged them to be steadfast, prudent, accountable and efficient as well as ensure successful implementation of government programmes in their respective offices. “Through your selection and subsequent appointment, you have been presented with a rare opportunity to lead and serve the people who expect so much from you in terms of performance. “You have been designated because you are qualified and possess the right experience to make a positive difference in our dear state. “This is the ideal that motivates our administration and why we have employed the services of professionals, experienced individuals who share the same vision and passion for the development of the state. “Some people have insinuated that the appointment of members of the State Executive Council is late. “Nevertheless, to get the very best, that is, game-changers who believe in our all-hands-on-deck-approach and team players who will make great impact in the lives of our people, it is important that we consult widely,” he said. The commissioners and their portfolios are; Mrs Kikelomo Longe – Commissioner for Commerce And Industry. Mr Afolabi Afuwape – Commissioner For Local Government And Chieftaincy Affairs Mr Toyin Taiwo – Commissioner For Culture And Tourism Dr Adeola Odedina – Commissioner For Agriculture. Prof. Sidi Osho – Commissioner For Education, Science And Technology. Mr Olaolu Olabintan – Commissioner For Budget and Planning Mr Femi Ogunbanwo – Commissioner For Special Duties Dr Tomi Coker – Commissioner For Health. Tunji Akinosi – Commissioner For Forestry. Abiodun Abudu-Balogun – Commissioner For Environment. Tunji Odunlami – Commissioner For Urban and Physical Planning Ganiyu Hamzat – Commissioner For Community Development. Mr Kehinde Oluwadare – Commissioner For Youths And Sports. Gbolahan Adeniran – Commissioner For Justice And Attorney General. Jamiu Akande – Commissioner For Housing. Ade Akinsanya – Commissoner For Works And Infrastructure. Dapo Okubadejo – Commissioner For Finance. Mrs Funmi Efuape — Commissioner For Women Affairs. Oludotun Taiwo — Commissioner For Rural Development. Speaking on behalf of the appointees, Afuwape appreciated the governor for the privilege to serve. He assured the people of the state that they would work hard to ensure improvement in their living standard. (NAN)