 Leicester City fans across the world are worried over the Super Eagles star, Wifred Ndidi’s injury that will keep him for a month. Ndidi had surgery on Thursday and some of the distraught fans posted their reactions on twitter handles expressing their bitterness over the injury that would sideline the engine room of the English club for four weeks. Foxes manager, Brendan Rodgers, confirmed before his side’s 1-1 draw against Aston Villa that Ndidi picked up a knock in training, and will need to undergo surgery that will keep him out of action for a few weeks. “Wilfred took a knock in training yesterday, which unfortunately means he might need a slight operation tomorrow. That’ll put him out for a few weeks, but it’s not overly serious, so hopefully, going into February, he’ll be fit and ready to go again, Rodgers said. The Leicester City midfielder was absentee from the 1-1 draw with Aston Villa in the first leg of the Carabao Cup semi-final on Wednesday night. Rodgers explained an hour before the game that the Nigerian was out for a few weeks with injury, and the City boss clarified the details in his post-match interview, revealing that Ndidi had damaged his meniscus, a piece of cartilage in the knee, in training on Tuesday. “It was just unfortunate,” Rodgers said on Ndidi’s injury. “He nicked his meniscus just changing direction One of the fans on twitter: Ugo Awa from Nigeria with address @iGenius_ng, stated: “Do we have a spy spoiler in camp or what? Who does this in training what the enemy couldn’t do in the battlefield. Get well soon mate.” Another fan, Mr. Spills with the twitter address: @ahmadsalihu, said “Ndidi has been overused. Wilfred needed the rest. Thankfully he’ll come back better and stronger, In the same vein, Chief Augustine @auskenfine stated: “”Lol trying to hide him from buyers this January? Anyways LCFC missed him against Villa.” Skeptologist @Skeptologist Shit. I hope Hamza can fill his shoes.” James’s other Tweets: Ndidi will miss about five games for Leicester but could be back for the clash against Chelsea at the start of February.