Borno State Governor Professor Babagana Umara Zulum carried out 25 major activities in December 2019, a monthly report released by his team has listed. The governor’s Special Adviser on Public Relations and Strategy, Malam Isa Gusau, said the in a report that some of the engagements included humanitarian activities in four local government areas, listed as one activity. The report categorized Zulum’s activities under sectors. ECONOMIC SUPPORT FOR SME OWNERS In December, 2019, Governor Babagana Umara Zulum began his activities with the disbursement of cash support to 533 owners of Small and Medium Enterprises involved in local tie and dye businesses. EDUCATION On education, Professor Zulum, in December, presented his first budget to the Borno State Assembly. He announced the highest allocation of N23 billion for educational projects and activities for the 2020 fiscal year. Also in December, Professor Zulum inspected more than 20 primary schools in Bama town and in villages of Askira-Uba Local Government Area. He ordered reconstruction works in some of the schools visited. In Bama, where he visited 16 primary schools, Zulum took staff roll call and suspended 200 teachers who were absent from class for more than one year. The governor announced university scholarship for two ladies he found in one of the schools, teaching as volunteers. In December, Professor Zulum handed over a mega school in Maiduguri to the Federal Government Girls, Monguno. The move is pending complete stability of Monguno. GOVERNANCE On governance, Professor Zulum, in December, swore in a new head of service to redirect the civil service. Also in December, Zulum made surprise visits to government offices and took roll call of workers at the state secretariat in order to combat the culture of absenteeism. Still in December, Professor Zulum signed the 2020 Appropriation Bill into law after timely passage by the state assembly. SOCIAL PROTECTION On social protection, Professor Zulum, in December, went out on the streets to directly offer economic support to traders and vulnerable families in low income communities in the metropolis. He offered support to citizens from different local government areas. FOOD, CASH AID FOR 60,887 IN KALA-BALGE, BAMA, KONDUGA, GWOZA Also in December, Professor Zulum was at different times in Kala-Balge, Bama, Konduga and Gwoza Local Government Areas where he distributed cash support, variety of food items and clothing to a total of 60, 887 vulnerable citizens as part of social protection. In Kala-Balge,15,000 widows received cash support. In Bama, 12,887 displaced citizens received food aid; 17,000 vulnerable persons got food and clothing in Konduga; while 16,000 also received food and clothing in Gwoza. Zulum was also in Askira-Uba Local Government Area where he offered support to victims of insurgency attacks and ordered the commencement of eight developmental projects in towns and villages of Askira-Uba. The governor was also in Gwoza for far-reaching food and other interventions to vulnerable citizens. LIVELIHOODS On livelihoods, Professor Zulum, in December, visited headquarters of the Bank of Industry in Abuja. He met the bank’s chief executive and made demand for far-reaching livelihood support to Borno citizens affected by insurgency attacks. The governor was also at the Federal Ministry of Finance to attend a high level meeting over Borno’s restoration. TRANSPORT REGULATION On transport regulation, Professor Zulum, in December, 2019, invited and hosted association leaders and operators of tricycles popularly known as Keke NAPEP. He explained government’s plan for new regulatory measures aimed at containing potential threats on security and social vices. FALLEN HEROES Also in December, Professor Zulum launched the 2020 Armed Forces Remembrance with a donation of N10m in support of families of fallen heroes. SECURITY On security, Zulum, in December, 2019, visited the Nigeria Police Training College in Maiduguri. He offered financial support to 864 police recruits undergoing training at the college. The recruits comprised 350 Borno indigenes and 513 indigenes of Kano. Also in December, Zulum was at Dusuman village in Jere Local Government Area following security breach by insurgents. The governor released four surveillance vehicles to strengthen hunters and civilian JTF helping the military to secure the community. Still on security, Professor Zulum, in December, met with the Minister of Defence, the Chief of Army Staff and the Chief of Air Staff in Maiduguri. The Defence Minister said Borno was lucky to have a governor so dedicated to security. DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION On development cooperation, Professor Zulum, in December, received the Egyptian Ambassador to Nigeria for development partnership in the areas of healthcare, education and mechanized agriculture. REGULATION OF HUMANITARIAN AFFAIRS To strengthen the regulation of humanitarian activities, Professor Zulum, in December, created an agency for Coordination of Sustainable Development and Humanitarian Responses in Borno State. INTER-GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS On inter-governmental affairs, Professor Zulum, in December, received the chairman and board members of the University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital. FIGHTING HUMAN TRAFFICKING To fight human trafficking, Professor Zulum, in December, launched a 42-member task force that is to work with the National Agency for Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP) towards fighting human trafficking in Borno State. HEALTHCARE — FREE DIALYSIS FOR KIDNEY PATIENTS On healthcare, Professor Zulum, in December, visited a kidney dialysis centre at the Borno State Specialist Hospital in Maiduguri. The governor directed free dialysis for kidney failure patients who paid as much as N30,000 per dialysis session, which they often underwent once every week. The governor also commissioned a primary healthcare centre in Pulka town. NATIONAL ECONOMY On national economy, Professor Zulum, in December, attended a meeting of the National Economic Council which was chaired by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo at the State House in Abuja. URBAN & RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE On infrastructure, Governor Zulum, in December, intensified efforts to open up major communities with roads and drainages in the state capital, ending the year 2019 with series of developmental activities across all sectors in Borno State.