A former lawmaker representing Kaduna Central Senatorial District in National Assembly, Senator Shehu Sani, has spoken for the first time after he was arrested by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission for alleged extortion of $20,000 from owner of ASD Motors, Sani Dauda. In a message to The PUNCH,  Sani, who has spent 10 days in the custody, said the allegations of extortion levelled against him was “baseless” and “unfounded” He added that he would not be silent and that the allegations were aimed at smearing his name and justifying his persecution. He said “The allegations of ‘extortion’ against me are baseless, fact-less, unfounded, hollow and unsubstantial. “It is a scripted stream of mischievous concoctions and utter fabrications using a puppet state agent; all aimed at splashing faeces and mud on me. “The extortion allegation is nothing but a wholesale falsehood, packaged in a phantom anti-graft facade to taint, stain and mute me. That shall never happen if I am alive. “I have made my statement and provided all my facts against their package of lies and I demand the EFCC to make public all the sheets of our statements and supporting documents for the world to see. “My detention is unfair, unjust, prearranged and politically motivated.” “Fascism thrives in frame up of its critics. “They claim extortion and here they are closing my bank accounts, searching my houses and offices and demanding I declare my assets, of which I have already done that at the CCB (Code of Conduct Bureau) last year when I left the Senate. “Frame-up cannot silence me!” The senator further said, “I have never ever met with the CJN or any judge or judges or ever called directly or indirectly to offer to give or to give directly or indirectly any form of gratification from Alhaji Sani Dauda. “I have never ever discussed with ASD on any form of bribe or gratification to be given to any judge or any EFCC official. “The bribe story is phantom, the bribe story is a fake, imaginative work of fiction, cruelly crafted to smear me, to frame me and to justify my persecution. “The bribe story is a heap of blatant lies and outright falsehood concocted and fabricated, using a front and the EFCC to premiere a state drama. “ASD is a barely educated front for a state mission. “Criminalising me or ‘framing me’ will not silence me, bend me or compromise me.”  