Our Reporter  Worried at the spate at which some Nigerian artistes shun award ceremonies, media mogul, Tajudeen Adepetu, has attributed this to trend to a lack of confidence on the part of the artistes. At the recently held Soundcity MVP Awards at Eko Convention Centre, Lagos, quite a number of artistes were unavailable to pick up their plaques of recognition and excellence. Artistes like Teni who won the Best Female MVP, Burna Boy who scooped three awards, Fireboy who won Listener’s Choice and Naira Marley who won Viewers’ Choice at the event were missing. “I think they don’t have the requisite confidence of a true artiste” Adepetu, who organises City Pople Achievement Lifetime Awards, said. “They are so afraid of the competition that they run into a hole during awards ceremonies. They can’t stand to be truly judged. Perhaps, if they are told they would win or they can rig it to win they will be there.” He said that in a normal setting, the artiste would never miss a platform that celebrates and reward their creative talents but in a situation where artistes lord over managers, the reverse is the case.  “In an industry where you have professional artistes, they will inform the organisers on time about their intended absence and make a clip of an acceptance speech but over here, you have management that can’t even manage their artistes. So, we have people who a little stardom overwhelms their reasoning and their place in the general mix of things.  It is quite unfortunate when an artiste can even begin to imagine that they don’t need a platform. But you know they always come back to beg. After a failed year or two, that’s when you hear ‘Baba please help your boy’.” He concluded by advising the young millennial stars to be humble. “Whatever stardom they may think they have, it’s still does not equal any of the legends of the music industry today and they should check out those ones and learn from their humility. That humility is the reason they are still relevant today and will continually be relevant until they answer the call of the Almighty.” It is gradually becoming a norm for artistes to be missing at award shows that celebrates them. The convention at such instances is that they make a video clip to be played at the award events expressing gratitude to the fans, after all, the fans are the reason they are celebrated. Quite a number of pundits had weighed in on the matter, describing their actions as disrespect and disregard not only to the organisers of the shows but the music industry.