Worried by the huge number of jobless artisans and tradesmen in the country, stakeholders have called for the creation of industrial hubs across the country, TOBA AGBOOLA reports.  Artisans and technicians contribute immensely to the development of the economy, especially in the informal sector. However, they feel their contributions are not recognised and appreciated by government. And because of this, they do not get the encouragement and help they deserve. Experts  reasoned that creating  industrial hubs would not only provide platforms for the development of skilled labour, but also expose tradesmen to emerging techniques and use of modern tools to upscale their trades. Speaking at a One Precious Life (OPL) Academy alumni workshop in Lagos, Coordinator of Tradesman Empowerment programme (TEP), Yinka Akande stressed the need to engage the army of youths roaming the streets, saying most of them are not lazy and have trades, but had no place to practice. According to her, many trained tradesmen are still finding it difficult to stand on their feet because of difficult operating environment, adding that with government facilitated industrial hubs, they can contribute their quota to national development. She stressed that a lot of people that are willing to practise had no place to do so or upscale their skill with modern technology, which placed them at a disadvantaged position with their counterparts in neighboring countries. Supporting the position, the Conversion Manager, Robert Bosh Nigeria, Jeremy Adesanya, said it is not enough to train artisans without giving them the tools to make their work efficient, faster and professional. He stressed that his organisation is working with government and other relevant stakeholders to ensure that artisans and tradesmen are not only trained, but also exposed to tools that require less energy and more financially-rewarding. Adesanya said his job as a conversion manager which entails helping people to transit from hand tools to power tools, has exposed him to the need for government and other stakeholders to provide tools and training to tradesmen, which can easily be done through technological hubs. According to him, this could be achieved through collaboration with skill centres like OPL Academy, because of the transformation witnessed among the alumni. Speaking with The Nation, President, Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC), Comrade Quadri Olaleye said  the  influx of foreign artisans in the name of expatriates into the country is not healthy for the economy. He stressed the need to halt the practice. Citing the construction industry as an example,  Olaleye said the country’s construction industry is grossly affected by the issue of technology transfer, which is critical in a developing country. He said expatriates, who were supposed to be employed where local employees lacked capacity, had taken jobs where Nigerians had  competence in. “The ratio of the expatriate to local senior staff in some multinational companies in Nigeria is as high as 10 ratio to one,” he said. The newly elected president further said that the administration would focus on ensuring contract for casual workers were standardised. “We want to prevent outsource workers from  being maltreated. Even as casuals they should be paid their right benefits and entitlements at work,” Olaleye said. On her part, the Chief Executive Officer of OPL Academy, Oare Ehiemua, called for creation of more opportunities for Nigerian youths, who are hungry for new experiences and opportunity to excel in their endeavour. She also called for partnership to reach over 1000 tradesmen across the country, stressing that the academy, which is already working with the Lagos State Government Employability Trust Fund, is determined to upscale tradesmen to make them competitive with others across the continent. Oare, who stressed that the quality of Nigeria artisans are still relatively poor because of exposure and character, called for a platform to change the narrative. She said OPL Academy has started a move through partnership by exposing the alumni to power tools relevant to their trades after going through behavioural and technical training. She said the artisans were trained in professional soft skills, leadership and ethics, emotional intelligence, communication skills, entrepreneurship, design thinking, critical thinking and problem solving, technical master classes and computer literacy. Recently, the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Mr Niyi Adebayo,  assured Nigerian technicians and artisans of Federal Government’s support in its multi-sectoral approach to growing the economy.  The minister made the pledge at the first edition of the Nigerian Artisans and Technicians Conference (NATCO) held at the National Theater in Lagos, with the theme: Artisans, Technology and Empowerment; The Future of The Nigerian Economy. Adebayo, who was represented by a senior ministry official, Mr Adewale Bakare, maintained that no nation could develop without a robust private sector involvement. He added that the Federal Government was addressing the infrastructural challenges in the country that would  help unlock the nation’s growth. The minister further stated that its agencies were committed to creating an enabling environment to stimulate domestic investments and attract foreign direct investments in all sectors of the economy and ultimately make Nigeria a global hub. Adebayo advised the private sector to key into government efforts in its drive to improve and develop the economy, stressing: “It is true that Nigeria’s quest for development cannot be achieved without adequate acceptance of the informal sector”, the minister said. Also speaking at the conference, Lagos State Chairman of Nigeria Automobile Technicians Association (NATA), Mr Jacob Omonide Fayeun, said  the association achieved recognition with the successful hosting of the maiden NATCO conference. Fayeun said: “We have achieved recognition and I believe the president and members of his team have seen what happened today. We have not been getting recognition from the state and Federal Governments. We are very important in the society. “Without us the economy cannot move. Artisans and technicians control the employment level who would have become miscreants. Next year, it is going to be better. I know the Federal Government will sponsor this programme next year. It is very difficult to organise this kind of event but God assisted us to succeed in planning this one. I know the recognition will come from government, particularly during elections. “What you saw here are just mere representatives. I came here with almost 2, 000 of NATA members. If we say every member should come, it means we will have to use the national stadium. During election, state and federal governments will use us and then dump us.”