The former Federal Commissioner for Works, Alhaji Olufemi Okunnu on Wednesday backed the Western Nigeria Security Network, otherwise known as Operation Amotekun, an initiative of the Southwest governors to combat the danger of insecurity in the region. According to him, chiefly among the dangers were the activities of the herdsmen. Alhaji Okunnu said the herdsmen had ravage people’s farmlands not only in the traditional areas but also extend to different parts of the country. “Herdsmen have no right to come to my farmland. The farmland which I have spent money to plant all sorts of crops. Not even these days when oil is not providing sufficient money for the economy of this country. “These days when the government itself is advocating return to the agriculture. The federal government said we should go back to farms. People are going back to agriculture but encountering insecurity and the same government is not providing adequate security. Now, the state governors in Southwest decided to secure their states through operation Amotekun, the same Federal government is saying it is illegal. You see the contradiction,” he said. Operation Amotekun, he insisted, would do a lot to secure the region. He said: “It is an answer to that danger, the danger of insecurity caused by the herdsmen in these days. Insecurity of life, property especially landed property… Herding of cattle has been with us since 40s without issues but the danger the herdsmen pose now is that they now carry arms; this was because people started to resist the invasion of their farmland by the herdsmen. “Some of these herdsmen are not Nigerians; they come from outside the country and the government has the responsibility to control their movement. Due to the failure of the government to curtail their movements, the herdsmen now carry arms which they are not licensed to… and Muhammadu Buhari’s government has failed to stop them from invading people’s farmlands and attacking them. So, the governors have the right to come up with a solution, which is the operation Amotekun.” Alhaji Okunnu, who said, he did not support the idea of state police at the initial stage, explained that he now have a change of mind towards it. “I have for many years been opposed to state police but I have been converted to the demand for state police because the Federal police had failed to provide security for the lives and property of the people,” he said. 