 Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has advised Nigerians, particularly Christians, not to misconstrue his constant gratitude to God as a way of gloating about his achievements. Obasanjo said having taken a closer look at all that God has done for him, especially his local, national and global achievements, despite his obscure background, he would continue to do good things to sustain God’s presence. The octogenarian and elder statesman spoke in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, at a thanksgiving service organised in his honour at the Chapel of Christ the Glorious King Church within the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library (OOPL). The event was organised by Bishop Tunde Akin-Akinsanya-led Ogun State chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN). Eminent Nigerians at the event included Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun; President of African Development Bank (AfDB), Dr. Akinwunmi Adesina; frontline industrialist, Sir Kensington Adebutu; former Governor Gbenga Daniel and renowned academician, Prof. Akin Mabogunje. Others were: Gboyega Nasir Isiaka, Evangelist Ebenezer Obey-Fabiyi, Mrs. Tokunbo Awolowo-Dosunmu, Rev. Esther Ajayi and the Alake of Egba land, Oba Adedotun Aremu Gbadebo. Obasanjo, who will be 83 in March, said he would keep doing what pleases God. The two-time former Nigerian leader said the Almighty picked him from a sequestered Ibogun-Olaogun in Ogun State and shot him into global reckoning. He said: “I thank all of you. I just want to read one passage; I’m reading from 1Chronicles, Chapter 16, Verse 8: ‘Give thanks to the Lord, call on His name, make known among the nations what He has done.’ God has done a lot for me. I don’t know about you; God has done a lot for me. “I believe that thanking God and giving testimony must go together. Thanking God and giving testimony of what God has done for you, for me, must go together. But some people get it wrong. They say giving testimony is boasting. But here, it says: ‘Let the nations know, let the world know what God has done for you.’ “That is not boasting; that is praising God. That is explaining or heralding what God has done. That is why, again, I cannot thank CAN, Ogun State chapter, enough for organising this special thanksgiving. “Any day, any time that we get together to thank God, it is worth it. It is what we should do and it is a good thing to give thanks to God. “Anybody who doesn’t want to do a good thing, it is up to him and his God. For me, I want to do a good thing. I want to do what will please God. I want to do things that will make God shine His face upon me. I want to do things that will make God’s presence go with me wherever I go. “Those of you who know where I was born; how many of you know Ibogun-Olaogun? The village where I was born is so small that no matter how large you make the map of Nigeria, Ibogun-Olaogun will never appear. “And yet, somebody born in that village of pure illiterate parents had the opportunity that I have now, reached the stage that I have reached, achieved whatever I have been used to achieve. I cannot thank God enough. “I always say this: whatever I have achieve, whatever I have done, I thank God because it is not me alone. There are those who have worked with me; some of them are dead, some of them are still alive. Without them, I would not have been able to achieve much. I thank God for their lives and may the souls of those who have died rest in peace.” Governor Abiodun said God deserves praises for His goodness in the life of ex-President Obasanjo. The governor described Obasanjo as an icon and a global citizen. He said: “Baba’s Christian life is a very consistent one that is indeed worthy of emulation. Baba has always lived his life with the fear of the Almighty God and he never failed to appreciate all that God has done for him. That is what we are seeing today. “We all know and appreciate that God doesn’t make and didn’t make many like Baba. I’m sure that God is not probably going to make any more like him. “Baba is a world ambassador, Baba is an African icon, Baba is a global citizen. But more importantly, Baba is an Ogun State son in whom we are well pleased. “I don’t think anything can be better than starting the first working day of the year by thanking God.” The Bishop of Egba Anglican Diocese, Rev. Emmanuel Adekunle, urged Nigerians to brace up for the challenges the new year would bring their way. “Things are hard all over the world,” he reminded the congregation. The cleric noted that “it is not only in Nigeria where things aren’t working well”. He warned Nigerians to shun evil acts, insisting that “Nigerians need to repent from their sins”. CAN National President, Dr. Samson Supo Ayokunle, described Obasanjo as the “pillar of Christianity” in Nigeria. He said Nigeria needs more of selfless leaders like the former President. Adesina also described Obasanjo as a blessing to Nigeria, Africa and the world. He said: “You (Obasanjo) are a blessing to Nigeria, Africa and the world. You stand for truth and justice.” The AfDB president prayed for the former President whom he served as Minister of Agriculture.