 It was a love story believed to have been tragically terminated by ethnic and religious prejudices. Eighteen-year-old Amaka Nweke, an Igbo girl, was said to have died as a result of beatings by her parents who were opposed to her relationship with a Yoruba boy, Ibrahim Lawal, with whom she had a four-month-old baby. Ibrahim’s mother, Ebunola Lawal, was quoted as saying: “The major issue that led to Amaka’s death started on January 1, 2020. This was after she came to our house to collect clothes for herself and the baby, to celebrate the Yuletide. A few minutes after she left our house, she called Ibrahim on the phone that her mother had started beating her for collecting the clothes and money from us. I was informed that her parents collected the baby from her and locked her in their apartment and beat her for two days. “It was in the process of beating her that she became unconscious. The parents rushed her to the hospital in the neighbourhood and they were referred to Gbagada General Hospital, where she was confirmed dead…” But Amaka’s father, Mike Nweke, claimed Amaka had taken ill, and was taken to two private hospitals before Gbagada General Hospital where she died. “Is it possible for a father to kill his only daughter,” he asked. “I don’t beat my children. My wife is a woman of virtue; she doesn’t beat our children, she is not a wicked woman. “We didn’t beat her because we saw her going to Ibrahim’s house. Everything Ibrahim’s family said was false…  I come from a Christian family. I warned my wife to stop disturbing Amaka and Ibrahim. I told my wife that if God said the union was ordained from Him, they would live together as husband and wife. I have never disturbed them.” Obviously, these conflicting accounts of how Amaka died can’t both be true. Her death needs to be thoroughly investigated.  It’s reassuring that the police are investigating the death. “We are waiting for medical report to ascertain the cause of death,” according to the Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Bala Elkana. There may well have been tension between the two families based on ethnic and religious differences. Amaka’s parents are Igbo Christians while Ibrahim’s parents are Yoruba Muslims. Significantly, the young lovers demonstrated the insignificance of ethnicity and religion in matters of the heart.  This incident further highlights the country’s disunity. In a united country, ethnic and religious considerations shouldn’t be so deep as to cause the deep conflict that possibly resulted in Amaka’s death. It’s disturbing that the tragedy happened at the family level, given the importance of the family as a basic social unit. If such ethnic and religious prejudices, which possibly caused Amaka’s death, are still so potent at the family level in the Nigerian society of the 21st century, it suggests that the country still has a long way to go to achieve the desired social harmony. The problem of disunity is compounded by leadership figures that set a bad example for the people. In particular, the country’s politicians seem to thrive on the things that encourage disunity, while paying lip service to unity and peace. It certainly doesn’t help matters when the people see and hear their leaders do and say things that heighten ethnic and religious divisions in the country. Ethnicity and religion shouldn’t be used divisively in a multi-ethnic and multi-religious country like Nigeria. Thankfully, there are examples of inter-ethnic and inter-religious marriages across the country, which give hope that the circumstances that possibly caused Amaka’s tragic death would become a thing of the past someday soon. 