Damisi Ojo, Akure  Ondo Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu on Thursday said God preserved his life to serve the state better. The governor, who got emotional, thanked God for his preservation and blessings in 2019. Akeredolu addressed public servants in the state on the occasion of the first working day Prayer meeting for 2020 at the premises of the Governor’s office, Alagbaka, Akure. He declared that his administration is ready to pay the N30,000 minimum wage as soon as the ongoing negotiation between the Organised Labour and the State Government is concluded. The Governor said the state is among the very few states already discussing the implementation of the new minimum wage. Akeredolu said: ”The Organised Labour and Government have been having discussions and negotiations and we are fine-tuning our conclusions to ensure that we come up with the most acceptable and sustainable salary structure, considering the financial strength of the State. “I wish to assure you that payment of the new wage would commence as soon as the on-going discussion and negotiation are concluded.“ The Governor reminded the people that within a space of about three years, his administration has embarked on massive infrastructural development across the three senatorial districts of the State. He said his administration has also made unprecedented improvement in revenue generation and laying a solid foundation for the sustainable economic turn-around of the State. Akeredolu noted that the state under his leadership has stepped up and widened empowerment schemes for women, men and young entrepreneurs by providing trade support loans. He stressed that above all these, his administration has ensured peace and order in the State. According to him: “In doing all of these and more, we have kept faith with the demands of workers’ welfare. “In spite of our dire financial challenges, we have been able to fulfil our promises of regular payment of workers’ salaries and other obligations to the people of the State. “I always hold the firm belief that regular salary payment and promotion of deserving public servants are not achievements, but purely obligatory. “You can bear testimony that we have almost concluded the payment of inherited salary arrears.” The Governor thanked the state Public service workers and political office holders for their cooperation and understanding in moving the state forward. Revd Jude Arogundade called on the Governor to rally the people of the state for wealth generation and creation, stressing that the state doesn’t have business to rely on federal allocation any longer.