By  Gabriel Amalu  In the 50th anniversary of end of the Nigeria civil war, those campaigning that our country should never fight another civil war surely has my support. After all, the saying that he who wears the shoe knows where it pinches is true of all times. Yours sincerely come from that part of the country, which fought and lost in a civil war, and is constantly punished as losers. Losing the civil war has its lasting consequences, never mind the slogan of no victor, no vanquished, which the winner, Gen. Yakubu Gowon, promoted after the war. This feeling of despondency overwhelms many of us losers, each time we travel across the River Niger Bridge at Onitsha during the Christmas period. The agony associated with the road travel is usually excruciating, and yet that is a journey majority must make. Perhaps, it is a purification rite for the travellers; even as it seems a renewal of the cycle of punishments for daring to stand up to a leviathan federal government, back in the 1960s. And for those who control the levers of power at the centre, it could be their opportunity to put the children’s teeth on edge, for the sour grapes their fathers ate. You may call them sadists if you like, but the cruelty may actually be a favourite meal, which they enjoy. This year’s drilling may have been actuated by the closure of Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu, and the opening of the Asaba Airport, thereby increasing the number of road users crossing the red sea at Christmas. No doubt, the old River Niger Bridge has become the eye of a needle, and the road travellers, the camels struggling to pass through the eye of the needle. According to Jewish lore, the eye of a needle refers to the man-hole like entrance doors to the city of Jerusalem. With its fortified walls, the tiny entrances are created to protect the city from invaders. So, when any person travelling with a loaded camel gets to those difficult entrance points, the traveller has to dismantle, offload the camel, so it can cross on its knees. Of course, the traveller would one by one cross the goods to the other side, each time of course stooping to make the cross. After getting the goods to the other side, the traveller would re-load the camel again, before the journey can continue. Knowing how gigantic the camel is, the process of cajoling the camel to cross on its knees can be better imagined. Such is the cruelty driving across the River Niger Bridge during the Christmas period poses to the people, and yet they have borne the indignity for the past 50 years. So, I support the eminent Nigerians who recently organized a conference in Lagos, to discuss the tragic events of the Nigeria civil war, between 1967 and 1970, which they titled: Never Again. The roll call included Chief Emeka Anyaoku, professors Wole Soyinka, Pat Utomi and Anya O. Anya, and many others. They graced the event to discuss what can be done to ensure our country don’t experience such human tragedy again. Perhaps, because some main characters in the tragic events that led to the war are still alive, Nigerians are yet to dispassionately discuss the actions and inactions that led to the war. Again, perhaps because the war still provides opportunity for some to whip up sentiments and gain some form of political advantage, such beneficiaries still prefer that the issues surrounding the war is buried in a gigantic conundrum of emotions, devoid of facts. While this piece is not intended to point fingers, it is important to ask whether the conditions that led to the war are still permissible in our polity, 50 years after. Many would say, there are, with little hesitation. Indeed, Yusuf Alli, the Managing Editor, North, of this paper, wrote last Sunday that feelers from the presidency confirms that the laudable and constitutionally legitimate undertaking of the southwest governors to provide security for lives and properties of the people in the region was declared illegal, as a fallout of the civil war.  According to his sources, there is the fear that if such security arrangement is allowed, agitators in the southeast may use similar regional security structure to further their objectives. No doubt, Yusuf’s finding is plausible, because there are several similar foolish decisions by those in power that feed the discontentment against the kind of federation we operate. One of such, is the refusal to build the second Niger Bridge, until now. Hopefully, President Muhammadu Buhari is about to change that epic tragedy. If Dr Chris Ngige is to be believed, and we have no reason to doubt his sincerity, the second Niger Bridge is 40% completed; and the funds for the remaining construction work is already earmarked. But as the present federal government works to end the half a century second Niger Bridge foolishness, should we continue in other foolishness that has held our country down? Could it be that the only reason why Nigeria is locked down with an overworked centralized police is the fear that state police could give impetus to southeast agitators to further their cause? Could it also be true that the only reason why the eastern ports have been underdeveloped is because, the agitators could also use it to import arms to further their objectives? Furthermore, could it also be true that why the Akanu Ibiam International Airport has remained international only in name, is because a truly international airport could be abused by the agitators? Still again, could the fear of the agitators be the reason, why many mineral rich states across the country are as poor as church-rats, while the federal government owns all the minerals through a dubious legislation? Yet again, could the federal monopoly of essential utility like electricity, railway, amongst others be out of fear of the agitators? Fifty years after the unfortunate civil war, the scarecrow of Biafra should abate. Those who have feed fat from the tragedy should give peace a chance, and allow Nigeria to return to the part of sustainable growth. The present challenges would not go away, unless, we apply time-tested principles of modern governance, and such cannot happen when decisions are overshadowed by foolish prejudices. Of course, instead of asking for a pseudo-police outfit to tackle the insecurity in southwest or any other part of the country, the state governors should ask for state police. President Buhari, should be persuaded to say never again to the malcontent that led to the Nigeria civil war, and one immediate way is to allow state or regional police, by whatever name called. 