By Praise Olowe  2019 was particularly filled with high-profile engagements. It just seemed like one celebrity after the other has paired off. One of the most talked-about union to look forward to in 2020 should be that of Ace singer Davido and Chioma. Although, fans are still keeping their fingers crossed considering the recent rift between Davido, singer Peruzzi and Goldenboy Entertainment boss, King Patrick. Patrick had alleged that Davido’s fiancee Chioma is a side chick to Peruzzi and not his cousin. However, if the wedding between the duo should proceed in 2020, it will undeniably be the most talked-about union of the year. Here is a list of star-studded weddings on the horizon in 2020: * Khafi and Gedoni  It really wouldn’t be a wrong idea, to begin with, these two reality TV stars. Khafi Kareem and Gedoni Ekpata were former housemates of the popular reality TV show Big Brother Naija.
Just like we witnessed the blissful union between Teddy A and Bambam, thus is set to be another powerful couple made out of BBNaija. Since the first week in the house, Khafi and Gedoni had formed a strong bond. They spent quality time together in the house. However on December 26, 2019, a few months after the show came to an end, Khaffi took to her Instagram page where she announced their engagement. She shared a picture of Gedoni hugging her while holding a piece of paper with the inscription “I said Yes”.
Khaffi described her engagement to Gedoni as the best Christmas gift ever. She wrote; “Oh, and I got the best Christmas gift ever. #MrsEkpataloading”. This is one wedding we look forward to in 2020. * Josh2funny and girlfriend  Popular social media comedian and Instagram personality widely known for his skits, Josh2funny in October last year proposed to his girlfriend. The celebrity took to his Instagram handle where he made the announcement. He shared photos of himself and his wife to be. “Them don collect me oooooo,” he captioned one of the pictures * Crazeclown and Jojo Social media comedian Emmanuel Ogonna Iwueke also known as Craze Clown last December announced the engagement between himself and his girlfriend Jojo via Instagram. The Ukraine trained medical doctor turned comedian shared pictures of the proposal with the caption “She said YESSSSS!!! #BestWayToEndTheYear.” This makes him the second Instagram comedian whose wedding we are definitely looking forward to this year. * Spiff and Sandra Comedian actor popular for his character in the TV series The Johnson’s, Samuel Ajibola, better known as Spif officially engaged his girlfriend Sandra. The film star known majorly for his funny roles made the announcement this year via Instagram. He shared the pictures of himself and his wife to be. They had their traditional wedding in Anambra on January 6. * Davido and Chioma  Despite all recent controversies and allegations, this is a big wedding that Nigerians are waiting for. Ace music star Davido proposed for Chioma in September 2019. According to him, they dated for six years before he finally popped the big question A month after the engagement, Chioma and Davido welcomed a baby boy and named him David Adedeji Ifeanyi Adeleke Jnr. Regardless of the allegations by Entertainment boss, King Patrick that Davido’s fiancee Chioma is a side chick to Peruzzi and not his cousin, Nigerians are still waiting and hoping that #CHIVIDO2020 becomes reality.