With the daily influx of people into the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), there has been pressure on existing infrastructure and available land space. GRACE OBIKE reports that pressure on land has continued to mount, necessitating calls for the review of the Abuja Masterplan, which was designed some 30 years ago.  The sight of bulldozers pulling down illegal structures and buildings has become commonplace in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Similarly, the sight of protesting victims of such demolition exercise is also not strange in different locations within the federal capital city. The authorities usually justify the demolition exercise as a necessary step to give way to rail lines, public facilities or for the preservation of green areas. On their part, the victims always criticise the authorities for high handedness and inconsideration. This has continued to throw up a push and pull scenario between the authorities of the FCT and residents of the fast-expanding territory. The authorities have continued to insist that to preserve the Masterplan, demolition of illegal structures has become inevitable. Demolition of illegal structures and revocation of land titles in Abuja city and its adjoining satellite towns got to a climax during the period 2003-2007, during the tenure of a former Minister of the FCT, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai. However, subsequent administrations after el-Rufai have not been too “combatant” in enforcing the Masterplan. Some have observed that failure on the part of the authorities to adhere to the Masterplan has resulted in overcrowding and emergence of slums in different parts of the city, particularly in the periphery of the satellite towns. However, many others have continued to argue that there is nothing sacrosanct about the Masterplan, insisting that events have since overtaken strict implementation of the plan. Some residents even see the Masterplan as a ploy by the authorities to grab land from the poor and give the same to the rich and the influential. A resident, Tanko Yusuf, who lives at Mpape, an outskirt of the city, said that he has never believed in any Masterplan. As far as he is concerned, the government only sticks with the Masterplan when it comes to taking land away from the ordinary people. Yusuf said, “They only start talking about Masterplan when they want to drive poor people away from Abuja, so they can take everything.” In an intervention, an expert in the Abuja property market and Chief Executive Officer of Cosgrove Investment Limited, Umar Abdullahi said realities of the time have necessitated the urgent need to review the Masterplan. Abdullahi recalled that the plan was drawn some 30 years ago and that events have overtaken some of the factors that necessitated the Masterplan in the first place. Calling on the authorities to strike a balance between the enforcement of the Masterplan and the reality of the ground. According to Abdullahi, Abuja city was originally planned to accommodate a couple of thousand civil servants working at the seat of government. He said, “Nobody envisaged the influx of people or ever expected Abuja to become the second or third largest city after Lagos. Abuja was planned to be a quiet city for civil servants and seat of government. But presently, six to seven people who come into Abuja for their National Youth Service Corps or job search hardly return to where they came from. Many people still consider Abuja to be relatively better in terms of security, infrastructure and climate.  This has caused the demand for certain kind of structures in places that were not allocated for in the Masterplan. For instance, some areas in Abuja that are meant for residential purposes have been turned into commercial areas and the owners they pay levies to the government every year for contravening the Land Use Act.” Despite the pressure on land and infrastructure, Abdullahi said the growth of slum within and outside the city is still tolerable, compared with what obtained in other countries and cities around the world, including some advanced countries. “El-Rufai did a wonderful job by defining how Abuja slums should be in terms of logistics, transportation and residency. If the situation was not nipped in the bud then, it would have been out of control by now. That is why the security situation in Abuja is relatively fair and now the value of the land on the increase every day,” he added. Acting Director, Department of Development Control at the FCT, Mukhtar Galadima, explained that the Masterplan is meant to be reviewed every five years as a standard practice. Galadima, however, admitted that no review of the plan has been carried out in the last five years. He added that some efforts were also made during the tenure of el-Rufai where development along the highbrow Adetokunbo Ademola Crescent was looked at because of the changes taking place there. He also said, “So it is not like the plan has not been reviewed completely, there has been some review done. That is why when you look at Aminu Kano Crescent and Adetokunbo Ademola Crescent, some of the properties there were planned, designed and built for residential purposes. But somewhere along the line, the uses changed, so this is supposed to have been reviewed formally. So it will be known if a place is a mixed-use corridor or commercial corridor. But it has not been officially done.”