The recent announcement by the former Deputy National Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Bode George, that he may contest the Presidency in 2023 is generating interests. MUSA ODOSHIMOKHE examines his chances.  Former Deputy National Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Olabode George has indicated interest to run for the presidency in 2023. This did not come as a surprise because when he hosted a group of northern youths last year, they called on him to run for the highest office. The youths honoured him with the title ‘Garkuwan Matasan Nigeria’ (the shield of Nigerian youths). The recognition suggests that his efforts and campaign for a united Nigeria were yielding results. At the event, the youths called on him to put his wealth of experience to the service of humanity, adding that he was a tested and trusted public servant. They recalled that when he was the military governor of Ondo State, the PDP chieftain contributed immensely to national development. They also referred to his commitment to true federalism. The politician is the Atona Odua of Yoruba land, a title conferred on him by the Ooni of Ife for his role in ending the Ife/Modakeke crisis. His admirers believe he has been too quiet and in the background. Observers say the politician should have foraged on the presidential journey long ago. Such observers say he has indicated interest in the plum job at the right time, because the major parties are talking about zoning and power shift. So, when George’s Political Adviser Uthman Sodipe-Dosumu declared that his principal would run some weeks ago, his supporters hailed the move. George’s presidential ambition is generating lots of interest. Observers are wondering under which party he will contest, who his backers are and the structures he will use to make the plan a reality. As the race gathers momentum, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and other parties are discussing zoning. The stakes are high and major actors in the race are beginning to form alliances. In the last elections, the major parties picked their presidential candidates from the North. Now that President Muhammadu Buhari is serving the constitutionally required two terms in office, it is expected that a succession programme would be in place to elect a fresh occupant for the exalted seat. Indications are that power will shift and it is on this premise that George is seeking to contest. Sodipe-Dosumu said those urging him to contest are doing so because he can serve. They say he is a broad-based politician and a believer in grassroots development. They want him to take advantage of the zoning arrangement being canvassed by the major parties to contest for the position. The PDP chieftain is not new to contesting for high positions. In 2001, he became the vice national chairman (Southwest) and later graduated to the position of the Deputy National Chairman (South) in 2005. In his last contest for the position of national chairman in 2017, at the PDP convention, Eagle Square, Abuja, George was met with stiff opposition from the camp of Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike. Wike backed Uche Secondus for the position. He had equally backed Jimi Agbaje at the botched Port Harcourt convention held in 2016 for the same position. These were among the catalogues of failed attempts by the Lagos-born politician to hit national limelight.  Under George, the PDP has not made any significant impression at the polls in Lagos. The party under his leadership has been moving from one crisis to another. Lagos PDP has not won any major election under him; members of the party have accused him of lacking the capacity to win an election. For instance, Mr. Segun Adewale queried the rationale behind George’s continued leadership of the party. He said there was no need for George to lead the party because he has never won any major election in the state. He said it was wrong for him to handpick those who should be the chairmen of the party. But, supporters of George’s leadership believe he has been the stabilising force for the party in Lagos. They said apart from his ability to coordinate and mobilise, he has been deploying his finances toward the progress of the party. He was able to use his contact to attract sympathy for Lagos PDP during the days of former President Olusegun Obasanjo and former President Goodluck Jonathan. Lagos PDP under him has been wielding enormous influence, gaining more recognition where other states controlled by the party have failed to make an impact. George positioned Lagos PDP to compete with other state chapters, although it was opposition. Sodipe-Dosumu said a group within the party, the Pathfinder Consortium, would champion the George for President campaign in 2023. The Pathfinder Consortium is not well known, but going by the adviser’s statement, the group may have been floated to do the bidding of the former PDP Deputy National Chairman. Sodipe-Dosumu said: “The big game is afoot; the grandmasters are now at the chessboard. The manoeuvrings are deepening in thoughtful articulation, firm and with deliberate commitment. The scheming is widening far beyond the bright and the nocturnal passages. It is settled, our vision stripped of ethnic or sectarian articulation. It is about rebuilding the broken walls, rectifying the festering wrong, healing the persistent wound. “The pathfinder is warming up, serious business, watch out, link up with a new beginning, be part of the new vision. We are aroused with bold audacious and redeeming leadership. We will engage, inform without derogatory withdrawal. We will challenge, debate, instruct without angry, expletive crudity. “Pretenders and the perennial time server shall disappear from the fray. Only the robust and lucid patriotic band shall endure. And the dark, disruptive uncertainty shall cease, giving the way to renewal and rebirth of democratic contention. Soon, very soon, we will unveil the big masquerade.” Sources said going by George’s adviser’s statement, the Pathfinder Consortium will not leave any stone unturned to actualise the plan in 2023. They intend to discuss, negotiate and even form alliance. Sodipe-Dosumu said the plan may not be hatched under the PDP, which narrowed down the possibility of making the dream a reality. The parties believed to be strong enough to produce the president are the PDP and the APC. Analysts say if the PDP chieftain is serious about his plan, he must contest under any of the two leading parties. But, George himself has not denounced the party. He has said on many occasions that, if he leaves the PDP, that would be his last political outing. He said he would retire the moment he leaves the PDP. But, it is not clear whether he would stand by his words in 2023 or not. The PDP has not finalised plans on where to pick its presidential candidate. Contrary to expectation, it may still zone the ticket to the North. If it goes that way, George’s chance will be diminished. In the build-up to 2023, some stakeholders have been kicking against the zoning arrangement. They say zoning is not in the constitution, but some parties have adopted the method to give every segment of the country a sense of belonging. Going by this, George still has many hurdles to cross in his quest for the presidency. Analysts say the movers and shakers of the PDP are not likely to support his bid. Just like the Wike group put some barricade on George attempts to become the PDP national chairman, they may still do the same thing, if he finally ventures into the race. It is much likely that the animosity harboured by the Wike and former Governor Ayo Fayose is still there. These men wanted to sacrifice George because of their political interests. 