Despite subtle intimidation allegedly from security agencies to stop the pro – Amotekun rally in Abeokuta, a coalition of 14 pressure groups, including the Campaign for the Defence of Human Rights(CDHR) on Tuesday made good their resolve and observed the rally at the Panseke open ground within the Abeokuta metropolis . The rally convened by the Yoruba World Congress (YWC) was coordinated simultaneously in the six Southwest States. While it lasted in Abeokuta, the Ogun state capital, the various groups, which also carried placards with the image of Leopard and inscriptions such as “no Amotekun, no Hisbah,” drummed support for the Western Nigeria Security Network (WNSN) code-named Amotekun. They declared that nothing should be put in the way by anybody to kill the lofty dream aimed at tackling growing acts of banditry, kidnapping, robbery and other vices in the region. They said the Federal Government and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, ought to be commending the Southwest governors for the Amotekun initiative aimed at complementing the efforts of the nation’s security agencies and not the other way round. The Coordinator of YWC for the solidarity rally in Ogun State, Mr Taofeek Olawale, who addressed reporters at the venue, said Amotekun was not established to witch – hunt anybody but stressed that it was a child of necessity that has come to stay and live in the Southwest region. Taofeek said the rally was an avenue for them to send clear message to government and the populace that the outfit was a communal effort towards tackling insecurity in the region, adding that the protective benefits would not go to the Yorubas alone as other ethnic groups residing in Yorubaland will also be the beneficiaries. He said it reeks of double standard and preposterous for some people to kick against Amotekun in the same country where outfits such as Hisbah, civilian JTF, vigilante groups among others, are allowed to operate. He noted that the YWC would have mobilised more people in their thousands for the Amotekun rally in Abeokuta but decided to assemble fewer persons because the Police and other security agency kept calling him to shelve the rally on grounds that they had intelligence reports indicating that it could be hijacked by fifth columnists to cause a breach of peace. Taofeek said: “We are here to reach out to the larger public. We want to tell the Federal government and the entire Nigerian populace that we want Amotekun in Southwest. “If Hisbah could be allowed in Northern States, if there could be Azaru, civilian JTF, Vigilante groups, some of them even carry arms, arresting even legitimate police officers and been prosecuted, so, there is no reason we should not consider Amotekun in South West. “Besides, I want to make it very clear that Amotekun is not to witch hunt anybody whatsoever. I think one of the major responsibilities is to protect the masses, the safety of lives and properties is the major responsibility of the government. And I see no reason anybody, quote and unquote should say no to Amotekun. “It should be other way round where the Federal government should give kudos to our Governors for complementing security efforts with Amotekun.” However, before pro – Amotekun rally could commence, dozens of security Operatives from the Nigeria Police, Department of State Security Service (DSS), Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) stormed the venue in Panseke and positioned themselves at strategic locations by the entrances and the surrounding streets. Some on plain clothes were also sighted discretely taking vigil at different access ways to Panseke. The Commissioner of Police in Ogun State, Kenneth Ebrimson, who visited the venue, said he was not informed about it but admitted that the people have rights to peaceful assembly as enshrined in the constitution of Nigeria. He said:”I am on routine visit, everyday, I go round the metro to ensure that every where is calm but I got intelligence reports that some groups yet unidentified are trying to protest or do rally and I just came around to talk to my men and place them to ensure that there is no breach of peace. “Nobody told me, nobody wrote to me of any protest, my own duty is to ensure that I come out to ensure that there is no breach of peace, that law abiding citizens go about their business unhindered. “My advice is to everyone, anyone who has to go about protesting as it is the right of every citizen as enshrined in the constitution of the Federal republic of Nigeria 1999 as amended. “We are here to ensure that nobody harasses, intimidate or cause a breach of peace and go on wanton destruction of properties, that we will not tolerate “I have seen my police men they are well placed, they have started strategically and I have no problem with them, they are basically here to checkmate any one who wants to take laws into their hands and the law will descend on that person ruthlessly.”