Damisi Ojo,Akure  Traditional Rulers in Ondo state on Friday called on the Southwest governors to ignore negative comments about Operation Amotekun. They urged the governors to conclude necessary arrangements for the immediate take-off of the security outfit in the six states. The monarchs under the umbrella of the 130 Krown Obas, spoke in Akure after their monthly meeting where they urged the federal government to back the Southwest governors to achieve the set goal of operation Amotekun. The traditional rulers who spoke through their state President, Owa-Ale of Ikare-Akoko, Oba Kolapo Adegbite-Adedoyin, said the Security outfit must be supported to end rampant kidnapping, banditry, senseless killings and other crimes in the region. The Ondo state Monarchs urged other zones in the country to translate Amotekun to their language and set up similar security outfit to complement existing government’s Security agencies. They said allowing Operation Amotekun to function effective would help traditional rulers and their subjects to sleep with their two eyes closed. According to the monarchs Amotekun can be translated into Hausa, lgbo, Uhrobo, Efik from English translation of “leopard”. What is important is the function it plays in our security. “Where we, as Executive and members of “De 130 Krowns Club of Ondo State” are the main stakeholders in this Nigeria epidemic of Armed Robbery, Kidnapping, Banditry, Killings by slaughtering, and so on, as this “epidemic” affect our subject. “We do solemnly declare our support for the “Operation Amotekun” to counter all these ungodly and inhuman acts of self-destruction. “The personnel of “Amotekun’ are our native hunters and all who know and understand the terrain of their own locality. What is wrong in watching over ourselves? “We plead with some of our politicians who come from other parts of this country other than the South West, not to see this outfit as any political body, but as supplementary effort to the Federal Government’s laudable efforts, to protect lives of innocent Nigerians in the South West. “We here declare our unflinching support, and cooperation for “Operation Amotekun”. “We plead with our South West Governor to do these quickly and “Amotekun” should start operating immediately to relieve us the “Traditional Rulers” particularly in Ondo State of sorrow of our Kingsmen and property which we loose on regular basis.