Hajiya Saratu Iya Aliyu, who sits atop as the Managing Director of Sarat Group of Companies also doubles as the National President of the Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA). In this interview with Charles Okonji, the Ahmadu Bello University trained educationist speaks on the implication of the recent increase in the Value Added Tax (VAT) to businesses vis-à-vis the different woes afflicting the organised private sector, the aftermath of the border closure among other sundry issues. Excerpts:   HOW do you see the recent increase in Value Added Tax (VAT)? Although, Nigeria’s VAT rate is among the lowest around the neighbouring counties and the increase will definitely boost government’s revenue. This analysis and comparison should not be done in isolation of other fiscal and monetary differences between Nigeria and these other countries. However, proposal to increase the VAT rate from 5 percent to 7.25 percent is not timely, as it will result in a cost-push inflation which will negatively affect the purchasing power of the country’s currency. This could lead to less consumption which in turn could result in filled stores and warehouses due to unsold inventory, ultimately leading to retrenchments and increased unemployment with the attendant social implications. What is the stand of the organised private sector (OPS) on VAT increment? In general, the organised private sector’s position is that the government should intensify efforts to broaden the tax net rather than increasing tax rates. Specifically, Nigeria’s economic growth trajectory has not fully recovered from the 2016 economic recession. An increase in VAT rate is likely to result in an increase in the final price of goods and services; increase in the cost of production; rise in inflation; erosion of the purchasing power of the average Nigerian; reduced competitiveness of Nigerian goods and services in international markets and upsurge in unemployment as the real sector adjusts to rising costs of production. Our Association counsels that expanding tax net, implementing tax reforms, and ensuring robust tax administration will lead to increased government revenue with less negative impact on the overall economy. What is your take on consistent rising double digit inflation rate? Data from the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) as at November 2019 shows that general inflation has been fluctuating around 11.3 percent since May 2018. This is made up of food-based inflation which has fluctuated around 13.5 percent and non-food based inflation which has also fluctuated around 9.6 percent. This shows in clear terms that the issue of food security is the current primary driver of the present surge in price levels. As we commend the government for the giant strides taken in ensuring that the agriculture sector becomes vibrant, NACCIMA also counsels that other factors such as infrastructure and Ease of Doing Business and other government policies, such as the recent border closure have a strong impact on food prices which currently drives our current inflationary trend. The higher double-digit inflation rate growing faster than single-digit interest rate will affect investors’ appetite, especially, foreign investment due to the negative yield. The World Bank recently warned that if Nigeria is not careful, the economy would collapse in 2020. Do you share such sentiments? In our view, there are too many moving parts in an economy to make such a prediction. In our view, such a pronouncement is meant to serve as a “wake-up” call, highlighting the warning signs that the public and the private sector should close ranks in identifying national goals and priorities, and jointly planning towards optimum utilisation of scarce resources. How has the border closure impacted your members? The recent border closure has been more of a double-edged sword for our members and local Nigerian businesses, with the advantages and disadvantages associated with the shocks and dislocations resulting from the boarder closure. In the short run, it has resulted in galloping inflation since we are an import-dependent economy. However, since most of these imports were through the informal channels, the positive benefits of the boarder closure will be felt in the medium to long term. This is evidence in the improved security, drastic fall in local petroleum products consumption, and increase in customs revenues by N5b monthly as a result of more formalisation of the trade. Also, Nigeria is now the largest producer of rice in Africa with significant multiplier benefits for our members and local businesses along the entire value-chain. Although, despite the low quality, the price of rice has gone up due to the demand and supply gap, though, the quality has greatly improved in the last few months with less stones and impurities in our local rice. It is also expected that as more actors/investors and operators get involved in the value chain, supply will increase to bridge the shortfall, and prices will gradually come down and stabilise at bearable levels. This is because the invisible forces of trade which is the forces of demand and supply will come to play out. How can the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) be in force with the continuous closure of the border? The African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) is a rules-based mechanism for promoting intra-African trade. It is our hope that Nigeria will conclude the process of ratification, so that the country can join the negotiating table in order to ensure that its interests, particularly those of national security that warranted the closure of the land-borders between Nigeria and our neighbours are adequately covered by the AfCFTA mechanism. In terms of public advocacy on Ease of Doing Business, where is Nigeria? What is NACCIMA’s view? We commend the efforts of Mr. President and the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC) for being instrumental to the achievements in the ease of doing business in Nigeria. We advocate that “Trading across Borders,”  be given the urgent priority in all planning activities by the relevant Ministries, Departments and Agencies of government, as cross border trade has significant effects on the welfare of local businesses with significant  market share for their products in the West African sub-region. We look forward to the activities of the National Trade Facilitation Committee (charged with implementing the World Trade Organisation Trade Facilitation Agreement) in this area. We also advocate that the issue of land administration be brought to fore, as the difficulty in obtaining access to land is also a top contributor to the high costs of setting up or running a business in Nigeria. To put this in context, the year 2020 World Bank Ease of Doing Business Report, which saw a boost in Nigeria’s ranking is largely due to its performance in Starting a Business; Getting Credit; Dealing with Construction Permits; and Protecting Minority Investors. However, the report also showed that Nigeria performed very poorly in resolving insolvency; registering property and trading across borders. We need to immediately focus on addressing the various challenges in the areas enumerated above, towards ensuring that Nigeria’s positive rise in the global ranking on the Ease of Doing Business is guaranteed. How many NACCIMA members have succeeded in accessing government intervention funds thus far? Although some of our members have accessed the various intervention schemes which include:  Government Enterprise and Empowerment Programme (GEEP) by Bank of Industry (BoI), Anchor Borrower Scheme, Agri-Business/Small and Medium Enterprises Scheme (AGSMEIS), etc. We believe that there are still significant avenues for improvement. Therefore, going forward, NACCIMA will be adopting a more coordinated approach to the various Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) such as the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Bank of Industry (BOI), Bank of Agriculture (BOA), Small and Medium Enterprise Development Agency (SMEDAN) so that we can derive the maximum benefits for the maximum number of our members. What is the level of patronage of locally manufactured goods? There is a gradual deliberate shift to local patronage due to various government policies which are beneficial to our members and the country’s economy at large. Specifically, the Presidential Executive Order No 5 which seeks to enforce local content in the public procurement process has been a major boost to creating opportunities for local Nigerian companies, most of which are our members. Executive Order-5 which was recently signed into law by President Muhammadu Buhari is a major driver to the national development and technological advancement that the country has been yearning for. The Executive Order will help accelerate the needed development through the use of local engineers, procurement officers, and largely, the patronage of locally manufactured goods. The Executive Order-5 has addressed the issues of engaging expatriates in both public and private organisations in executing engineering and technology jobs to the detriment of Nigerian qualified engineers; it dwells majorly on local content. This is the first time that the Presidential order is given priority to the Nigerian engineers, and whatever that has to be achieved would be beneficial to the country because this Oder-5 ensures that we make a lot of savings in the delivery of our projects. Recently the House approved the executive’s proposal to borrow for infrastructure development, what is your take? Infrastructure development through borrowing or debt finance is not a bad approach, especially since government revenues alone is not enough to fund such projects. However, the terms and conditions of the borrowings must be flexible enough and the infrastructure they are meant to fund must also be productive and give value-for the borrowed money, especially in their costing and execution. Although, Nigeria’s debt-to-GDP ratio is still below average, it is important to ensure that we are not borrowing in an unsustainable manner. In order to reduce and effectively manage government borrowings for infrastructure, concerted efforts should be placed on activating the various forms of public-private partnerships (PPPs) and private finance initiatives (PFI) of project finance. Of course, infrastructure bond through the capital market is another veritable option the government should consider and explore. With respect to borrowings from China, the current approach by the Chinese companies implementing the various infrastructure projects, especially the railway projects, have been executed with local companies involvement or any likely technology transfer. These projects should be implemented with regards to our extant laws on local content. How do you intend to bridge women and youth unemployment ravaging the country? Women and youths are part of the main objectives of NACCIMA, especially taking into consideration their strategic and critical roles in the attainment of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). In view of this, NACCIMA has created two major pillars of structural approach and focus to women and youth economic development and empowerment. For women, we have the NACCIMA Business Women Group (NAWORG), which has been in existence since 2005 and was recently re-structured, re-focused and re-energised towards women empowerment and the attainment of SDG 5: Gender Equality. NAWORG exists in all our 59 cities and states Chambers of Commerce in every state and major cities nationwide. For the youths, we have the NACCIMA Youth Entrepreneurs (NYE), which also exists in all our 59 cities and state Chambers of Commerce nationwide. The NYE is essentially to sensitise, train, enlighten and empower the Nigerian youths, such that they can stand on their own with the right positive attitude to entrepreneurship as against search for the non-existing white-collar jobs. In the area of capacity building for women and youths, NACCIMA has focused on Proposal Development, Business Plan Preparation,  Pitching for Funds/Investors, Project Implementation, Report Writing, Knowledge Sharing, Advocacy, Mentoring, and Community Engagement. The NACCIMA Youth Entrepreneurs also partner with some Commercial Banks in financing youth viable businesses through provision of Credit Facilities. NYE organises Business Clinic to its members on management, records keeping and overall objectives of successful business. NYE also facilitates partnership and Venture Capital between its members and their counterparts around the World. As part of the efforts towards exposing the Nigerian Young Entrepreneurs globally, NYE participates in various International Conferences, Business to Business (B2B), Summits, Workshops and Trade Development meetings, as well as facilitating scholarship programs with the aim of boosting the capacity of the teeming population of our unemployed youths nationwide. What is your take on the 2020 budget? NACCIMA commends the executive and legislative arms of government on the swift passage of the 2020 budget, which is in line with the promises of the ninth Assembly to revert the budget cycle to a January to December period. However, there are concerns that the budget deficit continues to rise (N1.9trillion in 2019, N2.8trillion in 2020), foreign debt will rise by about 64 percent based on the 2019 budget, and about 180 percent based on the 2018 budget. The GDP growth projection of 2.93 percent in the budget is highly “optimistic” but achievable. Do you think it will improve the economy? Budget 2020 is anchored on increased wages for labour (based on the increased minimum wage), a capital expenditure that is 2 percent higher than the 2019 budget and 34 percent lower than the 2018 budget, and a N2.8trillion budget deficit to be financed in most parts by foreign and local debts. It is our position implementing fiscal and monetary policy as well as government regulations that improve the productive capacity of the Nigerian economy is the only way to ensure an improvement of economic performance based on the current patterns of government expenditure. How do you score the current momentary policy instruments used in economic regulations? The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has continued to focus on price stability with interventions to promote economic growth. We see this in the setting of the Monetary Policy Rate (MPR) which was only recently reduced to 13.5 percent after several years of being set at 14 percent. NACCIMA has consistently advocated for a single digit interest rate. We believe that the CBN has decided to promote growth by selectively targeting sectors that are eligible for development finance at single digit. Nevertheless, our association will continue to work diligently with the CBN to facilitate access to finance to these sectors through its initiatives such as the AGMEIS and the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme. 