Bassey Anthony, Uyo  The People’s Democratic Party in Akwa Ibom has accused the Niger Delta affairs minister of perfecting plans to rig the state and National Assembly rerun elections slated for Saturday. The party also raised the alarm that Akpabio has recruited the services of DIG Michael Igbizi as well as armed thugs to intimidate PDP loyalists and stakeholders in order to truncate the election. Akpabio is the candidate of the All Progressives Congress(APC) in the rerun election against Senator Chris Ekpenyong of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) for Akwa Ibom Northwest senatorial district. He, however, pulled out of the contest and had to write to Independent National Electoral Commission(INEC) asking to be replaced by a former House of Representatives member, Obongemem Ekperikpe Ekpo. But INEC has turned down Akpabio’s request, insisting he is still the candidate. In a press conference on Friday in Uyo, the Akwa Ibom State capital, the National Legal Adviser of the PDP, Mr. Emmanuel Enoidem said Akpabio was planning to replicate the ‘Warsaw’ violence he meted out during the last election. Enoidem, who is also the chairman of the PDP election committee for Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District, said, ” the ancient English proverb fool me once, shame on you; fool me twice, shame on me will be put to test during the forthcoming court ordered rerun in Essien Udim Local Government Area. “During the first set of general elections held across the state on February 23 and March 9, 2019, Senator Godswill Akpabio and the APC made good their promise of replaying the inglorious Warsaw invasion cum destruction. Instead of elections, what was witnessed in Essien Udim was unprecedented violence and a wholesome rape of electoral sanctity. “The resultant injuries from the infamous expedition was very glaring that the Court of Appeal described the elections that took place there with the worst adjectives ever used in a judgement of a court. “Undeterred by the humiliating defeat handed him by Senator Chris Ekpenyong and his massive rejection by people of his senatorial district, Senator Godswill Akpabio has perfected plans to use foul means to manufacture large votes obviously just to prove that he is popular in Essien Udim even after he has conceded defeat. “He is determined to massively rig the elections in aid of his party’s candidates for the House of Representatives and House of Assembly just to deceive the world that APC is popular in his Locak Governement Area. “To achieve this, Senator Akpabio has procured the service of DIG Michael Igbizi (who flew on the same Ibom Air flight and indeed sat on the same seat with him yesterday) whose intention is to reenact the roles played by AIG Musa Kimo during the last elections. “He has also marked some leading members of the PDP for intimidation, assault and arrest, top on the list are Chief M.A Afangideh, Sir Emem Akpabio, Prince Akpabio, Chief E.E.P Umanah, Hon. Nsini Umanah, Hon. Anthony Luke, Hon. Sunyiekekere Inokon, Barr Imowo Okpokpo, Engr Oliver Ebong among others. “Additionally, the services of armed thugs, referred to by them as ‘walking stick contractors’ from Port Harcourt and Bayelsa State and some fake soldiers and policemen have been procured and are enroute Essien Udim as we speak. “This group will be under the operational command of CSP Idorenyin Akpabio, a nephew of Senator Akpabio, who is currently in charge of Operation Puff Ada in Akwa Ibom State”, he said. Enoidem urged journalists, civil society groups and observers both local and international to witness the elections in Essien Udim, adding “We advise them to come with sophisticated technology gadgets with simultaneous recording and transmitting devices as they tour the various units”.