D’Tigress captain, Adaora Elonu has said the team cannot afford to miss out Tokyo Olympics as the team battles United States, Serbia and Mozambique at the FIBA Women’s Olympic Qualifying Tournament (OQT) holding in Belgrade on February 6 to 9. The 29-year-old who plies her trade in the Spanish women’s basketball league for Uni Girona Club de Basquet is optimistic that with the set-up of the team coupled with competent technical crew, Nigeria has the wherewithal to pick one of the slots at stake in the qualifying tournament. “Mentally, we are ready and excited for the qualifiers in Belgrade. The officials and staff are working hard to make sure we are prepared and ready for the matches we will play,” she said. Elonu added: “We are all very motivated and excited, not only the players, but everyone involved with the team. This is a step towards another goal and we want to fight to reach it. It is to qualify for the Olympics and another world stage which is a motivation in itself. Our aim is to qualify for the Olympic Games in Tokyo, Japan.” Having featured for Nigeria in three Afrobasket Championships in 2015, 2017 and 2019, Elonu believes making it to Tokyo would be an icing on the cake for her and the team. “Qualifying for the Olympic Games will mean a great deal to the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF), players, and Nigeria. The Olympics is a huge accomplishment and we want to experience it as a group. Aisha Mohamed is the only player to have experienced the Olympics with Nigeria and for us to get the chance again would be great,” she said. She, however, dismissed the speculation that some teams in the group are minnows saying, “All the teams have an objective to perform their best by winning matches. The US has an automatic qualification but they will still perform at their top level, so every match is important and will need equal attention, focus, and effort.” Already, US had clinched a spot in the Olympic field by virtue of winning the world title in Spain. But the other best two teams in the group will also seal places at the Tokyo Games.