From Mike Odiegwu, Yenagoa; Gbenga Omokhunu, Abuja; Uja Emmanuel, Makurdi; Fanen Ihyongo, Jalingo; Okungbowa Aiwerie, Asaba, Adeola Ogunlade and Polycarp Orosevwotu, Ughelli Governors and the senator representing Lagos Central, Oluremi Tinubu, on Tuesday expressed hope that 2020 will be a better year for Nigeria. They said the challenges any country faces can be surmounted through a collective effort. Senator Tinubu said: “The last year was eventful for Nigerian democracy, our economy, and all facets of our National Life. “Thus, I felicitate with the constituents of Lagos Central Senatorial District, Lagosians and all Nigerians on witnessing the first day of the year 2020. “A few years ago, the ‘vision 2020’ seemed a long time away. That we are here already is proof that time waits for no one. “Beyond the start of a New Year, it is a chance to make profound changes. “This New Year is pregnant with possibilities, and if maximised, is a New Dawn for us as individuals and collectively as a nation. “We must go into the New Year with a new perspective to life in general and the issues that concern Nigeria. “Also, we must exhibit a renewed patriotism and commitment to seeing Nigeria thrive and prosper. “We must also commit to sanitising the image of Nigeria and Nigerians in the comity of nations by ensuring that each of us is doing everything to project the right image of us as a nation. “Beyond these, we must set our hands on the plough, doing as opposed to merely talking. “We must, as J.F Kennedy succinctly put it, ask what we can do for Nigeria and do it.” Ortom, Okowa, Wike: tre’s hope Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom felicitated with Benue people and Nigerians on the New Year. In a statement by his spokesman Terver Akase, the governor expressed optimism that 2020 will be a better year with greater opportunities. He reaffirmed his administration’s commitment to aggressively provide infrastructure in education and health institutions as well as other sectors of the economy while supporting security agencies to guarantee the safety of lives and property. “Let me reassure our people that we will not relent in our resolve to make Benue a safer place and create a better environment for businesses to thrive to encourage more investors to come to the state,” he said. Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa hoped that the New Year will be characterised by sustainable development as the state government remains irrevocably committed to the ‘stronger Delta’ vision. In a statement by his spokesman Olisa Ifeajika, Okowa urged the people to remain united irrespective of ethnic, religious or political differences. “Given our modest strides in the past five years, I do not doubt that with the same level of cooperation from the good people of Delta, we will achieve more in all facets of governance,” he said. Taraba State Governor Darius Ishaku described 2019 as one of the most challenging years in history. He urged Nigerians, particularly Taraba people, to thank God “in their various special ways” for the privilege of witnessing the beginning of the New Year. Ishaku, who believes 2020 will be a better year, spoke in a statement signed by his spokesman Bala Dan Abu. He said: “2019 was one of immense challenges for Taraba State. “The communal crisis in Southern Taraba, kidnapping, herdsmen’s unprovoked aggression against our people and other forms of crimes and criminality threatened the very foundation of the relative peace that my administration had achieved for Taraba state. “It is gratifying to note that as we mark the end of year 2019 and welcome 2020, we are doing so in a very peaceful atmosphere. “The credit for this achievement belongs to all of us – the government, security agencies and all of you, the good people of Taraba. “It also remains our joint responsibility to ensure the sustenance of the relative peace now prevailing in the state.” Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, wished Rivers people a prosperous 2020. He thanked them for their support and cooperation, assuring that his administration would sustain the delivery of projects in the New Year. He particularly praised Rivers people for standing firm to defend their mandate during the 2019 General Elections. He said their act of courage ensured the sustenance of good governance in the state. Dickson, Obaseki, CAN, Obi: better days ahead Bayelsa State Governor, Seriake Dickson, called for divine direction for the state in the New year. In his new year message signed by his Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Daniel Iworiso-Markson, the governor urged the people to remain thankful to God for preserving the state in peace despite the myriads of challenges that were experienced last year. He noted that the year which turned out to be an eventful one, was rife with political intrigues because of the general and governorship elections. According to him, despite the setbacks, 2019 was a year marked with progress and development in Bayelsa as the ‘restoration agenda’ was further implemented in different sectors of the state’s economy. Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki said his administration would continue to deliver on the mandate of building a society that caters to the collective needs of the greatest number. In his New Year message, he promised to consolidate on his programmes. He said: “Despite the provocation and hostility from quarters who should be interested and support the progress of our dear state, I solemnly pledge to uphold the people’s trust and continue to stand for our collective interest. “As mortals, we will come, play our part and leave, but Edo will remain. “My goal at the expiration of my tenure is that Edo would have been propelled to the league of the best and most efficient sub-national entities not just in Nigeria, but in Africa. “I want to specially thank Edo people for the confidence and encouragement, which you continue to show us as a government, in the face of the political challenges promoted by a few. “The individuals are intent on derailing the developmental strides we have fought to build in the last three years because they no longer benefit from the new order, which now requires more accountability and transparency in the utilisation of public resources.” Lagos State House of Assembly Speaker Mudashiru Obasa has felicitated with Nigerians, especially Lagosians, on today’s celebration of Christmas and New Year. In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Tolani Abati, the Speaker said: “Christmas symbolises the birth of our Lord Jesus Christ, who brought peace, love, humility, salvation and redemption to humanity. “It is a well-known fact that the world would have been a better place for you and I, if we had imbibed these values and virtues of our Lord Jesus Christ, particularly, love for one another. “As we celebrate this year’s Christmas, I enjoin every Lagosian to reflect on the very essence of the season and appraise our relationships with one another, especially with our less privileged neighbours. “On our part, I want to assure all Lagosians that this administration of which we are an integral part, remain committed to pursuing more people oriented policies that have direct bearing on the lives of everybody in the state. “On behalf of my colleagues in Lagos State House of Assembly, I wish you all Merry Christmas and prosperous New Year.” The Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC) congratulated Nigerians for their bravery, resilience and loyalty to the country despite the economic challenges faced in 2019. TUC’s President, Mr Quadri Olaleye, said: “Evaluating critically the organised labour’s activities in the last one year, you will agree with us that it has been a rough path.” The labour leader urged the government to diversify the economy, reduce cost of running government and execute projects that would impact positively on the people. He commended states that had commenced the payment of the new minimum wage, saying it would serve as a motivation to the workers. “We, therefore, call on governors that are yet to start payment to do so without delay,” he said. Catholic Archbishop of Lagos, Most Rev. Alfred Adewale Martins, urged Nigerians to join hands together to build a strong, united and peaceful progressive nation in 2020. In his New Year message, said there was need to forge a more peaceful and united country in the New Year. “We thank God that after so much pressure, the Attorney-General of the country finally directed the DSS to release Omoyele Sowore and Sambo Dasuki. That is the way to go! “We are aware that there are some people, including Sheik El Zakzaky, that are still being detained even after they have been granted bail by the courts. “In the spirit of the New Year, which I believe should usher in attitudes of reconciliation, harmony and peace, we appeal to the government of President Muhammadu Buhari to once again take bold step of instructing the release of all of them. “By so doing, government would be sending a strong signal to all and sundry that she is truly committed to the rule of law.” Former Anambra State Governor Peter Obi urged Nigerians to use year 2020 as a spring board to work towards recovering and refocusing the country to find its bearing in the comity of nations. He said that God had destined Nigeria to be great but through its leadership failure over the years the nation was not where it should be. He urged the political leaders to refocus their economic policies for growth and development, especially in education and job creation through small and medium-sized enterprises. “Government should also in the New Year strive to seek a pragmatic solution to the increasing security challenges in the country,’’ he said. Obi wished all Nigerians a happy and a prosperous 2020 as he prayed for enduring justice and peace in our society. The General Overseer of Gospel Power Ministry, Rev Friday Bekee, said that 2020 will be a better and fruitful year for Nigerians. He urged Nigerians to embrace Jesus and his selfless love. He spoke at the 2019 Chronicles of Nativity, an Extra Ordinary Christmas Concert organised by the church at Dansol High School, Ikeja. The event tagged: Jesus, the son of God brought hundreds of Christian faithfuls which featured bible teachings, children musical presentation, and performance from Osam Jazz orchestra, drama presentation. He said that Jesus Christ remained the greatest gift from God to man as his birth opens up a new chapter of hope of making heaven after life. He asserted that God will change the fortune of Nigeria and the country will be a better place to live if citizens can appropriate the nature of God which is evidence in Christ. He said “Righteousness exalts a nation and sin is reproach to any people. No one is right and until Nigerians accepts Jesus into their lives, then they can live a righteous life that is well pleasing to God.” He challenged the leadership in the country to embrace the grace of God into their lives and allow the word of God to guide them as they paddle the canoe of the country.  