Jabi Lake is an artificial lake initiated by the authorities of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) as a tourist and recreational centre. But the project has been neglected since its creation in 2007, with the facility attracting all manners of criminal elements to itself. However, the National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA) has stepped in, raising hopes in Abuja residents for a world-class tourist centre. TONY AKOWE reports.  The creation of Jabi Lake was seen as an answer to the yearnings of many residents of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) for a decent tourist and recreational centre they so much desired. However, residents watched helplessly as the artificial lake, which occupies a vast expanse of land within the Jabi District, continued to suffer neglect shortly after it was created in 2007. As the years went by, expectations of the resident for a decent place for relaxation started giving way to despair. The facility has continued to attract vagrants and miscreants to itself, as the authorities failed to put things in place. And instead of attracting tourists from different parts of the world, Jabi Lake has become a haven for undesirable elements of different shades. A giant plaque inside the resort, which now serves more like a place where people come to do exercise and engage in sporting activities, gives a clear indication that the facility is being underutilised. Some sections around the lake have become a no-go-area for residents, particularly at night. Sporting activities still take place at the centre in the mornings and evenings as residents use it for physical fitness exercises. Table tennis, snooker boards and other sporting equipment adorn the place. Fun seekers also use the place for one activity or the other, particularly during festive periods. However, the Nigeria Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA), the government agency saddled with the responsibility of overseeing waterways in the country, has shown interest in taking over the place and bringing it back to what it was originally designed for – a world-class tourist centre. Managing Director of the Agency, Chief George Moghalu, said the plan is to develop the Jabi Lake Resort into an international resort centre that will attract people from across the world. While on an unscheduled visit to the lake last week, Moghalu said, “I came here on an official visit to look at Jabi Lake and see what can be done to develop the place and build on the potential because this is a fantastic place with great potential. “We want to partner with private investors and the FCT to develop the area so that it can be what it should be, just like what you find oversees. The waterway is lovely and we want to develop it and make it a tourist centre so that apart from the revenue it will attract, people can have a place to go for relaxation. So, there is a lot that we want to do with this place.” Moghalu, who until his appointment was the National Auditor of the All Progressives Congress (APC) said there is a lot that has been planned for Jabi Lake by his agency because there is no standard resort for relaxation in Abuja aside facilities that exist in conventional hotels. After assessing the place, the NIWA boss said there is a lot that can be done with the artificial lake, including having a standard restaurant and a floating bar over the lake. According to him, there is also room for a floating event centre where people can hold their parties, a club and other recreational facilities. Moghalu said, “We want to recreate the environment. Apart from the money that can be generated for the government, it will provide people with the opportunity to come and relax over the weekend. There is a way to develop this Jabi Lake and people will be coming from outside the country just to come and see it. When you develop and publicise it, it will attract interest.” He disclosed that NIWA is currently discussing with several private sector concerns, to get them involved in the development of the resort. Continuing, he said: “We have spoken to quite a several people. There is an American company that wants to bring ferries. They are planning a floating restaurant on a Public-Private Partnership (PPP) arrangement. You can imagine what a world-class floating restaurant will look like. They are talking about ferry services that will be ferrying people around. “There is quite a lot we can do all over the country and Jabi Lake is just one of the many sites we have identified. We are talking with various interest groups and apart from generating income for government and our authority, it will create employment opportunities for Nigerians who need to be employed.” The NIWA boss further revealed that discussions were ongoing to identify many other things that can be put in place at the lake. He said, “Moving into a site is a process because you first identify what you wants to do. Secondly, you allow the PPP arrangement to come in and you discuss the terms, agreements are signed and the necessary approvals given. For example, we need to collaborate with the FCT authorities, talk with them and exchange ideas and marry our thinking with their own.” Moghalu, is, however, worried about encroachment into the land belonging to the agency within the Jabi District. But he assured that NIWA has no immediate plan to demolish any property developed on its land. But he warned that there are consequences for such actions. He said, “It is not my intention to demolish any structures except where they are life-threatening or where they have caused a total abridgement of the master plan. It is not within the agency’s mandate to determine whether there is an infringement.  But for the fact that they have infringed, they are liabilities. So, for you to regularise your documentations in observed cases of infringement, there are fees to be paid, there are liabilities to go with that and it has to be paid.” However, the lake has become an eyesore as it is presently littered with debris such as used water bottles, empty cans and used cellophane bags. The surrounding is also overgrown with weeds that need to be cleaned up. Commercial activities are still going on in the vicinity of the lake with several shopping malls, including the retail giants, Shoprite running an outlet close to the lake. The issue of security is another thing that must be taken seriously if the lake is to become a tourist centre. Some visitors to the place who spoke with our correspondent said they were excited over the idea of developing the lake. They were, however, quick to add that the major problem at the moment is security and activities of miscreants, as well as filth that has taken over the area. Moghalu is conscious of this. He told our correspondent that, “In the procurement process we just concluded, provision was made for clearing the debris. We can explore the manual clearing of the place to make sure it is clean and attractive. “We have to make the place decent and ensure that miscreants don’t abuse this place and that it is properly maintained so that people can come and enjoy themselves.” On the issue of security, he promised an improvement as soon as work starts, saying providing adequate security should not be rocket science. “We already have one patrol boat on this lake and we intend to put more and also engage more marine police. We want to make sure that whatever we do here is sustainable. We must create recreation. I want to see a situation where you come here at the weekend and you see families enjoying themselves. At the end of the day, the credit will go to the government and some money will come into the pockets of those who did the job.” Investigations by our correspondent revealed that some of the major security challenges are robbery attacks on fun seekers and the menace of street urchins, who pester visitors with aggressive alms begging and struggle for left-overs during functions. Some of those who patronise the place lamented the porous nature of the resort and the attendant security challenges. They observed that even though there is a police station close by, it has not been able to address these challenges. They cited multiple improvised and unauthorised entry points, which have continued to expose the venue to intrusion by all manner of persons. There is no perimeter fence to ward off intruders and unwanted visitors. “Everywhere is a road into the park. Look at even the bushes around, nobody cares again that the park is no longer lush green as it used to be; nobody cares about cutting the weeds. In the past, one can see the other end of the lake standing at any point; but today, bushes have taken over the place. “Each time there is heavy rainfall, activities like birthday celebrations or other family engagements are disrupted because there are no tents to provide shelter for guests”, one of the regular visitors to the lake said.