 THE West African Ceremics Limited, Ajaokuta, in Kogi State, has said that it will establish a technical college to train youths towards the acquisition of vocational entrepreneurship skills. The company’s General Manager, Baska Rao, disclosed this on Saturday during the award of scholarship to twelve students in higher institutions across the country, as part of the organization’s corporate social responsibilities (CSR). He explained that operational youths would be trained on indigenous technology and the acquisition of skills in other areas of fabrication. He described youths as the future of any country’s technological advancement, and the youths of Ajaokuta community as the fulcrum in the attainment of the organization’s objectives. Lauding the peaceful disposition of the youths of the host community to the success story of the industry, he said that the gesture is another way of rewarding their loyalty, and for providing the enabling environment for its corporate objectives. He asserted that a peaceful environment and the cordial relationship with the host community have gone a long way in engendering smooth operations of the concern. He pointed out that the company has made it a policy to employ seventy percent of their staff from the host community. He described well trained and skillful students as the backbone of the nation, “little wonder why the West African Ceramics is not sparing any efforts towards assisting them in achieving their dreams of becoming quality graduates.” He urged the students to make honesty, sincerity and hard work their focus, insisting that countries like China and India, depend on their young growing population in their technological advancement, and called on them to aim at being problem solvers in making the country great He pointed out that the scholarship, which is the first in the series, would accommodate more trainees in the coming years, and advised the beneficiaries to make good use of the opportunity, to encourage the organization to do more for others not captured in the first set of scholarship. He noted that when the technical school comes on board, it would assist others not in school to acquire the knowledge towards ensuring the organization’s and the country’s technological advancement. Aside the establishment of the technical college, he disclosed has plans to fix the Ofunene road in Ajaokuta, assured that the West African Ceramics would continue to partner with the host community towards making live meaningful for the host community. One of the beneficiaries, Ibrahim Saliu, commended the company for coming to their aid. He said that the gesture will be reciprocated in their study and in coming out in flying colours. 