Rasaq Ibrahim, Ado-Ekiti  Members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ekiti State on Friday protested against the removal of Emeka Ihedioha by the Supreme Court and the declaration of Hope Uzodinma of the All Progressives Congress, as the duly elected governor of the state. The protesting PDP members who stormed the party’s secretariat located at Ajilosun area in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital marched to the street to express displeasure against what they termed injustice against Ihiodioha and onslaught against PDP. They bored placards with various inscriptions such as ‘Ekiti PDP say no to injustice’, ‘Ekiti PDP Condemned Jankara Judgement’, Judiciary stop being cowed by Buhari, ‘Only Ihedihoa we know’ and Stop robbing the PDP of its mandate’. The protesting PDP members were accompanied on the protest by the police, operatives of the Department of State Security Services to forestall a possible breakdown of law and order. Leading the peaceful protest, the chairman of the party in the state, Barr. Gboyega Oguntuase said the Supreme Court’s judgement is a clear indication that the judiciary is an appendage of the ruling APC. Oguntuase who described the verdict as travesty of Justice and onslaught against the wishes of people of Imo State, called on the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad to step aside for the judiciary to regain its lost integrity. The Chairman urged the apex court to reverse itself and declare Ihedioha the winner, saying the decision is an attempt to disrupt the country’s nascent democracy. He regretted that the judiciary that is regarded as the last hope of the common man has evolved into the masses’ enemies through its ‘irrational action and inactions’. “We are here to express unequivocally that the judgement given by the Supreme Court sacking the duly elected governor of Imo State, Ihiodioha. That judgement is repugnant to fairness, justice, equity and an inferno that could destroy Nigeria democratic status. “Here in Ekiti in conjunction with totality of negative expression that had been made in all over the 35 states and the FCT against the judgement of the spec court. We are here to say that the judgement is unacceptable and against the wishes of the people of Imo. “It is not the entire justice of the supreme court that we are condemning but we are saying the pronouncement of those justice that served on that case is unacceptable to the ordinary man in the street. It is against logic, common sense and acceptable procedure. “It was a shame APC want to take the state’s through the back door. We know the APC want to take over power in all segment of the 36 states of the federation forcefully despite the fact that the people had rejected the party for its failure to deliver the superlative services inherent in democracy. “We are appealing to Nigerians to encourage the Justices of the Supreme Court not to be intimidated and cowed by a group of insensitive people called progressive” he said.