Virgil van Dijk’s header helped Liverpool on their way to a 2-0 win over Manchester United at Anfield as they extended their lead at the top to 16 points. Jurgen Klopp’s side had two further goals ruled out before the interval and upped the intensity again in the second half before Mohamed Salah’s goal added gloss to the win late on. The failure to find the second goal until stoppage time made for a nervy finale and United had their moments in the second half with Anthony Martial going close, but there was to be no equaliser. United do remain the only team to take points off Liverpool this season but – without the injured Marcus Rashford – there was to be no repeat here for Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s side. The clash between goal scorer and goalkeeper was reprised amid some controversy midway through the first half when Liverpool thought they had doubled their advantaged. De Gea went up for a high ball after Salah had misdirected his shot, but the United goalkeeper dropped the ball inside the six-yard box under pressure from Van Dijk. Sadio Mane gathered possession and fed Roberto Firmino, who curled the ball beautifully into the corner only for a VAR review to disallow it for Van Dijk’s robust challenge. By this point, United’s flow of counter-attacks were beginning to dry up as the Anfield crowd pushed their team on and the Liverpool advances began to overwhelm the away side. Georginio Wijnaldum also thought he had found the second goal after latching onto Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain’s measured through-ball but was correctly adjudged to be just offside. Andreas Pereira almost had United level against the run of play but he was stretching to reach Aaron Wan-Bissaka’s centre and could only divert the ball wide of the post. At the other end, Mane had a wonderful opportunity to extend Liverpool’s lead but his left-footed effort when racing onto Salah’s pass was kept out by the right boot of De Gea. Liverpool came out with even greater intent in the second half and Salah should have scored from Robertson’s left-wing cross but could not get the right contact on the ball.