The immediate past governor of Osun State and the Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, on Thursday hailed his successor, Mr. Adegboyega Oyetola, for his “brilliant performance.” The  Minister, who was in the state to attend a two-day retreat organised by the Ministry of Interior to strategize on tackling the scourge of internal insecurity and other challenges ravaging the country, paid a courtesy call on the governor in his office in Abere, Osogbo. Aregbesola, who described Oyetola as cerebral, said he and team had come to savour the existing “peace and hospitality of the people of Osun under the able leadership of Governor Adegboyega Oyetola”. The former governor said he was highly impressed to see the transformation that has taken place in Osun in continuation of the good works started during his administration as governor in the state. He said: “I was highly impressed to see the upgrade that has been carried out in this place. When you see a cerebral man, you will know. The upgrade is commendable. I am talking in the best state of mind because I am sure I am with my own. I entered here in a carnival-like manner. “I am very excited that we have seen a practical democracy to see a governor and his predecessor sitting together. In a monarchy, the king can only have the effigy of his predecessor. “In other systems of government, the incumbents don’t come together with their predecessors. This is celebration of democracy. It is a civilised democracy and which we must all struggle to sustain as a culture. “We are here in the state to savour the peace, hospitality of the people of Osun under the able leadership of Governor Adegboyega Oyetola. We are going to be here for the next three days to reflect on our core mandate of providing internal security for the country, to defend, promote and preserve citizens’ integrity. The Ministry plans to develop policies, fashion out programmes and implement projects for peace and safety of citizens,” Aregbesola added. Responding, Governor Oyetola also commended Aregbesola’s wonderful achievements while he was governor. He described Aregbesola as a goal getter, whom he said would perform same feat at the national level in delivering quality service to Nigerians. He also expressed gratitude to President Muhammadu Buhari and the Ministry of Interior for siting Zonal Federal Fire Service Headquarters in Osun He also commended the ministry for its good initiatives, including the efforts at enhancing Electronic International  Passport with 64 pages and  ten years validity period and Security, Economy and Transparency (SET), which he  caimed will drive the country’s security agenda. He said: “It’s a delight to welcome the Honourable Minister back home. This is perhaps his first official visit. We thank you for choosing Osun for this ministerial Strategic Retreat. We will be looking forward to welcoming you again and again in the state.” Also thanking the leadership of the ministry for their cooperation and support for the minister, he urged them to enjoy the good ambience and hospitality of Osun by visiting its many tourist sites.