One Olamide Babayemi, a cobbler, has been arrested by the Police in Ogun State for attempting to murder a female Youth Corps member after rapping her. Olamide,25, allegedly raped the 22 years old Microbiology graduate in an apartment at the Greenland Estate in Mowe area of the state. The suspect who was smarting from being jilted by the Corps member, whom he claimed was his lover, also used phone Camera to video record the nude girl after the rape and circulated among his friends. The Police Public Relations Officer in Ogun State, Abimbola Oyeyemi, in a release said the suspect was arrested following complaints by the victim, who report the incident at the Redeem Camp Police station. Abimbola, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) said further that the girl told the Police that she gave N18,000: 00 to the cobbler, having known him for quite some time to buy a handset for her, explaining that the cobbler neither bought the handset or refunded her money. According to the Police Spokesman, the suspect later called her on phone on January 2 to come pick the phone at a location within Greenland Estate and was raped afterwards upon visiting the said estate to meet the cobbler. Abimbola said: “The suspect suddenly called her on the 2nd of January to come to Greenland Estate in Mowe and collect the phone. On getting there, the suspect forcefully removed all her clothes and raped her. “The victim stated further that after forcefully had her carnal knowledge, the suspect soaked her clothes in water and used his phone to record her naked video which he started sending to some of his friends. “When he realized that the victim might report him to the police, he made an attempt to sniff life out of her but she was lucky when the suspect’s mother called him on phone to come and meet her at the gate of the Estate which gave her the opportunity to escape. “The DPO Redeem camp CSP Chris Amanyi mobilised his detectives to go after the suspect who took to his heels immediately but he was apprehended on 4th of January 2020 when his mother brought him to the station. “On interrogation, the suspect who claimed to be the victim’s boy friend confessed committing the crime but blamed the girl for calling it quit with her after she graduated from the university. “When asked for his reasons behind recording the nude video of the girl, he said he did so as to prevent her from reporting him to the police.” The Commissioner of police, Kenneth Ebrimson has given a directive that the suspect be transferred immediately to the state criminal investigation and intelligence department for further investigation and prosecution