It was all fun and excitement, as guests at the recent movie premiere of “The Legend of Inikpi” were treated to a nutritious wholesome experience by Hollandia Evap Milk. The glamorous and colourful Epic-in-Gold themed event marks the first full-length movie production by Mercy Johnson-Okojie. The movie which is set in the 16th Century before the arrival of the colonialists, tells of an impending war between the flourishing Igala Kingdom and the mighty Bini Kingdom led by Oba Esigie. Prominent Nollywood stalwarts, industry players within the entertainment sector, and supporters of the dynamic brand ambassador of the leading Hollandia Evaporated Milk brand were in attendance. While guests waited to be thrilled by the highly anticipated epic movie which features a stellar Nollywood cast, Hollandia Evap Milk was on ground to nourish them with tasty and creamy cereal meals, and varying smoothies on menu. Through the engagement, Chi Limited, continues to reiterate the brand truth of Hollandia Evap Milk, which is rich and creamy nourishment. The brand successfully achieved this through direct interaction with guests at the event, as they were in awe of the creamy and nourishing offerings of Hollandia Evap Milk in their menu treat of the evening as they longed for a repeat experience. Speaking at the premiere, Marketing Director, Chi Limited, Mrs. Toyin Nnodi, expressed delight and optimism at having vibrant actress and producer, Mercy Johnson-Okojie, as the brand ambassador of the Hollandia Evap Milk brand. “We applaud Mercy Johnson-Okojie on this memorable milestone, and this is further testament to our decision to associate with her personality. The strategic partnership is one which helps create value through such engagement platforms in connecting with the consumers.” Brand Manager, Hollandia Evap Milk, Mrs. Bose Ogunyemi, said: “Regular milk consumption is essential for everyone, and through this consumer engagement, we have showcased how Hollandia Evap Milk nourishes and complements different meal choices.”