TWO leading clerics – Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) and Dr. Daniel Olukoya of the Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries (MFM) Worldwide – spoke yesterday in coded language. In their prophecies after crossover services at the Redemption Camp and Prayer City, both on Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, the general overseers warned of the consequences of disobedient and sin. Pastor Adeboye, who promised to speak more during tomorrow’s Holy Ghost Congress (HGC), said in his prophecy for nations: “This year unless you pray very hard, it is going to behave like a child that is having convulsion. Earthquakes and volcanoes that had been dormant for years will erupt; the reason is due to sin which is becoming more rampant. “There will also be change of government all over the world, some of the changes will be peaceful, and some will not.” The RCCG general overseer said God will give victories to individuals who do the will of God. “For every individual in RCCG, this is going to be a year of series of joy; series of victories. It is also going to be a year of series of battles but you will win. The battle is not yours; it will be victory after victory and shout of joy after shout of joy.” Dr. Olukoya warned Nigerians, especially leaders, that the consequences of disobedience will be grave. He said: “Many Nigerian leaders will be shifted away in the New Year. 2020 is a year where disobedience to God will yield terrible result that no deliverance will be able to reverse. In his 2020 ‘prophesy window’, released during the crossover vigil, Pastor Olukoya charged Nigerians to pray, because the year would be “messy and confusing to all”. Olukoya, who tagged the year as “Year of revival and new glory,” said the year “portends re-writing negative family history and aggressive prayers against evil voices from foundation.” He went on: “It is a year of unbelievable answers to prayers; mark my words, it is a year of uncommon testimonies. It is a year of ‘it can only be God’ testimonies. “It is a year where many captives will totally divorce their chains. This year, many families shall climb to a new height of victories. It is a year when the saints must be well sensitive to heavenly frequencies. Food supplies from the kingdom of Herod shall be cut off.” According to him, only fervent prayers are needed to avert calamity. “Year 2020 is a year when round-the-clock prayers are needed against national restlessness plus political and economic confusion. It is advisable to spare one day in the week as believers to fast and pray for our nation.” He cautioned that “impatience will lure many into strange marriages and warned brethren to exercise patience in this regard. The figure ‘20’ is a figure that symbolises waiting and perfection; be patient; don’t be in a hurry. The race is not for the swift or the battle to the strong….. “It is a year when you cannot hold onto un-forgiveness. Un-forgiveness will make you to miss out on what God wants to do in your life this year. All things that many have planted and watered in the past years will now begin to yield, blossom and produce fruits. “This is a year where many, who have endured seasons of darkness, delay, trials and tribulation will sing their songs and dance their dance; a year of returns of long term prodigals who have repented; a season where that, which has delayed the breakthrough of God’s children shall be dashed to pieces.”