Actress Ini Dima Okojie is not ending the year with a thud but a loud bang. She features as lead actress in two December release box-office movies, Kpali and Your Excellency. In this interview with DUPE AYINLA-OLASUNKANMI, she shares her own inspiring life story, plans for the New Year and journey to self-discovery. Ini also had a lot to say about being paired with veteran actor, Nkem Owoh in Kpali which is currently in cinemas YOU ended the year with a bang having played roles in two big December cinema movies. How would you describe 2019? For me, the year 2019 had actually been quite a challenging year, but I thank God because in the midst of that, some good things are happening. We are moving forward but you how one can be one’s biggest critic. Yet, in all of these, I’m super grateful. What’s the plan for the year 2020? I will be making my dreams come true and a lot of films are coming out. A lot of projects that I’ve been involved are coming out. We’ll keep doing this, we will keep hoping to get the scripts that will inspire us. Let’s start with Kpali, what was the film-making process like? It was quiet interesting. We filmed Kpali in the middle of 2017. I was in the middle of a daily show called Battle Dawn and that was tasking because I was one of the lead characters and we filmed every day and they were gracious enough to give me three weeks off to film Kpali. I had to read the script before I started the daily show. Normally, I would like a spacing and take time out to prepare properly. So, I have to multi-task because at the end of the day, there will be no excuse when everyone is watching. It was interesting and tough, but we did it. Can you relate to the personal your character? I remember reading the script and for me, I could just relate. I have family friends that have left the country for greener pastures and to be honest, they really had no interest in coming back because they feel like nothing works here. So I could relate to how my character felt in that sense. Her journey really inspired me. And the fact that I was filming with Nkem Owoh, that was very exciting for me. I’ve always wanted to work with him. He puts you on your toes. Improvisation becomes your breakfast, lunch and dinner because he just goes for it and you have to take it on if not, everything falls flat. For a play that was partly filmed in London where you portrayed a Nigerian immigrant, how were you able to pull up the accent? (Laughs) Oh! My goodness, I remember when the director told me that wanted me to have a bit of a British accent, it was a challenge I took on. I felt a bit scary but then, it began to be exciting. At the end of the day, we did what we had to do. I like to take up parts that challenge me. It was challenging because I have to pull it up throughout the film and I did my research. YouTube was my best friend and I didn’t have a voice coach. I studied and I think it worked out. Is Kpali your first major film production? No, Kpali was not my first major production. It is either not the first time I will be in the cinema. Has acting always been your dream? This is my dream. This is what I’ve always wanted to do. This is what I quit my job to do. So it has its ups and downs. In life, nothing is perfect. There are challenges, but at the end of the day, it’s all worth it. One always feel like one has a calling to do this. These characters, I’m making them believable, I’m giving them a means of escape. They are creations bigger than me, so it’s been quiet challenging but I wouldn’t change anything. Before acting, what were you doing? Oh! I used to be an investment banker and then I quit.  Why did you quit? What pushed you? It took me a long time to finally put in my resignation letter but then, you know how you have this dream and it’s tugging on your heart. You know this makes you almost not to be able to sleep at night and everything you are doing doesn’t make sense to you. That’s how I felt at my former job. It was crazy, a lot of people thought I was crazy. Then, I had the support of my parents. My dad was very troubled at the idea at first, but my mum for some reasons got into it. I think she must have convinced him. At the initial stage when someone quit a job, things might become really scary, for you, what was that experience like Has it ever crossed your mind to back? To be honest, I’ve never felt like I should go back, but I told myself, I would do everything, put my head down and pursue the dream. First, I have to make sure I was ready for that step before I took the plunge. Tell us about yourself outside acting I’m bubbly, people don’t actually know that immediately because I can be a bit reserve in places where I don’t feel comfortable. I love my family, I love my friends, they matter to me. I love food. I’m working out now. I just live my life as it comes. I take my work seriously. I don’t like to take myself too seriously, I love to have fun, I like to be normal as I can be. Where did you grow up? I grew up here in Lagos. I had a lot of fun memories when I was growing up. We are a close knit family and a lot of people lived in our house at some point. I have too many fun memories to just pick up one. Your name is hyphenated, some people would think it has to do with marriage. Can you tell us the story behind it? It’s actually a family name. It’s a compound name. So, my grandfather added his name to our last name, so it stuck ever since. You are a fashionista. Tell us what inspires your style Fashion is a huge part of my life, my mum will always say how I was so opinionated with what I wore. Whether they thought it was pretty or not, as long as I liked it, I would stand by it. You seem to be very busy with so many things, how do you combine this with your love life? Do you have a man in your life? (Laughs) I would choose not to talk about my love life. Some people have said, that you have a striking resemblance with Rita Dominic, do you get that often? Really? Maybe I have one of those faces. I have a striking resemblance with Jocelyn Dumas. I get that all the time, not Rita Dominic. I love Rita, she is beautiful.