By Adekunle Yusuf  For couples battling with how to access IVF treatment and offset the prohibitive charges usually involved, there is good news. Access Bank Plc has stepped into the fray by offering to provide financing options for women to enable them receive quality healthcare services. This is evidenced in its recent partnership with the University College Hospital (UCH) IVF Centre to provide affordable fertility treatments for the public. With this initiative, IVF, which is an expensive process that is unaffordable for many couples, will not only be accessible to only the rich. Access bank said the partnership with UCH IVF Centre will help many people to find a way to enable them achieve results they desire. The bank said the partnership is supported by its “W” Initiative flagship health solution – maternal health service support (MHSS), designed to help families overcome financial challenges in their quest for parenthood and wellness. On the collaboration with UCH IVF Centre, Victor Etuokwu, Executive Director, Retail Banking Division, at Access Bank. said the decision of the bank is to show its commitment to the total well-being of women and couples generally.  “One of the challenges faced by individuals and couples trying assisted reproductive conception is the high costs involved. In line with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) number 3 on global health and well-being for all, we believe that this partnership will ease the burden of affordability and increase accessibility to quality fertility treatments. We are proud to have this laudable partnership with a renowned health institution such as the UCH. Hundreds of families have benefited from the MHSS financing solution in accessing quality fertility and maternal health treatments and we have recorded scores of babies birthed from this scheme,” Etuokwu said. Also, worthy of note is that the MHSS is not limited to fertility treatments; natal support and other specialised procedures, such as hysterectomy (uterus removal), myomectomy (fibroid removal), dental, bariatric (weight loss), orthopedic treatments are also covered. Women interested in fertility treatments can visit the UCH IVF centre for consultations and access financial support from the Bank through their service touch points. Experts say the number of couples battling with infertility is high, while there are not enough fertility doctors to help restore smiles on their faces. About 10 per cent of Nigerian couples are estimated to have issues with fertility. While it is not everybody that experiences difficulty in getting pregnant that requires IVF procedure to have a baby, experts always advise that it makes sense for all couples who have struggled to get pregnant for upward of one year to subject themselves to clinical investigations without any further delay, preferably both wife and husband. And for couples who are 35 or older, fertility doctors said it is advisable that such couples do not wait for up to a year before carrying out investigations because age is not on their side. After trying to get pregnant for six months without success, IVF doctors say such couples should seek help so as not to waste more time as delay can be dangerous.