The Federal Government recognises mining as a strategic income stream in the face of dwindling oil revenue. It is also working to boost its contribution to GDP from1.5per cent to three per cent  by 2025. To make these happen, the Ministry of Mines and Steel Development seized the opportunity of last week’s “Investors’ Forum in London” to showcase Nigeria’s mineral and mining potential to prospective global investors. The positive responses by would-be investors, following the outing, are seen as signals of a new dawn for the sector, Assistant Editor CHIKODI OKEREOCHA reports.   The Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Olamilekan Adegbite, and other heads of agencies under the ministry are upbeat. To them and indeed, other industry stakeholders, a new dawn is in the offing for the mining sector, particularly from the investment point of view. This, The Nation learnt, followed the overwhelming interest shown by international mining firms – both majors and minors – to invest in data generation as well as mining in the country. However, it took a team of top officials from the ministry led by Adegbite, who, at an “Investors’ Forum in London,” put up a presentation for a group of top investors in the United Kingdom (UK) to wet the appetite of prospective investors now wishing to be part of the exploration and mining revolution. The team seized the opportunity of the forum to showcase Nigeria’s mineral and mining potential. The ministry, which had a panel consisting of experts in mining, showcased to the international investment community Nigeria’s mineral endowments, including the latest developments in the minerals sector particularly government’s efforts to generate credible geo-science data and de-risk the sector. It also dangled to investors some of the mouth-watering incentives put in place to make mining more attractive for them. Adegbite had last week led a high-powered team to the “Investors’ Forum in London.” It was an opportunity for a one-on-one interaction with investors in the UK. Other heads of agencies under the ministry in the team included the Director-General of Mining Cadastre Office (MCO), Obadiah Nkom; his counterpart at Nigerian Geological Survey Agency (NGSA), Dr. Abdulrazaq Garba and Project Coordinator, Mineral Sector Support for Economic Diversification Project (MINDIVER), Mr. Linus Adie. The Nation learnt that the team visited various destinations in the UK, where it brought would-be investors up to speed with the regulatory framework, favourable investment climate as well as various fiscal regimes available to prospective operators in Nigeria’s mining sector as enshrined in the Nigerian Mineral and Mining Act 2007. For instance, there was a presentation by the Minister at the Hogan Lovells, Holborn Viaduct, London, in which he addressed several UK investors who had interest in the mining sector, but were quite unaware of how to go about it or were scared of the sector. Adegbite allayed their fears and assured them that the mining sector was very friendly and that the government had put in place incentives that would favour investors in the sector. The minister also met the British Ambassador to Nigeria and officials from the British Trade Department to speak about mining in Nigeria. He also visited the House of Lords to see Lord Benjamin Mancroft to discuss mining in Nigeria and to consider the possibilities of training collaboration with the Mining Institute in Jos, Plateau State. There was also a visit to the British Geological Survey Agency to firm up the collaboration between it and the NGSA.  Push for non-oil economy The central message of Adegbite’s speech at the Investors’ Forum was Nigeria’s transition to a non-oil economy. The Minister, in his speech, said in line with the Federal Government’s strong commitment to diversifying the economy and providing jobs, the ministry, under his charge, continues to promote platforms to highlight reforms in the sector that will attract investments.  According to him, Nigeria has been perceived to be an oil country where all attention and investments should, consequently, be concentrated. Describing the country as an unwilling victim of the oil mineral curse, which created a huge gap in her solid mineral management, he said this cost Nigeria 30 years of stagnation in the mineral industry. While noting that the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration, at inception, met serious challenges in the mining sector caused by years of stagnation and neglect, he said“it was apparent that we must re-enact the “Nigeria before Oil” policies, when the sector contributed as much as 5.6 per cent in 1980 to the national Gross Domestic Product (GDP).” However, a renewed push to return the sector to its glorious days by opening the sector to foreign investments has taken centre stage. Adegbite put the new investment drive in perspective when he said: “The agenda of the present administration recognises mining as a strategic income stream in the face of dwindling oil revenue and looks towards to increasing its contribution to the national GDP to three per cent by 2025.” He explained that the focus of the Federal Government, through the ministry, was on de-risking the mining sector. This, according to him, was by the provision of more up-to-date and comprehensive data on mineral occurrences in Nigeria. The other aspect, he said, was by enabling a more investor-friendly environment through favorable incentives. The minister informed his audience that some significant milestones have already been achieved within a remarkably short time, expressing hope that such achievements will trigger investors in the mining world a desire to be part of the exploration and mining revolution in Nigeria. One of the developments that have buoyed Adegbite’s hope of a sector on an imminent rebound is the ongoing National Integrated Mineral Exploration Project (NIMEP). NIMEP is government’s flagship of rapid response to the dearth of investible geoscience data. “We are continuing to upgrade and expand our data base to de-risk the Nigeria mining jurisdiction to make our potentials more palatable to investors,” he said, adding that contracts have been awarded to five certified exploration companies for further investigation into gold, lead, zinc, iron ore and rare earth metals. Interestingly, these are minerals considered priority minerals along the identified mineral corridors in Nigeria. The minister stated that at the end of the exercise, the viable areas or corridors will be delineated into concession blocks for interested investors to bid. Also, the NGSA, which coordinates the NIMEP project, has undertaken more ground investigations nationwide to upgrade the national minerals data base to a more investible level. Furthermore, all existing geological data are being archived in a digitalisation programme handled by the British Geological Survey. An obviously excited Garba told The Nation that judging by the huge volume of inquiries from international mining companies – both majors and minors – regarding the NIMEP programme, it would be right to say that the interest has been overwhelming. While confirming that there have been a number of commitments from mining companies, largely on the NIMEP programme, Garba said quite a number of these companies have already indicated interest to partner with the ministry and the NGSA to invest in both data generation as well as mining. With some of them signifying interest to enter into some Memorandum of Understanding (MoUs) with the ministry, the NGSA boss said: “The Ministry was also eager to follow-up on all the requests made at the conference. It was also generally agreed at the fora that Nigeria seems to be getting it right now and all eyes are on us.” The delegation to London also included a visit to British Geological Survey (BGS) at Nottingham. Already, BGS is undertaking a MINDIVER project of digitalisation of colonial documents and maps that are hosted by them on behalf of the NGSA. The upgrading and automation of the Nigeria Mining Cadastre Office for online operations may have also contributed to the growing interest of investors in the sector. The major objective of this project, which will be completed this year, is to make online application for titles seamless. This will cut down the time for processing licenses from 45 to 15 days. Apart from ease of mineral title administration, the minister announced to his audience in London that the development of the new Mineral Export Guidelines has reached final stages and is expected to be implemented this year. “This will ensure transparent and timely issuance of export permits of minerals from Nigeria,” he said. Also, to boost production of raw materials for the local industries, Adegbite said the ministry has developed a road map for the nation’s industrial minerals. The focus of the initiative, he said was to attain self-sufficiency in the production of industrial minerals in which Nigeria has comparative advantage. Describing the Investors’ Forum in London as hugely successful, the Senior Special Assistant Technical to the Minister, Olu Adedayo, expressed joy that many foreign investors are now showing interest in Nigeria. He also said with Brexit on the horizon and the UK willing to negotiate trade with non-European countries, the UK now wants to get close to Nigeria and the mining sector. However, as encouraging as the growing interest of investors in the global mining industry may be, following the Federal Government’s aggressive investment drive, the consensus of experts and stakeholders in the local mining sector is that its sustainability will depend largely on policy consistency. They, therefore, pointed out that there is the need for the government, through the ministry, to ensure that the current incentives put in place to woe investors are sustained, even as various executive orders on ease of doing business are effectively monitored and fully implemented.