By Nsa Gill, Calabar  Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) stalwart in Cross River, Ben Akak has said that two party system will fasten growth and development, if adopted and properly practiced. He also said that two party system will breed healthy competition and bring out the best leaders with quality skills to take Nigeria to the desired destination. The politician, who spoke with reporters in Calabar, the state capital, called on government to imbibe the spirit of project continuity and timely completion to improve the nation’s economy. His words: “Two party system will help in boosting our econmic growth and development becuase the competition will be better and bring out the best leaders who are people oriented. “The party system we have in place is more of a military creation, and it was as if we were not ready for democracy, but we are in it already we have to adopt modules that work for us. “We must understand what works in Congo’s democracy might not work in Nigeria, we need to copy well, we must look at other countries practising what we want and fine tune ours.”  Akak said zoning was good as it created orderliness in the system and  peace in the polity. “Zoning at all levels brings orderliness and maintains the needed peace in polity and scheme of things because it gives people sense of belonging,” he added. Akak explained that continuity in the execution of government projects will eventually end the spate of abandonment of projects. He said all over the world, the policies of government are constant, adding that some projects need a longer time to mature and produce fruits. “We don’t often have continuity policy in Nigeria; everybody is coming out with his own ideas on how they wants things to be done. “But, if we can rigid it a little bit and continue with the policy and projects by seeing it as the people’s project and not as the project of an individual, then it gives one an opportunity to evaluate government better,” he said. On development in Crose River under Ben Ayade, he said that the ongoing construction of the Deep Seaport and the Superhighway projects, which are the two signature projects of the governor, will improve the state’s revenue drive when completed. He said: “The Deep Seaport and the Superhighway are beautiful projects. They must be a deliberate effort for continuity of this projects”, he said. “The governor has our mandate, so far he is doing his best; we should continue to pray for him for the good of the state.” 