The body of Lagos State University (LASU) final-year student, Favour Daley-Oladele, who was allegedly murdered for money rituals by her boyfriend at a church in Ikoyi-Ile in Osun State, on December 8, will be buried in Lagos tomorrow. The Nation learnt that the burial arrangement followed the exhumation of her body at Ikoyi-Ile in Isokan Local Government Area of Osun State by the Police on Saturday. Commissioner of Police, Babatunde Kokumo, who led the team that exhumed the body, said the move would enable the police to conclude investigation into the case. The CP also hinted that churches in that neighbourhood would be investigated. The self-proclaimed pastor Segun Philips, a woman- Bola Adeeko, and her son, Owolabi, are being interrogated by the police in connection with the killing. The police said they will be arraigned in Osun State. Owolabi, 23, allegedly confessed to killing Daley-Oladele while Philips reportedly used a knife to remove some of her organs and used them to prepare a concoction for Owolabi and his mother to eat. Mother and son were, until their arrest, sharing a ‘face me, face you, apartment at Konifewo, Ijako in Ado Odo/Otta Local Government Area of Ogun State. Kokumo said: “We are all aware of the gruesome killing of a LASU student. The killing has been traced to Ikoyi-Ile. “In furtherance of the investigation started by the Ogun State Command, we have brought our homicide experts to exhume and continue the investigation to prosecute the suspects. “It is a gruesome murder and the whole thing is quite horrible. We will not fold our arms and watch lawless citizens take the law into their own hands. “We have been informed that we have several churches in this community. It is our responsibility to conduct our investigation. What we are doing is intelligence policing driven by the people’s need.” Speaking to reporters on Saturday, Owolabi explained how 22-year-old Favour was murdered. He said: “I called Favour on December 8, 2019, to meet me at Ikoyi-Ile so we could spend some time together. She met me at a hotel in the area, but immediately she got there, she started complaining that she was tired and needed to rest. “I told her that we needed to visit my dad’s younger brother before she would rest. It was a lie. I tricked her into going to the church of Segun. When we got to the church, again, she complained that she wanted to sleep, so, I asked her to go into the church and rest. “When she slept off, I used a pestle to smash her in the head and she died. After we confirmed she was dead, Pastor Segun slaughtered her and removed the vital organs from her body so that they could be used for the ritual we wanted to perform to make money.” While responding to questions, Philip said he killed the deceased to experiment what he read in ‘Seven Book of Moses.’ Philip, who was led around the scene of the crime alongside the other two suspects, Adeeko, and his mother, said it was his first time of killing a human being. He added that the late Daley-Oladele was thrown into a half-dug well, where she was dismembered and some organs removed before she was buried. The Students’ Union Government (SUG) of the Lagos State University (LASU) has said it will mobilise students to pay their respects to their slain colleague. SUG President Oladele Oluwatayo said: “We have decided to encourage as many students as would be available for the funeral rites to pay our last respects to Favour. “I spoke with Favour’s father today (yesterday); he told me the burial will hold on Tuesday and promised to get back to me on details. He hasn’t done that and I do not wish to call him again because he sounded devastated.”