YOU must pay the appropriate China visa fee at the cashier located at the CVAC. The Visa Centre accepts cash, debit cards and credit cards. Note: Prices are listed as per exchange rate and are subject to change. Passport – Your original passport with at least six months validity and two blank visa pages; including one photocopy of your passport’s data and photo page. China visa application form – Download the application form, fill it out manually and sign it. (Take the completed application form along to the visa centre to submit your application). One recently taken passport photo – full face, front view, bare-head, and against a light background (size: 48 x 33mm). Follow the Chinese Embassy photo guidelines. Proof of legal status (only required if you’re not applying for the China visa in your country of citizenship). Details of your visit to China: confirmed return ticket, proof of hotel reservation, etc. If you’re going to stay with family or friends in China and cannot present the hotel confirmation, you need to provide an invitation letter. The letter must include the following: Your personal information: name, gender, and date of birth. Details of your planned trip to China: arrival and departure dates, place(s) to be visited, accommodation arrangements etc. Information of the inviting party: name(s), contact number, address, and relationship to you If necessary, the consular officer may request you to provide additional documents or require an interview. Where to Apply: All China visa applications must be done at the China Visa Application Centres. You’ll find two located in Abuja and Lagos. China Visa Application Process: *Schedule an appointment to submit your application *Once at the CVAC, scan your passport upon arrival *Get a queue number for the submission of your application *When your number is called, submit your application at the counter *Receive a payment notice and pay the necessary fees at the cashier *You will receive a pick-up form (a receipt detailing the information of your application and the expected date for your passport collection) *Track the status of your China visa application via the CVAC’s website Note: The consular officer has the final say on whether or not to grant your China visa as well as its validity, duration of stay and number of entries with regard to the specific conditions of the applicants.