By Mike Odiegwu, Yenagoa  Operatives of Operation Puff Adder of the Bayelsa State Police Command have engaged notorious kidnappers in gun battle in Bayelsa State. Following their superior gunpower, the operatives were said to have dislodged the kidnappers operating along Imiringi general area in Ogbia and rescued the wife of a popular businessman and a medical doctor. Vivian Okoye, the wife of Obinna Okoye popularly called Blessed Obaino, who owns the A-Z electronics shops in various parts of Yenagoa and a medical practitioner identified as Alex from Igbedi community in Southern Ijaw Local Government Area were kidnapped by the hoodlums. It was gathered that the victims were abducted by seven gunmen at about 7.30pm at the Imiringi residence of the businessman. The kidnappers stormed the area on a white hilux vehicle with registration number GBB 30 FS dressed in military and police fatigue. “They whisked their victims to Onuebum waterside in Ogbia area where a getaway boat was waiting for them” a source, who spoke in confidence said. He added: “The kidnappers were asking for Blessed Obaino but they decided to kidnap the wife after they could not get him. One of the Obaino’s boys was driving into the house when he was abducted. “They gained entrance into the compound following the entrance of one of Obaino’s boys. They must have been waiting before he walked into the ambush. “Series of Save-our-Soul messages were sent out to the emergency lines of the State Commissioner of Police and the Operation Puff Adder led by DSP Chris Nwaogbo.The swift response by a gallant team of the security outfit led to the shootout along Iminringi road. “One policeman was injured while the kidnappers abandoned their vehicle and the victims. They ran into the Ogbia bush. The bullet ridden hilux of the kidnappers have been recovered.” The Police Public Relations Officer, Butswat Asinim, confirmed the incident. He said: “Operatives of Operation Puff Adder Bayelsa State Command have rescued one Mrs Vivian Obinna and one Ogregade Ileimokumo ‘m’ residents of Imiringi Community, Ogbia Local Government Area of Bayelsa State. “The victims were Kidnapped on 29 January 2020, at about 2000 hours, when the kidnappers forcefully gained entrance to the residence of Mr Obinna Okoye at Imiringi and Kidnapped his Wife Mrs Vivian Okoye and a Neighbour one Ogregade Ileimokumo who tried to prevent the kidnappers. “Policemen were alerted and Operatives of Operation Puff Adder intercepted the kidnappers at Otuokpoti Waterside, where the kidnappers were trying to move the Kidnapped victims into a waiting speedboat. “The kidnapped victims were rescued, while the suspects escaped with bullets wounds. The Command has launched a manhunt to arrest the fleeing kidnappers. Investigation is underway”.