Eminent Nigerians comprising governors, clerics, lawmakers, political parties and military chiefs, among others, on Wednesday expressed strong convictions that Year 2020 will usher in a brighter dawn than 2019. They spoke in different parts of the country at different fora on their hopes for the New Year. The eminent Nigerians also expressed a strong hope that the New Year will lead to  peaceful co-existence, economic prosperity and a more stable polity. Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello said: “It gives me great joy to welcome everyone to this New Year and I thank God Almighty for keeping us alive and healthy to witness it. 2020 is also the beginning of a new decade, beginning on Wednesday, January 1, 2020, and ending on Monday, December 31, 2029, making it a compelling point to set long-term personal and state development goals. “Even as I thank God for the life and wellbeing of each Kogite who has crossed over into this New Year, I also remember with fondness and gratitude to God those who could not make it, but whose lives were well lived and their legacy enduring. I pay particular tribute to Hajia Rabiat Bello, my beloved sister who passed on at 59 years of age on Monday, December 23, 2019, after a protracted illness. I pray the Almighty God to grant her and other deceased Kogites eternal rest… “Even though my administration has worked hard in the last four years to achieve this result, I still remain indebted to Kogites for making me the arrowhead of a new era in which Igala, Ebira, Okun and all the other ethnic nationalities in Kogi State proved that tribe, religion and class cannot be the worth of a man. “Together, we heralded the New Kogi we want to bequeath to posterity as one characterised by equity and justice, unity, peace and progress. I solemnly promise to spend the next four years strengthening and advancing these precious values. “There is no doubt that 2020 is indeed a new beginning for us as a state and people. On January 27, 2020, I shall, by the grace of God, take the Oath of Office as the fifth Executive Governor of Kogi State, and begin a second term in office. It shall remain the principal preoccupation of my new administration to bring revitalised energy to bear in delivering refocused governance in Kogi State for the next four years. “Our administration, through the help of God Almighty and your patience and support, will continue to address all of the issues which bother you, including insecurity, infrastructural decay, prompt payment of emoluments to civil servants, problems of unemployment, healthcare and education, among others…” Former Senate President Abubakar Bukola Saraki urged Nigerians to work hard to make the country more conducive for investments to engender a strong economy. In a statement by his Special Adviser (Media and Publicity), Yusuph Olaniyonu, the former Senate President said: “We have a lot to thank God for despite all the challenges we faced  as a country in the year that just ended, our country remains one. We as citizens need to just rededicate ourselves to concentrating on issues that will unite us, help our country to realise its enormous potentials, be law abiding and pray for our leaders. “At this point, I enjoin all Nigerians to pray for our soldiers and other security agents who are battling to maintain peace in the North-east zone and other troubled parts of the country. We should pray to God to bless their efforts, protect them and give us victory.” Anambra State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) said it will take the state nearer to its desired destination in the New Year. A statement in Ogidi by the party’s Publicity Secretary, Okelo Madukaife, reads: “Our great party welcomes the good people of Anambra State to the Year 2020, a leap year that promises to leap-frog liberation into the populace, with all the happiness that comes with it. “Our party wishes the people good health happiness, peace and prosperity as we urge them to take their destiny into their hands by electing their local government officials. “We are sure that anything beyond 2020 for the restoration of these rights by those who hold it in oppression would be an assault on the people and wish that that should not happen.” Chief of the Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, urged personnel of the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) to march into the future with rugged determination, which they are known for. Abubakar expressed optimism that 2020 would be a landmark year for NAF. “We must, therefore, gear up to make the most of the possibilities for greater service delivery, while leveraging our collective resolve to surmount the inherent challenges. “I also enjoin all NAF personnel to march into the future with the rugged determination for which we are known. The Nigerian people deserve this and more from us. “We must, therefore, give our wholehearted commitment to the fight against all enemies of this great nation, remembering that in the race to add value to our society and secure our communities, there is no finishing line,” he said. Former Anambra State Governor Peter Obi blamed the slow pace of the nation’s progress on failure of leadership. “We must all, therefore, tell ourselves the truth that this country is dying gradually and all hands must be on deck in the New Year to redirect the ship of state away from the dyke that it’s headed,” he said He expressed concern about education and job creation through small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). General Overseer of House on the Rock Church, Pastor Paul Adefarasin, urged Nigerians to stop blaming the leaders for the nation’s woes. He spoke in a live broadcast at the church’s New Year service at the House on the Rock Citadel and Towers in Abuja. “The blame game is an act of irresponsibility and a demonstration of ignorance of accountability on the part of Nigerians. “Stop blaming the government and political parties because that’s the first symptom of irresponsibility on our part. “We go to the office and abuse the office of power and  become a community of blames. But they are not the problem because we are irresponsible. “It is time for churches to grow up and take responsibility for educational and societal development, as we have nearly 100 million people leaving under poverty because of mismanagement. “The church should become representatives of God in government,” he said. Catholic Archbishop of Lagos, Rev. Alfred Martins, said insurgent groups, like Boko Haram, Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) and other terror gangs, held Nigeria to ransom in 2019. He urged the Federal Government to intensify its counter-offensive to crush the groups and restore normalcy to end fear among citizens. Martins spoke at the celebration of the 53rd World Day of Peace at the Holy Cross Cathedral, Lagos. According to him, Nigeria’s security needs to be taken more seriously to crush Boko Haram, ISWAP, kidnappers and rogue herdsmen, who have made life unbearable for Nigerians. The cleric described as sad, unfortunate and barbaric, the recent report of the beheading of 11 Christians abducted by ISWAP. “Therefore, I plead with the Federal Government to put more decisive measures in place to curb the lingering cases of insecurity in the country in 2020. “It is important that the security architecture of the nation be reviewed from time to time, even if it means changing personalities. “So, I want them to focus a lot more on security as well as do a lot more in providing infrastructure necessary for growth,” he said. Diocese on the Niger of the Church of Nigeria Anglican Communion advised Nigerians to move into the New Year with boldness and committed plans ahead of 2020. The diocesan bishop, Dr. Owen Nwokolo, gave the advice yesterday in his New Year message.