The House of Representatives report of the Ad-hoc Committee to determine why the Warri, Port Harcourt, Onne, Calabar and Onitsha Ports complexes are not being put to maximal use has concluded its findings. In a 16-page report, the 17- member committee blamed the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) and the Nigerian Navy for not providing adequate security to vessels and cargoes going to the ports in the zone. The committee said it discovered that NIMASA has failed to provide adequate security to vessels despite collecting three per cent freight charge from every vessels that enters the nation’s waters. The report also alleged that the Navy collects $50,000 from every vessel, before escorting it to berth. “Sadly, the Committee discovered that the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) main responsibility is ensuring safe and secured shipping which is why three percent freight charge is collected on every vessel that enters Nigeria waterways. However, NIMASA has failed in this responsibility. The committee discovered that $50,000 is paid to the Navy before escorting vessels to its destination,” the report said. During their investigations, the Committee also discovered that the security situation along the Eastern shipping corridor (waterways) has become a major challenge to ship owners, shipping lines, and port operators; they said this is so worrisome that any ship on the route must carry what is termed “war insurance” or “War Risk Surcharge” and additional security. “The poor security situation prevalent in the Niger Delta area in recent years has spurred international shipping companies to place high risk rating when estimating freight charges to transport goods to the Eastern Ports higher than cost charged for shipments to Lagos.” for kidnapping, sea-robberies and piracy. The effect of these activities has given rise to high cargo freight charges. The difference in container freight from Port of Loading (POL) to Lagos and from Port of Loading to Rivers Ports is approximately $300 per TEU which is about N110,000.00 difference. Ship Owners therefore become very apprehensive when approached by Shippers to hire their vessels to Eastern Ports. “Vessels going to the Eastern Ports move in convoy, and are alleged to use private security, (which is the responsibility of the Nigerian Navy), Armed Marine Police or the option of the vessel stopping at Lagos to board armed guards for the vessel which is not only expensive but time consuming. This perception by ship owners that the area is still insecure and therefore, has continued to utilise the Lagos ports as against other ports in the country,” the report said.