Kolade Adeyemi, Kano  Tragedy struck in the ancient city on wednesday, when a 28-year old Rabi Musa, mother of six, on Wednesday died after she reportedly set herself ablaze in Kano State. The tragic incident occurred at Sabuwar Unguwa, Gayawa ward of Ungoggo Local Government area of the state. Late Rabi’s death, according to a neighbour, who did not want her name in print, might not be unconnected with the protracted crisis she was having with her co-wife, who was taken as a second wife by her husband about 6 months ago. Narrating the incident, the neighbour said late Rabi, who reportedly died with pregnancy, was said to have set herself ablaze when her husband, Badamasi Sufyan went out to a nearby mosque for morning prayer. According to her, when the husband returned home, he found his wife in flame and rushed outside to cry for help. “As good Samaritans bumped into the house to rescue the woman, she was already burnt beyond recognition. “We all gathered here mourning until Police arrived and evacuated the charred body of the deceased in a rice sack for burial. It is a horrific incident that left all of us devastated. “Most of the people in this neighbourhood are aware of Rabi’s extreme jealous. She has been in crisis with her co-wife since her marriage about six months ago. That is what prompted the husband to separate them and relocated late Rabi to this area. I’m not certain, but this incident might not be unconnected with that jealousy,” the neighbour said. When contacted, the Kano State Police Public Relations Officer, Abdullahi Haruna Kiyawa confirmed the incident that the command received the information of a fire outbreak in Gayawa area at about 7 am. He added that information at their disposal revealed that the fire went on when Sufyanu went to mosque for morning prayer, but returned home to see his house on fire and his wife burnt beyond recognition. The PPRO said the Police officers on ground evacuated the deceased body to Murtala Muhammad Hospital and afterwards, handed it over to her family. Haruna, a Deputy Superintendent of Police, also disclosed that the Commissioner of Police, Habu Sani has ordered for discreet investigation to unravel the mystery behind the death of the woman.