Our Reporter  Dubai-based Nigerian entertainment executive/promoter Lanre Typical has given his verdict of the Nigerian music scene in 2019. According to the show promoter born Azeez Olanrewaju Adenekan, Nigerian music really showed up in 2019 but nonetheless some artistes had a better outing than others. “Talking about the Nigerian best artistes of 2019, I think my list is endless but I want to give props to every Nigerian artiste making us proud both home and internationally,” he said. “However Burna Boy, Zlatan, Naira Marley, Wizkid and Davido extremely made us proud in 2019. These five artistes put Nigeria on the world map that any others.” Lanre Typical brings African artistes for the nightlife experiences to Africans based in Dubai and the Gulf region. The computer science graduate of Lagos State University reminisced how he was able to sell Nigerian music to the United Arab Emirate audience. “I came to Dubai for vacation and decided to reside here after seeing so many opportunities,” he said. “Nigerian entertainment wasn’t so strong when I came to Dubai about seven years ago. I visited the first club where Nigerians hang out and the music wasn’t good, so I met with the manager and gave him a couple of advice on how to make it better. Then I was called by the club management the same week for a meeting. After taking my advice, which worked for them, they told me they would like to work with me and I accepted and that’s how it all started. They were paying me weekly for publicity and promotions, which was a good pay and I felt there’s more to gain than lose, so I decided to stay.  “Afrobeats is one of the biggest genres in the world right now. It’s loved by all and now widely accepted. All clubs rock to it here in Dubai. Every club has or wants an Afrobeat night which they were not proud of few years back. Afrobeats has taken over all clubs in Dubai. I can remember few years back, Nigerian music was accepted by a selected few, but today it has been accepted by everyone. I feel if there is consistency it will remain in the mainstream for a long time to come.” In 2019, Lanre Typical, who is also the CEO of TypicalNaija.ng, a blog known for fashion and music distribution, brought over 30 Nigerian artistes to Dubai. On the list were Zlatan, 9ice, Peruzzi, Harrysong, Slimcase, Reminisce, Qdot and others. His exploits earned him Scream All The Way’s Showbiz Promoter of the Year award as well as MAYA Awards Africa’s Show Promoter of the Year Award in 2019.