Dear Reader, you are welcome to another edition of this teaching series for the month. I have shown you some of God’s desires for your marriage which entails purity and God’s provision of favour and abundance for your home. Today, I shall be exploring the topic: Marriage Is for Better Living. Marriage was instituted for better living for mankind. It is not to bring hurts or constitute a hindrance. If you want your home and marriage to exhibit a better living, God must be at the centre of your heart and home. You have to be open to His Words and follow His instructions. The Bible says: And it shall come to pass, if thou shalt hearken diligently unto the voice of the Lord thy God, to observe and to do all his commandments which I command thee this day, that the Lord thy God will set thee on high above all nations of the earth: And all these blessings shall come on thee, and overtake thee, if thou shalt hearken unto the voice of the Lord thy God (Deuteronomy 28:1-2). God made man with a desire to please and follow His will as obtainable from scriptures. Many people want to eat the fruit of a happy and glorious home, but not many are willing to be obedient to the terms of the covenant. Without obedience, the fruit of a good home cannot be obtained. The Bible says: If ye be willing and obedient, ye shall eat the good of the land: (Isaiah 1:19) A good home is a possibility, but only those who are ready to obey the terms of the covenant can have access to it. There are some obedient people that are presently eating the fruit of a good, fulfilled marriage. You too can join them if you wish; God is no respecter of persons. Marriage is meant to be sweet, enjoyable and failure-proof. However, to enjoy this, God must be at the centre of your home. Family life originated from the Lord, so He alone can give you the kind of experience He has ordained for you in marriage. Countless people are having a near death experience in their family today. Some have had many wives and are still dissatisfied. Others are separated, while some live a cat and mouse life, wishing that someone would deliver them from it. Success in marriage is not by luck, you have to programme yourself for the type of success you desire. As a born again child of God, enjoying a better family life is your birthright. It is God’s will and desire for you to enjoy an exciting marriage, home, life and family.  So, apart from making God the centre of your family, you must also tell yourself continuously that family life is meant for better living and you must obtain this better living in your home. It is meant to build you and not break you. The Bible says: Two are better than one… (Ecclesiastes 4:9). Family life was created to help man and not hinder him; it is not meant to make life worse. If that is what you have been seeing in homes around you and may be yours, I declare to you that it is not what God desires for you. Whether you are a father, mother, husband, wife, child or relation, say boldly with sincerity from your heart that you are a help to others in the home. Marriage is meant to bring you satisfaction. You should liken yourself to a tree, which could serve several purposes such as being converted into paper, firewood, rubber and used to build a house etc. If you build your depth in marriage and profitably tap from the resources therein, you become a man and woman of many parts; useful in many areas of life. Don’t accept less than what God has purposed for you. Don’t allow the devil to cheat you into believing that a better family life and marriage are not for you to enjoy. Your family can still stand out; your situation can still change. The breath of life can still find its way into your family, if you will co-operate with God. One way to enjoy the better living ordained for your marriage is to discover your God-ordained place in the home and operate within your perimeter. As a wife/mother, God has placed you beside that man and those children, so you can help them. As a husband/father, God has placed you beside that woman and children, so you can help them, be an example to them and bring them up in the right way. It is not the teachers’ responsibility to train your children. Children, God put you in that family to be a blessing (Psalm 127:3). Are you a source of pleasure or pain to your family? If you are about getting married, are you ready to be a help to your mate? Or are you just looking for someone to service your needs? If you are not ready to be a helper, retrace your steps. To be a help transcends all areas of life. If one party is faltering, the other needs to lift him or her up. The Bible says: For if they fall, the one will lift up his fellow… (Ecclesiastes 4:10). No matter how much your success, your connection or family members will also need to succeed. If you ignore their progress, you may eventually be faced with mending their failures. You are also meant to be a financial helper to your family. Money has divided many families. Don’t let it bring division into yours. Ensure that members of your family stand as helpers of one another in all aspects of life. However, being a helper comes with grace, which can be received when you are born again. To be born again means accepting Jesus as Lord and personal Saviour of your life. You can do this by saying this prayer in faith: Dear Lord Jesus Christ, I come to You today. I am a sinner. Forgive me my sins and cleanse me with Your Blood. I accept You as my Lord and personal Saviour. Make me a child of God today. Thank You for delivering me from sin and satan to serve the living God and thank You for accepting me into Your Kingdom. Congratulations! If you prayed this simple prayer of faith with me, you are now born again and a child of God. He loves you and will never leave you. Read your Bible daily, obey God’s Word and seek Christian fellowship (John 14:21). With this, you are guaranteed all-round rest and peace in Jesus’ Name! Call or write to share your testimonies with me through contact@faithoyedepo.org, 07026385437 OR 08141320204. For more insight, these books authored by me are available at the Dominion Bookstores in all Living Faith Churches and other leading Christian bookstores: Marriage Covenant, Making Marriage Work, Building A Successful Home and Success in Marriage (Co-Authored).