THE Sultan of Sokoto Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar III, on Monday urged all political gladiators in the state to unite for the benefit of the entire people of the state. A statement by the Special Adviser to Governor Aminu Tambuwal, Malam Muhammad Bello, said that Abubakar made the appeal when he received Tambuwal during a courtesy visit to the Sultan in Sokoto. According to the monarch, it is high time for the political gladiators to set aside their differences and work together to achieve maximum benefit for the people of the state. “There has never been a time in the history of our state that contentious politics almost crippled it like this one that was laid to rest by the Supreme Court. “As such we appeal for peace to continue to rein as it had been known for in the seat of the Caliphate,” he urged. He further admonished all leaders in the state that whatever the situation, they remain servants of the people. “All the people of the state are one for eternity. Power belongs to Allah. Anyone who gets it should be magnanimous and he who loses must not drag unnecessarily.” He assured all parties that the Caliphate is home to all, adding that the Sultanate will continue to give advice, solicited or otherwise to all the leaders in the state. He also drew attention to the fact that “the Supreme Court is not the final arbiter of all cases. Allah’s arbitration judgment is final and we should all strive to gain His favor,” Bello quoted the Sultan. According to the statement, Tambuwal renewed his call on the people of the state to remain united in pursuance of the collective good of all. The governor reaffirmed his administration’s commitment to the Caliphate, which he said has never wavered in its support for his government. He specifically harped on the Sultan’s dexterity in mobilising the populace to pray for peace and good governance at all times. He assured that the government will still continue to place premium on societal reorientation, investment in education, health and every developmental stride possible. Tambuwal asked all the people of the state, irrespective of party affiliation, to come and work closely with the government for further development of the state.