From Adekunle Jimoh, Ilorin  The seemingly irreconcilable differences between Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq and some members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) will soon be over, a party chieftain, Alhaji Adebayo Azeez, has said. Azeez, who is an elder of APC, added that some party members are aggrieved at the government. The APC chieftain told reporters in Ilorin, the state capital, that “something is being done to bring all aggrieved parties together. You know there is nothing one can do with offending one or two people but that will soon be over. Even God, our creator has enemies. The governor will soon invite all those aggrieved to a round table peace talk. Something is underway. “APC members are disenchanted as they are yet to get anything from the government. “I am very close to Minister of Information and Culture Lai Mohammed and others, I will soon get across to him to intervene by appealing to APC members from his senatorial district so that the Kwara South APC will be won over.” On the performance of the APC government, the businessman cum politician said: “I always tell our people not to be in a hurry; that they should be patient with Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq on the dividends of democracy. The last two administrations were there for 16 year but there is nothing to show for it. But this God-sent governor is ready to work, ready to help and ready to put everything in place for the betterment of Kwarans. “Things have been so bad in the last 16 years to put them together, or to rebuild what we have lost. Some have even accused the governor of being too slow but I let them know the man has to take his time to right the wrongs of almost two decades. He added: “There was a time he invited APC elders explaining to them why he is yet to show the way out for some staff he inherited from the past administration in the state. I am urging our members to let the governor put things in order. In the last seven months he mounted the saddle, we have seen changes in water supply to the state capital and other towns and cities; we have seen changes in infrastructural development. “Unlike before when we have proliferation of abandoned projects spread across the nooks and crannies of the state. We could see what the late Governor Mohammed Lawal did in four years, but I cannot point to anything the last two administrations did for 16 years they were in office.” 