Chris Oji, Enugu  If the prophesy of fiery Enugu priest, Rev Fr Ejike Mbaka is anything to go by, the job of Governor Emeka Ihedioha is then under threat. Mbaka had at his 2019 Passover ministration made a shocking prophesy that the governorship candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2019 in Imo state, Hope Uzodinma would take over the mantle of governance in the state. The incumbent governor of the state, Emeka Ihedioha, is of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Mbaka, who said he did not know the manner which the revelation would manifest, however maintained that “no prophesy has ever been declared on this prayer ground without coming to pass”. He advised those who may find the message unpalatable not to come after him, warning that such action would attract the wrath of the Holy Spirit upon such individuals. The shocking declaration, which the priest dropped as a prelude to the full piece of his 2020 prediction, struck the mammoth worshippers at the popular Enugu adoration ground, including the Minister of State for Mines and Solid Minerals, Dr Uche Ogar, who also attended the programme with his wife. In his words: “Many things are going to happen in Nigeria this 2020 that will shock countrymen and countrywomen; but all would be to God’s glory. “In spite of all that would happen this 2020, there is hope. “In Imo State, there is hope. Hope, hope, hope … hope in Imo State! “Imo people have suffered (but) God is raising a new hope that would be an agent of salvation for them. “He’s coming with a new flag to restore the dignity of that noble land. A new leadership that will break barriers and there would be joy in the land of Imo. “Lift your candles as I bless Hope Uzodinma; and I empower him to, spiritually, to take over. How, I do not know. “Please, if you heard that there would be a new government in Imo and you don’t like the message; if I say Hope, you can say hopeless but do not fight me. “I am saying this in respect of those who may want to come after me because of the message. If you do that, the God of Moses, Elijah and Elisha will deal with you. I am only a messenger of God”.