Cross River State-based entrepreneur, Emmanuel Ntiti, is up on the entrepreneurship ladder, having set up a thriving business of fabricating durable machines for agro entrepreneurs and farmers, DANIEL ESSIET reports.  Cross River State-based entrepreneur, Emmanuel Ntiti, fabricates a range of farm machinery for industrial use. His agricultural background helped him to identify the various problems that grassroots farmers face. A Senior Technical Instructor at the Government Technical School, Calabar, Ntiti has developed a range of machines for small scale business owners. These include machines for de-stoning, harvesting, threshing, milling, peeling and polishing machines to process maize, potatoes, groundnuts, rice, yam and cassava. He started small with his savings. The early days weren’t easy. He designed and produced  machines for processing cassava into ethanol. This is good news for farmers and producers  who cannot afford these machines. Ntiti said his machines break waste biomass into ethanol, thereby reducing costs through savings on maintenance, production time and capital expenditures, for farmers using cassava. The equipment, made of iron and steel, has a distillation system. Ntiti is ready to deploy the technology to parts of the country, especially rural areas where cassava is produced. He said his dream is to serve the farming community by providing innovative techniques to reduce drudgery. One of his machines is the cassava grater, which can process about 800 kilogrammes of cassava per hour. This has assisted farmers to reduce the time spent on the pressed cassava before it is turned to garri. He also fabricated a manual palm kernel oil (PKO) expeller. The machine can produce a drum of PKO in eight hours. It processes the oil palm fruit from its fibre, and shell. It processes the oil into fatty alcohols. Ntiti is empowering Nigerians to make briquettes out of charcoal dust, solve fuel problem, reduce poverty, unemployment and tackle poor waste management. To him, producing charcoal requires wood, which means an increase in deforestation and stress on ecosystems. Burning wood to charcoal leads to emission of large amount of Carbon Dioxide (CO2). To address this, he has been looking for an alternative source of fuel after realising that firewood contributes to the depletion of forests. He saw a business opportunity in briquettes and started researching the possibilities of making them to save the forest and create opportunities for Nigerians to make money. At the moment, he makes environmentally-friendly charcoal briquettes from wastepaper, plants and agricultural wastes that are combustible, including grass, straw, water hyacinths, maize and rice husks, peanut shells and potato and banana peels. They burn longer than wood and the coal are cheaper, safer and cleaner to cook with. The investment is also minimal for small producers and has high returns. According to Ntiti, briquettes have a high growth potential in the market with lot of businesses still relying on wood and diesel for fuel. The other advantage, he said, is international funding coming for energy friendly businesses, using options, such as  briquette for e-processing. Ntiti’s mission is to support farmers by providing them with better and cheaper machinery than the imported models. He wants to partner cooperatives to establish Agro-processing centre (APC) to process the grains in the villages to enhance farmers’ income. He believes the establishment of such centres at the farm gates will help in getting quality products, reducing post-harvest losses, employment to rural youth and achieve diversification in agriculture besides improving the economic and social status of   farmers. 