Osun State Governor Adegboyega Oyetola and All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu have commended the ruling party’s pioneer Interim National Chairman Chief Bisi Akande for his contributions to national development. They described the one-time Osun State governor, who turns 81 today, as a leader par excellence. The duo spoke in separate tributes by their spokesmen Imaili Omipidan (for Oyetola) and Tunde Rahman (for Tinubu) Tinubu’s tribute titled: “Asiwaju Tinubu praises Akande for his contributions to Nigeria,” was released by his Media Office in Lagos. In the tribute, the APC chieftain hailed Chief Akande on his 81st birthday and commended him for his contributions to the country and to the progressives’ family. Tinubu described Akande as a highly-principled and incorruptible leader who always stood as a father-figure and mentor to many younger politicians across the country, particularly in the Southwest. Asiwaju Tinubu said: “I congratulate Chief Bisi Akande on his 81st birthday and commend him for his contributions to Nigeria and to the progressives. “Chief Akande is an unwavering progressive politician. Since he enlisted in the Action Group in the First Republic, professing progressivism and following in the ideals of late Chief Obafemi Awolowo, he has not looked back. “He is one of the few true associates of the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo and Chief Bola Ige around today. Like them, he devoted his public life to the ideals and practices that can engender a truly democratic and egalitarian society. “A highly-principled leader, Chief Akande always stands as a father figure and mentor to many younger politicians across the country particularly in the South-west. Because of his traits as an exemplary leader and mentor, many call him Baba awon omo ke ke ke, meaning the political father of the younger ones. “He has shown that one can be successful in politics by being kind to all and making concern for the common person and for a just society one’s guiding vision. “For us in APC, Chief Akande has been a blessing. He is a founding father of the APC and helped lay a solid foundation for the party. APC owes Baba a debt of gratitude for the exceptional leadership he demonstrated while managing the party as its Interim Chairman. He instilled discipline, transparency and accountability. Under him, internal democracy flourished. “Baba is a highly perspective and thoughtful leader. He has proved invaluable in serving humanity and his fatherland. What he gave to his state, to the Yoruba race, he also gave to his country: he gave his best. “Happy 81st birthday to Baba. My prayer is that God Almighty grant him many more years so that he can continue to help this nation. May he continue to stand forth as an example to young leaders and may his wise counsel and civic virtue help guide and shape this nation.” Governor Oyetola described Akande as a bridge between the old and new Nigeria. Oyetola said Akande “is committed to the truth, the people and good governance in Osun and other parts of Nigeria”. Congratulating Akande on his birthday anniversary, the governor said: “The elder statesman is a worthy mentor to the new generation, whom he (Akande) considers the strength and hope of the Nigeria that he is toiling for. “In a nation where his fellow octogenarians have retired from public service to the waiting arms of their grandchildren and great-grandchildren, Baba Akande still burns the midnight oil to brainstorm on the future of Nigeria, armed with his high mental acumen and disarming smile. “It is obvious that God has been gracious to Baba Akande to be super active in old age because there is so much work to be done. We cannot thank God enough for His mercy and graciousness. “Baba Akande is a detribalised Nigerian who sees the country’s linguistic, ethnic and religious diversity as the nation’s greatest strength where fifth columnists capitalise on to tear the nation apart. And he is never tired to mend the fences broken by political pretenders, never tired to offer his voice of reason. “Baba, we thank you for your service and sacrifice for the State of Osun and its people and Nigeria. As progressives and sons and your friends, we are all products of your enduring service and achievements. “As you turn 81, I pray that Allah will continue to grant you the will and ability to continue with the good works you have been doing for humanity. “On behalf of the government and the good people of the State of Osun, I join other well-meaning Nigerians to celebrate the patriarch of the progressives’ family, the encyclopedia of the progressives family, a distinguished son and father of the State of Osun and elder statesman, Baba Adebisi Abdulkareem Akande, on his 81st birthday anniversary. “May Allah continue to grant you good health, wisdom and long life to join the lovers of Nigeria to take it to the Next Level.”