In the past couple of weeks, some major locations and states across the country have suffered from fire outbreaks and explosions which have also led to loss of lives and property. Sadly, many of the burnt materials/property cannot be recovered and many people affected are traumatized, devastated and depressed about these unfortunate situations. The substantial increase in fire fatalities and other fire related incidents reported across the country is indeed very heart-rending and saddening. This is therefore sending a strong message and signal to citizens to be very conscious and vigilant, and for the relevant government agencies to be proactive especially in this dry and dusty Harmattan season. The gory tales of these incessant fire outbreaks across some states in Nigeria should be a source of huge concern for the relevant government agencies and state governments. State governments must see the need for proactive measures to be put in place to avert the menace in the country during this season. Undoubtedly, more harsh conditions and adverse weather effect will certainly surface as the harmattan season bites harder. Nigerians must remain cautious, careful and vigilant especially adhering to precautionary measures in order to avoid deadly fire occurrences. Recall that during the ember months in 2019, it was reported in the news that five market fires occurred. Two occurred in Onitsha, while there was one in Benin City and two happened at the central hub of Lagos Island. Just few days into the new year, so many fire outbreaks and explosions have been recorded ranging from tanker explosions to market inferno and other unfortunate scenarios. This chain of sad occurrences concerning these fire disasters has left many devastated. Market women, shop owners, traders have lost goods worth billions of naira across this country. Similarly, many families have also lost their loved ones and valuable properties. The causes of fire outbreaks are not somewhat strange, they are preventable hence the need to checkmate them at the early stage by engaging in precautionary measures. Some of the causes include, illegal storage of petrol, careless smoking and disposal of cigarette, illegal wiring and socket connection, outdated cables etc. It should be of note that the primary responsibility of government is the protection and security of lives and property of its citizens; hence the government must intensify its efforts of in safeguarding them through a deliberate policy implementation and proper strengthening of the Nigerian fire service in order to prevent and reduce the continuous rise in fire outbreaks nationwide. Nigeria Fire Service should address its problem of poor responsiveness to fire occurrences and be prompt when there are cases of emergencies. Rather than arriving late to a fire scene, our fire services should be on red alert at this particular time. Their alertness must also be supported with good equipment and materials.