All Saints University School of Medicine Dominica is located in Commonwealth of Dominica, a small island across the Caribbean.  In this interview with ADEGUNLE OLUGBAMILA, the institution’s Admission Officer and African Representative Ms Kemi Amusan, says lots of goodies awaits Nigerian students desirous of studying either Medicine or Nursing , which are the two disciplines the institution offers.  Could we have a brief introduction? I’m Ms. Kemi Amusan.  I am also the President of the Nigerian Canadian Association in Greater Toronto Area, in Ontario, Canada which in other words, is the African representative of All Saints University School of Medicine, DOMINICA.. I am the admission officer. The university offers two courses-Medicine and Nursing. Generally, how would you rate the performance of Nigerian undergraduates in Canada? It’s neither here nor there depending on what you are looking for. Some undergraduate students from Nigeria are able to get jobs right away. In the same vein, some professionals like doctors, nurses etc must be licensed in Canada to be able to practise. They fall under the category of International Medical Graduates (IMGs) and they have to be licensed by the Medical Council of Canada (MCC), or the United States Medical Licensing Exams (USMLE) should they intend to practise in the United States of America later on. Is there any similarity between the system of education between Nigeria and the Commonwealth of Dominica? The system of education in Commonwealth of Dominica and Nigeria is similar. They are both English-speaking, Commonwealth countries. What do Nigerian students stand to gain by enrolling in your university? One, All Saints University, School of Medicine, DOMINICA is accredited. Second, it is fast paced. It only takes four years for a student who already has a B.Sc degree in a science-related course and less than five years for a high school graduate due to intensive nature of the courses. There is also the advantage of doing a part of the training in the United States of America. It is called Clinical Rotation. The tuition is also affordable. Besides, Nigerians students are exposed to multicultural environment that makes them blend in right away. What are some of your facilities that are endearing to students? We are endowed with the state-of-the-art equipment comparable to what obtains in Canadian and US medical schools. We also have simulation technologies. Could you mention some of the associations your university is affiliated to? We are affiliated to the World Directory of Medical Schools; World Health Organisation (WHO); Association of Commonwealth Universities; Medical Council of Canada and Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates(ECFMG). We have heard stories of mushroom universities in the diaspora. How genuine is yours and how valid are your certificates? All Saints University, School of Medicine in DOMINICA is accredited by the ACCM (Accreditation Commission on Colleges of Medicine) Ireland. The university is also recognised by the Medical Council  for Colleges of Medicine of Canada, General Medical Council (GMC) of the United Kingdom, Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria (MDCN), as well as the government of Dominica. What do students desirous of admission in the university need to do? All a prospective student needs is to get in touch me on my personal email.  With candidate’s submission of requirement, I can get such candidate admission within 24 hours. Besides, also in my personal capacity, I  also offer counsel to student desirous of securing scholarships in the university And what assistance do you give them especially in the area of perfecting their travel documents? We process their visas fully. They have nothing to worry about. Do you actually get enough students from diaspora? Most of our students are actually international students. We have provision for students coming from Canada and the United States especially. All Saints University is recognised by the various governments prompting ability for students to get students loan to pay their fees and living expenses. Are there loan facilities and other opportunities for Nigerian students studying in your university? Yes. Nigerian Students from Canada are able to get Canada Student loans from government of Canada such as the Ontario Student Assiostant Programe (OSAP). Students from USA also get students loans to study in our university. Also, we have sponsorships from Niger Delta Commission and some state governments in Nigeria. Being an island, what are their peculiar opportunities available students studying there? Dominica is a small close-knitted Island. This enables students to concentrate on their studies without distractions. As you know, Medicine and Nursing are intensive courses that need concentrations on the parts of the students. Many parents are happy at the serene, peaceful, home-like environment that enables students finish their courses on time. What kind of incentives does the government of Dominica offer Nigeria and other students studying there? The government is continuously encouraging international students to come to the country as a means of showcasing their beautiful Island and beautiful people to the world. There is emphasis on security. This makes the parents relaxed knowing full well their wards are in good hands. The Accreditation Commission on Colleges of Medicine (ACCM), Ireland has accredited Doctor of Medicine (MD) degree programs of All Saints University School of Medicine, Dominica. This was effective since May 2019. Interestingly, All Saints University, Dominica represents the medical school with the most affordable tuition for accredited MD degree programs in the Caribbean.  Your institution recently acquired American University of St Vincent. What inspired the initiative? It is because American University of St Vincent was declining and having a bad review. It was almost closed down. We acquired it over a few months ago. We are going through the accreditation process as we speak. However, being under the same management with All Saints University St Dominica, we are able to prepare students for international certification as needed under same management.  What provisions have you in terms of accommodation? Accommodation is guaranteed as practised worldwide. International students are responsible for their own accommodation. However, the institution offers a high degree of support in referral of students to appropriate buildings on the island. As you may be aware, it is a small island which makes it easy for students to concentrate on their studies as distractions are minimal. 