By Korede Yishau  A lot of good things will happen in Nigeria this year. From this first quarter, they will start manifesting and by the last quarter, we will see them fully blossom. These good things will not happen by power or might; all glory will be to our men of power who are quarrelling. From Bayelsa to Rivers to Edo to Kogi to Abuja and others, the fights are raging. Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki and his predecessor, All Progressives Congress (APC) National Chairman Adams Oshiomhole, are engaged in serious ‘roforofo’ fight. Their aides have joined in. Stones, cudgels and even guns have boomed. Insults have been traded. There are almost no new insults to throw again, thus old ones are re-traded. This is recycling at its best! And it is all in the interest of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. It all blew open with the proclamation of the House of Assembly and the elbowing out of Oshiomhole’s men. Oshiomhole, Obaseki said, came to him, asking that they join forces to fight and end the practice of godfatherism in the state. The partnership, he added, helped them in changing the narrative of development in the state. At the time, Oshiomhole, said the governor, believed godfatherism was bad. “He said let the people lead but today he wants to lead the people, against their interest,” the governor claimed. But Oshiomhole and his supporters counter that Obaseki is subjecting democracy to violence and tending towards autocracy. Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike and outgoing Bayelsa State Governor Seriake Dickson have, for the good of Nigerians, thrown decorum to the wind. In a related development, Dickson is also tackling former President Goodluck Jonathan. At the centre of this triangle is Dickson’s inability to choose his successor. Oshiomhole’s APC won the governorship election. David Lyon is going to take over from Dickson and not his preferred Senator Douye Diri. Dickson believes Jonathan and Wike have a hand in the defeat. Dickson’s anger remains fresh, so evergreen that even when there was an attack on soldiers in a gunboat not far from Jonathan’s Otuoke home, the governor did not deem it fit to mention the ex-president’s name in his statement condemning the attack. For Wike, who does not suffer fools gladly, Dickson should quit the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The Rivers governor even told the leadership of the party not to mediate. The time for such, he declared, was over. The Soku oil wells, which the court has awarded Rivers, have helped to fuel the quarrel. It will not end anytime soon. But, it will all turn out in the interest of our nation as you will soon find out. In Kogi, Senator Dino Melaye, though defeated, is not bowed. Every day he takes the battle to the doorstep of Governor Yahaya Bello, who some mischief makers call Yeye Bello. Bello, a confirmed boxer, returns punch for punch. Like an average Nigerian, my first reaction about all these elephants fighting is that we, the grass, will suffer for it. I felt the fights were for selfish reasons. I felt to hell with them all. I wondered if we were cursed as a people to have leaders who prioritise themselves over us. I was angry. But my anger subsided when my spiritual eyes open and I begin to see well-planned streets, with streetlights and walkways made of interlocking stones and medians glittering with well-cut stones. I also see covered drainages in the cities and towns and many even serve as the walkways. Only then did I realise that these men are fighting for us and as a result of their fights Nigeria will boast of good roads. Potholes will become a thing of the past. We will overcome the where-are-you-from challenge. The area or state where you are born will have nothing to do with where you are allowed to legally claim. If you are born and bred in Lagos, but your parents are from Edo, you will be free to claim Lagos. Because of the far-sightedness of these leaders, Nigerians will no longer be beggars. The era of begging our governments to give us good leadership will come to an end. Our health institutions will cease being in shambles. Our education will drop crutches and walk freely.  Our roads will part ways with being death traps. We will get every sector of our national life right. Gone will be us being a work in progress this sixtieth year after Independence. Because of these men of vision, one of three Nigerians will not again live in poverty, meaning thirty-two per cent of our population will break the poverty chain. Thirty-seven per cent of children, who still suffer from malnutrition, will break free. Thanks to Obaseki, Oshiomhole, Wike and Dickson, and others pummelling one another, about half of Nigerians, who use unsafe or unimproved sanitation, will sing a better song. Nigeria will exit its 43rd position on the list of sustainable development goal index. What else but praise do these men deserve for leading fights that will make poverty recline and stop the prediction that by 2050, more than 40 per cent of Nigeria will still be under poverty’s boot? The situation now where we have the second-highest number of deaths of children under the age of five will be consigned to the dustbin of history. All glory to these men fighting all over the country. We also have them to thank for the fact that soon and very soon our country will stop crawling and start running. Our political class will truly be better than the military. Many of the players on the political scene who are yet to be cured of the military hang-over will receive their healing. They will bid a garrison mentality bye. Our democracy will cease being one without democrats. Selfish interests will no longer masquerade as national interests. The good of one will no longer be sold as the good of all. All thanks to our fighting leaders. What’s more? On account of these men’s squabbles, this time next year we will all kneel and thank God for these leaders whose ‘roforofo’ fight has ensured an end to kidnapping, insurgency, corruption, fraud and other vices that have left our country prostrate since birth. My final take: No one should beg Obaseki to settle with Oshiomhole; neither should anyone mediate between Dickson and Wike. It will be against predictions 2020 to settle Bello and Melaye because their fight and others are the tonic and aspirin that will free our nation from its afflictions.