By Dr A.A Tijani Confessions better a person. Let me reiterate for the last time that I am not a politician. It is necessary to state this because of innuendo that might follow this piece. In my journey as a medical doctor and a writer for a decade now, I have met ten of thousands of patients. Oftentimes I meet couple who want a baby, a chronically ill who want reassurance and college girls with complication of self abortion. All these people want there needs to be met; a kid, a reassurance, a salvage. So few days ago I placed a call to the commissioner of health in Osun State. I enquired about how is ministry is meeting patients’ needs. The ministry of health is concerned with coordinating, supervising and regulating the health sector in the state for quality delivery of services to the general public. Prio to the emergence of Governor Gboyega Oyeyola, posing challenges in health sector in the state are numerous from convenience of access to healthcare services to lack of drugs in public health centres. After our conversation that lasted about 30minutes I made a resolution that there is no gainsaying that Governor of the state of Osun, Mr Adegboyega Oyetola has made health the flagship of his administration, to this end and upon assumption of office, Mr Governor set up Osun Revitilisation and Renovation Committee to holistically revamp health in Osun. Consequent upon that, he flagged off renovation of General Hospitals in towns in the state. Osun has over 1000 public health centres, perhaps the largest in Nigeria however almost all in bad shape before this present government. He commenced renovation of about 400 PHC, one in each political ward. He then proceeded in purchasing medications worth over #200M and modern equipment. It is interesting to learn that doctors and other health workers have now been mobilised in the standard salary scale with full salary. Top-notch is when my teacher and mentor, a fine surgeon Dr Afolayan(Consultant Urologist) told me they were able to perform about 400 major and minor surgeries in two days to mark Oyetola’s one year in office. I then with no regret declare State of Osun my State of health of year 2019. Kudos! Tijani (MD) is of Dept. of Family Medicine, FMC Bida and Editor in Chief Brainiac Column.