 WHILE we appreciated the wild and crazy fashion trends of 2019, 2020 is to expect the unexpected! Classiness and style are the words that describe the dazzling range of fashion merchandise that rocked last year! And keeping in tune with the changing styles and fads has been the essential features. The start of a New Year does not mean that the New Year fashion and trend will be all completely new. Although, there will be those distinctly new elements and those distinctly new themes, a lot of the clothing and accessories we will be wearing in the first few month of 2020 will be influenced by the coolest fashion trends recently spotted at the various fashion weeks of 2019. It’s time to get inspired by the best street style from classic pieces with an updated twist to fresh tailoring! 2020 is certain to be an eventful year fashion-wise. First, we should expect designers to be more daring in 2020. This new spirit is going to be driven by the rise in the demand for trendy off-the-rack and bespoke fashion accessories. Going forward, we expect to see Bermuda skirts, shorts, trousers and jackets come in single bold and bright hues or be mixed up with softer shades;  a serious infusion of African prints and flurry fabric For 2020, the options of what to keep are manly: you simply need to know how to give those key trend pieces from last year a 2020 refresh. Top trends that are coming your way in 2020! Puffy sleeves-Voluminous and dramatic sleeves will reign on and off the runways. Wear blouse/top with roomy sleeves with jeans for something classy or pair with a skirt for office runs. *LBD-Little Black Dresses (LBD) are chic and sexy at the same time. *Leather -Leather blazers are having a moment!  You need a leather jacket or skirt with a high slit to prep up the look. *Loosed trousers pants – loosed pants will get more stylish (Loosed trousers pants). The trouser pants will be back in a big way in 2020 *Pleats-Pleats came in hot all through last year! *Fluffy dresses- voluminous and loose-fit dresses *Classic jacket-One black classic jacket is perfect for all facets of life *Floral, animal and pastel prints will surely come back with a bang. And snakeskin print is the new leopard print. Buttercup yellow, banana yellow, pink, red, navy blue, onion etc-There are so many hues to stock up on in 2020 – they are shade of colours one doesn’t want to miss and they are hues that will brighten up any day. Jumpsuit -Your best bet are jumpsuits that can be dressed up or down! *Polka dots in diverse hues – it’s a classic look/style that will be around forever! *Nude (Two coloured dresses) – Pastels had a big moment on and off the run way! *Denim Skirt (midi and maxi skirt) – Maxi skirt – If you are looking for a work-appropriate skirt, go for a maxi skirt. Rock it with a tucked in blouse or even your plain white tee. *Mesh, chord and lace fabric dresses gained more popularity both on the runway and off the stage. So, they are going to be more visible in 2020. *Handbags will certainly get bigger and clutch purses will get trendier and lsmaller in width. *Craze for embellished accessories: Like it was the case last year, 2020 is going to be year where almost all fashion stuff and home decor items will be embellished with colourful beads, stones, sequins, metals and beads. *Like it was last year, 2020 is going to be another year of tiny waist cincher (belts). *LBD, one-shoulder, strapless dress will surely be visible. *Heelless wedge, pumps, embellished sandals/slippers, ballets, clog, ankle boots. While trainers, canvass and fewer loafers are also something to look out for. *For women’s evening wear, puzzle-style dresses as well as those with darker and bigger floral patterns will also emerge. Also, dresses with lower backs may be more pronounced for that sexier look. *Men fashion will veer towards the adventurous side.