By Collins Nweze  President Muhammadu Buhari has felicitated with the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, FirstBank Limited, Dr Adesola Adeduntan, on his award of Distinguished Alumnus of the Year by Cranfield School of Management, United Kingdom. Buhari’s congratulatory message was contained in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, in Abuja on Wednesday. According to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), the president said the award was a vote of confidence on Nigerian professionals, many of who rank among the best in the world. “The fact that Cranfield School of Management is giving Adeduntan the award because ‘he exemplifies the values of the school’ and serves as ‘role model to students and potential students’, is an endorsement that should make every Nigerian proud,’’ the president noted. Adeduntan, who attended Cranfield School of Management in 2004 as British Chevening Scholar, is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Banking of Nigeria (CIBN) and the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN). The bank chief has positioned FirstBank  as a leader in promoting financial inclusion in Nigeria. The bank has continually reached the underbanked and un-banked population to reduce poverty, bolster economic growth and development of Nigeria and these milestones have earned  him the award. Adeduntan is one of the 21st century  visionary men who dared, achieved and moved longstanding businesses to enviable heights. He has succeeded where others feared to try. As a global thought leader, Adeduntan is well-sought after and has shared his experience and expertise at notable events across the world espousing and even envisioning financial inclusion in the next 125 years. These events include the 2019 Ethical Finance Conference in the UK which had in attendance over 500 leading finance practitioners from all over the world, including with Sarah Breeden, Bank of England; Dame Susan Rice, Banking Standards Board; Gary Gillespie, Chief Economist, Scottish Government; a keynote speaker at 2019 University of Edinburgh Sustainable Business in Africa Forum; The Africa CEO Forum 2018, Abidjan; the London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE) Annual State of Nigeria Conference as well as 2019 LSE Africa Summit.  Adeduntan has won other laurels due to his sustained professional achievements; significant economic and social impact; leadership qualities as well as a role model. These include the 2018 African Banker of the Year in African Leadership Magazine Persons of the Year Award in South Africa. Analysts believe that the award of the 2019 Cranfield University Distinguished Alumnus of the Year Award, United Kingdom to Adeduntan was in recognition of key milestones the bank has achieved under his leadership. Adeduntan who took the role to run one of Nigeria’s biggest Tier-1 bank since January 1, 2016 has kept in on a path of sustainable growth and contributions to the nation’s domestic economy. Prior to his appointment, he was an Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer for the Bank since 2014 when he was appointed to the Board of the Bank. Before joining FirstBank in 2014, Adeduntan was a Director and the pioneer Chief Financial Officer/Business Manager of Africa Finance Corporation (AFC). He has served as a Senior Vice-President & Chief Financial Officer at Citibank Nigeria Limited, a Senior Manager in the Financial Services Group of KPMG Professional Services and a Manager at Arthur Andersen Nigeria, among other exciting career paths.  