10,000 farmers, including youths, women and the physically-challenged, are set to combat food insecurity and poverty in Kaduna. ABDULGAFAR ALABELEWE reports.  Ten thousand women, youths as well as existing farmers, are successful beneficiaries of the World Bank and Federal Government-sponsored agricultural revolution project in select states of Kaduna, Kano, Kogi, Lagos, Enugu and Cross River. The $200 million Agro-processing, Productivity, Enhancement and Livelihood Improvement Support (APPEALS) Project was designed to empower 300,000 youths, women, farmers and people living with disabilities, meet Nigeria’s quest for food security, boost agricultural exports and improve livelihood of Nigerians. APPEALS, a four-year project, has, however, selected 10,000 direct beneficiaries in Kaduna State, many of whom have been trained alongside their counterparts from Kogi and Kano states. The project in Kaduna State targets three Priority Value Chains (PVCs) of Dairy, Ginger and Maize production, considering the state’s advantages in those value chains. Some of the beneficiaries will go into other value chains such as poultry, rice, tomato production and fish farming. Kaduna is said to have over two million cattle and about 800,000 milking cows as well as being one of the largest producers of maize and ginger in the world. With a land area of 4.5 million hectares, out of which two million is arable land, Kaduna is an agrarian state with over 70 per cent of the population engaged in crop and livestock production. Permanent Secretary in the state’s Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, Dr. Abdulkadir Kasim who recently expressed Kaduna State government’s commitment to the APPEALS project said: “Nigeria is the 10th producer of maize in the world, while Kaduna is leading the pack in national maize production, adding that every part of the crop can be used as food, feed and fuel. “We are also the largest producer of fresh ginger and investment in ginger production and processing can create over 5, 000 jobs. We are not relenting in our desire to engineer transition in agriculture from small-scale subsistence activity to a market-oriented commercially viable business. This is the reason Kaduna State is one of the six states collaborating with the Federal Government and the World Bank in the implementation of this project. “It is not by accident that Kaduna State selected dairy, ginger and maize as its PVCs for the APPEALS project.  The choice is deliberate. Maize is selected to promote food security, ginger is for its export potential and dairy is to improve livelihood. These will support our drive to create jobs, improve standard of living and attract investment to the economy of our state.  “Nigeria is the largest producer of cow milk in West Africa. Kaduna State has estimated number of two million cattle and about 800,000 milking cows but produces just a little above 400,000 litres of milk per annum, mainly by pastoralists. The opportunity of investment is awesome.  “The project will support government policy thrust and priorities for the agriculture sector. Our support for the project will be unrelenting. The government has already released a take-off grant of N48 million for the project.” Kaduna State APPEALS Project Coordinator, Dr. Yahaya Aminu, said 50,000 indirect beneficiaries are also targeted from each of the states, making the overall target of 300,000 beneficiaries in the six states.  He explained that already, 1,700 beneficiaries have been selected in Kaduna State, while 8,300 other farmers will be supported with trainings and grants from the World Bank. He added that over 25,000 farmers belonging to 2,000 co-operatives and farmer co-operatives had registered and indicated interest. He said: “We are supporting 1,700 women, youths and people with disability. We screened and verified applications and interviewed 3,000 that were shortlisted under the scheme. We have selected 1,700 beneficiaries, including applicants who have selected at least 10 different value chains. Sixty per cent are female, 35 per cent are male and five per cent is reserved for people with disabilities and special needs.” He further explained that the national coordinator’s office, in collaboration with the Kaduna State office, selected and accredited eight training institutions for the training of the successful candidates. “So, we are training the successful candidates in 10 batches. We’ll give them technical skills in agriculture, business and personal skills. After this training, the World Bank will be providing grants to the maximum of $10,000 to each of the beneficiaries to establish their own businesses,” he said. Continuing, he said: “In pursuance of the project’s aim, we are working with the government of Kaduna State to transform agriculture from subsistence to commercial. The value chains we are focusing on in Kaduna are maize to promote food security, dairy to promote livelihood and ginger to promote export.” One of the resource people training the beneficiaries from Kaduna, Kano and Kogi and  Director, Centre for Dry Land Agriculture, Bayero University, Kano, Prof. Amina Mustapha, said the trainings are in three categories; namely classroom teaching, basic theory and practical. Prof. Mustapha said: “The APPEALS project is good for the youth as it will boost their employment opportunities and create wealth, as many of them are without jobs. We are training APPEALS beneficiaries from Kano, Kaduna and Kogi states. We have trained the first batch; we are doing the second batch. “We train them in classroom teaching, basic theory in rice, aquatic and poultry production. We do practical training in our farms, pond and hatchery and rice mills. “We have taken them to large, medium and small-scale rice mills to enable them to see established enterprise of the value chain. Our hope is that any of them with good business plan will be given grants up to $10,000 to boost their agriculture entrepreneurship,” she said. Some of the beneficiaries, who spoke to The Nation during their study tour of rice mills, poultry farms and other enterprises, expressed readiness to go into their selected agriculture value chains, to contribute to national food security agenda and become agriculture entrepreneurs and employers of labour. One them is widow Hajiya Salamatu Umar believe that the APPEALS project will have huge impact on agriculture development in Nigeria, noting that: “the APPEALS programme will reduce hunger, since there are seven different value chains, namely fish, ginger, rice, dairy, poultry, tomato and maize. Whatever we produce we would bring home some for the family. “The project will boost food security. I am a fish farmer but I applied for poultry production so that I can have knowledge on it. We want the project to be scaled up for others to also benefit from it.” She, however, urged the male beneficiaries of the project not to use the grant to marry more wives. “And our women too should not use the grant to buy house furniture but to use it for the purpose it was meant.” Martha Nkom from Kaura Local Government Area was a rice farmer and provision store owner before applying for APPEALS said: “I am a rice farmer. They trained me on how to produce rice using better methods. When I receive the grant, I will use it to develop my rice farm and employ those that would help me in rice production.” Ereje Awu, a poultry farmer from Kagarko Local Government Area spoke on his experience in the training, said: “This project will change my life. I used to rear less than 500 fowls, now I can improve it to 1,000 and even 2,000. This project will help me expand my poultry and improve on it. I appreciate the effort of Nigerian government to eradicate poverty.” Another beneficiary, Abdullahi Ibrahim from Zaria Local Government Area said he sees the project as a path to youth empowerment and food security in the state. “It is a privilege for us to be here for the APPEALS training. We were trained on rice production, processing and marketing. It has helped us a lot. This is one of the objectives of youth development,” he said. Also, Ambi Solomon from Sanga Local Government Area applied for dairy production because of his passion for animal rearing. He expressed his belief that the APPEALS project will boost food production and agriculture development in Nigeria.