Attempt by electricity field workers to disconnect supply to a retiree’s house was vehemently resisted. ABAYOMI FAYESE captures the drama  There was drama as some field workers of the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) attempted to disconnect electricity supply to the home of an aggrieved customer over alleged unpaid bills. The man, a retiree, was enraged by constant disconnection by the electricity workers. According to him, the bills being charged through estimated billing are unrealistic and exploitative. He complained of having had enough of the “crazy” bills he was being forced to pay over the years. The man, a resident of Kuje, a satellite town in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) could not stand having his line disconnected. The retiree, whose identity could not be established as of the time this report was being filed, put up stiff resistance. He struggled with the electricity workers as they attempted to mount their ladder on his premises. The visibly angry man, observed to be in his late 60s, claimed that he paid the sum of N10,000 only last December. He accused the electricity workers of being on extortion duty. He threatened to remove the ladder if any of the workers dared to mount it.  He vowed not to tolerate the exploitative tendencies of the AEDC workers who he said have been collecting money from customers for services not rendered. Shouting on top of his voice, he said, “I paid N10,000 in December. I wonder why any of the workers will disconnect me when they don’t provide services. As a retiree, I am fed up with their attitude. If they can’t give us power, they should quit the business and give it competent people”. He eventually won the battle as he succeeded in preventing the workers from carrying out the disconnection. Flustered by the retiree’s action, the dejected workers eventually back down. They described the man as a “habitual trouble maker” who goes violent anytime attempts are made to disconnect his premises. The House of Representatives had, a few weeks ago, passed a bill seeking to criminalise the estimated billing system. The federal lawmakers described the billing system as crooked, illegal and exploitative. 