 NO fewer than 5,000 women and children displaced during the attacks on two communities in Plateau State are taking refuge in churches. The death toll in the Kulben  and Kwatas violence has risen from 26 to 33. Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong has ordered the arrest of some community leaders to halt the trend. Fourteen members of the House of Representatives, who expressed worry over the  killings, said the 5,000 women and children who escaped alive were been quartered at the  COCIN Central Church and Christ Apostolic Church in Bokkos Local Government Area. The women and children are in the churches without food, water and good sanitation, they claimed The lawmakers, in a speech read by Rep Solomon Bulus, called on President Muhammadu Buhari to order the arrest of the perpetuators of the violence. They said:  in the statement titled: “Deteriorating security situation and impending genocide in Mangu-Bokkos,”  that  now is the time for  the President to match his words with action. “With heavy heart we address you today, the 28th January, 2019, to bring to the notice of our dear country men, women and the international community the deteriorating security situation in our country, most recently in Mangu-Bokkos “We have communities in Plateau State where about 26 lives have been lost as the assault continued for two  weeks and the most worrisome part is that  there is no sign that government is willing to perform its constitutional duty of protecting the lives and properties of the people or arrest and prosecute perpetrators of this   barbaric, senseless and inhuman act, that appears to have no end in view.” They recalled the abduction and reported killing of Daciya Ropvil, a 200 level student of the University of Maiduguri, Borno State and lamented that apart from the latest  killings in the past two weeks, three  churches   and about 200 houses were burnt during the reprisal on Kwatas on Sunday. The lawmakers added: “Many others took place in other parts of the country unabated. The essence of coming together as a federation is  to have  leadership at various levels to protect everyone. “Government has shown  that it is  not only complacent but condoning these hoodlums and probably protecting them by dealing with the issues with kid gloves. “Because, no single prosecution of those arrested over the years, no categorical statement and policy to fight this menace to finish. Even when killer herdsmen were designated and referred to as most dangerous terrorist gang in the world, our government, didn’t classify them as such. “We   therefore call on Mr. President to show sincerity and commitment, match his words with actions to secure all Nigerians wherever they are.” They also urged the  international community “to save our people from been extinct going by the numbers killed every day, which in alarming.” Governor  Lalong   ordered the arrest of community leaders in Bokkos and Mangu  Local Government Areas. Lalong, who met with heads of security agencies in the state yesterday,  expressed dissatisfaction with them for not    arresting  any of  the attackers . A statement   by  the governor’s  Director of Press Simon Makut after the security meeting, ordered that those behind the violence must be arrested.  . The statement reads; ” The governor who addressed the stakeholders at the Government House, Little Rayfield, Jos, expressed anger over the incident which he said will not be allowed to degenerate further and make nonsense of the efforts put in to restore peace to the state .” It also quoted Lalong  as asking: “How can they say that people are killed and there is no arrest. Are those killing others spirits? I don’t think you can kill 15 human beings and claim you are spirit and there is no arrest. “Commissioner of Police (Isaac Akimoyede),  we must expose them no matter how high.  I want those people today (yesterday).  They should not sleep in their houses. By the time they are arrested, we will solve this problem.” It was gathered  that gunmen  continued their deadly attacks  on Ruboi and Marish communities in   Bokkos Local Government Area on Monday, , killing a man and setting many buildings ablaze. Police spokesman Abuh Gabriel said securitymen had been deployed in the two communities. A former Speaker of the House of Assembly, Titus Alams, said the gunmen looted property after killing and burning the body of a man. Alams,who hails from Ruboi  added: “The man who was killed and his body burnt was sick, That  was why he could not run when others were escaping   during the attack. “With yesterday’s attack, the number of people so far killed in a similar attack is now 16 in communities across Bokkos Local Government Area.”