The Finance Bill, a new legislation drawn up by a team of stakeholders working in collaboration with the Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning under the supervision of Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, in the view of financial experts hold a lot of promises for the revival of the economy, reports Ibrahim Apekhade Yusuf Nigeria’s economy, experts say, is in dire straits but can indeed recover fast to a solvent state if certain measures are put in place. One of these measures largely touted as the antidote capable of getting the economy back on track and on a sound growth trajectory is the Finance Bill, economic pundits have said. Beyond rhetorics, the Bill, experts have argued, is inevitable at this time when the country really needs to get its acts together. But what really is the Finance Bill all about, one might be tempted to ask?  The making of the Finance Bill The Finance Bill, 2019 (the Bill), was presented alongside the 2020 Appropriation Bill to a joint session of the National Assembly on 8 October, 2019 by President Muhammadu Buhari. The Bill, at the instance of the Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning, prompting the Presidency to set up a body to enhance ease of doing business in Nigeria budget/Appropriation Bill, according to those who knows the workings of government is not new in Nigeria as past military regimes had, during budget pronouncements, amended various tax laws. But this Bill is aimed at curing the deficiencies of major primary tax legislation by amending obsolete and contentious provisions. This is a major aspect of the initiatives suggested by the President Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC) and the National Tax Policy Implementation Committee. On Thursday, November 21, 2019, the Finance Bill 2019 (the “Bill”) was passed by the Senate after scaling through third reading on the floor of the Senate. The Bill had earlier, on October 14, 2019, been submitted to a joint session of the National Assembly (that is, the Senate and House of Representatives of the Federal Republic of Nigeria) alongside the 2020 Appropriation Bill (the “2020 Budget”) by President Muhammadu Buhari. The Bill proposes fiscal measures in support of the 2020 Budget of the Federal Government of Nigeria (the “FGN”), with extensive tax implications for the country. With a total proposed expenditure of N10.33 trillion against total expected revenue of N8.15 trillion, resulting in a deficit of N2.18 trillion; the 2020 Budget is projected to be financed partly by tax revenues expected to be generated through the key fiscal changes introduced by the Bill. Impact of Finance Bill on economy Speaking with a cross-section of experts drawn different spheres of life, they acknowledged the fact that the Finance Bill, for all it is worth would have rippled positive effect on the polity if well implemented. Giving fresh insights on the Finance Bill, Tiwalade Otufale, Chukwuemeka Chime, Timothy Siloma, Babatunde Olaniyi, Olayemi Williams, Temitope Talabi, Chioma Giwa-Amu, all of PricewaterhouseCooper (PwC) Nigeria, in a statement obtained by our correspondent observed that “Quite significantly, the Finance Bill seeks to introduce sweeping changes to the tax laws covering seven different tax laws. Many of the changes are expected to have positive impacts on investments and ease of paying taxes especially for MSMEs.” “Going forward, we hope that changes to the tax laws will be on an annual basis to ensure that Nigeria’s tax system continues to evolve in line with changes in business and economic conditions,” they stressed. Also reacting to the Bill, an elated the President of Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), Mansur Ahmed, said for the first time in a long time Nigeria has a comprehensive finance bill which brings together key issues on fiscal policy that needs to be constantly under review. Banking sector It is expected that the general changes being introduced by the Finance Bill and the specific amendments targeted at the banking sector and the capital market to have a positive impact especially in the medium to long term. The clarifications provide better certainty around taxation for companies operating in the sectors. It is also expected to bring about a significant increase in investments and stimulate activities in the capital market. However, according to experts, there are areas that still require further clarity for example the amendment does not solve the ambiguity of how general expenses would be attributed to tax-exempt income for tax purposes. Also, the thin capitalisation rule will require detailed guidelines or subsidiary legislation to address grey areas that may arise regarding definitions and interpretations. Insurance sector The insurance sub sector is also expected to benefit immensely from the Bill as the proposed changes will drive positive growth in the industry and encourage foreign direct investment into the sector. This will also reduce the cost of compliance for insurance companies as ambiguous sections of the law are either eliminated or amended. The proposals also reduce uncertainty of tax treatments and the need for negotiation with tax officials which could sometimes provide an avenue for compromise. Energy and utility sector Through the Finance Bill, the government has proposed several changes that would affect the Energy and Utilities sector. Some of the changes will have significant impacts on investment decisions as they materially reduce shareholder returns. In the view of economic pundits, contrary to the outlook of the 2020 budget proposal that envisages that the non-oil sector would contribute more to revenue generation, we expect that the oil and gas industry may in fact contribute more than it did in 2019, based on the current proposals. The lack of certainty around the fiscal outcomes of impending PSC reviews may also be an additional disincentive for future investments in the sector. Affected companies should assess the commercial impact of these changes on their current and future cash flows /returns. Consumer and industrial products Generally, the proposed changes aim at raising revenue for the government, and easing tax  compliance burden on taxpayers with a focus on small and medium scale enterprises (SMEs). However, one major issue that needs to be addressed is making VAT in Nigeria a proper pass-through, where only the final consumer bears the burden. This means that businesses should be able to obtain credit for their VAT costs. Currently, VAT credit is only available for goods purchased for resale or used in manufacturing other products. The current “VAT” system in Nigeria is closer to a cascading Sales tax structure, and unfairly increases the cost of doing business along each level of the value chain. While the 7.5% VAT rate is low compared with the rate in other countries, these countries have a proper VAT system that avoids these challenges. Any further increase in the VAT rate without addressing this issue may be detrimental to the economy. Real estate investment companies The proposed tax changes are geared towards making real estate investment companies (REICs) tax transparent investment vehicles in respect of dividends and rental income and placing the obligation for tax on the respective shareholders subject to meeting the minimum distribution threshold and timing. This would make REICs more attractive. From a legal perspective, REICs are more attractive than real estate investment trust (REITs) because they offer the legal protection of a company that limits liabilities to the unpaid capital. With the Finance Bill, they become more attractive as the tax effect produces the same result as REITs. As such, this initiative has the potential to encourage public investments and mobilise more liquidity for real estate projects with a corresponding positive impact on the capital market. Digital economy The new Finance Bill introduces two additional categories of fixed base (FB) to capture e-commerce and technical/management/consultancy services provided remotely by nonresident companies (“NRCs”) to Nigerian consumers, to the extent that the providers have significant economic presence in Nigeria. It also gives the Minister of Finance broad powers to determine, by Order, the triggers and/or thresholds for significant economic presence in Nigeria. The Finance Bill also gives the Minister of Finance powers to determine, by Order, what constitutes significant economic presence in Nigeria for affected NRCs. The implications of this are the thresholds or triggers may not be generally acceptable, and could lead to more debates even if taxpayers would have no option but to comply just as the Minister defines the criteria for significant economic presence, the proposed updates would be redundant as they can only be applied if the criteria are defined. There is flexibility for the Minister to modify the conditions to suit changing economic circumstances and technological advancement. The Bill would eliminate any uncertainty going forward and make it a requirement for NRCs to register for VAT and include VAT on their invoices to Nigerian recipients. This VAT would be deducted by the Nigerian recipient and paid to the FIRS. Even where the NRC does not include VAT on its invoice, the Nigerian company is expected to now “selfcharge” the VAT and remit. Thumbs up for finance bill As to be expected the Finance Bill has continued to attract a groundswell of support from discerning Nigerians, who hold the view and very strongly too that the Bill is the long-awaited proverbial magic wand that would turn things around for the economy for good. Firing the first salvo, Victor Ndukauba is the Deputy Managing Director, Afrinvest (West Africa) Limited, a leading independent investment banking firm with a focus on West Africa, in an interview with The Nation, said, “The Finance Bill looks to me like something that would offer some form of relief of sorts given the fact that it has clear cut strategies on tackling both the macro and micro economy.” Echoing similar sentiments, in their critical analysis jointly penned by Yomi Olugbenro, Patrick Nzeh, Olukunle Ogunbamowo, Oluseye Arowolo and Taiwo Okunade, all of Deloitte Nigeria, they highlighted the objectives of the Finance Bill, which they aims at promoting fiscal equity, align domestic laws with global best practices and support Micro, Small and Medium-sized businesses. Besides, other objectives include increasing government revenues and stakeholder investments in investment/capital market through the introduction of incentives. The Bill, they further emphasised, “Introduces wider base for taxing non-resident companies (NRCs) carrying on digital activities, consultancy, technical, management or professional services in Nigeria, provided that they have significant economic presence in Nigeria and profit can be attributable to such activity. This provision is a welcome development as it seeks to ensure taxation of activities with an economic base in Nigeria. Nonetheless, the Bill, when passed into law, would be a game-changer in ensuring the fair taxation of insurance companies.” The Bill, they reiterated, “Is a welcome development in the tax landscape of Nigeria. It proposes provisions that have the capacity to boost the economy by stimulating the growth of small and medium scale enterprises and enticing foreign direct investment into Nigeria.” Echoing similar sentiments, while expressing their views on the propriety or otherwise of the Finance Bill, Ken Etim, (Managing Partner), Abimbola Akeredolu, (Partner), Azeezah Muse-Sadiq, (Partner), Kemi Ajayi, (Chief Operating Officer), Oluwatoba Oguntuase, (Practice Support Lawyer), Emmanuel Onyeabor, (Associate) all of  Banwo & Ighodalo Associates, a law firm with a team of specialists in different fields,  noted matter-of-factly that, “Generally, the Bill seeks to promote fiscal equity by mitigating instances of regressive taxation, reform domestic tax legislation in line with global best practices, and introduce tax incentives particularly for investments in infrastructure and thereby engender, to an extent, the legislative framework necessary for the development and growth of micro, small, and medium enterprises (in support of the FGN’s ongoing ease of doing business reforms).” Another significant reform seen in the proposed amendment in the Bill, according to the team at Banwo & Ighodalo is that it has legalised service by aggrieved taxpayers on relevant tax authorities, of objections against tax assessments through electronic means, which is in conformity with emerging trends and embraces contemporary technological innovations. This proposed amendment is in line with a recent decision of the Tax Appeal Tribunal declaring such electronic means of service as valid and legally binding, they stressed.