By Praise Olowe  There is no fight quite like a celebrity social media battle. This is because the entertainment industry is full of fun, excitement and controversies. Nigerian celebrities, just have their way of giving us topics to talk about. Here is looking at biggest Nigerian celebrities fight that shook social media: * Liz Anjorin and Toyin Abraham  This could have been tagged one of the biggest and most talked-about celebrity feuds in recent times. It all seemed like a movie especially since they are actresses. Anjorin took to her Instagram page and accused Abraham of filing report against her to Saudi Arabian authorities that she (Anjorin) was trafficking cocaine, which led to her being searched at the airport, claiming that Abraham often opened fake social media pages to criticise her colleagues online. Reacting through her lawyers, Abraham warned Liz to take down her posts and apologise or risk being sued. When many thought Anjorin was going to end it all at that point, her lawyers also responded and threatened to counter-sue Abraham. Anjorin maintained that Toyin had her new baby at a traditional birth attendant’s place while Abraham released a video showing her in a Lekki-Lagos hospital, in what seemed to be shortly after she was delivered of her son. The President of the Theatre Arts and Movie Practitioners Association of Nigeria, Bolaji Amusan, aka Mr Latin, had to come out publicly to caution them to stop the ‘warfare’ on social media. Speaking in a video broadcast shared on social media, Latin said: “From today, any of you (Toyin or Liz) that posts anything on Instagram, whether positive or negative, the industry will penalise such person. Enough is enough; it’s getting out of hand. Liz Anjorin and Toyin Abraham, this is the last warning– if you post anything, you won’t like what will happen.” * Tiwa Savage and Charles Anazodo  Nigerians will not forget in a hurry the feud between ace singer Tiwa Savage and football analyst, Charles Anazodo. It all started when Anazodo accused Tiwa of walking past him without saying ‘hi’ when they met at a radio station. The singer, without wasting time in replying Anazodo, said: “Firstly, I’m sure you saw me rushing to the studio because I was late for my interview, plus I had a hat on. Secondly, I’m glad I didn’t say hi because who are you to think you can’t say hi first”. The verbal exchange continued as Anazodo responded to the tweet, saying, “I’m nobody– just another human being. Cheers”. This generated lots of reactions from Nigerians on social media. * MI and Vector MI and Vector are two talented rappers. Their fans often compare them to each other. The fight between the duo was a really big one that had social media talking especially Twitter. On August 30, 2018, during a radio interview, Vector reacted to MI’s song titled, ‘You Rappers Should Fix up Your Lives.’ Vector maintained that MI was wrong to have condemned Nigerian rappers in the song. In 2019, MI threw a jab at Vector on a song titled ‘Martell Cypher’. This, however, led to Vector ‘dissing’ MI on the track, ‘The Purge’.
Thereafter, MI directly fired ‘shots’ at Vector in the ‘diss’ track dedicated to him and titled, ‘The Viper’. In the song, MI branded Vector a snake, stating that he (Vector) allowed bitterness to consume him. The fight didn’t end there as Vector decided to fire back at MI in the song, ‘Judas the Rat’, where he claimed MI was responsible for the failure of Jesse Jagz’s music career. His lyrics stated: “Jesse Jagz, you’re my buddy. I couldn’t do this in a hurry but the truth about your brother has been blurry. So, sometime in this sermon, I will say some uncomfortable facts to show his fans their GOAT (Greatest Of All Time) is really a rat. Let’s start the lecture…” * Naira Marley and Ruggedman  Azeez Fashola popularly known as Naira Marley is one of Nigeria’s rave of the moments. The young artiste was always uploading videos on his Instagram handle about the wrongs of special internet fraud security systems, EFCC and SARS. This over time has made him step on toes due to his controversial ‘support’ of internet fraud
This was what caused the clash between him and veteran artiste rugged man. Ruggedman called for his arrest on his Instagram handle based on Naira Marley’s controversial song “Am I a yahoo boy”. Naira Marley was finally arrested and the case is still ongoing. This fight rocked social media and got Nigerians talking. * Eniola Badmus and Uche Ogbodo Just a week after actress Uche Ogbodo publicly body-shamed her colleague Eniola Badmus, Ogbodo shared series of sensual pictures to celebrate her birthday. Reacting to the pictures, Badmus condemned Ogbodo, saying that despite the provocative nature of the pictures, they didn’t get her the attention she desired. Eniola wrote on her Instagram: “Uche Ogbodo­– joker, you were pulling me down on Instablog like you were the greatest .Women supporting women is not in your dictionary”. This is also one fight that got Nigerians talking. * Tacha and Mercy  Just exactly 10 days to the end of the popular reality TV show Big Brother Naija 2019, controversial housemate Tacha and Mercy got into a really serious fight. The two were at each other’s throats, exchanging invective till Mercy flipped her hair towards Tacha and she (Tacha) pulled Mercy’s hair. This however led to Tacha’s disqualification from the show. This is one big fight that got Nigerians talking as fans of the duo were notorious for attacking and shading each other on social media.