For killing a policeman on lawful duty, the chief and residents of an otherwise peaceful Ushafa community can no longer sleep. NICHOLAS KALU writes on the face-off between the police and the community.  The chief and some residents of the otherwise peaceful Ushafa community in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) have been accused complicity in the killing of a police officer, Eric Isaiah. The victim, an Assistant Superintendent of Police, was in a police back up team that was deployed as reinforcement when the initial police team came under attack. The first team of policemen was detailed to arrest one Moses Peter a.k.a Dogo for allegedly killing a member of the community, Moses Emmanuel. The late Emmanuel was reportedly hit with a shovel at a construction site over a disagreement with Dogo and a few others. The police authorities said the incident, happened on Thursday, January 21, 2020. According to police report, one Dominic Emmanuel, a brother to the deceased artisan, had reported an attack on his brother at the Bwari Division. A team of policemen that was dispatched to the scene met the injured man in a critical condition. The police team had rushed him to the nearest hospital for medical attention, but the young man had died while receiving treatment. However, the deceased was able to give vital information to the police on his hospital bed before he passed away. According to the police, the deceased mentioned Moses Peter a.k.a Dogo and one John whose full name was not given, as his attackers. On January 23, 2020, members of the police team that were sent to arrest Dogo and John were reportedly obstructed by some youths in the community. They had insisted that Dogo be taken to the palace of the Ushafa chief before the police could take him away. John could not be found anywhere. As the argument became heated, the police team agreed to take Dogo to the chief’s palace, from where they would proceed to the police station. On getting to the palace, the policemen had met one Danlami Busa who introduced himself as a secretary at the palace. However, the chief, Alhaji Mohammed Baba, was said to be in his bedroom, as it was already late. But the police team had insisted on seeing and briefing the chief about their mission. The chief, whose age was put at 80 years, could not be persuaded to come out to receive the visitors. The situation degenerated into an argument as a large number of youth in the community was said to have stormed the palace. Unable to see the chief, the police team decided to take Dogo to the station. And that was when trouble started. The police team was said to have been harassed by the youth who were bent on obstructing Dogo’s arrest. The policemen were said to have come under attack, necessitating a call for back up. The police division had to send a reinforcement team with a Toyota Hilux van. The reinforcement team was similarly attacked by the angry youths, whose number was said to have increased as the standoff persisted. The policemen were outnumbered and were forced to escape being lynched. In the ensuing melee, ASP Isaiah was fatally injured and could not make it to the hospital before he died.  Conflicting accounts While the police said ASP was attacked and killed at the palace of the chief, members of the community said the policeman was killed far away from the palace. In a statement signed by the Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Anjuguri Manzah, said Isaiah was killed at the palace of the Chief of Ushafa, Alhaji Mohammed Baba around 9pm on the fateful day. The police had since arrested and detained the community chief and his secretary.  The police spokesman had said in his statement, “The chief’s secretary, Danlami Busa ‘m’ at the instance of the Chief, Alhaji Mohammed Baba ‘m’ incited the crowd, who descended heavily on the two detectives. As a result, a re-enforcement team led by late ASP Eric Isaiah, Patrol and Guard officer in the Bwari Division, with three others, were deployed and they arrived the scene with a police Hilux vehicle which was used to rescue the two officers who escaped with the suspect, Moses Peter aka Dogo. “Sadly, the crowd brutally attacked and murdered ASP Eric Isaiah in cold blood after inflicting various degree of injuries on other members of the team, who narrowly managed to escape with their lives.” But the residents insisted he was not killed within the vicinity of the palace. They were also vehement that the chief could not have sanctioned the killing of the cop. Some members of the community, who spoke with our correspondent, accused some people, who were not indigenous to the community, of the killings. According to them, the Ushafa community was peaceful and accommodating, which was why they had a lot of non-indigenes living among them. Another resident of the community, Adamu (not real name) said the policeman was killed far away from the palace, close to a popular hotel in the area. According to him, shortly after the incident, the police had come back and randomly arrested some persons there. “At this moment, we are apprehensive. You know what can happen when a policeman is killed in the place. I remember how people used to run up and down each time they hear the police are coming. “Seriously, I don’t know what happened. What I know is that the policemen came to arrest one suspect. They arrested him and went to the chief’s palace at night but the chief could not come out. He does not normally come out at night. The policemen left with the suspect when they could not see the chief. Already, some persons were resisting the arrest. They said they would not allow the policemen to go with the suspect. When they had gone away from the palace close to where they were about to leave the community, they started fighting the policemen. That is how they said they killed the police there. The incident occurred when you cross one small bridge. The other policemen escaped. “We are very peaceful in this community. I have to say that those who attacked the policemen were wrong. No matter what happens you don’t go to that extent. It was very bad. They should have gone to the station and sorted it out. So people are now living in fear. I am not sure if they went with the suspect or not. I don’t think the chief incited the people. It was not true. Even what I read in the news was that it was in the chief’s palace that they killed the policeman. It was wrong. It was not there. Even that day, I went to the chief’s palace when I heard such a thing happened. The people I saw said it was not there,” Adamu said. 