By LUCAS AJANAKU  IT training giant, New Horizons, has partnered Mountain Top University to build a fourth industrial revolution (4IR) technology and e-business project laboratory in the institution. The Vice Chancellor of the unversity, Prof Elijah Ayolabi, said the project is designed to bridge the gap between academics and the industry to produce a complete granduate. He expressed conviction that the partnership and the impact of the quality infrastructure deployed and commissioned would complement the academic regiments, adding that the students would make optimum use of the facility for personal and professional development. Also speaking at the inauguration of the facility, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, New Horizons Nigeria, Mr. Tim Akano, praised the university management for deeming it fit to partner  New Horizons to build a new and higher profiled graduates who are empowered digitally to become the toast of employers globally or successful technopreneurs such as Mark Zuckeberg, Bill Gates among others.  Akano said the deployment of fourth industrial revolution training skill sets like Artificial Intelligence (AI), Data Analytics, Big Data, and others under the partnership programme is strategic measure to empower graduates to be at par with their more advantaged foreign colleagues as well as ultimately position the country at the front-row of IT-driven nations of the world. He said the project-driven entrepreneurship empowerment approach will serve to stem the loss of promising graduates to current situation where many graduates seek to travel abroad to engage in menial and condescending jobs. New Horizons Nigeria Chief Universities Operations Officer, Mr. Bolaji Olaoye assured that the computer hardware, software and courseware are Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) standard. He said every student would be trained and mentored by internationally certified technical instructors. He said the students would be groomed with the same top level standard, which New Horizons has established in its 370 centres that are spread across 80 countries and locally too in 15 Nigeria.