 A governorship aspirant of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ondo State, Prince Jimi Odimayo, has said that the unresolved crisis in the chapter could be attributed to poor leadership. Odimayo spoke in Ode-Irele, headquarters of Irele Local Government Area, while officially declaring his governorship ambition. He said: “There is a vacuum in APC and the current government has left the vacuum become like an irreconcilable issue and this vacuum must be filled before it goes for any serious election. “APC is not one in Ondo State nor united and for the fact that this government is almost three years and the crisis emanating from primaries that brought the government is yet to be resolved shows that there is leadership failure. “People want their government back. I speak , they don’t feel it, no sense of belonging. APC needs somebody to resue it and I can assure you that the party will come together again through my candidacy. “My candidacy will bring all aggrieved members together and I have already started it and you will soon the manifestation soon.” Odimayo described his interest in the coveted position as a divine call meant to restore hope and make life meaningful to the people. He said: “Actually, those that know me will observe that I had never shown interest in any elective position, never had it crossed my mind. “But, this is a divine call and I am convinced that it is going to be a work over. God had spoken clearly and there will be spiritual consequences if I don’t obey. “He has sent me to restore hope to people because people are hungry. We in private sector feel it because there are all manners of cry for help even affecting our revenue. It shows there is a problem.” According to him, people need a governor that understands essence of giving hope about the future. He, therefore, enjoined Nigerians to be patient with President Muhammadu Buhari, saying his policies and programmes would soon culminate to desired transformation. “President Buhari has started good work considering his programmes, policies and intervention in agriculture, economy and other sectors and with consistent follow up, Nigeria will experience positive transformation.”