For the air transport industry to gain its potential, operators, including airport authorities and airlines, must review their business models to focus on competition, safety and customer service, Director-General, Consumer Protection Council (CPC), Mr Babatunde Irukera said at the weekend. He said global dynamics in the air transport value chain revolves around improved customer experience, saying investors not thinking along that line were likely to be left behind. He said improved customer relationship, promotion of safety and cost management has become the new thinking in the strategy for businesses that are targeting growth for 2025. He said air travel is becoming dynamic because investors and players in the value chain are taking advantage of the improved service delivery to step up safety both for passengers on board and on the ground. To optimise the growth of air travel business, Irukera said airline and airport operators must adopt new business models that put customer needs first. Besides, changing of business models, Irukera said technology, in the form of  electronic commerce, is changing the landscape. He said: “The airport experience must change in a manner that the airport is now seen as a comfort zone rather than a travel port.’’ “Commercial managers are focusing more on how to optimise opportunities  at airports as opposed to the responsibilities of security and immigration officials put together. “For countries that want to tap into opportunities in the aviation sector, operators and investors must look at how to create more shops and offices around the airport and retail businesses which has more opportunities in excess of what aviation fees could offer, ” he said. He said regulators and government must strive to make airports places of attraction for passengers, where there are minimal flight delays and other distortions.. Irukera said airport authorities must improve on the airport premium class seating experience to make the terminals more welcoming  to improve trade and stimulate business. He said air transport opportunities in Africa remains untapped because of challenges of lack of air connectivity, which has made air travel costly and time wasting. He said: “To grow air transport into its pride of place by 2025, governments in Africa and industry operators must make conscious efforts to improve the airport hub experience by stimulating improved regional and domestic travel. “Operators must step up the game by rethinking the operational model to address air connectivity which is poor within Africa. “