From Adesoji Adeniyi, Osogbo.  An Islamic group, the NASRU -LAHI-L- Faith Society (NASFAT), has advised  Muslim youths to embrace technology to increase their value in the labour market. Speaking at one-day employability skills workshop organised by NASFAT in collaboration with the National Empowerment Economic Committee for Student of Fountain University in Osogbo,  the President of NASFAT, Mr. Olaniyi Yusuf, said present realities have shown that youths must explore benefits in technologies to excel in their chosen careers. According to him, about 500 youths drawn from some states of the federation, including Osun, Oyo, Ekiti participated in the workshop. He said it is important the youths position themselves for abundant opportunities in Nigeria and outside the country. Yusuf said: “This employability workshop is focusing on the world of work to prepare youths for the task ahead, especially with breakthrough and continuous advancement in technology. “The workshop would help youths to know how technology is really influencing work and the systematic changes which they must work with and how to explore the benefits of the modern world. Unfortunately, the nation’s education system is not in conformity with the present educational realities. “The curriculum in tertiary institutions is not in conformity with what our industries require and now is the time  for total overhauling of the entire process for us as a nation to advance. “What you don’t have, you can not give and that is the reason we need to invest in training and retraining of teachers. We must also ensure that students benefit  from the industrial training programme designed for them”.  Also, the Guest Speaker for the workshop, Mr. Abideen Olasupo, who spoke on the theme “The Future of Work, are you ready,” said  thousands of Muslims youths passed out of tertiary institutions but never acquired what was needed for them to get their dream jobs. He said: “The future of work in Nigeria keeps  changing and there is a need for  youths to get themselves accustomed to different skills. This is important for them to succeed in life. “This is why we are introducing them to  digital training. For those who are already in  business, there is also the need for them to have a unique value proposition and a subject of moral and integrity.” Olasupo appealed to Muslim youths, particularly students of Fountain University to acquire  employability   skills  for them to stand out among other graduates from other institutions. He lauded NASFAT for organising the workshop which he said would serve as an eye opener and change the orientation and thinking of the youths. A lecturer at the Department of Mass Communication in Fountain University,  Mr. Rasheed Adebiyi, said employability skills  would help in checking some nefarious activities among youths and also given them a sense of hope. 