By, Oseheye Okwuofu, Ibadan The two major political parties in Oyo state , the People’s Democratic Party ( PDP) and the All Progressive Congress ( APC) are trading accusations over the gruesome killing of a chieftain of the APC , Alhaji Oreitan Babatunde in Ibadan. While the APC was accusing the PDP of killing the 77- year- old party chairman in Ona Ara local government area of the state, the PDP alleged that it was the internal crisis bedeviling the APC that caused the untimely death of the party chieftain, who was murdered in his house after observing afternoon prayers on Wednesday . In separate statements signed by the parties’ spokespersons , Dr. Abdul Azeez Olatunde and Engr. Akeem Olatunji, for APC and PDP respectively, the two major political parties accused each other of possessing killer squad in the state. Describing the APC allegation in which they accused the PDP of being behind the assassin of Babatunde as libellous , the PDP said from the recent happenings within the state APC , it was undisputable fact that the crisis bedeviling the party is too enormous for her State leadership to handle. “This might have snowballed into a loss of life and glaring divisions within the party,” the PDP alleged. On its part, the state APC alleged that since the assumption of office of governor Seyi Makinde , the PDP has been targeting leaders of opposition party to eliminate , and this was carried out by the gruesome killing of the APC chieftain on Wednesday afternoon. The PDP said: ” From the recent happenings within Oyo State All Progressive Congress (APC), it is an undisputable fact that the crisis bedeviling the party is too enormous for her State leadership to handle. This might have snowballed into a loss of life and glaring divisions within the party. ” In our own candid opinion, Oyo State security architecture has greatly improved from what it used to be in the last 8 years, as the high rate of kidnapping experienced during former Governor Ajimobi led APC administration has drastically reduced to the bearest minimum and thanks to the leadership style of Governor Seyi Makinde coupled with high level of professionalism being display by the Honourable Commissioner of Police, Mr Shina Olukolu and his gallant officers. ” PDP as a responsive political party wishes to express her sympathy to the family of Alhaji Oreitan Babatunde who was murdered by yet to be known assailant(s), however men of the Nigeria Police and most especially the Commissioner of Police has to swing into action in other to expose those behind the dastardly act. ” For the sake of record, a serving State House of Assembly Member was assassinated when APC was ruling the State, the assassination of the Vice Chairman of NURTW and Hon Olatoye Sugar, several people including a medical student lost their life at Iwo Road under the last APC administration. The Soka dungeon where several life were lost is still fresh in everyone’s memory apart from Popoyemoja and Idi Arere mayhems of which the APC government couldn’t stop before it consumed human life. ” The deceased though a veteran politician during his lifetime but was never a threat to PDP as our party defeated APC with a landslide margin throughout all the 12 wards in Ona Ara local government during the last election, hence we appreciate contrary opinions and challenges as it help us to do more for the people in terms of dividends of democracy and good governance. “Lastly, the APC leadership at the National level are advised to nip in the bud the festering crisis within Oyo State APC as modern politics has gone beyond a do or die affairs. While we reiterate that the current APC leadership in Oyo State is incapable, inexperienced, ineffectual and obsolete.” Also, the APC stated that with the killing of Alhaji Babatunde , the PDP killer squad is back in full swing. While calling on the state Commissioner of Police , Mr Shina Olukolu to ensure that the killers are expose , the opposition party blamed the gruesome killing on the failure of the PDP government to provide adequate security in the state. The PDP statement reads in part ” What the public will perceive as trivial was the achievement of 8 years of great success in the provision of security of life and properties which was the Number one of all the achievements of the Government of Sen Abiola Ajimobi, as the Governor of Oyo State, between 2011 to 2019. ” That the Government of Seyi Makinde and his Party, PDP has been targeting the leaders of the leading opposition party, APC for some few months of coming to power was carried out today by 3pm, Wednesday 22nd of January 2020, with the heartless manner Alhaji Arasi Babatunde Oreitan was brutally assassinated. ” That Oyo State Commissioner of Police, Mr .Sina Olukolu and his Police Squad from the Police headquarters, Eleyele, Ibadan , was at the house of the slained old man is bad enough to witness the gory scene of how the old man was brutally slaughtered in his house, just after observing his 2pm Islamic Prayer today is nothing but dastardly act. “