Interior Minister Rauf Aregbesola has urged stakeholders to ensure that the girl-child get good education. He said the stakeholders must empower girls and prepare them for future responsibilities. The minister said government at all levels, corporate organisations and other stakeholders should invest in ventures that would contribute to the  socio-economic development of the nation. Aregbesola spoke at the 2019 Ozu Day celebration and civic reception in honour of the daughters and sons of Ozu. He was given a chieftaincy title during the ceremony. The event was organised by the Uzuakoli Development Association (UDA) in Bende Local Government Area of Abia State. The minister noted that the girl-child education would not only ensure the quickening of her inert abilities but would also help in developing the family and the society. This would promote internal security and socio-economic development in the country, he said. “Absolute commitment to the  education of the girl-child would ensure the quickening of her inert abilities, thus developing the family and society on the one hand and ensuring internal security on the other hand,” Aregbesola said. In a statement by the Director of Press in the Ministry of Interior, Mohammed Manga, the minister hailed the people of Uzuakoli for recognising the potentials in the Permanent Secretary in the ministry, Georgina Ehuriah, for her contribution to the nation, especially in promoting internal security and community development. “Georgina is an efficient and reliable personality with an unquestionable tenacity and commitment to service,” he said. have been possible if a sound educational base had not been provided for her. He therefore urged parents and guardians on the need to give more attention to the girl-child education Earlier in her remarks, the Permanent Secretary Barr.  Georgina Ehuriah, thanked President Muhammadu for enabling the completion and commissioning of the Gully Erosion Control and Road Improvement works at Agbozu, Umueze, Amaba and Methodist Church Compound, Obioha – Uzuakoli in Abia State and appealed for more federal presence in the community Highlights of the occasion include the commissioning of the Gully Erosion Control and Road Improvement works by the Minister of State, Mines and Steel, Dr. Uchechukwu Ogah as well as the Conferment of the title of Enyioha 1 of Uzuakoli (friend of Uzuakoli people) on the Minister of Interior Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola.