Our Reporter  Organised Labour has kicked against the planned pay rise for the politicians, saying that it will increase violence, poverty. Trade Union Congress (TUC), in a   statement signed by its President and General Secretary, Comrade Quadri Olaleye and Comrade Musa Lawal respectively said this must not be allowed to stand because of the dire consequences it will further have on the economy, people and our collective image. “We read with consternation the plan by the Revenue Mobilisation, Allocation and Fiscal Commission to review the remuneration of political office holders at a time the local and foreign debt is overwhelming and the country grappling with a lot of economic issues. “This is a conspiracy that must not be allowed to stand because of the dire consequences it will further have on the economy, people and our collective image. “Does it mean the Federal Government increased the Value Added Tax (VAT) to raise money to pay the politicians? Some countries in Africa now have a unicameral legislature because their former system was eating deep into the national treasury. “Why can’t we think along that line, after all, we have a National Assembly that you could hardly see all the members seated at every session. It is the same thing at the state level, yet their absence has never disturbed any session. “Imagine a councillor with O’Level result earns higher than a Professor? It is only in Nigeria that ex-governors who served two terms will retire to the Senate yet earn pension from the state. It is only in Nigeria that former governors that are jailed for corruption collect salaries and other allowances. This is preposterous and it makes mockery of our system,” the congress said. The congress said it was on a report that if the Federal Government succeeds in borrowing the $29. 9billion it applied for, the country’s debt profile would have risen to about $84billion.  “Even the World Bank has warned about the danger and consequences of our debt yet it appears no one cares if the country goes further down in shame. The question is, why tax or borrow just to pay politicians and service cronies when over 21 per cent of our able bodied youths are unemployed? We are worried that the insecurity situation arising from unemployment does not bother them?,” the congress said. The congress demanded a reduction in the cost of governance. He said: “We are demanding that the cost of governance be drastically reduced. We do not need 496 lawmakers. Governors do not need over 500 aides. It is too expensive to maintain. The salaries and allowances of these public office holders in Nigeria is part of the cause of the hardship in Nigeria. Half of these political officials’ salaries, if put into proper use, could give unemployed youths useful employment. “To this effect, if Nigeria will move forward then there is a serious need for imminent restructuring of the political system. For us the leadership belittles the country before the international community when they nurse such ideas now. It is a bizarre thing to do and we condemn it in strong terms. We enjoin the authorities to drop the idea to restrain the do-or-die attitude of some politicians.”