Damisi Ojo, Akure  As the Ondo State Independent Electoral Commission (ODIEC) fixed election in the 18 local government councils to April 18, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has said that it will adopt indirect primary system to select its chairmanship and councillorship candidates for the polls. Its State Chairman, Ade Adetimehin said contrary to insinuations in some quarters that there were anointed candidates, APC would give every aspirant the opportunity to face delegates in the primary election. The party began screening its chairmanship and councillorship from the 18 local government areas on Saturday at three different centres in Owo for Ondo North, Akure for Ondo central and Ore for Ondo South Senatorial District. The APC Chairman pointed out that any of the political appointees who wish to contest the council poll must resign as required by the electoral act and ODIEC guidelines. He maintained that the APC would provide level playfield for all aspirants during the party’s primaries. Adetimehin, said the party would be transparent in picking all its aspirants for the election. Besides, he assured the aspirants that all the process of selecting candidates of the party for the local government election would be transparent and credible. Adetimehin noted that the election would serve as a litmus test for the party on its ability to handle issues ahead of the next governorship election in the state. He said “the APC in the state is not oblivious of the fact that 2020 is a crucial year that the party’s cohesion must not be toyed with. “Therefore, we feel it is expedient to be fair and transparent in all we do, to avoid misgivings and ill-feelings among our members. “We will do what is fair, what is just and what will further unite us as a family that believes in the cohesion of the party” The APC Chairman also assured that the party would not promote or condone any act of thuggery and violence during the election, expressing confidence that the party will perform well in the election. He said “the APC -led government has done tremendously well for the good people of Ondo State in the last three years to earn trust and votes. “From the industrial revolution, infrastructural development, huge investment in agriculture, health, education and other sectors, it has been a rebirth for Ondo state. “Therefore, we have no doubt that our party will do well in any election without intimidating or influencing the electorate” He said the party would continue to embark on measures that would further unite the party and eliminate any semblance of wrangling or friction from the fold. According to him, “it is not unusual for people to disagree, but resolving issues through effective internal mechanism must be explored at all times”.