Insurance operators are yet to find partners for merger, acquisition in the ongoing recapitalisation. Omobola Tolu-Kusimo reports that this necessitated the six months’ extension granted by the regulator, the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) for the exercise.  NINE months after the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) ordered insurance and reinsurance companies to recapitalise, only prospective mergers exist, The Nation has learnt. This necessitated the shift in deadline for recapitalisation from May 20, 2019 to December 31, 2020 by the regulatory authority, NAICOM. NAICOM on May 20, 2019 mandated the 58 existing insurance companies and two reinsurance companies in the country to increase their paid up share capital. The minimum paid-up share capital of a Life insurance company was raised from N2 billion to N8 billion; Non-Life insurance from N3 billion to N10 billion and Composite insurance from N5 billion to N18 billion. Re-insurance companies were directed to raise their capital base from N10 billion to N20 billion. Findings showed that the companies have been unable to commence any merger or acquisition given the initial 13 months’ period for the exercise to be concluded. Only a few companies have indicated a standalone plan having, according to them, met the required capital. Based on this, the industry for several months pressured and appealed to the commission for an extension of the June 2020 date and last week, the Commission succumbed to the plea and extended the date by six months. The Acting Commissioner for Insurance, Mr Sunday Olorundare Thomas, in an interview with The Nation, said the commission extended the date to encourage consolidation. He said the decision to extend the date from May 20, 2020 to December 31, 2020 was not out of pressure but “Listening to sense of reasoning”. He disclosed that the operators have  three years’ extension but they were granted only six months. He said: “We extended the date not out of pressure but because we wanted to encourage consolidation. The operators started late and we found that the time may not be sufficient for consolidation to take place. “Also, the operators have to contend with regulations on recapitalisation by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). So, it is not a matter of pressure on us. After all, the operators asked for three years but we gave them only six months’ grace. “At present, operators are still prospecting so we only have prospective mergers and acquisition. We believe the extension was necessary because we don’t want a situation where we will not be able to achieve consolidation,” he added.