By Adegunle Olugbamila  The Afenifere has told Miyetti Allah not to express any fear over the establishment of South West security outfit codenamed Amotekun. Its Publicity Secretary, Yinka Odumakin, said herdsmen have nothing to fear over operation of the outfit, except they have something up their sleeves. He spoke on Thursday at the second installation anniversary of the 15th Aare Onakakanfo of Yorubaland Otunba Gani Adams in Lagos. Odumakin dismissed insinuations Amotekun was designed to crush and chase herdsmen out of Southwest. He said Amotekun is meant to protect not only core Yoruba but anybody plying their trade across the Southwest. “We are aware that Miyetti Allah are jittery and have been saying operation Amotekun will chase them out of Southwest but we dare say they have nothing to fear because Amotekun is to protect the Yoruba, Igbo, Miyetti Allah and other tribes as long as they live and conduct their businesses in the Southwest peacefully. “However, if their (Miyetti Allah) intention is evil, let us tell them that will no longer be tolerated.” Odumakin continued: “It is no gainsaying that the Yoruba nation today is under siege, therefore Amotekun is here to stay. “Let those who are trying our patience remember that they once tried it in 1996. “Let them remember the role Odua Peoples Congress (OPC), played during the time, and they are ready to do more this time.” He lamented that security situation in the Southwest has degenerated to the extent that hunters and OPC members were being deployed into the bush and borderlines for security purposes. For Amotekun to be rested, Odumakin challenged the Federal Government to order the proscription of Hisbah, Civilian JTF and other ethnic security groups nationwide to justify its stance. Odumakin praised OPC led by Adams and its numerous feats it has attained in the past with respect to protecting the territorial integrity of the Yoruba nation. Adams said the entire Southwest is currently blowing hot over Malami’s pronouncement proscribing Amotekun a few days ago, adding that the region is awaiting his response.