 Text of The Nation Editorial Board Chairman Sam Omatseye’s review of a book —The Big Interview by The Sun former Managing Director, Eric Osagie  Journalism can be a tedium. Especially for the practitioner. As a reporter, you are told facts are the altars where we worship. Its like the fellow in Charles Dickens’ novel Hard Times, when he warns, “I want facts.” If you alter a fact, you have committed a sacrilege, even if you have 100 percent accuracy in every other part of the work. You can offend a reader, inspire a lawsuit, cost a man a foot, deplete a bank account or or even engender a revolution. The Spanish-American war came from misplaced words. The Yoruba Wars of the 19th century began, according to historians, because of quarrel over pepper. But where is a quarrel without words? So, as a reporter, you are afraid to err. In journalism to err is not human; it can be a tragedy. In a whiff of sarcasm, the journalist Gene Fowler said, “Writing is easy: all you do is sit staring at a blank sheet of paper until drops of blood form on your forehead.” To put it more tersely, let us go to the words of the supreme satirist, novelist and journalist, Mark Twain, who noted that “Writing is easy. All you have to do is cross out the wrong words.” But you have to write the right words first. That explains why Eric Osagie kicks off his book of interviews with pages about what journalism is all about. It is the word not written but the word spoken that is his forte in this work titled, “The Big Interviews: How to get the news subjects and angles that make the headlines.” But the spoken word has to humble itself into the pie of a written form to be read unless it is broadcast on radio or television. Yet, as Osagie also reminds us, whether it comes on television or in a newspaper, the editor has to come with his or her eyes or with his or her scalpel or with his butcher. What comes out to the consumer tends to be like a product like a loaf of bread or candy. To borrow the words of some diplomats, making a work of journalism is like making sausages. You don’t want to see it in the kitchen, but you love the taste when it is done. But for interviews, you love it for its formal properties when it is well done. But its effect may vary from one person to another. That is why interviews are like life. They tell the story of you and me, the fears, the triumphs, the struggles, the contradictions, the prejudices. It is the story of those who make war and wage peace, who transform and ruin lives, who turn a society into a marvel or make us marvel why societies run against the rock. Hence Ralph Waldo Emerson wrote that “There is properly no history, but the biographies of great men.” So, through this book we see some of these men and women of history. Is it the austere, headstrong, ramrod tall, laconic Buhari, or the crafty, gap-toothed, manipulating Maradona we call IBB, or his presidential meekness but often underestimated Alhaji Shehu Shagari, or the warlord Odumegwu Ojukwu, his fiery eyes sparking through his mass of Abrahamic beard? Or the Jagaban, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the modern maestro of Nigerian politics, or TY Danjuma, the general and billionaire with roaring tongue thundering over the Mambila Plateau. David Mark is trying to get out of the shadow of an IBB boy, or is it the scratchy bass of Nyesom Wike’s voice in the turmoil of Rivers state politics, or Nasir El Rufai whose presence undermines the height that God gave him, or Masari in his acquisition of titles, of the self-glorifying Godswill Akpabio, whose exploits in the small state in the riverine region makes him a whale in shallow waters. Patricia Etteh, a first for women, also a first in a catastrophic fall. Or Jeremaiah Useni, the half-sober, half-prurient former general trying hard not to be misunderstood. Or Victioria Malu, who is bitter but also reminds us he is a gentle man with regards to his boss OBJ. Or Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala who brings her lofty training to a failing state. Or the warrior of the people, Adams Oshiomhole, who must divide himself between war and peace in the fight for the worker’s nirvana. The fire-eating moral exemplar Nuhu Ribadu who must tear himself from the society around which he is tragically wrapped, even amidst threats to his life. Finally, the Sharia matador, Ahmed Sani Yariman, who must run away from alcohol and the flesh of women so he can cut off the arms and legs of thieves and Allah’s enemies. In all these, we have the fury in the fight between IBB and Buhari flaming through the pages. We see Ojukwu the vain, the romantic, the philosophical and warrior. We see Shagari a reconciler but more subtle than many know. Tinubu is familiar but we see his childhood, the birthplace of his mastery of political intrigues, fights and triumphs. Danjuma the soldier cannot be submerged by the civilian. We start off with the duel between IBB and Buhari, and how both men did not forgive each other. Buhari is not talking much, but he is angry a lot. The reader has to fill in the gap of rage. IBB is angry, and each accuses the other of lying about what happened in the turbulent years of the 1980’s when one overthrew the other. It seems a battle to the death, but it’s two soldiers who can no longer bear arms but duel through the agency of newspaper men like Osagie. They telegraph their bullets to each other through words. No one has fallen yet. IBB’s interview also captivates with his definition of the word “sorry.” He sees his attitude to June 12 as taking responsibility. He does not seem to define taking responsibility as apology, but sometimes in the interview he wants us to see it as both apology and not apology. Talk about Maradona. It is a thing historians will duel over. We know he will not say “I am sorry,” whereas he wants people to believe he has made a sort of mea culpa. The Ojuwku interview  moves with pathos. Listen to the following dialogue: Question: “Beyond the civil war and all that, in this country you are also regarded as one man who married, perhaps, one of the most beautiful women in Nigeria. Is that part of the Ojukwu mystique? Answer: I will get very angry if you say ‘perhaps one of the most beautiful women. Without a doubt, I have married the most beautiful woman on the continent Africa. Up till now, I still marvel at my own ability to pull it through. Question: How did you do it? Answer: (laughs) There must be something good in me that you don’t see. Question: How did you pull that coup? Certainly that was one coup you plotted. Answer: Oh my God, I plotted it. Yes! Yet Ojukwu who led secession through the army poses an existential point. He says soldiers should not plot coups. He also spars with Soyinka by saying his generation was not a wasted one, but a pregnant one. I wonder if many would not believe that the pregnancy led to a fatal ectopic disaster. One of the telling quotes is what Ojukwu says of his citizenship: “I have been denied the privilege of ever being  a Nigerian.” Tinubu’s interview, undoubtedly the longest, is a foray into his childhood and the turbulence and manoeuvres of Nigerian politics. Listen to how he grew up in a compound of cousins and brothers, of aunties and uncles, and how they had to fight for meals, and play afterwards. He fought on his way to school and from school, his uniform dirty and earning beatings for that. He was also a lover of music and followed bands about town. He becomes a political scientist in the interview, speaking about political recruitment, sustainability of democracy. He is historian, auto-biographer, philosopher, psychologist, warrior, all in one in the interview. David Mark tries to humanise not only his past doing, but the man who made him: IBB. He justifies his reign but he fails to rescue him from some of the dark chapters of Nigerian history. He also does same for Murtala Mohammed, who was assassinated.  A signal point of the Mark story is his role in the abandoned property saga where Igbos had to negotiate their own property in Rivers State after the war. He justifies it in spite of its lethal injustice. This also contrasts Jeremiah Useni who also tries to humanise Sani Abacha. His great quote is “I don’t know about apples and Indian girls.” He shows us Abacha loved to be entertained not with Indian films but spy and action thrillers. He says he is not disappointed he did not succeed Abacha, since his peers chose another fellow over him. But Useni’s interview is the funniest marked by visceral confession. He at once confesses to a life of riotous revelry yet he says, “I didn’t drink alcohol. Even up till now, I just take some light wine… No stout, no Gulder, no Star, nothing. I don’t smoke.” He also forswears any inordinate craving for women, deriding those who rumoured that he had acquired AIDS and was dying. Wike’s interview also jumps out. Part of it reminds one of Donald trump in his onslaught on the media. Always unsparing, Wike says the crisis in Rivers was manufactured by the media, and he goes into detail showing that he is the man of the people. He goes into the intrigues as a colleague under former Governor Rotimi Amaechi, and showing how he was not a friend, but a case in which Amaechi needed him more. He problematizes the concept of ambition saying he did not want to be governor, but Rotimi created the vacuum by defecting to the APC. Full of fierce language and defiance, Wike offers the book an acerbic breath of fresh air. I hope the author will give Amaechi an opportunity in part two of “The Big Interviews.” The interview signposts the two men as the great foes of this generation. If Useni’s interview is funny, Ahmed Sani’s is troubling. One may sniff a Freudian origin to what some have seen as his sectarian fanaticism. He says his mother was brutal to him, always beating him up. Is that the origin of his love of extreme faith? Akpabio speaks with gusto, with verve, and apart from his extraordinary work in turning a state into infrastructural marvel, Akpabio’s great achievement must be what he did in the field of education, in which he deprived Nigerians of the Akpana and Ekaettes as house helps. We also gain insights into his politics, which he sugar-coats a little, but his fight with Attah, his predecessor bristles in the interview. WE cannot forget that only two woman are in the book. We could do with more, and the geographic spread shows more northern players. The southwest gets two, Tinubu and Etteh,  two big ones. The east gets one, the Ikemba, also a big one. Soldiers and ex-soldiers play a big role, reflecting the shadow the military era still casts over the country. I believe, though, we could do with more “pure” civilians. One notable flaw in the book is that the interviews are not dated for most part, and the reader has to guess the time by the topics. Mike Awoyinfa, in his blurb, says this book will help younger journalists. He is right. But, as they say, it is also a first draft of history. Many can peer into the souls of those who made Nigeria the enigma it is today of a country that was full of potential five decades ago, and today it is still full of potential. I agree with Tam David West of blessed memory that his Osagie is “one of the most engaging interviewers and best journalists,” in Nigeria today. He reflects the variegated character of an interview. Sometimes he applies the Socratic method, sometimes he shows empathy, sometimes humour, sometimes boyish curiosity, sometimes subtle jab, sometimes a combatant, but always seeking after the truth. I therefore recommend this book as it adds to the dialogue of what we know as Nigeria today.