The National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) has said digitalisation of insurance is no longer an option. Speaking at this year’s seminar for insurance reporters in Kano, Kano State, on Monday, Acting Commissioner for Insurance, Mr. Sunday Thomas, said digitalising insurance has become an imperative. He said: “Digitisation of insurance business is no longer an option, but an imperative which we all have to work towards its actualisation. As we may all be aware, the industry is currently lagging behind other financial services sectors in this area. The Commission is working vigorously to see that all its operations are digitalised.” Thomas said the Commission also plans to shift focus to market development this year, adding that the second phase of the Market Development and Restructuring Initiative (MDRI) will soon be unveiled and will mark out clear targets and tasks for all stakeholders in the industry. He said: “Going forward, we shall vigorously pursue the continued implementation of Compulsory Insurances in every nook and crannies of the country. We are certainly not unaware of the challenges inhibiting the successful implementation of these classes of insurance thus far hence, our resolve to work with relevant stakeholders to ensure a seamless drive. Indeed, the successful implementation of compulsory classes of insurance across the nation will ensure adequate protection of our strategic national assets.” Speaking on recapitalisation, Thomas said its essence is  to ensure that the industry becomes more robust in its technical competence and financial base, building confidence, trust and enhancing market value adding that it is aimed at repositioning the sector for self-actualisation in terms of growth and development. “The financial inclusion strategy has been central to the Federal Government developmental plan and the Commission has over the years invested hugely in the development of financial inclusion mechanisms which includes the introduction of Micro insurance and Takaful Insurance products. “The introduction of these lines of insurance is intended to deepen the penetration of insurance in the country and bring into the fold majority of the populace that are hitherto excluded. So far, some milestones have been recorded in this regard with three standalone Micro insurance and four Takaful insurance companies already granted approvals. “The Commission shall continue to deploy more energy and resources in building public trust and confidence in insurance despite years of poor perception.” On annuity, he said the business has impacted positively on the industry, adding that the public is becoming more exposed and knowledgeable about the workings of Annuity, which will continue as the future is looking very bright for the business. The NAICOM chief assured that the Commission is committed to ensuring financial soundness and viability of the insurers and the adequate protection of policyholders at all times adding that the commission going forward will work with the relevant security agencies to guarantee effective and efficient monitoring of compliance. “We will continue to ensure that genuine claims are promptly paid while also ensuring a reasonable protection of investments of shareholders,” he said, adding that in demonstrating its willingness to protect the policyholders, the Commission has further strengthened its Complaint Bureau Unit to respond to public complaints over claims settlement. “Available statistics have shown that there have been great improvement in this area. Ensuring the right pricing of insurance products and effective deployment of technology for ease of transaction are among the key areas the Commission will be emphasising this year. He assured stakeholders that the Commission will continue to introduce new reforms and initiatives in line with international best practices for attaining the level of growth and development desired for the sector.