 OVER 100 million persons in Nigeria are at risk of one or more of the neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) in the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), the Fedral Government has said. Globally, over 1.5 billion people are affected by at least one NTD. Health Minister Dr. Osagie Ehanire addressed reporters on Thursday in Abuja during the commemoration of this years’ World Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTDs) day with theme: Beat NTDs: For Good; For All. The minister explained that NTDS are old diseases that prevail in poor countries and that they have been almost totally eliminated in developed countries. He said: “Nigeria’s large population makes it a prominent endemic country for NTDs in sub-Saharan Africa, with over 100 million persons at risk of one or more of the neglected tropical diseases in all 36 states and the FCT. “Most of the affected people live in locations under poor conditions with limited or no access to education and healthcare services and amenities, like portable water, sanitation or knowledge of hygiene. NTDs can result in blindness, deafness, in various forms of physical disabilities and disfigurement. “NTDs are diverse groups of communicable diseases in tropical and sub-tropical conditions. These diseases are singled out because of their adverse impact, relative obscurity, and the availability of tools to combat them. They are usually often an overlooked cause of misery. “People afflicted by these diseases are usually poor, vulnerable and left on their own to face the debilitating consequences of the NTDs. There are over 20 of these diseases – blinding trachoma, buruli ulcer, guinea worm, endemic treponematoses, sleeping sickness, leprosy, lymphatic filariasis (elephantiasis), Onchocerciasis (river blindness), rabies, scabies, snakebite, among others.” He added: “Child NTDs-sufferers shy away from attending school, grow up with no skills and are hindered in basic occupation, like farming and fishing, or any avenue of earning a living. They are thus trapped in a cycle of diseases and poverty. “NTDs and poverty are, therefore, so interlinked that fighting NTDs has direct benefit on productivity and ability of citizens to contribute to the nation’s GDP. Therefore, NTD elimination also eliminates poverty. “The government and development partners have been working together to tackle the scourge of NTDs, and Nigeria’s plan for action for 2013 to 2020 was supported and executed by the federal, states and local governments. “The focused execution of the plans of action led to incredible successes being recorded. This includes the eradication of guinea worm from Nigeria; the elimination of lymphatic filariasis (elephantiasis) in Plateau and Nasarawa states; elimination of Onchocerciasis (river blindness) from Kaduna, Plateau and Nasarawa states; and the elimination of blinding trachoma from 84 local government areas of the 112 where it is endemic. “With the dawn of a new decade shall continue to strengthen our health system, pursue opportunities for mainstreaming NTD control within several programs of our Ministry of Health, aiming to provide universal health coverage for citizens. The 2013 – 2020 master plan will be evaluated to ensure seamless continuation to a 2021 – 2025 plan in order to sustain the gains made so far.” The Officer-in-Charge of the World Health Organization (WHO) Nigeria, Dr. Clemet Peter, explained that although treatments for NTDS are accessible, Nigerians must make sure that everyone eligible is aware of it and gets treatment to eradicate the disease.