At night, the activity of the market is reduced. That is why all those who run their deals during the day say that trading is ineffective at night. However, oddly enough, it is precisely because of the low activity and no global changes on the market that very profitable deals are made during the nighttime. At night, the Forex trading space is flat. Almost all this time, the price changes within a fairly narrow range. Lateral movement is more clearly limited by the levels of resistance and support, respectively. It is this circumstance that makes it possible to predict the development of particular finance trends. The absence of high volatility at night makes trading more risk-free and stable. However, the volatility of various exchange assets in this period varies as well. The lull period begins after midnight time. The activity of brokers is sharply reduced as most of them complete trade deals at that time. All the above circumstances minimize stocks market activity. An hour later, traders from Japan begin to join the work, which leads to an increase in volatility in the assets with the presence of the Japanese Yen. The output of Japanese statistics determines the strongest price movement. Some experienced participants of the exchange market try to refrain from trading at this moment due to the unpredictability of price fluctuations.  Nighttime is the right time for scalping strategies in Alpari or any other web solutions. In this case, 5-10 points of profit is an indicator of a good trading result. At night, channel strategies and resistance levels are great helpers on Alpari. Despite the low volatility, most transactions are predictable, and their lead time is minimal. For a short time interval, it is possible to enter the industry much more often than in the daytime and close the position for both buying and selling profitably. Sometimes the lot volume can be increased, but you should always adhere to the rule of wise money management, using no more than 5% of your deposit per trading operation. Fans of night trading should consider several specs that will allow them to enter the market with greater confidence and accumulate a profit. Initially, you ought to decide on a trading tool. Monetary assets should have a minimum spread. Do not rely on large profits with small market fluctuations. At night, GBPCHF, EURCHF, EURGBP work well. The financial calendar for these assets is empty; there are no news publications; the risk is minimal. Some investors, in the pursuit of greater profit, choose assets with the Japanese yen. The most common are AUDJPY, USDJPY, EURJPY, and GBPJPY. But you should always remember about the big risks associated with a decent profit. The use of the Metatrader 4 solutions and Metatrader 5 set will also help you a lot. 