 THE Finance Act 2020 which raised the Value Added Tax (VAT) rate to 7.5 per cent from five per cent will make the states financially viable, a report has predicted. The report by Financial Derivatives Company Limited (FDC) said with the 50 per cent increase in VAT, state governments will now be in a stronger position to meet their wage and other financial obligations. The Act also states that Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) with turnover lower than N25 million will be tax exempt. However, the consumers’ disposable income will be negatively affected in the short run whilst aggregate demand for commodities will fall. The FDC report says: “The new VAT rate of 7.5 per cent is to kick in immediately. The knock on effect on consumer prices is likely to drive up inflation from the estimated rate of 12 per cent in December to 13 per cent in January.” In another report from Afrinvest West Africa Limited titled: The Approved 7.5 per cent VAT Rate will Not Be a Silver Bullet,” said the review was the first since January 1, 1994 when the five per cent VAT came into being. The report said: “The increase is primarily to support the finances of states as the new minimum wage of N30,000/month becomes effective. The increase in VAT rate is unsurprising as governments have been keen but civil protests had led to reluctance despite Nigeria’s low VAT rate relative to peer economies. “Nigeria’s VAT rate at five per cent is the lowest among African peers such as Kenya (16 per cent), South Africa (15 per cent), Egypt (14 per cent) and Ghana (12.5 per cent). Similarly, VAT receipts to GDP is only 0.9 per cent of GDP compared with three per cent in ECOWAS and Commonwealth countries according to PwC.” According to the report which was emailed to investors, Afrinvest said the increase in VAT would generate additional N479.7 billion in revenues based on the N1.1 trillion collected in 2018. Also, based on the sharing formula, the Federal Government is expected to receive additional N72 billion (15 per cent), states to receive N239.8 billion (50 per cent) and Local Government Areas ,N167.9 billion (35 per cent) on implementation. “While the states would receive a significant boost, the increase is unlikely to make a dent on Federal Government’s fiscal deficit which we estimate at N3.4 trillion in 2019. “We believe the Federal Government requires a significant revenue boost, which would come elsewhere. “Our analysis shows that removing petrol subsidies and adopting a market reflective exchange rate of N360/$1 for the computation of oil receipts would increase Federal Government’s revenue by N880 billion.” Continuing, it said that while it aligns with the age-long call to boost non-oil revenue, analysts believe the Federal Government has chosen an easy but less impactful route with the increment in VAT. It said: “The increase should be part of a comprehensive fiscal reform package that would seek to boost collection efficiency, rein in recurrent spending, remove subsidies and widen the tax net. “In the broader economy, we expect the adjustment to VAT to lead to higher consumer prices and in turn inflation. The attendant weakness to consumer spending would also impact growth negatively.”