In its present form, Nigeria’s democracy is now in its twenty-first year. Translated to human life, this should be a year of special celebration just as many adolescent boys and girls pay special attention to their twenty-first birthday anniversary. The question is whether there is anything worthy of celebration in our democracy just yet. The answer is both Yes and No. We have done well with the appearance of democracy. We have a constitution. There are three branches of government—executive, legislature, and judiciary. The democracy is renewed every four years through elections. We even have an electoral umpire that has the word “independent” in its name. Above all, we are represented on international fora as a democracy. In outward appearance, ours is a presidential democracy like the United State’s. The lack of interruption to 21 years of democracy, the longest in Nigeria’s post-independence history, would appear to seal this appearance of democracy. Of particular significance in this regard was the celebrated transition of power from one political party (the Peoples Democratic Party) to another (the All Progressives Congress) in 2015. As the first such transition without much rancour in history, this particular transition was set in sharp relief by the destructive protests which accompanied the immediately preceding presidential election of 2011. Another veneer of democracy in Nigeria is the existence of various electronic and print media outlets for the publication of political information that are not under the control of the government or a single group. This is augmented by a Freedom of Information Act, which has the appearance of facilitating access to information, that is, information that the government is willing to release. By contrast, however, we have failed woefully with the substance of democracy. The pillars on which successful democracies rest are shaky at best. The pillars include virile political parties; a credible system for democratic renewal through free and fair elections; informed citizen participation and control of the agenda; fundamental human rights, including freedom of expression and association; and a rule of law in which all citizens are guaranteed equality before the law. What this means is that we have all the necessary institutions for democracy to thrive but our democracy has been wobbly. There are far too many reasons for this situation. Only a few of them could be reviewed here and in no particular order. Our political parties are particularly weak. They focus mainly on gaining power by concocting a manifesto and a slogan along the way. True, Nigerian political parties have found ways of performing the primary role putting up candidates for election and selecting others for political offices, this role has never been performed without major hitches. This is evident during party primaries, which are typified by thuggery, various types of disruptive behaviour, and “money bags”, that is, the purchase of the outcome by those who can afford it. Worse still, these practices are usually carried over into general elections, where the stakes are even hire. To further complicate matters, the competition for position within and between political parties is often subject to geographical, ethnic, and religious considerations. The result is the clamour for zoning during every election cycle. The goal of ensuring power rotation through zoning obscures, if not eliminates, competence and leadership qualifications, especially for executive positions, such as President or Governor. Given the relative correspondence between geographical location, on the one hand, and ethnicity, language, and religion, on the other hand, zoning and power rotation will continue to perpetuate the place of these cleavages in the selection of candidates for elective and appointive offices by political parties. With all these cleavages in the background, the competition for power has become more and more competitive over the last 20 years. Besides, political corruption has turned politics into a money-making business. This explains why elections became a “do or die” affair in the land. An unpleasant consequence of this cut-throat competition for power is the loss of mutual tolerance between competing political parties, which has turned friends and relatives into enemies. Yet, mutual tolerance between the party in power and the opposition is among the requirements for nurturing a democracy. At the end of the day, politicians tend to prioritise self over the electorate, vested interest over national interest, and personal gain over common or public good. The result is endemic corruption, which leads to drastic shortages in the provision and distribution of political rewards, commonly regarded in Nigeria as the dividends of democracy. Whoever is interested in the relationship between democracy and development may be surprised at the negative outcome in Nigeria, given the nation’s oil resources, the high number of universities, and a highly developed professional class. Another major drag on Nigerian democracy is the poverty in the land, which makes the electorate an easy target for bribery, leading to practices, such as vote buying, and recruitment into thuggery for a fee. Not even the assortment of security agencies, often drafted as electoral monitors are able to escape the lure of bribes. These practices further corrupt the electoral system and make efficient monitoring of the system extremely difficult for the electoral umpire. Poverty is complicated by low or no literacy in the rural areas, which makes electoral manipulation even easier to accomplish. These problems will persist so long as poverty persists on the present large scale and so long as literacy education continues to be devalued by federal and many state governments. In recent years, the focus has been on security, which is supposed to be one of the primary functions of government. People have been dying on the streets, on their farms, and in their homes in the hands of insurgents, herdsmen, kidnappers, robbers, policemen, and other unknown assailants. The present administration has been particularly criticized for acting too late, too slowly, or not at all. At the same time, the administration has been roundly criticized for acting too fast, to suppress protests and groups calling for self actualisation on their own terms. The recent case of Omoyele Sowore drew international outcry over prolonged incarceration and shameful rearrest in open court hours after he was released. It was a face-saving act by the government to have released him on bail on Christmas eve. The government’s full redemption will follow Sowore’s unconditional release and the dismissal of charges against him. The way forward will be charted next week, when recommendations will be suggested for improvement. Happy New Year everyone.