The All Progressive Congress (APC) in Bauchi state has vowed to unseat governor Bala Mohammed of the Peoples Democratic Party in 2023 governorship elections. The party has also declared that it has accepted in good faith the Supreme Court judgement which affirmed the election of Governor Bala Mohammed in the last 2019 elections. Recall the suit filed by APC and its defeated candidate, ex-governor Mohammed Abubakar, at the apex court was dismissed for lacking in merit. The lingering litigations therefore came to an end with the final judgement by the apex court but the party has said it would rise again despite the setback. The state chairman of the party in the state, Uba Nana, disclosed the position of the party to newsmen in Bauchi, the state capital. He said “Both the party leaders, the candidate and party members have collectively tried our best possible in pursuing that our noble goal, but God in his own wisdom has predestined what had happened and as true believers we accept it in good faith for in every business there are two sides to a coin, whichever one comes our way, we accept it in good faith,” He said. Nana noted that losing the court cases will not deter the party from forging ahead. He therefore urged the teaming supporters to remain calm, law abiding and much more committed to the party so that it can unseat the PDP government in 2023. ”We are therefore calling on our teaming supporters to remain calm, law abiding and much more committed to the party than never before so that we can be able to unseat the PDP government in 2023 InshaAllahu,” In another development, the New Nigeria Peoples Party in Bauchi has described the upholding of Governor Bala Mohammed election by the Supreme Court as a victory for the down-trodden. The only ANPP lawmaker in the State House of Assembly, representing Bauchi Central constituency, Hon. Jamilu Umaru Dahiru disclosed this while reacting to the judgment. Hon. Jamilu Umaru Dahiru said it was a run-over judgment as the Elections Petition Tribunal in Bauchi and an Appellate Court in Jos has already upheld the election of the governor. He therefore commended the Judiciary for its just and fair judgment and urged it to maintain the tempo for the peaceful co-existence of the diverse ethnic groups in the country.