Security sources have informed that about five Boko Haram were killed at Mainok town along Damaturu/Maiduguri road on Tuesday. The source, which does not want to be mentioned because he is not permitted to give official information, said: “ the bad boys came in six gun trucks thinking they will dislodge us but we gave them a heavy blow. “We killed about six of them and many of them disembarked from their vehicles and ran away into the bush. We pursued some and arrested them,” the source disclosed. Mainok is about 50k km away from Maiduguri and close to 80km from Damaturu, Yobe State capital. A commercial driver along Damaturu/Maiduguri road, who witnessed a fraction of the fight on his way to Maiduguri said, he saw soldiers pursuing one Boko Haram boys into the bush. “We came into Mainok shortly after the fight was over but we still saw soldiers pursuing one Boko Haram into the bush. He was running and firing in the air but the soldiers caught up with him and arrested him,” Haruna disclosed. He added: “We saw about three dead bodies on the ground. I suspect they were Boko Haram that were killed. I also saw one car that was burnt and one of the vehicles of Boko Haram was seized by the soldiers. “Though the road was free and we were moving, there was still fear in many of my passengers,” Haruna explained. The Damaturu/Maiduguri road, which is the only road linking Maiduguri to the other parts of Nigeria, has come under incessant attacks by the Boko insurgents recently. In the last few weeks, the insurgents have killed and kidnapped travelers and security agents on the road without hindrance. Only last week, a soldier and his wife returning on pass from Kaduna were abducted by the insurgents who mounted a check-point dressed in military uniform with military vehicles. A few days ago, some eight female travelers were also whisked away by the insurgents all within the Mainok, Jakaka and Auno axis of the road which is the worse portion of the highway in terms of the condition of the road. Three of Dangote’s trucks were also burnt by the insurgents Construction of the failed portions of the road has also stopped as the contractors have all packed out for the safety of their staffs and equipment. The renewed attacks along the road have seriously reduced flow of traffic on the highway, making it a death trap. Meanwhile Nigerian Army has announced designated check-points along the maiduguri highway. The Theatre Commander Operation Lafiya Dole, Maj. Gen. OG Adeniyi disclosed this at a press briefing in Maiduguri. “The only official checkpoints are at Benisheikh, Jakana, Auno, Mainok and Njimtilo. All the checkpoints are located in towns. Travelers should be wary of any checkpoint in wastelands and empty bushes,” Maj. Gen. Adeniyi explained.