The condition of the Health Centre in Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko (AAUA) can best be described as ‘pitiable’. The situation has become so serious that students of the institution prefer clinics outside AAUA premises. ROLAND BAYODE, DEBORAH OMOARE AND RACHEL DARAMOLA, all 300-Level Mass Communication undergraduates report:  The Health Centre of Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko (AAUA), is a shadow of itself. The loss of faith in the institution’s Health Centre can be attributed to various factors: lack of adequate facilities and drugs, and personnel, among others, students say. To make matters worse, students often complain about the unfriendly attitude by its workers. Our CAMPUSLIFE correspondent learnt that students, upon resumption, are made to pay an initial N3,500 as medical fee, while N1000 is paid in subsequent sessions. Students and workers have expressed their views on the condition of the health facility, urging the institution’s leadership to  do something about it. But AAUA leadership has countered the students’ position, saying many of them often fail to comply with the rules; yet they are ready to shout at the rooftops at the slightest infractions. Students are also divided over the state of the centre with some believing things could be improved if enough facilities are put in place. “I have been to the Health Centre twice or more,” said a 400-Level Adult Education undergraduate Segun Afolayan. “I usually observe that there are many patients, but insufficient drugs. Most times, the medical personnel won’t attend to us on time. When it comes to drug dispensary, they often tell us to get our drugs from outside or we should be given part of the drugs, but which most times leave us worse than when we visited. “One Saturday, I was very sick and went to the Health Centre. The doctor was not in the office. After waiting for several hours, I had to leave due to the intense pains I had.” Afolayan described most nurses on duty as ‘impolite’. “There are nurses whose approach to us is impolite. They easily get annoyed. Their attitude has discouraged many students from visiting the centre,” he added. A 200-Level student from the Department of Mass Communication, who pleaded anonymity, revealed that the centre dispenses ‘only paracetamol’ for most patients. “The services rendered at the Health Centre are nothing to write about. The only drug they often have is paracetamol. That aside, some of the staff members are not encouraging us. I always go to clinics outside the campus for treatment. My hope is that the centre should be adequately funded and supervised to meet the necessary requirements,” said the source. A final year student, Adedara Oluwasina from the Department of Geology, believes the school’s Health Centre could live up to expectation, if adequately equipped. “The workers attend to studentsvery well, especially when you are with your (registration) card, but if you are not, their reception to you might be poor,” said Oluwasina. Oluwasina continued: “Sometimes it looks somehow. They might have accident  or other emergency victims. What if the victim has no (Health Centre) card? Does that imply that the victim would be ignored to death? They should improve on this.” Alawode Hannah Oyinloluwa, a second year Animal Science student, also re-echoed Oluwasina’s sentiment. “AAUA Health Centre is okay,” argued Oyinoluwa. “From what I have seen from my friends, their service is okay, even though I haven’t been there for treatment. The only problem is that the centre is too far from the hostel.’’ “Sometimes people collapse in the middle of the night when the ambulance is not usually available, and this could result to death. Going by my experience to the facility, I can boldly say some nurses are harsh and talk to students anyhow. While some treat them with carelessness, others are nice, accommodating and caring.” Aladejana Aduragbemi Samuel, a 300-Level student of Linguistics and Languages, agreed with Oyinoluwa. Nonetheless, she has a grouse with them. “The treatment at the Health Centre is okay,” she began. “When I went there for treatment, I was treated well and the drugs administered were effective, but the workers are very mean. They don’t have soothing words for patients. They just treat them as if they were not entitled to the facility. “My advice to the leadership (of the Health Centre) is to improve on their human relations to patients. They should also learn how to accord patients a fair treatment.” Aduragbemi’s course mate, Adetola Adeyemi, recounted her experience. Hear her: “I recall how as a 100-Level student, I visited the Health Centre to treat malaria. Unfortunately, I didn’t see the doctor. I regretted ever going there. “How could one go to a school’s Health Centre and the doctor was not on duty? “I went back when I was in 200-Level, but behold, the story is still the same. “I think doctors should be on duty round the clock. Besides, I paid the fee for the Health Centre, got the card, but I couldn’t make use of it. It becomes useless. I have already made up my mind not to visit the place again until I graduate.” But Mr Victor Malaya, who heads the varsity’s Counselling Unit, described some utterance by the students as ‘unfair’. Malaya said oftentimes, students were unwilling to own up wherever they went wrong. “There is no unit in the university that is a death trap, but students won’t tell you their own side of the story,” Malaya said. “At the Health Centre, you are expected to register. Find out the percentage of students who have registered vis-a-vis the number of students that visit the centre. With the little experience that I have, a Health Centre is a place that students should visit regularly. I want students to understand that every staff member of the university is here for them. We are here to  serve  the students; students are like our customers. Without them, we won’t be here. “The students are our priority, and they are like our own children. We may not be 100 per cent good. If there is anything that students observe is below standard, they should forward their complaint to the Director of the Health Centre or the Dean of Student Affairs.”  Similarly, Director of the centre Dr Mathew Igboku, insists there is cordial relationship between the health personnel and the students. Igboku attributed the reason for the behaviour of some nurses to work pressure and students’ attitude. “The nurses have very cordial relationship with the students,” Igbokwu told CAMPUSLIFE. Igboku continued: “There are situations where the nurses even buy food for students before they give them injection. But there can sometimes be pressure at work, which has also happened to me. “If you visit the wards, you would see  many students and there are cases of emergencies too. Nurses are obligated to document some findings about the students. For instance, a nurse could ask a patient: ‘What is your name?’ and student responds: “Is it my name that is important to you right now or getting urgent treatment?’ “Nowadays, students are very impatient, and the nurses due to work pressure, might ask such student to be patient. However, students will misinterpret the conduct of the nurses as being harsh. They (nurses) are mothers too and they have children in universities.” Countering the students’ earlier reactions, Igboku told CAMPUSLIFE that the Health Centre often show benevolence to patients who are yet to register. “Although a good percentage of students have registered, even if you are not registered and you come to the Health Centre, we’ll go ahead and treat you considering the severity of your illness. This is because there is space for emergency cards. We can never turn any student away because he/she does not have a Health Centre card. Nevertheless, assuming you have catarrh and you come to lodge a complaint and you have not registered, we would not like that because you are supposed to have registered. What does it take to register? It only takes the receipt of your school fee.