In the concluding part of his series, CHINAKA OKORO writes that collaboration of non-governmental organisations (NGOs) with the Federal Government will bring about the needed respite.  Realising that government alone could not bring about the needed switch to clean cooking, non-governmental organisations and other agencies have joined efforts with government to clean cooking switch. Such organisation is the Friends of the Environment (FOTE). Programmes Director, Friends of the Environment (FOTE) Kunbi Adesokan, said her organisation, which is a not-for-profit, non-political and non-governmental organisation (NGO) was incorporated in January, 1993 under the laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria for initiatives in the vital areas of environmental awareness and education, even as she added that FOTE is currently working on popularising the use of cleaner, modern fuel in the form of LPG, and create sustainable markets for its consumption and use in households, institutions (e.g. boarding schools) and small businesses in Nigeria for improved living conditions and enhanced forest conservation through reduced fuel wood consumption. With the support of UNDP/SGP, the first round of campaign took place in 2010/2011 in Lagos State under the administration of Governor Fashola, who provided the co-funding. The campaign covered several local government areas, including Agege, Itire-Ikate, Lagos Island East, Ojo, Orile Agege and Badagry, among other areas. A more recent campaign was started under the same funding arrangement. This time, Zenith Bank Plc provided the counterpart funding in the first workshop carried out in Epe Local Government Area, Ibeju Lekki Local Council Development Area (LCDA) in Lagos State. She noted that clean cooking is cooking with clean and efficient fuels such as LPG, which, she said avoids air pollution caused by the smoke arising from less efficient fuels, such as firewood or charcoal which is one of the characteristics of dirty cooking. On how dangerous cooking with firewood could be, Adesokan said: “Cooking with firewood is drudgery, has health implications and is detrimental to the environment in terms of deforestation and land degradation. The smoke inhaled as a result of cooking with firewood creates a massive, yet ‘invisible’, public health crisis. Poor women in rural and semi-urban areas spend much of each day indoors at the cooking fire. “Recent reviews by the World Health Organisation (WHO) showed that inhaling indoor smoke doubles the risk of pneumonia and other acute infections of the lower respiratory tract among children under five.” Saying women and girls suffer most from the effects of dirty cooking, Adesokan said: “As primary caretakers in the household and also the typical gender-based division of labour found all over the world, lack of access to clean, modern energy services has a pervasive and severe impact on the lives of women and girls. “According to the World Bank, 1.8 billion women in the world lack access to clean energy. These women rely solely on traditional fuel sources such as firewood and charcoal for cooking. As a result women suffer (i) the burden of fuel collection, (ii) ‘invisible’ health crisis, and (iii) the daily drudgery of ‘un-mechanised’ life. On how to address the problem, the Programmes Director said “government, including policy makers for energy, health, environment and education, in partnership with the diverse public, civil society organisations, private sector actors and other stakeholders, can adopt a number of measures to facilitate the adoption of clean cooking solutions. “These include evidence-based policies and plans to increase access to clean and modern cooking energy; improving access to both corporate and consumer finance; mainstreaming clean cooking into related development interventions, such as those impacting health, gender, climate, and environment; as well as periodic assessments of impact on health, environment, climate, gender and livelihood.” Expressing regrets that some socio-cultural and economic phenomena still encourage the practice to thrive, she said “access of the poor to electricity, which is the most sought-after source of energy, is often limited because of high cost. The poor usually lack the purchasing power in the absence of financial support and alternatives. Thus, most poor people currently meet the bulk of their energy needs by collecting fuelwood, biomass and other less efficient energy sources, thereby foregoing the benefits of energy services that could have been used to promote income generation and poverty reduction. “In general, therefore, the poor suffer from what K.V. Ramani in his article “Energy for Sustainable Development”, regarded as “a vicious circle of energy poverty whereby the inability to buy energy services results in low productivity, low quality of outputs and an inability to release labour for economic activity which, in turn, lead to low returns on investment and labour inputs, again limiting the capacity for energy investment” She urged the government to tackle challenges in the areas of availability, affordability, accessibility and awareness of alternative sources of energy available in the country. “This”, she said, “government could do through awareness creation on energy alternatives, providing access to both consumer and corporate finance and establishing an enabling policy environment in order to promote a sustained switch to clean cooking.” On how women would benefit from such a move, Adesokan said: “Women access to modern energy services will liberate and empower them. Time formerly spent in collecting biomass fuels can instead be devoted to increased education, literacy and income-generating activities. Sharing his thoughts on clean cooking as an alternative to dirty cooking during The Morning Show programme on Arise News Channel recently, Stanley Igwebuike Ijeoma, a Climate Change expert said a situation in which there is climate change on one hand and women dying due to cooking with firewood on the other is a huge problem.  Blaming the situation on ignorance, he noted that the women don’t know what they are doing to themselves by cutting down trees for firewood with which they cook, even as he added that the action causes erosion because trees enhance the soil structure. It becomes very difficult for flood to erode top soil. When the trees are no longer there, you now have land erosion as we are experiencing in the Southeast where we are carrying out the pilot for the clean cooking project. “We are tackling the problem simultaneously because we want to displace dirty cooking done with firewood with clean cooking done with gas and other forms of renewable energy. Revealing that four Nigerian cities are among the 20 worst cities which WHO said are filled with deadly particulate, Ijeoma, who is also Nigeria Country Representative and Member of the Committee of Chairs on the Board of World Council for Renewable Energy (WCRE) and Chief Executive Officer of Schrodinger Greentech, a Nigerian-based corporate climate change consultancy firm said: “We’ve been talking about subsidy transition, which entails that government should use part of what it pays to people bringing in petroleum products to make the transition realistic in Nigeria. If we have this problem of our women dying as a result of using firewood to cook and PMS and NGO are being subsidised is a misnomer. Government can use part of the subsidy to create a billion dollar market from the clean cooking stoves.”  Why traditional cooking methods still thrive For households in developing countries such as Nigeria, it is common for rural households to use firewood as their main source of cooking energy. The use of firewood in rural areas is still predominant since it is often the only available, accessible and affordable fuel in the region.  Ease of access Accessibility of firewood is a crucial factor for households using firewood for cooking purpose, especially in rural areas where alternative fuels such as LPG are often not reliably available. Households can collect firewood close to their homesteads at all times due to the fact that it is available year-round and not susceptible to heavy seasonal fluctuations. Nonetheless, where firewood is decreasingly available, people are faced with ever-increasing distances and must therefore expend more labour and time to collect firewood, particularly in unfertile areas.  Within one’s means Being within the reach of the poor rural dwellers is most important reason people still use firewood for cooking. Considering that many households can collect firewood for free, it will remain the cheapest energy source for cooking and heating. If firewood is purchased at the firewood market, households can choose to only acquire small amounts of wood, which allows for a degree of financial flexibility.  Acceptability Preference for firewood for cooking is very high as it has been used since ancient times and has shaped people’s cooking habits.  Solutions For a successful and sustained switch from dirty cooking to clean cooking method, there must be unpretentious commitment to enhance the availability, affordability and tolerability of the liquefied petroleum gas, even as a regulatory framework that supports the usage of LPG by all needs to be in place.  Favourable LPG pricing policy For this to be realistic, experts say, price subsidies should be introduced on LPG, while the subsidy for kerosene should be phased out. One way to discourage the use of kerosene is to phase out the subsidy on the fuel. The economy as well as people’s health would be more positively affected by a subsidy on LPG than the existing one on kerosene.  Increased access to cleaner fuels Increasing access to cleaner fuels will alleviate the adverse health, environment and socio-economic impacts of traditional cooking practices.  Elimination of energy poverty Again, there is the need to eradicate energy poverty, which the International Energy Agency (IEA) and other organisations described as lack of access to electricity and clean cooking and heating systems. Statistics from the World Bank indicates that around 1.1 billion people have no access to electricity, and almost three billion still cook with polluting fuels such as kerosene, wood, charcoal and dung. Since socio-economic development is a function of availability of electricity, development economists are of the view that energy poverty in Nigeria creates a feedback circle that contributes to the perpetuation of poverty. This has become a serious concern particularly since Nigeria has been pronounced as the world’s poverty capital in the stead of India.  Rigorous sensitisation In the circumstances, there is the urgent need for Nigeria to evolve a national strategy that will promote awareness to households regarding the adverse consequences of cooking smoke and helping the poor to start using cleaner, safer cooking options, including LPG, natural gas, biogas, or efficient stoves. Nigeria being a major exporter of LPG; the issue of availability should not arise.