A 104-year-old woman, Margret Onwuelo, has decried the alleged demolition of her bungalow over a land tussle involving family members at Umuenem Otolo Nnewi, Anambra State. The Nation gathered that the house was allegedly demolished by hoodlums, who brought a bulldozer. It was learnt that the thugs were allegedly hired by those interested in taking over the land where the old woman’s apartment was situated. A resident, who preferred anonymity, said that the hoodlums stormed the area in company of highly placed persons said to be land developers. He said: “The hoodlums, mostly strangers, arrived in batches at about 9am and suddenly increased in number while waiting for their backers, who on arrival, pointed at the house from about 100 metres away. “They pulled down virtually all structures in the area after securing an order to act from their backers. The old woman’s house was affected. “They pulled down the fence, broke the store in front of the house and made away with all the items, including drinks and money.” Narrating her ordeal to reporters, Mrs. Onwuelo linked the attack to a land tussle following the death of her eldest son. She said: “I’ve been under pressure from some highly placed persons close to my family to give up the land, but I refused because the land belongs to me. “My husband and I, the late Chief Edward Onwuelo, acquired the land in 1953 with 50 pounds. Some people suddenly became desperate to take over the land after the death of my eldest son.” Alleging a plot by the perpetrators to eliminate her, so as to take over the land, the centenarian said she was, however, grateful to God that she narrowly escaped death. “I lost everything inside the house, including my medications. I’m surviving through the help of neighbours and relations,” she said. Mama Onwuelo implored Governor Willie Obiano, well- meaning people, philanthropists, churches and non-governmental organisations to assist her. Police spokesman Haruna Mohammed said the command was yet to be informed about the incident. He advised the old woman to report the matter to the police.