The founder of Bendel Schools Reunion UK, Ambassador Oloye Ken, paid a visit to Nigeria during the Yuletide season. During the short visit, he took out time to visit associates, communities and supportive corporate organisations to inform them about the successes of the Bendel schools Reunion and Friends Annual Summer get-together in the UK in previous years. In Edo state, he was received warmly by the Edo State APC Chairman, Barrister Anslem Ojezua, who is also an old boy of Immaculate Conception College (ICC) and Ambrose Ali University respectively. Ojezua applauded Ken for bringing old school mates and Nigerians together in the United Kingdom, stating that “we shouldn’t relent in our efforts in giving back to our community.” Ken also paid courtesy visit to Mr. Tony Anenih Jnr. the Commissioner of Environment in Bayelsa state and also made stop overs to see Mrs. Regina Jemide, the Vice President of Emotan Primary Schools (EPSOSA). He was also with ace comedian Ali Baba, Mr Udens Eradiri, who graduated from University of Benin and the former President of Emotan Primary School Old Students Association, Mr. Tunde Olukoga, Dame Omololu,  Ojehomon,  Honourable Emmanuel Usoh, Ewere Osaigbobu, Vice President Ehizogie Agenmomen, Mr. and Mrs. Amadasun (UOSA), Mr. Sulai Aledeh and a few others who he presented with the re-union publications. Ken said: “Most of us have not seen each other for over three decades, decades since we left school and that is why I understand that the reunion get-together is always so dear to the heart of many of us and it gives us an opportunity to see one another and re-kindle age long friendships. “I want to congratulate Western Boys High school Old Boys Association (WOBA) on the success of their first ever reunion and end of year Party held in London recently and also St Maria Goretti Alumni UK and Eghosa Grammar School Alumi UK end of year Party which took place in London recently. “Bendel Schools Reunion and Friends is not affiliated to any political, religious or ethnic organizations. Our goal has always been reuniting old friends and lost school mates, sharing progressive social-economic aspirations, ideas and projects whilst creating new associations and foundations. “Our uniqueness remains our connectivity for a stronger collective goal for the empowerment of our community where we are our brothers and sisters’ keepers. Our re-union event will be held next year in Nigeria, God willing.”