Ebonyi State Government says it plans to empower over 145 former cultists, who recently renounced membership of cults. Acting Commissioner for Human Capital Development and Monitoring Uchenna Orji, who spoke in Abakaliki, said: “The governor of Ebonyi State, David Nweze Umahi, has approved the documentation of the repented cultists for their participation in the New Life Empowerment Programme of the government.” Orji, who is also the commissioner for Information and State Orientation, said the documentation of the repentant cultists would begin tomorrow. “This documentation shall be followed by intensive training from the Entrepreneurship Development Centre of our tertiary institutions, and New Life Empowerment package for the participating beneficiaries,” he said. The Chairman, Afikpo North Council Area, Okoh Enyim, said the gesture would help stamp out cultism and other crimes. He said that before now, the state had witnessed bloody clashes between cults, which led to the death of many youths and destruction of belongings. Enyim said that on assumption of office, the governor promised to stamp out such ugly activities. He said: “Before now, cultism was on the increase in the state. Every passing month, there were cult clashes in parts of the state and they led to the death of many promising youths. Ebonyi was one of the states that the activities of cultists were on the increase. The state became a flashpoint, but today, no one hardly hears of any cult related activity in the state. “It has been identified that peer group influence, idleness and drug abuse are some of the things that lead young people into cult activities. The governor, on assumption of office, set up the School Evangelism programme with notable men of God as members of the committee. The committee toured schools to preach against cultism. “The governor did not stop at that, he also warned that any political appointee or elected political office holder, who is identified as a cult member, will be handed over to the police for prosecution. This goes to show his determination to stamp out cultism in the state and today his effort has yielded result.”