All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo State has called on the Governor Seyi Makinde’s administration to fulfill its promises on youth employment, minimum wage and rule of law, among others. The party in a statement by its Publicity Secretary, Dr Azeez Olatunde, yesterday said Makinde should walk his talk by delivering on his key campaign promises. But the government said the issues raised were a confirmation that the immediate past APC government was a failure in the areas highlighted. While saluting the courage, resilience and steadfastness of the people of the state in the outgoing year, the APC urged residents to show more than a passing interest in how they were being governed. The statement reads in part: “APC Oyo State would like to remind Oyo State Governor, Engr. Seyi Makinde to walk his talk by fulfilling his campaign promise that Oyo State workers deserve more than the National minimum wage of N30,000. “We believe that if Ekiti, Kaduna, Lagos and a host of other APC states had started payment of the new national minimum wage, nothing stops Oyo State Government from paying it, afterall we are the pacesetter state.” The party also challenged the governor on return of refuse in Ibadan and employment generation for youths as promised during his campaign. On the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH), Ogbomoso, the APC reminded Makinde of his promise to secure 100 per cent ownership for Oyo State within six months of his becoming governor. Reacting, however, the Commissioner for Information and Culture, Dr Wasiu Olatubosun, said APC’s statement confirmed that its administration led by former governor Abiola Ajimobi failed in the areas of workers’ welfare, education, infrastructure and the economy, among others. The commissioner said: “Why didnt they fulfill in full the N18,000 minimum wage during their administration? Their government was known for massive sack of civil servants. In the area of education, many parents were forced to withdraw their children because of school fees thereby making the state one of top ten with high-level of drop out students in Nigeria. “Oyo State people will not forget in a hurry eight years of misrule, where all means of livelihood of the people were demolished without providing alternative. Capital flight was the hallmark of APC-led administration.”