An Ikeja Domestic Violence and Sexual Offence Court heard yesterday how a suspected rapist, Adelaja Oloyede allegedly used charm on his victim (names withheld), raped and stole her underwear. An investigator attached to the Nigerian Police, Vivian Nduka made this known while giving evidenced before Justice Abiola Soladoye. Nduka, who was led in evidence by state prosecuting counsel,  K.A Ayankanbi,  told the court that Oloyede allegedly confessed to raping a 23 year old lady on December 10, 2017. The prosecutor said the defendant told her upon interrogation that he had an unlawful carnal knowledge with the complainant. But the defendant, Adelaja of No. 1 Adelaja Street, Itaoluwo, Ikorodu had denied the confessional statement. The defendant maintained his stance even as the prosecution presented to the court two exhibits, a pant and an underwear said to have been recovered in his room, belonging to the victim. The Police investigator  narrated to the court that the complainant reported the incident of rape committed against her when she was returning from church on the day of the incident. She said the complainant told her that the defendant charmed her after exchanging a handshake with her, led her into his apartment, administer some fetish procedures on her following which he had sex with her. She said the defendant however denied using any native substance but admitted having unlawful carnal knowledge of his victim. “He told me he had a carnal knowledge of her and that the complainant told him she was a virgin and he said he wanted to confirm and which was true and later gave her N1,500 to go take care of herself”, she said. During cross-examination by the defence counsel, C.J.  Jiakpona, the Police Officer was asked to show the court where it was stated that he wrote unlawful carnal knowledge. Reading from the statement, she said, “he wrote lawful carnal knowledge”. The prosecution stated  further that the defendant wrote in his statement, “ I started romancing her and then she told me that she was a virgin  and I told her I know and I took her into my room and had lawful carnal knowledge of her. In answer to another question from the defence, the Police investigator maintained that there was no “unlawful”  but “lawful” written in the statement. She was however quick to add that the defendant said, “I actually deceived her.” She said she did not also take the pant for forensic investigation, neither does she have any document backing the exhibits.  She however said she recovered the exhibits in the defendant’s room and urged the court to admit them as exhibit. The court granted her request and the items were  admitted  as exhibits. Justice Soladoye adjourned the matter until March 19, 2020 for continuation of trial.