By Emeka Ugwuanyi  As part of its Teachers Development Training Programme (TDTP), the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) has trained over 1000 science teachers in secondary schools across the country. NCDMB Executive Secretary, Simbi Kesiye Wabote, stated this at the closing ceremony of the second phase of the training in Kastina State, where  270 teachers benefited from the programme. At the event organised with support from the state Ministry of Education, Waboote, who was represented by the agency’s Director, Planning Research and Statistics , Mr. Patrick Daziba Obah, promised that NCDMB would increase the pace of continuous development of teachers across the country. He explained that the Board’s sponsorship of the retraining programme was borne out of its desire to create new models in the quest for academic knowledge, adding that the training would enable their pupils to compete with counterparts elsewhere and position them in the knowledge of science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM). He expressed hope that the training of teachers would translate to better performances by their students in west African Examinations Council (WAEC), National Examination Council (NECO), Joint Admissions Matriculation Booard ( JAMB) and other national and international examinations and lead to better technical skills and craftsmanship. He charged the teachers to ensure that Katsina State emerges as number one in STEM Education and the pupils among the leaders in the quest for technological and industrial self-reliance. Wabote stressed that NCDMB was set up to ensure the development and utilisation of Nigerian materials, equipment and workforce in the oil and gas Industry and the realisation of this important goal required technical workforce, better trained administrators and personnel with essential skills. “The teaching method of yesterday is no longer sufficient for the challenges of today and so we have modified the design and delivery of this programme in response to your needs. This year, we have given you electronic tablets with all the reading materials and we have enough reasons to continue to advance the methods of learning,” he said.  Wabote noted that NCDMB places high premium on capacity development, especially in the teaching of STEM education across secondary and tertiary institutions. “Our target is to train a minimum of 1000 science teachers each year and to upgrade and equip technical schools to provide infrastructure required for the acquisition of technical, digitisation and essential skills,” he added. He stated that NCDMB has started the upgrade and equipping of some technical and vocational schools and provided modular science laboratories, modern teaching aids and improved science and engineering infrastructure in some tertiary institutions. The General Manager Capacity Building Division, NCDMB, Dr. Ama Ikiru, explained that the Board organised a phase two of the programme in Katsina State because the state government was receptive of the initiative and collaborated effectively with the Board. The Commissioner for Education, Kastina State, Dr Badamasi Lawal, commended NCDMB for sponsoring the training, noting: “It is remarkable that an agency that is based in Bayelsa State will come all the way to train teachers in Kastina.” He noted that pupils from the state recorded an improved performance in the last WAEC and NECO examinations, an indication that the programme that begun in 2018 was making a positive impact. The event also featured presentations from some secondary school pupils and award of prizes to the best participating teachers from the five-week programme held during the last holiday.