Help prevent cancer Carrots contain numerous phytochemicals that are well-studied for their anticancer properties. A few of these compounds include beta-carotene and other carotenoids. These compounds promote immunity and activate certain proteins that inhibit cancer cells. Studies show that the juice from carrots can combat leukemia as well.Carrots are also found to lower oral cancer risk. Promote eye health Vitamin A in recommended quantities is essential for good vision, and carrots offer the nutrient in abundance. If a person is deprived of vitamin A for too long, the outer segments of the eyes’ photoreceptors begin to deteriorate. This disrupts the normal chemical processes involved in vision. Restoring your vitamin A intake can facilitate restoration of your vision. Might enhance hair growth Carrots are powerhouses of vitamins A and C, carotenoids, potassium, and other antioxidants – all of which contribute to hair health. There is limited research on this, though. Promote skin health Carrots are rich in carotenoids. Research suggests that fruits and vegetables rich in these compounds can improve complexion and one’s overall appearance. They achieve this by giving your skin a healthy glow. Be mindful, though – overconsuming carrots ((or other foods high in carotenoids) can result in a condition called carotenosis, wherein your skin appears yellow or orange. Regulate blood pressure A recent study claimed that carrot juice contributed to a 5% reduction in systolic blood pressure. The nutrients present in carrot juice, including fiber, potassium, nitrates, and vitamin C – are found to aid this effect . Aid diabetes treatment Following a healthy, balanced diet and maintaining a healthy weight can reduce the risk of type 2 diabetes. Studies show that high blood levels of vitamin A may lower the risk of type 2 diabetes. Carrots, being abundant in this nutrient, make for an ideal addition to a diabetic meal. Boost immunity Vitamin A regulates the functioning of your system and prevents infections. It achieves this by boosting your body’s immunity. Get this immune-boosting vitamin from carrots. Carrots also contain vitamin C. This nutrient further contributes to strengthening the immune system. Strengthen bones Vitamin A influences bone cell metabolism. The beta-carotene in carrots is a strong antioxidant that is associated with bone health . May aid weight loss Raw, fresh carrots are about 88% water. A medium carrot has only about 25 calories. Hence, including carrots in your diet is a smart way of fill yourself up without piling on calories. Carrots also contain fiber. A study showed that meals containing whole and blended carrots resulted in higher satiety levels in the test subjects. Lower cholesterol levels Carrot consumption reduces cholesterol absorption and increases the antioxidant status of your body. These effects can also promote cardiovascular health. Raw carrots are also rich in a fiber called pectin that helps lower cholesterol. Are good for the teeth and gums Crisp and raw carrots help clear plaque from the teeth and freshen your breath. The fibrous carrots also increase salivation, which can neutralize the citric and malic acids usually left behind in your mouth. Promote liver health and eliminate toxins Carrots contain glutathione, a supermolecule that helps detoxify the liver. The veggies are also high in plant flavonoids and beta-carotene, both of which stimulate and support your overall liver function. The vitamin A in carrots also combats liver diseases. Source: stylecraze.com