  YOUR institution is one of the ICT-based polytechnics established in 2006 and over the years it has grown in terms of infrastructure and accredited courses. What is the magic for this rapid development? This Gateway ICT Polytechnic, Saapade, Ogun State, it was established in 2006 and I took over the mantle of control in 2014. When I came the infrastructure I met on ground was nothing to write home about but with sheer determination, we have a vision of bringing up to a first class polytechnic in Nigeria as 2013. Not only that, when we came, we didn’t have many students, we had around 1,000 students on campus both the HND and ND students and it was bad that a lot of salary arrears were owed, unpaid allowances and so many things were not working, the environment was not too conducive for learning. It was just through a sheer determination that we moved the school to a level that would be acceptable for a higher institution. We started working and thank God for giving us hardworking and cooperative staff. They keyed into the vision and you know when there is a vision, there is always zeal to run it. We have tried to bring up the institution to an acceptable level as it today through sheer determination. Prospective students seeking admission into tertiary institutions in Nigeria today now prefer to struggle to go universities instead of polytechnics. What is your take on this? That is a national and generational problem. It is something that started a long time ago and it needs a lot of efforts for us to stem it. The fact is that the concept of the society is on degree and to get that degree, you go to the university, graduate and get a white-collar job and continue with life. But when you come out with HND, you are discriminated against, if the discrimination is not totally removed then that trend will be difficult to reverse. But like I have said, if graduates are coming out of the polytechnics with good skills then definitely, that situation will be reversed very soon. Nigeria system is not encouraging like that but the Federal government has restated their commitment to ensuring that dichotomy between HND and Bsc is removed but many private organisations have not bought into that but until that dichotomy is totally removed, I nobody will see no reason why they should go to the polytechnic instead of the university. But elsewhere in the world, some countries the same sector of polytechnic and university, students prefer going to the polytechnic instead of the university until we achieve that, the Nigerian dream of going technological may not be achieved. It is not a story to say that university education is largely theoretical and we are more practical in the polytechnic. We train our students on a lot of skills and that is what will build the nation technologically. Since you assumed office…..what are the achievements of the…….so far? In this interview, I may not be able to itemise all the achievements but the achievements are visible. And I don’t also believe in blowing my trumpet, particularly too loud. But let me just tell one or two of them. I told you the other time that I met the environment very, very unacceptable to be able to teach. We have been able to upgrade the infrastructure and a lot of infrastructure have been added and the infrastructure we adding are world class standard. We are not even using Nigeria standard, they are world class standard. For example, the buildings we are constructing are what we can compare with whatever you find elsewhere outside this country. We are have also been able to move the number of students from a very small number to…I said 1,000 when I came in but as at the last count, we have about 7,000 students. We have grown our programmes. When I came here, I met about seven ND programmes, four HND programmes, making 11, today, we 30 programmes. And when you are growing your programmes, you also have to grow your infrastructure, we have developed the infrastructure, we have added quite a number of infrastructure. Included in these achievements, is the acquisition of quite a number of workshop equipment and laboratory equipment. These things are very costly but we have able to acquire quite a number of them and we are still going to acquire a lot more. We have also try to upgrade the staff, their skills, their attitude, we have done a lot of training for them, both internal training, national and international training and we are still training more. In fact, we have trained quite a large number of staff on different skills, different attitudinal change training and so on and so forth. Because if you build infrastructure and you don’t build people, it won’t work. In addition, we have also created a conducive environment for learning for students. A peaceful environment, cultism and violent activities in the polytechnic is zero, we have an atmosphere of peace. We have built the school in such a way that the issue of money for mark or sex for mark cannot happen on campus so we have tried to create a normal environment where learning can thrive. Those are the things we have done in a nutshell we will still do more, God helping us. Nigeria education is bedeviled with a lot of challenges, one of them is funding. What do you think can be done to address this? Well, the issue of funding is not only limited to the education sector. It is a big issue in Nigeria today. We have grown to a level that it looks as if our resources are not supporting our sectors adequately so what happens in education happens in road infrastructure, it happens everywhere, in every sector. My opinion about this matter is that education administrators should use their ingenuity in running their schools. If you don’t think outside the box, then you may not make it. The question I want to ask is that how do institutions in other parts of the world make it without government’s intervention? One thing that is known and constant is that education is not cheap and somebody must pay for education, so it now depends on who want to pay for education. Is the parents or the government, the students themselves or the society? Somebody must pay for education and so we will need to sit down as a nation, as a people and determine what to do. What I will advise individuals, colleagues in education administration is that we should put forward ingenuity, there are lot of things we can do with the minimal resources we have and we should try and minimise waste, we should also be very prudent in managing the educational sector. But we need to sit down as a nation and determine what we want to do. For example, during the time of the first republic or so, it was the government in the Western State that was paying for education, education was free from primary to university, to Phd level, you don’t need to pay, the government was taxing some people and who were these people in those days, the farmers, the cocoa produce buyers. The government would tax from them, we have what we called the marketing boards. The money they made from the agricultural sector they diverted to fund education and they made a lot of achievements in that area. What are we doing in our own generation now? Who is going to finance education? Is it individuals? Is it the government? Or do we want to agree on some other ways of financing education? There must be a policy, that is what we are not having, a good policy on educational financing. Is like the Federal government is doing its own, the State government are also doing their own, in fact, some States are not even financing education and their 10, 15 higher institutions are in trouble. The problem we have now is that Ogun State is not training Ogun State indigenes, we are training the whole Nigeria. My school for example, if you do an analysis of the population in my school, you will find out that Ogun State may just account for less than 30 per cent, so we are training Nigerians. There must be a good formula for financing education, technological education is very costly, and somebody must pay for it. Are you optimistic that the State government will subscribe to some of you demands? And how would describe the State government’s contributions to the development of the school? Thank God for the government in the State now, under the able leadership of Prince Dapo Abiodun. He is an example of an exemplary leader. As I said during the convocation, it was 10 years ago that a Governor had visited this school and when he came, his coming was a great encouragement to us and it is also a challenge to us. Everything he told me, I have kept it and I must achieve more than what he expect. When you see an achiever you will know, if he can come here for a whole day with his busy schedule, look at our infrastructure and walk around the polytechnic, then you will know that this man has the interest of education sector, the interest of the State at heart. The challenges we have is the challenges of growth. I cannot add more students to my population if I don’t have more accreditation from NBTE and I cannot have more accreditation from NBTE if I don’t grow my infrastructure and my staff and it is difficult to grow my staff and infrastructure if I don’t have money. Those things are connected. We have asked the governor to assist us in infrastructural development and he has promised to assist us. For example, he promised to give a student some cash reward, he promised to employ a student, very soon the best graduating student will start working and so on and so forth. He has also promised to assist us in growing some infrastructures, actually, he is committed to it, he is working on the budget now so the man is committed to education and by the time he spend his tenure, you will see what will happen in Ogun State. 