By Dauda Taoheed Right from the nursery is a precautionary branch and root pruning of Iroko tree with the foresight of averting a humongous associative unseparated problem that evolves as the tree flourish. Nations that fail to take preemptive measures while in cultural practice brood trees of poisonous reptiles; an evil station of multiple heterogeneous rituals rites that go against the consent of the hardwood. After being flag-down by the disastrous signal of unemployment, every short-term proactive move or discontinuous policy to rescue the bleating situation quickly play the song of “Mario”-of getting home is a probability and of dying is a certainty, emanating from the country devise version of the game, echoing the sound to the authority after months and years of negligence and of saying the mouth of elders stink, denouncing the wise-men saying. Thus, axing down the apocalyptic tree becomes an unattainable vision. We got stuck on the planet of confusion, going astray from the track of comprehension. Welcome to Naija! Yearly, graduates are churned out from Nigeria’s higher institutions with a colossal figure of half a million into the labour market. In the same vein, the home-made Nigerians graduates are supplemented with the foreign-schooled Nigerians to undergo a mandatory one year National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) programme in which after the completion of the course, they injected them into the impermeable labour market system, competing for the limited space unfavourably. A worsening situation that flood the job market with employable graduates every four-four months, rendering them as hapless youth without bearing. Enunciating his disquieting view, former CBN governor and Emir of Kano state, Malam Muhammmadu Lamido Sanusi II delineate Nigeria’s huge population which currently stands about 200 million to be a liability and not an asset. This irksome statement was made at the Nigeria 2019 Economic Summit meeting in Abuja. A further analysis made by him undoubtedly justified his postulation. He said, “People talk that our population is an asset but we are yet to get there. Nigeria’s population is currently a liability because most of the root cause of problems such as kidnapping, armed robbery, Boko Haram, drug addiction is all tied to the population that we have and the question is how do you turn that into a productive one.” From the foregoing, the derivative outputs of unemployment vices that birthed proliferated unethical moral conduct, crimes among youth are traceable to the large unemployed population, forming a discreditable divisional gender syndicate that cut-across the two sexes. At the female mafia level is the eruption of baby factories where girls between the age of 15-35 or above are assembled and converted into sex machines that manufactured infants for an ignominious fee. Concurrently, those that fail to join the “bambino production union” established their sovereign “harlot firm” where they are the sole proprietorship of it. They became patent sex-workers that many called “olosho” in local parlance. The ill-fated kings also fought for a space in the unemployment score-card sheet. Many young budding secondary school leavers and nascent higher institution graduates after a strenuous search of unavailable jobs fall back to internet fraud; cybercrime, robbery, kidnapping for a means of sustenance. Awarding the mark of notoriety, nationally and internationally to their spreadsheet and earning the colloquialism of “yahoo-yahoo-boys” among the populace. Consequently, the current population is expected to double from 200 million to 401.3 million by 2050, overtaking that of the USA and taking the third position after China and India in the world says the World Population Review estimates. If proper policies are not rolled out to harness the huge potentialities of the population, regrettably, the population will chronically transform from a current-liability to a long-term liability. Corroborating the unemployment dismal with the nauseating figures released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), according to the agency, it was reported that the number of the workforce increased from 85.1 million in the third quarter of 2017 to 90.5 million in the third quarter of 2018. It was also revealed that the total number of unemployed people rise from 17.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2017 to 20.9 million in the third quarter of 2018. The report also spelt out that; “the economically active or working-age population (15 – 64 years of age) uptick from 111.1 million in Q3, 2017 to 115.5million in Q3, 2018. “The number of persons in the labour force (i.e. people who are able and willing to work) escalate from 75.94 million in Q3 2015 to 80.66 million in Q3 2016, to 85.1 million in Q3, 2017, to 90.5million in Q3, 2018. “The unemployment rate accordingly, increased from 18.8 per cent in Q3 2017 to 23.1 per cent in Q3, 2018.” Devastated, the workforce ambience, the unemployment ubiquity was described as appalling by the Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige. He was not only terrified by the current 23.1 percent unemployment rate but was also bewildered by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) 33.5 percent projection of unemployment rate in the year 2020. This foretelling sad news unambiguously discloses that the road ahead of the youths in this country is rough and not rosy except efficacious steps are taken to redeem the ugly condition. The frightening data shows how compounded the unemployment mess the country found herself. Being shocked by the alarming figures released by the NBS or expressing dissatisfaction of unenvious trend of the country unemployment bombshell is not the way forward neither do the youths of the country required far-from-truth political sweet-talk, tortoise folktales and chameleon pretence coming from the concerned offices. Hence, all forms of political game that doesn’t rally around the country bees for honey production should be substituted for a progressive one. Getting the wrongs right in this extra-time of ours is still realisable before the whole phenomenon went-off. Transformational leadership and a system that is free from corruption can upturn the gear system of the country from a reverse positioning to a desired and anticipated fruitfulness. A visionary leadership that has a developmental blueprint for the country youth whose glory has not been traded for political gain is a plausible escape route out of the hollow pit. A leader that is ready to working tirelessly to cleanse the system of integrated corruption, transforming it into a system that creates opportunities, unleashes potentials and reward meritocracy. Reviving the four moribund refineries through privatisation policy will go a long way in reducing the unemployment rate as Dangote few months to take-off 650,000 barrels per day refinery which will supplement the production of crude oil domestically thereby saving us the cost of PMS importation. In the long-run, thus, it will positively make the economy more robust and create more employment opportunities simultaneously. Nigeria tertiary institutions are not left out in the fight against the cankerworm of unemployment. Drilling of graduates through rigorous teaching, researching that doesn’t overlook the importance of practical as against the normal theoretical status quo. Nurturing and grooming of these educational seeds in different but feasible entrepreneurial skills will elevate their status from the downgraded unemployable youth to marketable graduates in the labour market. Resuscitation of Ajaokuta Steel Company will tremendously provide jobs for the teeming unemployed youth. According to Sahara Reporter on March 26, 2018, the steel complex is the second-largest in Africa and 12th largest iron ore in the whole world. If completed, it has been estimated that Ajaokuta Steel Company is capable of generating up to 75,000 direct jobs and one million indirect jobs. This would tremendously reduce the rate of unemployment in the country. Combatting the menace also handpicks the creation of enabling environment for business to thrive. Investors are not attracted to the environment where businesses are liable to collapse. Provision of adequate and guarantee security system; good motorable roads; power and other infrastructural systems that support business growth will travel a long distance in ameliorating this imperil. Having this on ground will prevent wound-up of industries or the parking of a number of them to the neighbouring countries. Accordingly, brain drain escalation would be brought on check. Socio-economic development of any nation rests on her human resources. Nations that strip off her population of economy buoyancy and subject them to the harsh and burdensome ambience of insolvency will definitely suck the feeder of regret. Preventing an overdose of the deleterious feed coming from the fertile land that sprang unlucky Kings and Queens leans on the shoulder of the government. If they truly knew that the boomerang they sent an errand will indubitably return in form of a karma, I’m sure they would have done better. Taoheed writes in from Lagos via Dawood.taoheed94@gmail.com