US-born Nigerian entrepreneurs, Kalif Bakare and Abdul Quam Tadese, make up the music group Galaktiq. The duo, both Muslims, who met while studying business at the University in Texas, US, have performed with the likes of Olamide, LAX, Idowest and DJ Consequence. The childhood friends’ style of music – Fuji pop – fuses genres like EDM, R&B, Afrobeat and Arabic into their songs. In this interview with JOE AGBRO JR., they talk about how they met, their challenges and prospects. Excerpts  HOW did you come about the name Galaktiq? (GALAKTiQ): GALAKTiQ means something out of this world in our own unique way, an enigma stemming from the word ‘galactic’. But the K for Kalif and the Q for Quam in place of the cs. The lower case ‘I’ is for intelligence. How did music start for you two? (Quam): For me, I loved music all my life. Growing up, I listened to everything literally (laughs). Influenced by so many different musicians from a wide range of genres, so I always played around with music and making sounds of my own derived from what I heard. So, it was a smooth transition when we decided to become a duo back in 2013. Our first song ever out the gate called “Stunt Stunningly” was a hit locally as it is still being played and talked about till this day. (Kalif): I’ve always loved music since a young age. I grew up listening to all types of music, and don’t go to sleep until I’ve listened to some type of music. I never knew I would make music though. And for me, it’s about the whole package of being an artiste that excites me; the music videos, the fashion, the process of making the song.  In college, GALAKTiQ got together to play with sounds/melodies in order to bring people into our world. This is how we see and feel music. How did you meet each other and what led to the formation of the music group? (GALAKTiQ): Well we’ve been bros since a very young age. Our movement, GF Universal, which is now also our label, started and focused on fashion, lifestyle and being a close knit brotherhood. We hosted big community events, our annual GF or GoodFellas picnic that fed over a thousand people. Fast forward to college where we both attended the University of Texas at San Antonio and that’s where the music began since 2013 before graduating. What genre of music do you do? (GALAKTiQ): If I had to say a genre, it’ll be definitely world music because we can transition into any direction. Sounds which are based from traditional Fuji sound which is based from our roots in Nigeria. Arabic melodies which is really the base of our sound and knowing how to recite the Holy Qur’an and upbeat clean feel of American pop melodies/Urban hip pop engrained in the US which we fused all together into one seasoned tune. What challenges have you faced so far, individually and as a team? (Kalif): My transition from basketball player to artiste initially was tough. Although I was confident in my decision to move on, the people around me weren’t yet convinced. It took persistence in my artistry to gain support in that area. Getting your music heard is a challenge every artiste can relate, making the song is the easy part. The push/marketing to get our music to the masses has been a journey. Staying consistent through this phase is tough, because life still happens. (Quam): The challenges I’ve faced personally is being patient because you want the world to know your music get it to the masses and be blown overnight but we all know it’s all a steady grind. You need to have strategic patience is what I tell folks knowing all the work you’re doing is going to one day soon be noticed all over the world in sha Allah. Both of you are serial entrepreneurs. How do you juxtapose your music career and your other businesses? (Quam): Me personally, it’s all part of my vision. As much as I love music, I just don’t want be recognised as just a musician or marginalised into a box. We learn everyday that’s part of growth. Music is also a business as well and that’s how I look at it. Our craft is our product we are selling it to multiple markets. (Kalif): Alhamdulilah, we were blessed with many facets to our being. Music is indeed a business. It’s the investment in ourselves that will be able to put a light on our other endeavours. We plant seeds in other things because that’s the norm now. It’s how you choose to impact the world. As Nigerians born in the United States, how has your music fared in the American music market and what is your strategy to compete well in the Nigerian music industry? (Quam): That’s part of our strategic approach. We have music for both markets – Nigeria and the US. The way music is going, everything now is being tied together and the Nigerian industry is being revolutionised and being put on the forefront on a global scale. We feel our sound caters to both markets and hopefully once the consumer or the critic really dissects our music, they’ll hear it. (Kalif): So there’s a mission that we set out to accomplish when we started doing music, and that was to connect the dots from America to Africa to Europe and so on. For Nigeria, we grew up listening to so many legends of today; King Sunny Ade, Ayinde Wasiu, Shina Peters. All of those sounds are embedded in us. Nigeria is receptive to all types of sounds now, so it’s easy to flex our versatility and go back to our roots of Africa as well. How many singles have you done and which one stands out for you? (Kalif): We’ve done so many singles. I’m most excited about our upcoming EP. I believe we have found our sound and voice. (Quam): We have a lot of singles on all streaming services and to be honest I love them all. They all have a different feel and sound effect on me but the one that stands out for me the most is probably a record that’s unreleased. Music groups are always known to split up after some years together. Will that be the case with Galaktiq? (GALAKTiQ): Allah knows best. We don’t know what is ahead of us and what Allah has planned. But what’s most important is building now and laying that solid foundation that’ll sustain longevity and open doors and have us in the ranks of the greats down the line. What has been the highest point of your music career? (Quam): We’ve had some high points, from working with notable artistes, travelling the world to shoot some of our classic videos, opening for Burna in Houston, having our record “LUV” go number 1 on iTunes, just to name a few. As a team, what are your career goals? (Kalif): For GALAKTiQ to be one of the greatest duos to ever do it insha Allah, mind body and spirit. And positively inspire as many people as possible on this journey of life. (Quam): Establishing GF Universal as that world sophisticated label and movement that anyone around the world can work with and cater to establishing a solid fan base worldwide, winning a Grammy and multiple awards in sha Allah Which Nigerian artiste(s) have you worked with and which do you look forward to making music with? (Quam): We’ve been blessed to work with the likes of Olamide, LAX, Idowest, Dremo, DJ Consequence, Destiny Boy, etc (Kalif): Yes! Would love to work with Burna Boy, Wizkid, Davido, Teni. What should we be expecting from Galaktiq in 2020? (GALAKTiQ): We have a lot in store for 2020 with visuals and of course more music. Most importantly we have a 7 track world album EP curated mainly for Africa with some of our sounds from the other side tied in.