As a result of the repeated attacks and explosion along the System 2B Pipeline of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) that takes refined products from Atlas Cove Jetty in Lagos to Mosimi, Ore and Ilorin, the NNPC management and all the security agencies involved in the monitoring of the pipeline are in discussion to step up network, expand collaboration and remove the bad eggs among them. According to the Group Managing Director of NNPC, Mallam Mele Kyari, these steps when accomplished, will bring sanity to the NNPC’s pipeline Right of Way (RoW), EMEKA UGWUANYI reports.  The Group Managing Director, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mallam Mele Kyari, has said expanded collaboration of all stakeholders is key to stemming incidents of pipeline vandalism and oil theft and the resultants explosions. Kyari stated this when he visited the Oba of Lagos, His Royal Majesty, Oba Rilwan Babatunde Osuolale Aremu Akiolu 1, in his palace to commiserate with him over the Abule-Egba pipeline fire that killed five and destroyed properties worth hundreds of millions of Naira. Kyari highlighted the health, environmental, economic and other hazards caused by the vandals, especially the loss of lives, and sued for synergy of security agencies, traditional leaders, residents and all well-meaning Nigerians in curbing the ugly trend. The royal father said the act of pipeline vandalism and oil theft is driven by desire to make quick money. According to him, people no longer want to work hard to make money but do all manner of illegal and bad things to get easy wealth, which he condemned in its entirety. Kyari appealed to the Oba of Lagos to rally all the traditional leaders in the state to help secure the pipelines, stressing that collective effort was required to curb the menace. Oba Akiolu pledged his support to organise other Obas in the state to fight pipeline vandals to a standstill. In the presence of his guests, he sent for Oba of Agege to come, after which all the Obas will have a meeting to discuss how to stop every act of pipeline vandalism and oil theft in Lagos. Oba Akiolu said “enough is enough.” The NNPC chief said the line was restored on Monday and has begun operation. He said: “However, we are also happy that we have restored the line after the break, we shut down the line to contain the damage it can cause but now we are back on stream. Petroleum products are flowing all the way from Atlas Cove to Ilorin as we speak. But what is important is to sustain this operation, and to sustain it, everyone should cooperate with us.” Stemming vandalism and oil theft On ways to ensure that the nefarious act of pipeline vandalism and oil theft and the attendant disaster are stemmed sustainably and in view of allegations that some members of staff of NNPC, the monitoring security agencies, NNPC contractors and members of the communities collude with oil thieves, Kyari stated that actions are being taken. The allegations of complicities of these stakeholders in the theft arise because boring the pipeline to steal oil requires a lot of expertise, knowledge and money. Therefore, it is not just business for anybody.  However, the NNPC chief agreed that he shares the same view and explained what the Corporation is doing to stop these illicit activities and to bring the culprits to book. He said: “We are working with all the security agencies including the NNPC to take out the bad elements in our midst. We agree there are compromises within the NNPC, the security agencies, communities and everyone involved in this. What we have done in the last two months is work with these agencies and NNPC to make sure that we take out the bad elements out of us, resolve this issue and delete them if we need to do that and that is what we will do. “For communities that harbour this act, the warning is that this act constitutes danger to all of us. For those who are particularly involved in tapping our petroleum products or laying pipes to their homes, the Governor and Lagos State Government have agreed we must take out these houses no matter who own them or what they do. Once we establish that your property is involved in this, we take it out. “We are already doing that. So far, the Nigerian Navy has taken out over 300 houses along our pipeline Right of Way (RoW) and we will continue to do this. By the time we are done with this, sanity will come to this line we assure Nigerians that it will be safe for all of us.” The Flag Officer, Western Naval Command, Rear Admiral Oladele Daji, who spoke on behalf of the security agencies, denied that the security agencies were not being lackadaisical about their job of securing the pipeline. He was asked why the incidents repeatedly happen without arrests and prosecution but each times it happens, all arms of the security agencies would flood the scene of the incident wielding arms. But after the dust settles, nothing happens. Daji said: “In line with the directive of the Chief of Defence Staff, General Abayomi Olonisakin, we mobilised under “Operation Awase” involving all the security agencies – the Navy, Civil Defence, Police, Army and Air force to support the NNPC to clear the NNPC pipeline RoW all the way from Atlas Cove to Mosimi. It is an ongoing operation and we will be collaborating with the Lagos State Government to ensure the success of this operation.” Daji said some arrests have been made. “We are working with the Department of State Security (DSS) to ensure that all the pieces of evidence are gathered to ensure diligent prosecution. It is not just enough to make arrest, so by the time the perpetrators are prosecuted, it will serve as deterrent,” he added. 