Text of the New Year’s Day address by Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu Fellow Lagosians  With gratitude to the Almighty, I greet you all and welcome you to the New Year.  The year 2020 will bring joy and prosperity to every household in Lagos and Nigeria. As experience has shown, there is no better moment than the end of one calendar year and the beginning of another to reflect on how well we have realized our aspirations and discharged our duties in the just concluded year. In addition to reflection, this period also presents us with a perfect opportunity to chart a path for the New Year. It is expected that our learning from the shortcomings of the past year will provide a solid foundation for the successes of the New Year. My good people of Lagos State, I am deeply grateful for the confidence you have reposed in my party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and me through the ballot box, and for the privilege of being here at this time. Our administration came into office six months ago with high hopes, fully determined to justify the expectations and the confidence of the overwhelming majority of Lagosians, who had given us a sweeping victory at the Polls. Looking back, there is no doubt that the task has begun in earnest, and the evidence of progress so far recorded is all around us, even in the face of the challenging realities of governance confronting us daily. The welfare of the people, it has been said, is the supreme law in politics. It is therefore my pleasure to inform you that just yesterday, the final day of 2019, I signed into law the 2020 Lagos State Budget. Our 2020 budget is a painstakingly prepared people-oriented document that summarizes our administration’s plan to move Lagos forward this year, and outlines our path to achieving the greatest good for the greatest number of people. Let me specially thank the Lagos State House of Assembly for working hard to consider pass the budget in good time. You have by this action signaled the seriousness of the Lagos State Government to carry on with the urgent  task of people-centric governance. As we begin the New Year, I would like to reiterate our vision for a Greater Lagos – pertaining to critical areas of governance embodied in our T.H.E.M.E.S Agenda, namely: Traffic Management and Transportation; Health and Environment; Education and Technology; Making Lagos a 21st Century state; Entertainment and Tourism; Security and Governance. Fellow Lagosians, from the feedback I have consistently received from you, it is clear that transportation ranks very high on the list of issues that concern you. Our administration identifies strongly with these concerns, and we are doing everything we can to improve transportation and traffic situation across the State. It is unacceptable that Lagosians spend a significant part of their time on the road, caught up in traffic jams that put productivity and security at risk; as people travel between their homes and work places. It is for this reason that we are seriously building on the efforts of previous governments in the quest to significantly improve the transportation experience in the State. In this regard, we are focusing on the following: Our Public Works Corporation (PWC) has been working round-the-clock to ensure no stretch of road is left untarred. Let me use this opportunity to appeal for your patience and understanding in this regard. For every road that is being worked on, there will be others that require work. We do not have unlimited resources, and also cannot do everything at once, but I can assure you that we have a robust plan and timetable in place to ensure every part of the State benefits from this exercise as quickly as possible. Lagos is blessed with a large body of water that has been under-exploited as a means of moving people around safely and efficiently. That is now set to change, with the work being done by the Lagos State Waterways Agency. Fellow Lagosians, for Lagos to realize its true potential as a megacity that is admired around the world, we need to set new standards of investment in health and education, to cater to the needs of our rapidly growing population. To this end, we are, in this 2020 Budget, the first budget of the new decade, almost doubling our spending on healthcare. Those funds will go into building new healthcare facilities across the State, upgrading existing ones, and further investing in a robust and universal health insurance coverage scheme for Lagosians. Since I assumed office, we have commissioned two new Maternal and Child Care Centers. Another two will soon be completed and ready for use. We are now completing Phase 2 of the Adiyan Waterworks, with a capacity for 70 million gallons of  potable water that will serve more than five million Lagosians and drastically reduce the incidence of water-borne diseases. Closely-linked to healthcare and water resources is the state of the environment. We have an improved and rejuvenated Lagos Waste Management Agency (LAWMA) that is up to the task of keeping Lagos clean, with your support. You will see and hear from them a lot more in 2020. We have set aside more resources to combat perennial flooding in Lagos in 2020, and have embarked on desilting of major drain systems across the State. A similar commitment to reform is manifesting in the education and technology sectors. Within our public-school system, we are hiring new teachers, boosting the capacity of existing ones, and implementing a Schools Rehabilitation Programme that started with fixing infrastructure in 300 public schools. Provision has been made for all of these in our 2020 Budget. At the tertiary level, we have signed a Public Private Partnership agreement with a private sector developer that will deliver 8,272-room boarding facility to transform the Lagos State University (LASU) into a residential institution, thereby enhancing quality of teaching and learning. Fellow Lagosians, in the area of technology, we are determined to make Lagos a city fit for the 21st century, and a globally recognized hub for technology and innovation. This we are doing through our Smart City Initiative, and the generous funding we are making available to support innovation by young Lagosians. Our attitude to security is that prevention is better and much more effective than cure. This means that in addition to supporting law enforcement through the work of the Lagos State Security Trust Fund, we will in 2020 focus heavily on the root causes of insecurity, namely poverty and unemployment, through the important works and efforts of the various Ministries, as well as agencies like the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund. Our focus on improving the business environment for small and large businesses across the State will create countless opportunities for business expansion and job creation, in 2020. In entertainment and tourism, you will have seen or participated in the maiden edition of our seven-day, five-location Greater Lagos Fiesta, culminating in last night’s spectacular countdown to the New Year. You are all witnesses to just how busy the entertainment calendar in Lagos was in the final quarter of 2019. There is no better indication of the true potential of our beloved State as a continental and global destination for world-class entertainment. Our administration will build on this demonstrated potential, and continue to support the efforts of the private investors who are putting their money and talent into our entertainment industry. Later this year, Lagos will host the Global Citizen Festival, alongside New York and three other cities on three continents. The Festival will put Lagos in the global spotlight, not just from an entertainment perspective, but also in terms of highlighting our commitment to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Fellow Lagosians, there is so much to look forward to this New Year. I solicit your full cooperation and support as we take the first steps into 2020. Together we can achieve the Greater Lagos of our dreams. Let us join hands and usher in 2020 with hope, confident in the knowledge that brighter days are ahead of us, in spite of whatever challenges the New Year might hold. We will not retreat from the challenges; instead, we will use them as stepping stones to success and to true greatness. On behalf of the Government of Lagos State, I wish you a Happy and Prosperous 2020, and the most abundant and delightful blessings of the New Year. Long live Lagos State; Long live the Federal Republic of Nigeria.  