By Kehinde Oluleye  We are breaking down the shoes trends you need to know for 2020. And what better way to welcome the New Year, than with new shoes?! There is a huge range to choose from to delight your fancy, from colourless/transparent stilettoes to cute glossy leather ballet flats. Have you ever imagined how our feet would look like without  shoes to beautify them? And no other set of shoes has captured the imagination of fashion buffs this new season than ballet flats, wedge, stilettos and strap sandals. While some look casual and others look classy and sexy, one of the things that differentiate them is the sole. It could be pencil, blocked, flat, clogged, medium or silhouettes heels etc. Some come plain while others are studded with stones, sequins, metals etc. Heelless wedges:There are three varieties of wedge that are hotly in vogue now — the Giuseppe-Zanotti wedge shoes, wedge sandals and the wedge slippers. A wedge shoe is guaranteed to make you look chic. But never buy one without trying it out very well and making sure it fits at the store. And some daring men are not left out too. Loafers shoes: Be it your regular slip-on flat loafers or a slingback , as seen on the runways of fashion weeks in December 2019, loafers are back and here to stay. Peep toes shoes: It is a simple yet solid shoe that allows a lady to show off her lovely feet while just revealing a bit of the toes. Stilettos: Everything you could want in a pair of sexy high heels, from strap sandals, peep toe to covered shoes with sexy heel. Stilettos, after the 80s, disappeared and it then reappeared; they are the most elegant shoes of the season. They are a must-have for women of style, who need to look classy and different. Flat shoes:These well-balanced, trendy and funky shoes are another women foot wear that cannot go out of fashion. The pattern and style may vary per season, but the flat shoes will forever remain in fashion. Pump shoes:These shoes have had almost the same shape for ages without changing. It is a fashion material that women can’t get tired of. And Christian Louboutin pump shoes are the king at the moment. Bow shoes: Otherwise known as butterfly shoes.They are the most elegant shoes of the season. They are a must-have for women of style, who need to look classy and different this Christmas.