By Ogochukwu Anioke, Abakaliki  The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has warned the Federal government against arresting the Minority leader of the Senate, Enyinnaya Abaribe or risk its wrath. The group was reacting to a statement by a presidential spokesman that Abaribe should be in jail for standing as surety for its Leader, Nnamdi Kanu’s bail in 2017. Abaribe had on Wednesday called for the resignation of President Muhammadu Buhari for failure to protect the country and its citizens from Boko Haram and bandits. He made the call on the Senate floor during deliberations on the rising insecurity in the country. But the Presidency in a swift reaction by spokesman, Garba Shehu, said Abaribe deserves to be in jail for failure to stop Kanu from jumping bail. But spokesperson to IPOB, Emma Powerful in a statement on Friday said Kanu’s home was invaded in a bid to kill him forcing him to flee the country. “The recent incoherent and roundly childish tirade by the presidency of Nigeria against Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe, unarguably the only distinguished senator in the whole of Nigeria, is confirmation of the paranoia that has gripped the government in Aso Rock. “Garba Shehu has not only showcased his ignorance of the law as it pertains to bail forfeiture proceedings in a law court, but his pathetic attempt to rewrite the history of the unprovoked bloody invasion of the home of our leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu by soldiers which directly resulted in his inability to attend Binta Nyako’s court is well documented. “It doesn’t matter how many times Aso Rock rehearsh this purile line of ‘jumping bail’ argument, the facts are very clear and in the public domain for any sensible person to comprehend. “If you went to Mazi Nnamdi Kanu’s house to kill him, is it a court in Abuja, where judges are impotent, that he won’t be attacked?” Mr Powerful said. The spokesman said that it speaks to the intellectual vacuousness of this APC regime that a seemingly high ranking presidential spokesperson is blissfully ignorant of the constitution they swore to uphold. “Does it mean that Garba Shehu, Malami the Attorney General of Nigeria and the Tanko Muhammad the Chief Justice of Nigeria are ignorant of the section of the constitution that stipulates by law a senator is not allowed to stand surety for an accused person? “Therefore Abaribe has no case to answer, that is why neither Binta Ntako’s court nor the Court of Appeal is willing to entertain the bond forfeiture case any longer. Garba Shehu should stop disgracing himself and his government with their nauseating ignorance of judicial process. “This same Garba Shehu who said they don’t take advice from the likes of Abaribe were the same people that publicly called for Goodluck Jonathan to resign. Why is it that Senator Abaribe’s legitimate call for the resignation of Buhari is suddenly treasonable felony.” The pro-Biafran group said that any plans against Abaribe and others will fail because ordinary people are now wiser thanks to the gospel of liberation being preached by its leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. “Since the failure to eliminate our great leader during the invasion of his country home at Afaraukwu in Umuahia Abia State, Aso Rock with their truth averse misguided friends in some sections of the cash and carry news media in Nigeria, have been scrambling to see what false allegation against Enyinnaya Abaraibe will stick”. “Each time they have failed as they will also fail in this latest charade. We are now all familiar with the usual rage and fury anytime their corrupt regime in Aso Rock is held publicly accountable. They cannot fool the masses anymore, we are all wiser”. “We should remind Garba Shehu and Nigerians alike that Federal High Court in Abuja presided over by Justice Binta Nyako granted our leader bail on 23rd of March 2017 and a few months after that, the Federal Government of Nigeria on 14th of September 2017 to be precise ordered the Nigeria Army, Police, Navy, Air Force and DSS to invade kill and maim our leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. “The fact they failed in that murderous mission that took the lives of 28 Biafrans is the reason why there is so much meaningless vitriol directed at Abaribe to cover up their murderous intent against our leader”. On the state of insecurity in the country, Mr Powerful said the government of Buhari has failed woefully and should be removed. “It is important we let the masses that inhabit the colonial contraption called Nigeria know that any government that fails to protect the lives and properties of her citizens is a total failure, therefore this regime is a complete and utter failure and should be removed. “It is unfortunate that Nigerians do not know what democracy and opposition politics is all about. An opposition party is there to oppose and that is what Abaribe did but surprisingly this rudimentary requirement of democratic governance is lost on the government hence their hysteria”. “We are warning and cautioning any person, persons or group who are making frantic efforts to endear themselves to the caliphate by issuing unguarded press statements to retrace their step because Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe is not to be toyed with or his name ridiculed by any faceless, non-existent Igbo group. “IPOB is still in court challenging the Nigeria Army, Police, Navy and DSS invasion of our leader’s compound in 2017. Garba Shehu and his colleagues in Aso Rock should always be mindful of these irrefutable facts before opening their mouth again in public,” he said. ENDS