Determined to ensure that more small and medium scale enterprises have better opportunities of growing their businesses, Jumia has expanded its platform to accommodate more adverts from these category of business even as the more established business can tap into the opportunity. It would be recalled that the ratings of visits to the Jumia platform has continuously increased over the years thus providing access to more business information for existing and prospective buyers. According to McKinsey, the demand for electronic transactions has attracted payment facilitators from Europe and Asia who are investing in Nigerian electronic infrastructure projects.  Fast growing youth populations, expanding consumer power and increased smartphone penetration is strengthening online commerce and financial technology in Nigeria. The current ecommerce spending in Nigeria is estimated at $12 billion, and is projected to reach $75 billion in revenues per annum by 2025. Consequently, the decision to open the Jumia’s e-commerce platform to brands and corporate organisations to advertise will surely boost  SMEs potential in the country. Its Head of Growth and Partnerships, Olusegun Martins, said: “Our platform is one of the most visited in Nigeria and Africa. We are in 12 countries of Africa, and in each country, we serve consumers everywhere. We are much more than e-commerce, we have hotels, flights, restaurants, classifieds portals, and many more platforms, which give us even more data and more ability to target the right audience for brands looking to reach a wider and more targeted audience. “We have solutions for various needs. We can help brands build awareness, consideration, engagement, sales, and even multiple products to tap into. We can segment users in a unique way based on their real shopping interest at the most granular level. We help brands to target users geographically in the most effective way. We have run very successful campaigns in multiple countries and advertisers who choose Jumia can decide to allocate recurring budgets to our platform.” Added advantage to the Jumia platform is the availability of data for research. “Every day, more users access Jumia and use it as a source of research, inspiration and shopping. No other platform is growing faster. Jumia is adapting the model of leading e-commerce platform in the U.S., Amazon. over the last seven years, Jumia had remained one of the top 10 most visible websites in Nigeria, adding that the clamour by customers for an advertising platform from Jumia was on the increase, hence the decision by the company to give it a trial this year. “We decided to open our platform starting from last month (October). There is a huge opportunity for brands to showcase their services and products to our audience and that is why we opened our platform. The way we want the brands to look at it is to think of Jumia as a search,” Martins said. To facilitate the process, Jumia has established a close working relationship with a few strategic agencies who have indicated long-term interests in partnering with the company over the new. This enable the brands reach out to their quality audience who are in an active mode of purchase and at that point in time and hopefully they are receptive to communication. In 2018, page views on the Jumia website reached over 700 million, but now averaging over 90 million views per month.