By Alao Abiodun  The 62nd Annual Grammy Awards ceremony is scheduled to hold today, Sunday at Staples Center in Los Angeles. Over the years, winning a Grammy has been recognised as the highlight of an artist’s career. A “Grammy winner” title is honorific. It defines an artist for life and for history. The 62nd Grammy Awards will honour musicians recognising artists from across all genres that have had the greatest impact on the music world in the previous year-long period of eligibility. The 62nd Grammy Awards will bring back a number of the music industry’s most celebrated stars together including 15-time Grammy winner Alicia Keys and Grammy winner Ariana Grande, who skipped out of last year’s awards ceremony. Alicia Keys will be performing the hosting duties for the second year in a row. While Ariana Grande will have her first performance on the Grammys stage in five years.  Among the long list of names up for a coveted Grammy is Nigeria’s Burna Boy. The 28-year-old musician got nominated in the Best World Music Album category, earning the top spot for his 2019 project African Giant. Burna Boy’s album, African Giant got nominated in the category alongside Altin Gün for Gece, Bokanté & Metropole Orkest Conducted By Jules Buckley for What Heat, Nathalie Joachim With Spektral Quartet for Fanm D’Ayiti, and Angelique Kidjo for Celia. Burna Boy’s nomination makes him the ninth Nigerian to be nominated for a Grammy — past nominees include Wizkid and Timaya, Femi Kuti, King Sunny Ade, and writer Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie. A win for Burna Boy could make him the second Nigerian to take home a Grammy in the 62nd Annual Grammy Awards. This year’s ceremony will also include first-time performances by the likes of Lizzo and Billie Eilish, both of whom are nominated for best new artist. Lizzo is leading the year’s list of nominees with eight total nominations, including for record of the year, album of the year, song of the year and best new artist. Following Lizzo are Billie Eilish and Lil Nas X, each with six nominations. Record of the year nominations went to Bon Iver for “Hey, Ma,” Billie Eilish for “Bad Guy,” Ariana Grande for “7 Rings,” H.E.R. for “Hard Place,” Khalid for “Talk,” Lil Nas X for “Old Town Road,” Lizzo for “Truth Hurts” and Post Malone and Swae Lee for “Sunflower.” One of the most coveted awards of the night; best new artist nominees include Black Pumas, Billie Eilish, Lil Nas X, Lizzo, Maggie Rogers, Rosalía, Tank and the Bangas and Yola. So, who will win big at the Grammys in 2020? This year, R&B, rock, pop, hip-hop and alternative artists are all up for the night’s biggest honor, and it’s truly anybody’s game.