By Opeyemi Samuel  The Lagos State Chapter of the Ekiti State University Alumni Association is facilitating job opportunities and financial support for five EKSU graduates of Law who recently bagged first class honours at the Nigerian Law School. Its Chairman Mr Tolu Egbeyemi presented the graduands to two legal luminaries from Ekiti- Chief Wole Olanipekun, and Mr Dele Adesina, (both SANs), for employment. The law graduates were presented during the maiden symposium, exhibition and award dinner of the association held at the Civic Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos State. The graduands were promised N100,000 cash each by Tope Adebayo, a lawyer and alumnus. The special guest of honour was the First Lady of Ekiti State, Erelu Bisi Adeleye-Fayemi, who was represented by the Senior Special Assistance to the Governor on Women Empowerment, Mrs Bolaji Olagbaju. Other dignitaries include: keynote speaker former Vice Chancellor of EKSU Prof Oladipo Aina; Vice-Chancellor Prof Eddy Olanipekun; and the National President of the alumni association Dr Oludotun Adetunberu. Also in attendance were popular nollywood actor Funsho Adeolu, a famous juju crooner N Jesse King, popularly known as Buga,among others. According to Egbeyemi, the symposium, themed: ‘Alumni associations; a harbinger of change for education development in Nigeria’ seeks to explore the possibility of using the alumni association as a  tool for building an efficient education sector in EKSU.  Besides, it was also to serve as a benchmark for other alumni associations to have a blueprint for endowments and other development plans of their various alma mater. “The primary objective of the association using reunion activities is to harmonise the three generations of the university beyond the name changes, to create a veritable platform where value is added to our relationships and be a vehicle that will spur a paradigm shift from the failing education setup in Nigeria to an enviable system,” said  Egbeyemi. He continued: “In this light, members will use this platform to showcase their businesses to others and the society at large.” Egbeyemi said the award recipients were chosen to reflect that  the awardees are influential, and could leverage their influence on their alma mater and the alumni. In his speechAdesina who was the chairman of the occasion, said the award was to recognise those who have impacted their alma mater directly or indirectly. “It is also to show that we value rewarding excellence and philanthropy, and that this honour would continue to spur our awardees and other members of the association to do more for the university and give back to the society.’’ Some of the awardees are: Erelu  Fayemi, Chief Olanipekun, Mr  Adesina, Prof Aina, Babatunde Kolawole, Ambassador Niyi Ojuolape, Tope Adebayo; Mr Ademola Adeyemi, and Prof Kehinde Oluwadiya, among others. 