 A HIGH Court of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) in Gwagwalada, Abuja, has ordered the arrest of a former Minister of Petroleum Resources, Dauzia Loya (Dan) Etete, and two others. Also to be arrested are Munamuna Seidougha and Amaran Joseph. Justice Abubakar Kutigi gave the orders on Thursday in a ruling on an ex-parte motion by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Justice Kutigi said: “I have carefully gone through the application…The application has merit and is granted as prayed.” The EFCC said the three are wanted in relation to a pending charge linking them with the $1.09 billion Malabu Oil Block (OPL 245) Settlement Agreement. While moving the motion, EFCC lawyer, Bala Sanga, told the court that the ex-parte application was filed on January 28 and supported with an eight-paragraph affidavit deposed to by one Ibrahim Ahmed and attached with one exhibit. Sanga explained: “The kernel of the ex-parte application is that names of the respondents in the criminal charge CR/151/2020 were mentioned in count 14-42 of the charge and where indicated to be at large.” He added that in order for the respondents to be brought before the court to enter their pleas, “We will be requesting for an order of warrant for their arrest”. “Intelligence suggest they reside in France and occasionally at some African countries and to be able to get the support of the international police, the warrant of arrest would be needed,” Sanga said. The EFCC alleged, in court documents, that Rasky Gbinigie (who is currently on trial before the court), Munamuna Seidougha (at large), Amaran Joseph sometime in 2013, in Abuja “dishonestly used as genuine the forged form CAC 7 and Board Resolution of Malabu Oil and Gas Limited and the letter of resignation of one Mohammed Sani, which they then knew to be forged  documents, to open a bank account No. 2018288005 to receive $401,540,000.00 . It also said Rasky Gbinigie, Munamuna Seidougha (at large), Amaran Joseph (at large) and Dauzia Loya Etete (at large), sometime in 2013, in Abuja, “dishonestly used as genuine the forged form CAC 7 and Board Resolution of Malabu Oil and Gas Limited and the letter of resignation of one Mohammed Sani, which they then knew to be forged, documents to open a Bank Account No. 3610042472 to receive $400,540,000.00. In an affidavit it filed with the ex-parte motion, the EFCC stated the Etete, Seidougha and Joseph “are part of the brains behind Malabu Oil and Gas Limited. “Malabu Oil and Gas Limited are defendants in the current Charge No: CR/151/2020 and facing multiple counts of charges for forgery and use of forged documents. “As part of the directing minds of Malabu Oil and Gas Limited, they (Etete, Seidougha and Joseph) should stand trial and answer to charges of influencing and aiding the companies to breach extant criminal laws. “Part of the requirements for the arrest and extradition of the respondents from Europe or indeed from any part of the world is the issuance of a warrant of arrest by this honourable court. It will serve the interest of justice to grant this application.”