Authorities at the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) have approved voluntary delisting of Continental Reinsurance and AG Leventis Nigeria, in a final process that will end decades of public trading on the shares of the two companies. The NSE had earlier suspended trading on the shares of the two companies after the two companies completed major stags in their quests to delist their shares and revert to private limited liability companies.  The voluntary delisting of the two companies is as a result of the push by the majority core investor to takeover minority shareholdings. AG Leventis Nigeria, one of the oldest companies at the stock market, seeks to buy out minority shareholders and revert to private limited liability status. The Leventis family, which remains the majority core investor in the conglomerate with some 88 per cent controlling shareholding, had launched the process to buy out minority shareholders in order to implement a turnaround programme. AG Leventis has some 30,000 minority shareholders. One of Nigeria’s oldest and largest conglomerates, AG Leventis, was incorporated in Nigeria as a private limited liability company in 1952 and was converted to a public limited liability company and listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange in 1978. At the last count, the AG Leventis Group consists of eight subsidiaries, three associates and three Joint Ventures, all of which were incorporated in Nigeria. The group’s operations span the wide gamut of the economy from foods and beverages to automobile, real estate, hotel, general trade and merchandise. AG Leventis had been under regulatory watch-list for failing to meet the minimum free float requirement for its listing category. The company has a free float of 11.64 per cent, 8.36 per cent below the 20 per cent free float for companies listed on the main board. Free float, otherwise known as public float, refers to the number of shares of a quoted company held by ordinary shareholders other than those directly or indirectly held by its parent, subsidiary or associate companies or any subsidiaries or associates of its parent company; its directors who are holding office as directors of the entity and their close family members and any single individual or institutional shareholder holding a statutorily significant stake, which is 5.0 per cent and above in Nigeria. The majority core investor in Continental Reinsurance, CRe African Investments Limited (CRe Investments) had initiated the bid to acquire minority shareholdings in the reinsurance company. Shareholders had at the court-ordered meeting approved the takeover bid launched CRe Investments, which will turn Continental Reinsurance into its wholly-owned subsidiary. The board of Continental Reinsurance said CRe Investments was undertaking the buyout in order to initiate a much needed restructuring exercise for Continental Reinsurance, with a view to consolidating its operations and repositioning it for enhanced competitiveness in the global insurance market. The acquisition is being executed through a Scheme of Arrangement under Section 539 of the Companies & Allied Matters Act Cap C20 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004 and other applicable rules and regulations. CRe Investments had initially offered N2.04 per share for the 10,372,744,314 ordinary shares of 50 kobo each or one ordinary shares of $1 each in the capital of CRe Investments for every 176 ordinary share of 50 kobo each held in Continental Reinsurance. However, the scheme consideration was revised upward from N2.04 to N2.10 per share, with the new price representing 51.08 per cent premium on the share price of Continental Reinsurance as at the close of trading on October 5, 2018 which was the last business day prior to the date on which the proposal was received from CRe African Investments Limited.