By Sam Ibok and Mary Ikorwa  Akwa Ibom students have elected a new executive after a decade of leadership crisis. The students under the aegis of the National Association of Akwa Ibom State Students (NAAKISS) worldwide, held the election on Ibom Hall ground, Uyo, the state capital. It was witnessed by the state Commissioner for Education, Prof Nse Essien; Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Multilateral and Donor Agencies, Mr Ndianabasi Udom; and Special Assistant to the Governor on Education Monitoring, Mrs Idongesit Etiebet, among others. Addressing the delegates from various tertiary institutions before voting, Essien lamented the scenario where some selfish persons predominantly non-students laid siege on the leadership of the group even after graduation, describing the development as displeasing to the government. Essien declared that the union leadership was open to only students, adding that they were expected to vacate their positions at the expiration of their academic programme to allow the next generation take over. Essien further said the government is committed to ensuring that the association is stable. The main aim of the government wading into the affairs of the body, he noted, was to ensure that the spirit of activism was rekindled and sustained. He expressed optimism that at the end of the exercise, a well-constituted executive would be in place to pilot the affairs of the association. A delegation of the founding fathers of the association led by the Deputy Chief Whip of the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly Nse Essien, noted that the delegation was mandated by the governor to resolve the imbroglio that had plagued the student body for over a decade. The group frowned on self- aggrandisement of a few who had deprived the majority their right to benefit from the association. Essien urged the students never to allow what transpired in the last 13 years to repeat itself. He lauded Prof Essien for ensuring that the crisis was resolved. The election was transparent and peaceful as delegates conducted themselves orderly. Eighteen candidates contested various offices with a total of 156 votes cast. At the end of the exercise, Aniedi Michael emerged president, Otobong George, Vice Chairman; Ime John Akpan, Deputy VP North; Udofia Patrick, Secretary-General; and Inyang Kufre Ini, General Principal Secretary. Others are: Ekpe Josiah (Assistant Secretary-General); Nya Daniel Sunday (Treasurer); Clement Joseph (Auditor-General); Beglad Akpatang (Director of Socials); Akan Edidiong (Financial Secretary); Akan Victor (PRO); as well as Akpabio Michael (Provost Marshal). The high point of the event was the administering of the oath of office on the new executives. In his acceptance speech, the newly elected  Aniedithanked the commissioner and the founding fathers of the body for their support and pledged to justify the confidence reposed in the new executive. “I will stop at nothing to make sure the mandate and voice of the students is restored in the state. I will make sure that the values of education of this state is restored, social vices will be eradicated and values upheld,” he said. Essien congratulated the new exco and promised to partner them to ensure they achieve the objectives of the organisation.