What could have degenerated into ethnic and religious crisis was averted in Umuahia, the Abia State capital as a tiger-nut customer raises alarm over the sudden disappearance of his male genitalia. The incident which happened at Oboro Street by Niger road attracted so many residents who wanted to have a glimpse of the incident. According to a source in the area, it took the timely intervention of men of the Nigeria Police Force, Bende road to avert a mob action against the Hausa man who was accused of being behind the penis disappearance. Reports have it that the man whose manhood went missing said that he stopped to buy tiger nut from the Hausa man and while he was about going into his shop to get money to give to the man, the Hausa man touched in pretence to remove a stain from his cloth. The man was said to feel that something moved out of his body and when he touched himself, he noticed his penis was missing. It was at that point that the man was said to have raised alarm of his missing organ. The people around were said to have rushed and caught the Hausa who was trying to abandon his wheelbarrow to escape. He (Hausa man) was reportedly beaten to pulp and was made to restore what he has taken away from the victim. “He said that he cannot return the penis saying that “the penis is very far and cannot be returned”. The police were alerted and they took the man and Hausa man to the police headquarters in Bende road in Umuahia. When our reporter visited the scene, some of the people at the scene told our reporter that the policemen who came to rescue the suspect took him to an unknown destination. When contacted, the command’s police public relations officer (PPRO), Geoffrey Ogbonna confirmed the incident. Ogbonna said the culprit was taken into protective custody to avoid the public mobbing him. But information gathered while filing this report has it that the penis of the victim has been restored after the victim was taken to the popular Ama Hausa at Eket Street in Umuahia where the situation was reversed.