By Sijibomi Ogundele  Sir: There are three fundamental things we can learn from the life of Kobe Bryant. There are over 10 million professional basketballers but Kobe Bryant, Michael Jordan, LeBron James, Magic Johnson, Hakeem Olajuwon, and other vital few, made a decision to go the extra mile in making sure they exceed the ordinary and become extraordinary. Famous for his tough defense, vertical leap, and ability to score winning baskets at the end of the game are not by mistake, but are a product of intentional discipline. He understands that from the time of Muhammed Ali, the people that left the mark in society are those that go the extra mile. Kobe Bryant’s death shook the world, not because he was the greatest basketball player to ever grace the game, but because he was one of those superstars who transcended the sport, and impacted their world positively. Everywhere Kobe went, he broke one record or the other, leaving a trail of victories behind.  Amongst over 10 million basketballers, Kobe Bryant is part of the vital few that decided not to do things 10% better, but 10 times better. Kobe never settled for less! He kept looking for ways to do things differently! He was not deterred by the norm. He didn’t even go to a university yet he broke boundaries, smashed records and dunked his way to the top, winning five NBA championships and a three-time leading scorer! One thing that distinguishes Kobe from the average basketball player was the dependability of his integrity.  Kobe was a man of his word and this rubs off in his work ethics and result. His dependability on and off the field is unrivalled. Kobe is an example of what it means to leave a legacy behind, and to stay committed to your path no matter what comes at you.  He had integrity of association; he only associated with people who were hard working had a great working ethic.  He also had the integrity of team; his team could depend on him. He was loyal and committed to his team and was reliable. Despite numerous advances from other clubs, Kobe Bryant stayed true to the Lakers. Many people use excuses to justify their shortcomings; these are not the true Kobe Bryants. A true Kobe Bryant will go far and beyond the call of duty to make a difference. Like Kobe to the Lakers, they are entrepreneurial employees with the spirit of putting in more hours even when others are complaining. They give the team 110% because they understand that ‘if you want to lift yourself, you start by lifting someone else up”. Kobe Bryant didn’t have two heads. What differentiated him from others was his philosophy of discipline. In his words: “There’s a choice that we have to make as people, as individuals. If you want to be great at something, there’s a choice you have to make. We all can be masters at our craft, but you have to make a choice. What I mean by that is, there are inherent sacrifices that come along with that. Family time, hanging out with friends, being a great friend, being a great son, nephew, whatever the case may be. There are sacrifices that come along with making that decision.” Kobe Bryant is gone but he will be remembered not just as a legend of the game of basketball, but as the one who disrupted his industry, embraced honesty as a mantra and above all, an entrepreneur. 