 READER, welcome to this new year. Although, to be quite honest with you, I have found it hard indeed to tell the difference between last year and this year. I mean, last week Tuesday was last year and the next day, Wednesday, was the new year. Who does that? It was just one midweek day dovetailing into another midweek day. Now, if the year had ended on a Sunday, and the new one started two days later, I might have noticed something. As it is though… Anyway, since people persisted in shouting out the greeting of Happy New Year to me, I had no choice but to reply, if only to make sure I did not get stuck in last year when everyone else would have moved on. All your Merry Christmas and Happy New Year greetings were thus not wasted on me, dear reader, I assure you. They assured me that indeed, I had not become stuck in time. You know, ever since I learnt of Einstein’s Relativity theory, I have become very suspicious of science. I have lived in mortal fear of being stuck in time or space, you know, like when you get stuck in the blades of a revolving door and you find yourself pressed in between two slats of blade threatening to cut you into two. I try to look back on last year and all its pitfalls and I find my memory failing. I mean, there were many ups and downs, highs and lows, probably many more downs and lows than ups and highs, yet I seem to have developed the Nigerian syndrome regarding them. You know what that is, don’t you? It is the penchant for forgetting and downplaying the past good and bad deeds of people in public spaces but choose rather to remember and uplift only their propinquity and congeniality. In short, by highlighting their kinship with such public servants rather than their suitability, most people see themselves moving a little inch closer to the mother of the goose that lays the golden egg. Some people just like scrambled eggs, that’s all. Ok, now I remember something. … No, it’s gone again. … Yes, there it is. Oh dear, it doesn’t signify much. Let’s see now… The reelection of Governor Bello in Kogi State … That’s a pain, yes? Ok. Then, there was the general election itself which we’re still trying to categorise into pain, gain or being stranded somewhere on Planet Mars. Someone has described it more as being Lost in Space. I think they’re thinking of the economy. Oh yes, it was also the year of the ravaging, destructive, no-good bandits whom no one owned up to having invited into the country to wreak havoc. Then, of course, it was the year of the unprecedented ministerial utterances that did the country’s psyche no good. Not only were they ill-timed, they were out of sync with the internal dynamics, aspirations or internal revenue of the country. Talking of putting one’s foot in it. Looking back, I also remember the closure of our borders during the year to my favourite type of rice. Naturally, the new year has inherited the highest all-time price of rice. It was also the year of the unending Boko Haram… insurgencies of all kinds, especially in kitchens across the land… Oh, such groans coming out of me should not be heard by any living being right now. Anyway, I can go on with the pains, gains and other hoverings, but time, and space (again!), will not permit. Certainly, the value of any year lies literally in how many laughs it engenders. Let me think now. There was this story about the minimum wage but that is not funny, mainly because inflation is already waiting for it. Then there are the stories of governors (e.g. one complaining he had not received his allowance of ten million Naira, not to talk of pension, since he ‘retired’ – ha, ha!), senators, parties, etc., all of the same ilk of dark or gallows humour. Sometime last year, The Economist magazine predicted gloom for our economy. I think they got the picture wrong though. I think it’s a lot worse, for people are barely holding on by the skin of their teeth now. That is why it is essential that we get some tips on how to hang on properly by our two front teeth at least; if you lack that, then I am sorry, you might have to use a couple of your incisors. To make this new year count, we must look ahead into it with something akin to hope. I know, hope is not easily transferrable to the plate. If you believe though, anything can happen. Hope makes us to remember that tough times never last, tough people do only if they take their hands out of the till and immerse it in the murky waters of work. Hope becomes translatable to something a knife and fork can work on when we find something to do. Oh yes, there is always something to do. Kidnapping or highway robbery are not things to do. Growing things such as food or businesses from the ground up is something to do. So, in this new year, it is time to put those hands to work to grow things. We could also raise our expectations this year. I believe that Nigeria would have been a better place if the people’s expectations were not so low. This is why they do not hold their elected representatives to account for anything. Rather, they are content to let them get away with the highest emoluments in the world for the least amount of work done while the people wallow in poverty. Perhaps, if we were to raise our expectations a bit, we would get a better economy, transportation system, power generating and distribution system, water system, and altogether a better social system. Raising our expectation means we would stop being content with numbing stupidity. One thing we must absolutely do this year is to set ourselves to get a laugh per hour, day or week. Definitely, we must see the funny in everything, not just the comics. We must see the funny in all the roads in Abuja being tarred while those in the remaining parts of the country are filled with pot, kettle or rat holes. We must learn to see the funny in the neighbour who thinks that by living on stolen millions from his company somehow makes him better than the rest of the street. All Nigerian streets are filled with them. If you can’t find anything to laugh at in any given week, all you have to do is look at that neighbour. I’ll tell you what Nigeria needs right now: people who wish to genuinely serve her. Most people are not interested in serving the country, not where they work, heck, not even in their own homes. They are more interested in people who will serve them. If you determine to serve the country, who knows, you could be the first to actually desire to work. So, do look forward to a year of serving the country. It’s easy; all you have to do is imagine that God is about to magically change this country to America. You know how Americans wax lyrical about their country? Well, Nigeria could do with a fraction of that romance. Let us begin to pretend to love our country. We could practice looking like people who have just swallowed a bunch of roses and the scents are coming out of our noses. What, you can’t pretend? Just imitate the politicians; they’re good at it. Go make the new year count!  