This is the period of resolutions. The football family wants a change from the horrible past which predates this NFF board. We have seen enough of the charade around our football. We feel strongly that we need to sack the club chairmen and start a true rejuvenation of the beautiful game here. We are tired of follow follow ( thanks to a line in one of  Fela Anikulapo-Kuti’s albums) club chairmen, who watch in awe while the system cripples the game. The chairmen’s submission that their hands are tied is laughable, given what operates in their clubs.  Paying players, coaches and officials their wages and entitlements appears to be forbidden. These key actors of the game can’t revolt because it would affect their source of revenue, if they get sacked. Club chairmen have made the league operators look like their masters rather than partners. There can’t be league organisers without the clubs. Not so here. For instance, players of Ifeanyi Ubah were attacked by armed robbers en route a Match-Day 6 fixture against Jigawa Golden Stars. They were lucky to escape death. Till date, we don’t have clear details on the health situation of those players and officials. Today, nobody can tell if the boys benefited from any form of insurance. If the league organisation has insurance firm worthy of its reputation in the business, they would have used this unfortunate incident to explain what they have in store for the teams in the league in terms of welfare package. In other climes, we would’ve seen photos of the insurance firm(s) bosses going to visit the players in the hospital. They would’ve told Nigerians what the players are entitled to. The league organisers and the insurance firm would’ve used a press conference to tell everyone what players stood to gain from the various platforms in the insurance packages. Besides, journalists would’ve asked them critical questions, whose answers would’ve emboldened other players to give their best during matches, knowing that their lives and careers have been guaranteed by the insurance policies. The driver of this particular bus could have lost his life. Yet, no one has told us what the league organisers did for him – insurance wise, nor has the club said anything about the driver and the injured players. Is anyone surprised that our players are doing poorly in the CAF inter club competitions? Would anyone blame the domestic league players who jump at foreign offers? In March 2012, Fabrice Muamba suffered a cardiac arrest during a televised FA Cup match between Bolton and Tottenham Hotspurs and despite the fact that his heart stopped for 78 minutes, he was miraculously revived, thanks to expert medical attention on the pitch before he was whisked away to the hospital. Nobody brought sachet water near the player. Nor did those rushing Muamba to the hospital have to push the ambulance before it could start. These people on an emergency service also didn’t have to wait endlessly for them to fish out the ambulance driver, who may have strayed away to eat, as most drivers do here. The driver didn’t have to pant while driving or run a long distance from where he was drinking like we see in our leagues. Another example of effective management of medical emergencies on the field of play, is the case of former Arsenal player Santi Carzola who suffered a career threatening injury which kept him away for 636 days. Carzola cracked a bone in an ankle, suffered a knee ligament injury in November 2015 and played in increasing pain…. His skin had deteriorated and split open and infection attacked but he was patched up by a solid medical team. He returned to football and signed for Villarreal FC of Spain, where he is enjoying the beautiful game again alongside Nigerian star, Samuel Chukwueze. Dear reader, please don’t ask what obtains in the Nigerian league on this medical emergency matters. Let me annoy you a bit. You may find an ambulance belonging to the state government, where the governor is sports-loving. Otherwise, you would find one ill-equipped jalopy which would require a push to start. Besides the pitch, you may find an ancient carrier to take the injured player off. Otherwise, two hefty men would run onto the pitch. The point to be made here is that we have eminently trained medical personnel. But they may have pulled out of doing business with the league due the reasons known to us. Need I list them? Nobody does business for charity. Other climes have official hospital which would work with the club’s medical crew and those in the stadium for such intricate exercises. The domestic league is an apology, beginning with the sharp practices around the grounds before, during and after matches. Nothing to stimulate the interests of the spectators to sit patiently at the stands. The essence of organising league matches isn’t for both teams to benefit from the gates takings, but to allow Nigerians watch the country’s future representatives at CAF inter-club competitions. The matches ensure that the owners of the clubs (mostly state governments) get the facilities ready for the players to battle for honours. But with visionless organisers, anything goes, even if it means playing games with empty terraces. Nigeria is the only country where league organisers bask in organising Super Four tournaments after the gruelling 38-week matches have been played. Equally, unacceptable is the idea of not demoting teams that did badly in the season, simply because the organisers want more entrants into the league. How do you promote failures? are you surprised from a failed body? Birds of the same feather fly together. Is this not a clear indictment of the 38-week format, known to everyone? How do you organise league matches for the season, yet the winner would still be subjected to another round of matches to decide the eventual winner – what a country. Nobody wants to stop this misnomer because those who benefit from it blaming the late commencement of the competition for the aberration called Super Four. It is simply unimaginable for the English league Board to contemplate a Super Four series after the breath-taking 380 matches played in 38-weeks across the year by 20 teams. What would the EPL board members be telling Liverpool etc that there is still a Super Four to be played in the Barclays English Premier League? Who is it in Germany that would be talking about Super Four after the Bundesliga? How dare anyone suggest Super Four instead of the La Liga Santander? Not even the Italians would opt for it, ahead of the Serie A? Is it that Nigeria’s league board members don’t know about these other leagues and how they are played? When such abnormalities occur, it is the clubs that should protest? They won’t because they know the implications of such revolts. Don’t remind anyone about what befell Kwara United FC of yore, simply because a referee was beaten groggy during a match venue? The club chairmen can’t be bothered about the format, since playing less matches in groups to accommodate the Super Four. The chairmen would rather run to their sponsors for more cash to prosecute the Super Four, without rendering proper accounts of how they spent the first tranche. Fans, who should pay money to watch the teams, avoid the venues for fear of their lives. It takes a little disagreement for chaos to engulf the premises, with only 50 security operatives carrying canisters of tear-gas. Venues have their stadium gates thrown open, yet no dice. Who wants to watch our local leagues when club touts man the gates and direct the affairs of the place at the club chairmen’s behest. The organisers are feigning ignorance about the deplorable conditions in the clubs, preferring to get the players on the pitch, even if they are doing that on empty stomachs. Players, coaches and ancillary groups who make the games possible do so for the love of the game, which isn’t run professionally. Only recently, the Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare berated the League Management Company (LMC) for its poor organization of the domestic football league. He said: “The bad image at all levels of our football including the organisers of the domestic league cannot attract sponsorship which is the biggest hub of business. “No country’s football can grow without a predictable and credible Football calendar that is binding on everyone. The essence of having a football calendar is to ensure that the corporate world can plan with it. “No blue-chip firm operates based on hunches. Everything is planned with dates and milestones. No company will wait for the NFF to wake up from its slumber to include them in their plans.” Happy New Year, dear reader.