 A COALITION of pro-Buhari support groups has accused those it calls political double-dealers, paid merchants and insidious elements of  hatching  campaigns to smear the rising political and professional profiles of some figures  in the Muhammadu Buhari administration, warning that the true  identities of those sponsoring these attempts at blackmailing these personalities would be exposed  if they persist. In a statement issued after a meeting in Kano at the weekend, the groups under the aegis of Pan- Buhari Solidarity Movement (PBSM) accused some political elements of sponsoring some so-called Civil Society Groups to raise dust on non-existent issues. The PSBM which listed key members of the Buhari’s Next level Agenda, who are targets of the alleged smear campaign as Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila, Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr. Godwin Emefiele, among others said it will soon expose the real names behind the blackmailers if they persist in deceit. Dr. Abubakar Gusau, who signed the statement on behalf of the PBSM restated the pro-Buhari movement’s unequivocal support for and commitment to the trio of Gbajabiamila, Omo-Agege and Emefiele, stressed that they have all seen the clandestine hands of “some deceptive politicians who are behind these hatchet jobs to smear the eminent profiles and reputation of these three figures and others that they are also planning to blackmail which we will soon unveil.” He said: “It has come to our knowledge as members of the Pan-Buhari Solidarity Movement (PBSM) that some persons who, out of sheer political jealousy, deviousness, treachery, and bent on fighting back against Buhari’s reforms policies, are now targeting some figures that are most committed and extremely dedicated to the Buhari program of taking Nigeria to the Next Level by launching smear campaigns against them. “Among those being targeted by these blackmailers are DSP Senator Omo-Agege, Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila, CBN governor, Godwin Emefiele, among others. These are men have received accolades for their excellent handling of their various responsibilities. “Take the case of DSP Omo-Agege, he has excellently deputized for the Senate President, worked assiduously in support of the Next level Agenda and supported the leadership of the Senate in creating a sustained harmony between the executive and the legislators which have produced results. “These paid agents are obviously not happy and they come up with mischief. Even when his spokesman stated clearly that he has a clean bill of health – that he was declared innocent by the Hon. Lance A. Ito who presided over the popular O.J. Simpson murder trial case and G. Magnera of the Court of California, County of Los Angeles.  That Omo-Agege had to fight hard for his innocence and God vindicated him against the expectations of evil men like the most sadistic blackmailer in the world. And today, Omo-Agege remains an active member in good standing at the State of California Bar Association-an impossibility if a valid and subsisting conviction were hanging on him. These are verifiable pubic facts and truths.”‘ 