Editorial  Can the state push an innocent citizen to the brink of death, yet callously hold back instead of swiftly moving to save his life? That is the tragic odyssey of ShedrackOgbonna, a resident of Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, who left a distraught widow and five children. He died on January 5, at the Federal Medical Centre, Yenagoa, after languishing in coma for eight months. From media reports, the ill-fated Ogbonna was, on May 6, 2019, knocked down by a police patrol driving against the traffic, near the Ekek motor park in the state. Such was the deadly impact that the policemen, who dutifully rushed the victim to the hospital, were told the accident had damaged part of Ogbonna’s brain. After the initial first aid, they were told the patient could live only if he was flown elsewhere for a surgery, estimated to cost N5 million. It was at this point that the police reportedly balked, claiming that though they accidentally knocked down the victim, they were on an official duty for the state government. From that point, they abandoned the patient, then transferred to the hospital’s Intensive Care Unit (ICU), where the man died, eight months later. The reports did not say if the Bayelsa State Police Command went on to brief the Bayelsa State government, to seek its intervention on Ogbonna’s case, to take over the medical bill and raise funds for his hoped-for treatment abroad. All Ogbonna’s widow said was that the police abandoned her husband in the hospital, and reneged on their earlier pledge to settle the hospital bill. “I have not seen this kind of thing before,” rued grieving Mrs. Felicia Ogbonna. “It is only God that has been sustaining me and the children.” This is death as callous as it was avoidable. It is not even clear which is worse, in the clear tragedy of errors that terminated Ogbonna’s life, made his wife an emergency widow and rendered his luckless children fatherless. The police are the prime state civil agency to enforce the law. In this case, however, they turned murderous road outlaws — and even appear unfazed by it all, given the callous manner they abandoned their victim to his grim fate. Then, after the initial hospitalisation, the police betrayed an unbelievable lack of compassion, conscience that is dead and buried, and a startling lack of a sense of duty, to the man whose life, by their fatal errors, hung in the balance; and the deep pains and anxiety felt by his helpless family. If the Bayelsa State government was fully briefed — although nothing in the news reports signifies that — then they would have been tarred by the same black brush the state police richly deserve in this all-too-avoidable tragedy.  But now that the worst has happened, Ogbonna has turned a sad new year for his family, what is to be done? The very basic the Bayelsa State Police Command can do is to thoroughly investigate the case.  Did the troopers involved in the accident that claimed Ogbonna’s life, absolutely need to drive against the traffic? If so, then the command should educate its personnel afresh on measures that should be put in place in such road emergencies — an effective siren regime, for instance. It is doubtful if wailing sirens would not have warned Ogbonna to stay off harm’s way. But if driving against traffic is another of the all-too-well-known police impunity, then the cadres involved must be arraigned in court for dutiful prosecution. Even lawful duty is no excuse to snuff life out of innocent citizens, going about for legitimate daily bread. On this matter, let the law follow its due course. Then, most importantly, both the police and the Bayelsa State government should adequately compensate the Ogbonna family. No amount of money can bring back the dead or remove the family’s angst. But adequate compensation can lessen the biting financial pang, from the sudden death of the family’s breadwinner. That is the least the state can do to mitigate this avoidable tragedy. But it must also ensure no citizen, poor or rich, ever again suffers Ogbonna’s ill fate. 