United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc has unveiled the ‘UBA Bumper Account’, a hybrid account, targeted at transforming customers.
The account is aimed at improving the lives of the UBA customers and offer account holders opportunity to win cash prizes of up to N2 million. Speaking at the event, which was held at the UBA Head Office, in Lagos, the Group Head, Retail Banking, Jude Anele said, the New ‘UBA Bumper Account’ was created with the customer in mind.
He explained customers of the bank should ensure that they have a minimum deposit of N5,000 in their UBA Bumper Account to qualify. According to him, current UBA customers are to dial  *919*20*1# to migrate to the UBA Bumper Account while potential customers  should dial *919*20# if interested in opening a UBA Bumper Account.
In the first draw, which was held live  during  the official launch in Lagos today,  a total of 100 customers emerged winners as the  Bumper to Bumper Crooner, Wande Coal  serenaded guests with his famous hit songs to the delight of all.
“A total of 100 customers emerged winners at the live draws which took place here today, and as you have seen, some of our customers here present were part of the lucky ones who won N100,000 each. From here on, lucky customers will win from N10,000 to N2 million each in the monthly, quarterly and targeted draws,” Anele stated.
He added that a monthly shopping allowance of N100,000 for a year is also up for grabs. “No fewer than 50 account holders will get N2 million each across all participating regions. This account is open to both existing and new customers of the bank who save a minimum of N5,000,” Anele noted. Amos Wisdom, one of the winners, could not hide his joy when he was announced as one of the winners. “I am still very amazed. Before I came here, I had the conviction that I would win. All my life, I have never won anything like this, and I am very happy that I won this time. Thank you so much UBA,” he said. The Deputy Director and Co-ordinator, National Lottery Regulatory Commission was present during the event to ensure that winners were properly selected in a fair manner without prejudice. She noted that the commission had worked with UBA in many promos in the past without any issues. The Head Consumer Banking, Chiedu Ibeku, said: “We had two major objectives for this account which is to say a big thank you to our customers for being there and most importantly, to encourage a savings culture. Our intention is not only to reward loyalty but also to transform the lives of our customers for good.’’