 THE age long practice of paying glowing tributes to dead heroes without commensurate honour and monuments erected to immortalise them will no longer be the norm. Youths and Sports Minister Sunday Dare is committed to changing the narrative by ensuring that recognition and honour is bestowed on athletes, coaches and Administrators who have made immense contributions   to Sports development. As the body of the late NSC Chairman Alex Akinyele is interned today, Dare  said beyond graveside oration, President Muhammadu Buhari is irrevocable committed to honouring sports men and women,  coaches and administrators that have contributed to Sports. While paying glowing tribute to heroes and heroines that had won laurels,  brought glory and honour to our fatherland, Dare said it must go beyond mere rhetorical statements and empty promises. “We must learn to honour athletes, coaches and Administrators that committed their lives to the service of the nation,” Dare was quoted as saying in a release signed by his media aide John Joshua Akanji. “Chief Akinyele was an epitome of service and patriotism. He exemplified what genuine service to the country meant. His personal charm was infectious and hard work quite motivational. He tried to use his position to impact on the society. He was simply a true Nigerian hero. “Sports remain our greatest unifying instrument, public Relation tool and could be the biggest source of revenue if properly harnessed.  So many heroes have died unheralded and in penury. We must celebrate our athletes and Administrators while they are alive.” According to Dare, Akinyele was a pace setter, astute administrator, accomplished technocrat, consummate business man who left his mark in the sands of time. Dare affirmed that Akinyele led an exemplary life worthy of emulation. He was a man who abhorred failure, set his goals and ensured that they were accomplished. He presided during great epochs in Nigerian Sports like the 1994 Nations Cup Victory, the Atlanta 1996 Olympics feat among others. He was meticulous and a stickler to details. He never believed in impossibilities. Dare further described him as humane, humorous, urbane and honest in his views. While some viewed him as too cosmopolitan, he was a grassroots man who was at home with his people, no wonder he held the title of Lisa of Ondo Kingdom. He made remarkable mark in the development of his community in Sports, education and infrastructural development.