By Abdulrasheed Hammad  Students of Usmanu Danfodiyo University Sokoto (UDUS) have are appealed to the school leadership to extend the three-week timeline for registration due to financial situation that makes many of them unable to meet the deadline. UDUS Dean of Student Affairs (DSA) Prof Muhammad Aminu Mode, in a statement, had directed new and returning students to complete their registration, which started on January 6 and would expire tomorrow. The sanction for running foul of the directive is deferment of a session, Mode further warned. Speaking with our correspondent Yusuf Abdulkadir, a 400-Level undergraduate of Biology Education, explained that the majority of the students are from far places, adding that it would be very difficult for an average student to get the money within that short period of time. “The time limit given for the registration is not too bad. However, I am not really satisfied with the deadline for registration because most of the students especially those of us who come from another state to study don’t find it easy to get the money in order to pay on time. He continued: “Just take the case of most of us in the Faculty of Education that are expected to spend almost six weeks but which was later increased to nine weeks for our Teaching Practice immediately after the session ends. “And immediately after that exercise, the next thing is how to get money to pay our school fees before we resume, and we only have a week grace to travel home to raise money.’’ Another 200-Level Student of Chemistry Education Sani Ismail, equally pitched his tent with Abdulkadir. “I am not satisfied with the deadline for registration because about 20 per cent of Danfodites (UDUS students) wouldn’t be able to pay their fees within the deadline set by management. This is not intentioned; it is as a result of financial problems facing this country. A third year Geology undergraduate Abubakar Abdullahi, explained to CAMPUSLIFE, that he sponsors himself through school, therefore he may not have the opportunity to get the money within that short period of time.  “I am not satisfied with the date fixed by the management because of my source of income. I sponsor myself to school. I buy and sell product, and this circumstance might compel me sell my goods at a much cheaper price to raise the money which may not even be enough for my fees,” Abdullahi wailed. Meanwhile, Shehu Muhammad, a 200-Level Student of Hausa Language, observed that the deadline for registration is not convenient as those who sponsor them also have other things such as hostel fees, transport fare and food stuffs,  among others, to contend with. Sadisu Abdullah expressed his discontentment too. “To be candid, I’m not happy with the notice,” said the 200-Level Law student. “The reason is because of the school fees amount that has been increased. The fees is higher than  what we used to pay in the previous years; and yet school management would grant us enough time to complete their registration.”