Our Reporter  Following a viral video capturing the Golden Effects Pictures’ crew on a recce of scenic delights around Nigeria, Senegal and destination Cape Verde Islands, prolific filmmaker, Kunle Afolayan, has announced his company’s readiness to shoot his next movie entitled CITATION. Exploring a subject of social decadence in the educational sector, the new movie is a college drama about a female postgraduate student who has to find a way of dealing with the awkward situation of sexual harassment from a lecturer. Addressing the media on Thursday at a press conference to unveil the journey of yet another creative endeavour in his near two-decade career, Afolayan said his company is set – after pre-production which started in October 2018 – for five weeks of shoot, beginning January 10, 2020 through February 15, 2020 in three countries. According to the award-winning filmmaker, his company is partnering Ford Foundation on the project which has been designed to propel women to aspire to become successful leaders by providing counter examples to negative gender stereotypes. Canon Central and North Africa, he noted, is also coming on board his movie project for the second time in a row, adding that CITATION will be shot with the new Canon EOS C500 MarK II camera – the first time the camera will be used in Africa. Other partners, according to Afolayan, include Access Bank, through its W Initiative – Africa’s  premier women’s financial programme focusing on inspiring, connecting and empowering women and girls; online travel portal, Flyboku, for flights and related logistics; Ajike Peoples’ Support Centre, a Non-Governmental Organisation and pet project of Mrs. Olufolake Ajike Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, First Lady of Kwara State; and Ministry of Culture and Creative Industries in Cape Verde, as main sponsors of the country’s locations of the shoot, following a meeting with Minister Abrãao Vicente and other officials during the recce in October last year. Speaking further on the theme of the movie, the filmmaker said, “CITATION will create awareness on the different forms of violence against women and girls in the public and private sphere.  It will educate the society on women’s rights and the ways to enforce these rights for the achievement of equality and tranquillity. The movie will encourage and embolden women to stand up against mistreatment and abuse by a patriarchal society. It has also been designed to propel women to aspire to become successful leaders and thereby provide counter examples to negative gender stereotypes.” Boasting an ensemble of A-list actors of diverse nationalities, as is the character of the film company, one can also underscore CITATION as another launching pad for new actors and resurgence for underrated talents by Golden Effects Pictures. Cast of the movie include veteran Nigerian actress and director, Joke Silvia; Haitian-French actor and model, Jimmy Jean-Louis; delectable Nigerian actress, Ini Edo; UK-based Nigerian fashion and lifestyle blogger, Temi Otedola; notable Nigerian actor, Yomi Fash-Lanso; Ghanaian actor, Adjetey Anang; Nigerian actor and singer, Gabriel Afolayan; man of Ivorian theater, Bienvenu Neba; veteran broadcaster and actor, Sadiq Daba; upcoming Nollywood actress, Bukunmi Oluwashina; French-Ivorian actor and screen writer, Raymond Reboul; theatre educator, Toyin Bifarin; and veteran Nigerian film director and actor, Wole Olowomojuore, aka ‘Baba Gebu’. Afolayan said he will be surprising fans, as a top personality will soon be unveiled as part of the cast. Written by the company’s long-standing screen writer, Tunde Babalola, CITATION tells the story of Moremi Oluwa, a fun-loving 21-year-old student on campus in Nigeria. Incensed at being ill-treated by a trendy university don, Lucien N’Dyare, she drags him before the University Senate. The ensuing intrigues define Moremi’s world against that of the respected academic, in a male-dominated bastion.