By Damisi Ojo, Akure  Proprietors of Private Primary and Secondary Schools in the country have been urged to provide necessary instructional facilities that would bring out the best in their pupils. The founder of the Mummy Place International School/Emplace College,Oba-Ile Road,Akure,Ondo State,Pastor Damilola Oshin,gave the charge while receiving an outstanding award of excellence for floating a standard educational institution in the state. It was an award of ” an ethically compliant and foremost private Primary/Secondary School in Ondo state. The award was through a private Organisation, Centre for Ethics and Self Value Orientation,an International Anti-Corruption/Non Governmental Organisation(NGO). Oshin had received several awards within and outside the country,since she founded the School starting from  Day Care Centre in 2001,particularly from London Graduate School,National Association of Nigerian Students(NANS)and World Quality Alliance(WQA) as ” Africa’s best World Quality Education Centre. Speaking while presenting the award, the Executive Director,Centre for Ethics and Self Value Orientation, Kogi State, Prince Saliu Musa Yakubu said the indices for the award include qualitative education standard of the school,time management,issues of Servicom even in private establishment,due process on National Policy on Basic Education,staff welfare ,infrastructure and standard curriculum among others. ” We based our assessments on 14 days multi-se ctoral investigations through MDAs,private institutions,government agencies,and even sent questionnaires of about 1000 copies per local government with 12 strategic questions to determine the value and standard of the institution.  “The award is not money-induced,there was no pre-knowledge of honouring the school and its proprietress,the award has no prize tag, we had no interaction with subject of investigation,we only informed her on our arrival that we will be at her school the next day to present the outstanding award,” he said. Pastor Oshin,Prorietress of the college, disclosed that she had earlier received a call from God many years ago that she would establish the private school which she started on August 1, 2001 as  Day Care Centre,which later metamorphosed into full primary and secondary school. The proprietress said:  “Our culture here is believing in hard work in order to bring out the best in pupils through moral values,sound academic and spiritual guidance.” “Here we don’t allow examination malpractices, we don’t allow class teachers to mark their pupils script,we imbibe the culture of zero tolerance to examination malpractices”. 