By Ibraheem Yahaya The 10th of January is a red letter day in the lives of thousands Rt. Hon. Aminu Waziri Tambuwal CFR, the former Speaker of House of Representatives and the Executive Governor of Sokoto State who turns 54 was born. Undoubtedly he is one of the most outstanding cosmopolitan Nigerian politician and a leader; a man of distinct character and quality whose contribution to the development of Sokoto State and Nigeria is well acknowledged. To him, and particularly his supporters, friends, families, associates and well- wishers, 54 is not ‘just a number’, but a PIN to his resolute competent leadership. His 54th birthday is therefore a profound anniversary that worth been celebrated. It’s an indisputable fact that the bashful man of few words has always remained on the side of the people and history since his sojourn into politics in 1999. The Tambuwal’s factor in Sokoto’s and Nigerian politics is still potent, and it is almost certainly because of his many positive traits, which have endeared him to his people. While taking into cognisance of his contributions — and shortcomings — as a Speaker of House of Representatives and asitting Governor, just as every leader, his scorecard is certainly impressive. Aminu, as fondly called by his followers, who comprises of large spectrum of the populace, is one of the politicians who has generated a high magnitude of attention and spotted commentaries. He is a symbol with a galaxy of landmarks that stand him out as a leader. In politics and leadership, he is already a living legend. His factor in Nigeria politics is very visible and dominant which has made him to be a force to reckon with. He is a leader that neither looks up to the rich nor down on the poor and too brave to be cowed and to be cheated. I have to say that he is very transparent, honest, God fearing and humble leader. Tambuwal is no ordinary politician; he is a master political strategist and tactician. He understood people and understood the game of politics. He is a man of wise counsel, and he imparted that counsel to his followers in a way that is always forthright, clearand always compelling in its simplicity, its honestyand its logic. He has been at the centre of Nigeria and Sokoto politics; scrutinised and analysed by his adversaries for close two decades and yet, he keep on rising as a star leader. If heroism is to be measured by service and openness to the electorates, then Governor Tambuwal is fully qualified as a political strategist of the first order. Mutawallen Sokoto has every reason to be grateful to his creator for what he has done for him and, for sparing his life to witness yet, another birthday. It is unquestionable fact that Sakwatawa’s did not make an erroneous choice electing him as theirGovernor in the 2015 and 2019 general election. His election didn’t take him time to rejuvenate good governance immediately he resumes office in May 2015. Last four years of his purposely, visionary and accountable leadership has position the state as one of the force to reckon with in the term of economic growth and development in the Country. Today, the positive impact of his administration is felt at every nook and cranny of the State, the aggrieved are the few clusters that believe he did not give them access to corner the fortune of the masses for their personal and selfish interest. Governor Tambuwal seems always to have been a creature of expectations — his own and those that others have conferred upon him. Ever since his emergence as the Speaker of Federal House of Representative in 2011, analysts, commentators and people have spoken of him in terms of what “could be” and, later, of what “might have been” due to his leadership qualities and charisma. In 2015, he attempted taking a shot as the nation’s top job, but destiny made him to lead the people of his State as their Governor, an office he occupies up to date. The author thinks he can go beyond a Governor. After aspiring for the nation’s top in 2019 PDP Presidential primary election which he comes second and given the ticket to re-contest for the Governor in 2019 which he won in the first and second re-run election, has signifies his acceptance by his people. It is also true that the State has improved significantly in nationwide economic recovery. Mutawallen Sokoto didn’t lag behind his contemporaries going by the giant stride he made in last four years of purposeful leadership to the Sakwatawa’s. His intellect is formidable, his values sound, his understanding of the state’s complex needs and opportunities unmatched. Sakwatawa’s should be lucky to have him re-elected as their Governor because his re-election will curb the growing power of pockets of special or quack interests, which so often conceal their self-serving agendas behind a facade of fist-in-the-air patriotism and unfulfilling promises. The Governor’s swiftly made good on his signature campaign pledges of emergency in education, health, agriculture, infrastructures and youth empowerment. Despite meagre amount of resources which part of it is channel to debt servicing due to liability his administration inherited; his notable achievements includes construction of International Conference Centre (ICC) Kasarawa, Sokoto, construction of Housing Estate at Kalambaina, Sokoto, ongoing constructions of abandoned three Zonal High Courts in Isa, Gwadabawa and Tambuwal, renovation and constructions of schools across the 23 LGA’s, renovations and equipping of hospitals in the 23 LGA’s, renovated and upgraded High Court complex in Sokoto, construction of Water Schemes in the 23 LGA’s and completion of inherited Water schemes in Asari, Gagi and Runjin Sambo, procurement of Ambulances for emergency services in the 23 LGAs, on upgrading of and renovation Sokoto Stadium to International Standard, constructions of township roads in Sokoto and others outside the State capital, purchase of irrigation pumping Generators that was distributed to farmers across the State and prompt payment of scholarship (local and foreign) for indigenes of the States. He is on a path to fulfilling a commitment to make education compulsory and free for all in Sokoto State at all level. The bumper harvest the State has been recording in last four years was part of his support to agricultural sector. His administration promised to complete the abandoned projects by his predecessor before the end of his tenure; the projects include: State Independent Power Project (IPP), Gidan Salanke Housing Estate, College of Agriculture Wurno and College of Legal Studies Wamakko. His laudable public-health policy in the State is now a model to many States in Nigeria. Governor Tambuwal is no slouch. He is first plausible, serious democrat and a visionary leader. The people of Sokoto State have proofed to the world in the just concluded 2019 general election and the re-run in the State that they wouldn’t want to be operated on by a physician with only a few surgeries under his or her belt, and the assurance that this doctor brought a fresh perspective to anesthesia and incisions wouldn’t thrill them and they also agree to choose a pilot who had flown 999 flights over one with 9 flights. A meditative gentleman by nature and a man of few words, he’s been meticulous, transparent, modest, focus, visionary, thorough and responsible to a fault. He has his family, humanity, community, State, religion and the Country at heart of his existences. May Allah grants Mutawallen Sokoto many more peaceful years of sound health. Yahaya writes in from Abuja