By John Austin Unachukwu  Plateau State Governor  and Chairman of the Northern Governors Forum Simon Lalong has said the Supreme Court’s affirmation of his election victory confirmed the mandate bestowed on him by the electorate. Lalong said he was never in doubt the court would affirm his mandate. According to him, not only did he campaign and engage all stakeholders, but also delivered on his campaign promises in his first tenure which endeared the people to him. He stated this in a statement by his Director of Press and Public Affairs, Dr. Makut Simon Macham. Lalong said: “I again dedicate this victory to God and the people of Plateau State irrespective of their political, social, religious or ethnic affiliations. “The highest court in the land has stamped the mandate I was given and this means that our administration is now clear of litigation distractions. “The time now is for governance and actualisation of our next level agenda encapsulated in our three-point vision of peace, security and good governance; Infrastructural development and sustainable economic rebirth.” The Governor repeated his call to the opposition to join hands with him in developing the state and pursuing projects and programmes that will promote lasting legacies for the people. He asked the people to intensify prayers for the peace and stability of the state which will enable rapid development to take place. Lalong also thanked the judiciary for their impartiality and contribution to consolidating democracy in the state and Nigeria as a whole. Barely 24 hours after the Supreme Court judgment, the governor paid a visit to the Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajiya Sadiya Faruk in Abuja. Lalong sought the ministry’s support for the rehabilitation and reintegration of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in Plateau State who are being returned to their ancestral homes. He said: “Since the symbolic closure of all IDP camps in the state in December 2019, the state government has been doing a lot to enable them rebuild their homes and start life again. “Materials for reconstruction were provided to facilitate reconstruction of destroyed homesteads. We are committed to ensuring that the peace we have restored to Plateau is consolidated. Peace cannot be fully consolidated without taking care of those that were displaced and disoriented. We want to see that they are comfortable in their original abodes and have means of livelihood so that they can forget the trauma of the past as they heal”. Lalong said the state could not bear the huge financial cost of resettling the returnee IDPs hence the appeal for the assistance of the Federal Government through the Ministry. He admitted that the state had “benefitted a lot from the Social Investment Programmes of the Federal Government and is also doing its best to provide empowerment opportunities for youths in the state through the Plateau Small and Medium Enterprises Agency (PLASMIDA).” This, he added, has “contributed immensely to the restoration of peace as many youths are now engaged with less tendency for crime.” Responding, Faruk thanked Lalong for making her ministry the first port of call after his election victory, which, according to her, testified to his passion for the less privileged and vulnerable persons in the society such as the IDPs who need special attention. She pledged that the ministry would assist Plateau State in not only ensuring that IDPs were returned to their ancestral lands, but also ensure that they were empowered and given opportunities to be productive and live with dignity. Faruk said: “I am not surprised that Plateau State now enjoys peace because you are a man of peace and has always advocated harmonious living. “You are my big brother and I will do everything possible to support you. Already, we have received your request which the Permanent Secretary is working on. Very soon, the team will come to Plateau State to ensure that we are on the same page”. She commended the governor for absorbing many youths into various social programmes and giving special attention to persons living with disability in Plateau State by creating the Disability Rights Commission which is one of the first in the country.  “Very soon I am going to come looking for the Head of your Disability Commission to join us here at the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development to to help us coordinate the aspects of people with disabilities in Nigeria. We have heard that he is doing a great job. Your Excellency, please start looking for a replacement” the Minister said. The governor was accompanied on the visit by the Speaker of the Plateau State House of Assembly Nuhu Abok Ayuba, Secretary to the Government Prof. Danladi Atu, Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Plateau State Letep Dabang and the Commissioner of Information Dan Manjang. Meanwhile, the Northern Governors Forum has condemned the alleged gruesome murder of Reverend Lawan Andimi, who was the Local Council Chapter Chairman of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and a pastor with the Church of the Brethren (EYN) at the District Church Council of Michika Adamawa State by terrorist group. In a statement, Lalong, who is the Forum’s Chairman, described the act as yet “another sad tale of the inhuman activities of the terrorist group which is bent on unleashing sorrow in the hearts of Nigerians. While commiserating with the family of the late clergyman, the Church and people of Adamawa State, Lalong urged them not to allow the ugly incident affect their faith in God and love for humanity. “The death of the late Clergyman cannot be a catalyst for hatred among Nigerians who are disgusted by the cruelty of the terrorist organisation,” he said. He added that the Northern Governors Forum remained united in their support for security agencies “to continue to rise up to not only terrorist groups, but all forms of criminality that seek to divide the country along ethnic, religious or political lines.” According to him, the forum “stands shoulder to shoulder with President Muhammadu Buhari as he rallies the world towards defeating terror groups and their sponsors, as well as the purveyors of their bizarre ideology which propagates sorrow, hatred and pain on innocent persons in the name of religion and others claims.” In another development, Lalong mourned the passing of Alh Alhassan Shuaibu, elder statesman and community leader who passed away on January 13, 2020 after a protracted illness. He described Alhassan’s death as a great loss to the Kanam Emirate, Plateau State and the nation as a whole. He recalled the deceased’s “many contributions the to the development of Plateau State and the nation through various responsibilities he carried out, including his tenure as Permanent Secretary in the Plateau State civil service and as Board Member of the NNPC.” “The legacies he left behind will remain indelible in the hearts of many who came across him and witnessed his benevolence, compassion deep knowledge and sacrifices,” Lalong said. The governor was represented at the burial in Abuja by a delegation led by the Secretary to the Government of Plateau State Prof. Danladi Abok Atu. Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives Hon. Idris Ahmed Wase was also among several sympathisers at the burial. Lalong visited the late Alhaji Alhassan at his residence in Abuja on January 7, shortly after he was discharged from the hospital.