Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain and former Imo State House of Assembly Speaker Godfrey Dikeocha, who recently defected to the All Progressives Congress (APC), spoke with CHRIS NJOKU on the need for Ndigbo to align with ‘national grid politics’  What is your assessment of the PDP in Imo State? The spirit with which we started the party has been destroyed. It is now wheeler-dealer in Imo State. It is now a matter of money for appointments. It doesn’t matter whether you are an armed robber or ‘419’ person; it doesn’t matter as far as you can fund it. However, I want to tell you that glory like Ichabod has departed the PDP and may not return. Why are you leaving the party for the APC? I believe in the anti-corruption principles of President Muhammadu Buhari and I can say he is fighting it, no matter the pitfalls. I have also seen that in spite of the misgivings expressed in the Southeast, Mr. President has started executing projects in the zone. During the PDP era, we orchestrated the Second Niger Bridge that never took place. Today, something is going on there. Renovation work is going on at the Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu. Before now, under the PDP, the airport was more or less abandoned even though Southeasterners of the PDP extractions were Aviation ministers. We had the Secretary to the Federation from Southeast. But, nobody could rehabilitate the airport. Look at what Mr. President is doing there today, even though Southeast did not give him the votes he needed, he has not abandoned the region. Look at the rehabilitation work on Aba-Owerri road, which has accelerated. The only thing I am not finding comfortable is the railway line project, which he has not extended to the Southeast. I am sure that my friend, the Transport Minister Rotimi Amaechi will do something about it. Why are you joining the APC? I am joining the APC because I want to help to rebuild it in Imo State. I am one man that has all the major actors of the APC as personal friends — from Senator Rochas Okorocha to Senator Hope Uzodinma. I think the time has come for us to align with the ‘national grid politics’ because we are losing a lot not because we don’t have people but also as a result of personal disagreement.  So, I know how to provide a level of leadership that will bring all of them together to move the APC forward and create a new vista. Is it true that you are defecting to APC to take over the party? I am not joining to take over the party. I don’t have such ambition. I am a party builder. If the only thing I can achieve is to build the APC to show PDP chieftains that they are not the Almighty I will be very glad to show them that they are not unstoppable. That’s why when the leaders of the APC from Owerri zone came to consult with me to join the party. I accepted but on condition that we are going to get united, just like what Prof. Chike Obi said,let us sink our differences and fight the monster. PDP has lost its glory because it has sinned against both man and God. Even the lowly person today cannot get anything in the party again. You must be the son of a SAN, former governor or minister before you can get something within the fold. So, I urge my supporters to leave the PDP now. If they don’t leave, they will be politically strangulated. What is your assessment of Governor Ihedioha’s government so far? It is there for you to see, to know whether the speed is enough or a press concoction. At what point did things start falling apart between you and Ihedioha? Are we going to kill ourselves? The way we play politics here, no matter how bad it gets, you can never go against the life of anybody. Anyway, his family is like my family; he comes to my home. Even when my senior brother died, PDP members were told not to come to my home, but the governor came here at night. I don’t know the way he now feels; I still believe he is my friend, but if he now feels we are no longer friends, so be it. Are joining as an individual? Yes. But other members who believe in my principle are going to defect en mass because they know there is nothing for them in PDP. How do you intend to go about uniting APC stakeholders in Imo? Like the adage says, heavy load does not kill the ant. It was the same way we formed the PDP. Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu, Chief Ezekiel Izuogu, Arthur Nzeriebe and Chief Evans Enwerem were not of the PDP when we as young Turks formed the party then. Those who brought them to the PDP are still going to come over. Just watch. What is your prediction for PDP in Imo? The party will die a natural death because people will soon find out that it is an elitist club. What is your advice for the APC? My advice is that they should sink their local differences and fight the monster. Let them stop personal aggrandisement and fight the monster. I offer myself as a sacrificial lamb. We are nation builders; after building I can leave the stage for them. 