The Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) has expressed concern over the non-convening of board meeting by the Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading (NBET) in the past 14 months. It demanded immediate convening of the board session to address emerging issues. The BPE listed the liquidity problem, including the outstanding N1.4 trillion shortfall in the power sector as one of such issues. In a January 7, 2020 letter to the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Hajiya Zainab Ahmed, BPE Director-General Alex A. Okoh, said NBET needed a clear direction. The letter reads in part: “The Honourable Minister and Chairman of NBET would kindly recall the recent development in NBET and specifically the suspension of the managing director and the appointment of an acting managing director to oversee the affairs of the company. “We would also like to note that the past 14 months no board meeting of the company was held a situation which has serious consequences on the corporate governance of the company. “It is in view of the above that the BPE as vice chairman of the Board of NBET requests that the Honourable Minister calls for a meeting of the board to address emerging issues and provide clear and appropriate direction for the company.” According to a source, the 14-month delay in convening NBET board meeting might lead to the manipulation of the Power Purchase Agreements (PPA) and other policies. “NBET manages the power market. It purchases electricity from power Generating Companies (GenCos) through PPA and resells to electricity DisCos through vesting contracts. “The company also receives payment from DisCos for electricity sold and it pays back the GenCos. Now, there is a shortfall of about N1.4 trillion in the sector. What we have in place now is that it is the same body formulating the policy that is also implementing it. There are no checks and balances in the system because the board is not in place. “The stalemate over the board made the Minister of Power, Sale Mamman (a Non-Executive Director of NBET board) to usurp the powers of the board to suspend the Managing Director of NBET, Dr. Marilyn Amobi. The suspension was later reversed last week by President Muhammadu Buhari. Some documents obtained by The Nation indicated that the board of NBET was dissolved in July 2015. But on August 7, 2018, a former Minister of Finance, Mrs. Kemi Adeosun wrote Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, who was then the Acting President, that the NBET board has been reconstituted. Although the Vice President acknowledged Adeosun’s letter on August 9, 2018, the NBET board has not met in the last 14 months. With the Minister of Finance as chairman, others appointed into the board were Vice Chairman, Bureau of Public Enterprises (80 per shareholder in NBET); Federal Ministry of Power (Non-Executive Director); Debt Management Office (Non-Executive Director); Budget Office of the Federation (Non-Executive Director); Asset Management Company of Nigeria (AMCON) as Non-Executive Director; and the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer: Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading Company Plc (NBET), Dr. Marilyn Amobi. In her letter, titled: “Ratification of the reconstitution of the Board of Directors for the Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading Company Plc (NBET)”, Mrs. Adeosun said: “I write further to the directive by His Excellency issued to me at a meeting on Wednesday the 28th day of March 2018, to chair the Board of NBET and in that capacity, reconstitute the members of its Board of Directors earlier dissolved in July 2015. “This has become imperative given the strategic importance of the company in the repositioning of the sector and delivering the benefits to Nigerians that may arise from the contractual obligations and guarantees NBET issues and manages. “In reconstituting the members of the Board of Directors, I took into consideration the following: The stage in the evolution of the restructured electricity sector; the complexities the sector currently faces; the need to have members of the Board of Directors who have the skill and experience to contribute effectively to the formulation of policies that NBET needs to achieve its long-range corporate objectives. “That NBET is essentially a legal and financial guarantees company and requires adaptable experience and multi-disciplinary skills particularly from the following areas: finance and investment; electricity generation, transmission and distribution and system operations of deregulated electricity markets; economic regulation of network utilities; application of administrative law and legal drafting and applied micro economics and industrial organisation. “Electricity deregulation is still evolving in Nigeria and the country is basically learning as the privatized market evolves; it would thus be in the public interest that institutional directors be appointed, leaders of who will have adaptable experiences and skills to supporting the NBET executive management in crafting tactical and long-range policies to run the company.” A response through Mr. Ade Ipaye, who is Deputy Chief of Staff to the President in the Office of the Vice President, said: “I am directed to refer to letter (Reference A) on the above stated subject and inform that His Excellency, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, SAN, Acting President, Federal Republic of Nigeria, has approved your prayer at paragraph six as numbered on page 3 of the letter.”