Late last year, President Muhammadu Buhari approved the disbursement of Cabotage Vessel Financing Fund (CVFF) to boost the maritime industry. OLUWAKEMI DAUDA examines policies that will shape the sector this year, benchmarking it on stakeholders’ expectations.   Addressing stakeholders at the flag off of the Ibadan Inland Dry Port, Oyo State, last year, the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, projected that the much-expected rail to link Apapa and Tin-Can Island ports would come on stream before the end of last year. This, the minister said, was part of efforts to reposition the sector. Although the government failed to accomplish the laudable objective, stakeholders in the sector, however, said what they want in addition to what the Federal Government promised them last year, is that the heads of government agencies in the sector should come up with a policy that will enable Nigerians to maximise the benefits of its oceans, seas and water this year.  Use sea to boost economy The Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA) Vice President, Dr Kayode Farinto, said the sector needs intervention fund to boost maritime trade. The government, he said, needs to come up with a better intervention fund like they have done in the aviation, manufacturing and agriculture sectors to take maritime out of the woods. “The President Buhari-led administration must emulate countries  like Britain, Rome, America, Australia, Canada, Turkey, Norway, Belgium, Greece, Singapore and India on how best to use the sea to boost the economy. “According to the Executive Secretary, Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC), Mr Hassan Bello, over 80 per cent of shipping business that takes place in West Africa is done in Nigeria. That means that the country is very important on the continent sea ladder. Development of the maritime sector must, therefore, be of great interest to President Buhari and the Federal Executive Council (FEC) to boost the economy. If we get intervention fund from the government and make it available to the people, millions of Nigerians would have gainful employment and that would solve a lot of problem the country is facing,” Farinto said.  Buhari, NIMASA, CVFF disbursement Last year and almost 15 years after the creation of the Cabotage Vessel Financing Fund (CVFF), the Federal Government approved its disbursement to indigenous shipping operators. Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi disclosed the approval at a Stakeholders Appreciation Night organised by the Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC) in Lagos. Amaechi said the fund has hit $200 million. The accumulated fund represents a two per cent contribution by indigenous ship owners on every contract done in the maritime domain. The CVFF scheme was created in 2004. Since then, indigenous ship owners have been longing to benefit from the fund after several promises by the successive administrations. The fund was established under the Cabotage and Inland Shipping (Cabotage) Act 2003 to provide finance to operators to maintain their vessels or purchase new ones. According to the Act establishing the fund, the Minister of Transportation is empowered to establish guidelines for the disbursement of the fund to eligible operators. After receiving directives from  Buhari, Amaechi assured stakeholders that he would be meet  the heads of agencies under the ministry to know their plans for the fund. He added that there would also be another meeting with the agencies again this month to work out the mode of the disbursement of the fund in the year. Stakeholders, who spoke with The Nation on the CVFF scheme, urged Buhari to ensure that the funds were disbursed before the end of the first quarter of this year.  Ports’ access roads The roads that lead to the seaports in Lagos, Warri, Onne, Port Harcourt, Calabar, and Sapele are still impassable. These ports’ access roads have not attracted the expected government’s attention. The Apapa/Oshodi Expressway leading to the Tin-Can Island ports in Lagos are is still in terrible situation, despite the fact that the road has been awarded to the  Dangote Group to fix part the road. The Association of Maritime Truck Owners (AMATO), President Mr Remi Ogungbemi, and other port users urged Buhari to give a presidential directive that will make the road to be fixed on time this year. “The bad roads have constituted nightmares to consignees, importers, exporters, freight forwarders and other port users who use the roads to evacuate their goods. The chaotic situation on the road is making port users spend hours daily to access or exit the terminals. The Federal Government must support the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) in fixing the road this year. “Importers, truck owners and clearing agents have agreed to give  Buhari and his team the first two months of this year to fulfill part of his projected plans to fix the Apapa roads, reduce the congestion and its adverse effects on business activities at the ports before we can take the government serious on its plans to uplift the maritime industry this year,” Ogungbemi said  NPA’s Command, Control, Communication and Intelligence Centre The Command & Control, Communication and Intelligence Centre of the NPA is seen as one of the giant strides taken by the authority to boost the government revenue. NPA, a maritime lawyer Mr Dipo Alaka, said must improve on the facility to boost efficiency at ports. “The facility is a very good facility because it serves as surveillance for NPA’s activities and for security agencies. While commending the authority for the launch of the provisional, final billing and customer portal module of Revenue Invoice Management System (RIMS) to improve its service delivery and reduce revenue leakage, we hope the management of the authority will ensure that the efficacy of the platform is improve upon and not compromised. “Ditto the development of a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) and establishment of  a dedicated terminal to handle exports aimed at diversifying the economy and improving earnings in line with the mandate of the Federal Government. The terminals include Ikorodu Lighter Terminal for Lagos, Shoreline logistics terminal for Calabar Port and Bua Ports.This year, all the terminals must be mandated by the NPA to establish dedicated desks that will handle all documentations on export, receipt of consignment and the loading of vessels to boost the Easy of Doing Business posture of the  administration,” Alaka said  National single window policy An importer, Chief Davies Anthony urged the Managing Director of NPA, Ms Hadiza Bala Usman, the Executive Secretary, NSC, Mr Hassan Bello and the Director-General, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA)  to collaborate with the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) and Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority to develop the operational framework of establishing the National Single Window, Ports Community System and Scanning services to address the chaotic clearance of cargoes from the port. The collaboration, the motor vehicle importer said, must be used by the NPA this year in simplifying and harmonising formalities that impede trade.  Making more large vessel berth in Eastern Ports Many decades after the Eastern Ports came into being, a big ship, berthed at the Eastern Port last year. Elated importers and clearing agents saw it as a good omen that must not end with last year. Many importers and clearing agents at the Eastern ports gave kudos to the management of NPA for achieving the landmark and specifically urged its Managing Director Ms Usman to sustain the tempo this year.  Making ports competitive/concession agreement review One of the sad news that jolted many within and outside the country’s maritime industry last year was that the Apapa Port, Lagos State, was no longer West Africa’s leading and busiest container port. The sad report said the Lome Port in neighbouring Republic of Togo has taken over. But the good news is that the NSC has insisted that the 80 per cent of cargoes destined for West and Central Africa are discharged at the seaports because the ports are efficient and effective. According to Bello, the Ghana and Togo ports are not a threat to Nigerian seaports because of the efficiency of the seaports. The NCS’s boss believed that despite the feat achieved by the Ghana and Lome ports, the Nigerian seaports still remained preferred destinations for cargoes in the sub-region. He said: “Out of the cargoes that are meant for the West and Central Africa coming from around the world, 80 percent of the cargoes comes to Nigeria while other countries share the remaining 20 percent and distributed among themselves. So, how can they be a hub? Also, Nigerian ports are becoming efficient by the day and we are attracting cargoes from other neighboring ports. The moment we get our infrastructure right and get our connectivity right and tackle insecurity on the waterways, then that’s where we see the real hub.” Bello also stated that the actualisation of the Lekki deep seaport project would further consolidate the hub status. ‘‘We have the Lekki deep seaports with its huge capacity and when the Lekki port is completed and came fully on board, we will get bigger ships and send the smaller ones to other countries,’’ he said. The Federal Government, through its agencies, stakeholders said, must do everything possible to make the ports competitive and attractive for business this year. Farinto said: “One of the two approaches adopted by the NPA to achieving this is to have a competitive pricing and tariff regime. The agency has embarked on a study to determine the tariffs and pricing regimes across the region. “Also, the authority also set in motion last year, the machinery to review the concession agreements after the initial 10 years. We believe the effort is to reposition the ports by ensuring that critical issues around equipment deployment and infrastructure deployment are carried out by all parties, as entrenched in the agreement.’’ 