Our Reporter  As 2020 berthed on Wednesday, many Nigerians stars have taken to social media to wish their fans New Year greetings. They expressed their hopes, aspirations and also sought good wishes for themselves and their fans. According to Nollywood actress and producer, Toyin Abraham, the God who blessed her through 2019 will be there for her fans in 2020. “In the last two years, I have always had movies at the cinemas,” said Toyin, who was delivered of a baby last year. “The boxoffice have been good to me. But in the last 12 month, God decided to make my life a movie. He became the CEO of the box office, director of the movie and chief marketer of the brand. I cannot say he has not done a good job. He has made my life a movie, even I became a spectator. Thank you God. He also gave me #toyintitans , it seems like I won a lottery with him. I am super grateful to these set of fans in season and out of season. Eshe gan. And thank you to all those who play prominent roles in my 2019. It was a blast. God came through for me and he will come through for you too. Let’s go make 2020 better.” Actress Uche Jombo said she is ready for 2020. “What a decade!” she started. “A lot was DONE behind and front of the scenes! Personal projects completed, Personal growth and goals met, Relationships built! But You my Ujlovers are by far one of my highlights of this decade riding for 2 decades now! I can’t wait for ALL we are going to do for the next decade and beyond. Your patience for Nollywood to get it right is already paying off… imagine WHAT’S COMING!!!! 2020 we are READY.” Singer Bez Idakula posted a picture of his family as he wished his fans well for the year. “Wishing you all a happy 2020! The year of newness and big things!!  #happynewyear #2020.” Also, Olamide said, “Happy New Yehn Yehn Yehn” as a form of welcome into the new year to his fans. Actress Juliet Ibrahim said: “Happy New Year guys! 2020 has been declared the YES year. The God of YES is already in your life hence this year is a year of YES. When God says YES nobody can say NO, remember?! There is nothing God can Not do. Abide and trust in God and everything you pray for and work towards shall come to pass. Everything you need is already available through Christ. Another 365 days to go; set goals, make plans and as a new day begins, work harder than ever to achieve those goals. I am a living testimony of God’s wonders, miracles as well as blessings and most of these stories I have shared with you in my book #atoasttolife @atoasttolifebook because God is with me and my God said YES Juliet in every experience! I wish you a happy fulfilled YES YES YES year in Jesus Name. Amen #atoasttolife #happynewyear #2020.”  Controversial actress Tonto Dikeh, simply said: “Happy new year to you and yours… We made it.” And singer Jaywon said: ” THANK YOU in advance God for everything you’re about to do for me in 2020. #Aje2020ThaEP.” Actress Omoni Oboli posted a picture of herself and her family, all wearing a V-neck t-shirt over black trousers and said: “Happy new year from my family to yours. #LoveLivesHere #MyMen #MyReason #MyAnchor.” Actor Gideon Okeke took to offer words of advice on how to succeed in the year. “Back up! Step back from the elephant! Or else you’ll hardly appreciate the size of the beast. Being the elephant in the room and the fly on the wall all at the same time, will see you take a form… just like Water. Boy I Learnt a lot last year Man. But those lessons will be the tools, for today’s Trade. It takes a whole Lifetime to play as bad as oneself and I’m loving and thankful for every new course in Self Discovery. Stop chasing Your Dreams. You’ll never catch em. Rather….? M.A.N.I.F.E.S.T” Soul singer Asa posted a picture of herself and wrote: “You made 2019 rock! Thank you. I love you. May 2020 be filled with joy and blessings.” Actor Richard Mofe-Damijo said: “Happy New Year. Message to self… Enter into your REST. No Limits! Break the Rules.” And while Phyno said: “HAPPY 2020 EVERYONE F&BS,” D’Banj said: “Happy New Year… 2020… Year of Greatness, Perfection and Full Facility Chopping.” Also, actress Chioma Akpotha posted: “Cheers to the New Year! #HappyNewYear #2020.” And singer Iyanya said: “Everything about the future is uncertain, but one thing is for sure that God had already planned all our tomorrows, we just have to trust him today, I heartily wish a beautiful tomorrow for you and your family. Happy New Year!!!” Aside greeting their fans, some celebrities also sent greetings to actress Mercy Aigbe who celebrated her birthday on New Year Day. Among those that greeted Mercy include Mide Martins, Funke Akindele,