SIR: The Constitution in section 150(1) creates the office of the Attorney General of the Federation and states that the attorney general shall be the ‘chief law officer of the federation’ and a minister of the government of the federation. Though the constitution is silent on the express meaning of the phrase the ‘chief law officer of the federation,’ the phrase bears a whole lot of legal responsibilities and consequence. As the chief law officer, the attorney general is the principal legal adviser to the federal government (the legislature, executive and judiciary). It is the duty of the attorney general to ensure that all the laws of the federation are faithfully executed, followed, obeyed or observed by government officials, departments, agencies, including the decisions and orders of court which operate as laws.  The phrase the ‘chief law officer’ extends the responsibilities of the attorney general to being a law enforcer. In this vein, the attorney general has the power to call on the heads of armed forces and other security agencies and their officials to order where their actions run afoul of the constitution or any other law of the land. The attorney general has the primary duty of preserving, protecting and defending the constitution. The basis for this analysis is to underscore the importance and influence of the office of the attorney general in our constitutional democracy and its role in safeguarding the constitution. Abubakar Malami, SAN, the present Attorney of the Federation has conducted himself contrary to the dictates and expectations of his office. He has severally participated, directly or indirectly, in a vigorous assault against the constitution, rule of law and the judiciary. Under his watch, private residences of the Supreme Court justices and judges of federal and state high courts were raided. In an interview granted after the raid, Malami confessed to having sanctioned the raid. Some of the judges whose residences were raided had since been discharged and acquitted while some, like Justice Inyang Okoro, could not be prosecuted because there was no evidence of wrongdoing against him. And yet, these judges were paraded at night as criminals and exposed to public odium. Despite their acquittal or clearance, no apology has been tendered by the federal government or Malami that sanctioned the raid. Malami has constituted himself as a court of law and has pronounced the rule of law to be subservient to national security. The view, which has become almost like a policy statement of government, has emboldened security agencies to detain citizens against orders of court granting them bail. Similarly, Malami has made himself superior to the court of law. He selects the court decisions to obey and not to obey. In his December’s letter to the SSS for the release of Col. Dazuki and Mr. Sowore, his disdain for the authority of the court was made manifest. He wrote, “…my office has chosen to comply with the court orders…” From the statement, Mr. Malami has made it abundantly clear that obedience to court orders is a matter of choice and selection, and the decision whether to obey or not obey court orders is at his discretion. Recently, he declared ‘Ametokun’ illegal without recourse to a court of law. Mr. Malami has failed to keep to his general responsibility as a lawyer which is to uphold and observe the rule of law. He is driving the country to a lawless state where the authority of the court is impugned and disregarded. Security agencies now invade courts without sanction because the chief law officer of the federation has not lived up to expectations. The Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) must rise to the occasion and hold Malami accountable to the oath he took as a lawyer before things get out of hand. His occupation of the office of the Attorney General is dependent on his status as a lawyer In the meantime, Malami should sit back and think of how he would want to be remembered by drawing lessons from one of his predecessors, Michael Aondoakaa. 