By Taofik Salako, Capital Market Editor  After two and a half years of suspension, the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) on Tuesday lifted suspension on trading in the shares of Omatek Ventures Plc as the troubled computer firm continues efforts to stabilise its operations and governance processes. With the lifting of the suspension, trading resumed yesterday on the shares of Omatek Ventures. Authorities at the NSE stated that the removal of the suspension was sequel to submission of relevant financial statements by Omatek Ventures. The board of Omatek Ventures had at its November 2019 board meeting decided to decide on the date for the annual general meeting for the past four consecutive years from 2015 to 2018 at its next meeting in first quarter 2020. The plan to hold annual general meeting followed the completion and approval of financial statement. Omatek ventures has struggled under huge debts and declining operations in recent years, leading to a takeover of the company by its creditor, the Bank of Industry (BoI). At the November 2019 meeting, the board also decided to make passionate offer to BoI to allow the company to keep its factory while forfeiting part of its property as settlement for the debt. The NSE had on July 5, 2017 suspended trading on the shares of Omatek Ventures and 16 other companies following the failure of the companies to adhere to best corporate governance and extant post-listing requirements. The suspended companies included African Alliance Insurance, Equity Assurance,  Fortis Microfinance Bank, Guinea Insurance, Premier Paints, Resort Savings & Loans, Sovereign Trust Insurance, African Paints (Nigeria), Aso Savings & Loans, Ekocorp, Evans Medical, Goldlink Insurance, Great Nigeria Insurance, Union Dicon Salt, Union Homes Savings & Loans and Universal Insurance Company. The companies were suspended after they failed to file their accounts and operational reports as required by the listing rules at the Exchange. With the suspension, investors were not able to trade on the shares of the companies, thus trapping their investments for some 30 months. Post-listing rules at the NSE require quoted companies to submit their audited earnings reports, not later than 90 calendar days after the expiration of the period. The rules also require quoted companies to submit interim report not later than 30 calendar days after the end of the relevant period. Most quoted companies including all banks, major manufacturers, oil and gas companies, breweries and cement companies use the 12-month Gregorian calendar year as their business year. Not less than 83 per cent of quoted companies use the 12-month Gregorian calendar year as their business year. The business year thus terminates on December 31. While March 30 is usually the deadline for submission of annual report for companies with Gregorian calendar business year, the deadline for the quarterly report is a month after the quarter. NSE tags and applies fines on companies that fail to meet earnings reports’ deadline. The Exchange had on January 1, 2017 launched a new sanction regime for delay in submission of companies’ results.  Under the new sanction regime, companies may pay fines that range from N100, 000 to more than N100 million as penalties for delay in the submission of their corporate earnings reports. Companies that also delayed their financial statements and accounts face threats of suspension and delisting in addition to the monetary fines. Under the new rules, quoted companies will be required to file their unaudited quarterly accounts with the NSE not later than 30 calendar days after the relevant quarter, and publish it within five business days after the date of filing, in at least two national daily newspapers, and post it on the company’s website, with the web address disclosed in the newspaper publication. Also, an electronic copy of the publication shall be filed with the Exchange on the same day as the newspaper publication. Where the company chooses to audit its quarterly accounts, it shall be required to file such accounts not later than 60 calendar days after the relevant quarter. For annual audited accounts, the new rules require companies to file their audited annual report and accounts with the Exchange not later than 90 calendar days after the relevant year end, and published in at least two national daily newspapers not later than 21 calendar days before the date of the annual general meeting, and posted same on the company’s website with the web address disclosed in the newspaper publications. Also, an electronic copy of the publication shall be filed with the Exchange on the same day as the publication. Under the new rules, late submission under the first instance of 90 days could attract N9 million, the additional period of 90 days will attract N18 million while such delay beyond the first 180 days to the next 180 days could attract as much as N72 million, bringing fines payable by a defaulting company within a year to N99 million.