Edo State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is searching for a credible chieftain to fly its governorship flag in the forthcoming election. Correspondent OTABOR OSAGIE examines the party’s preparations for the poll.  Who will be the Peoples Democratic Party flag bearer for the Edo State governorship election? That is the big question on the lips of members of the chapter. Those presently lined up for the race are Kenneth Imasuagbon, Gideon Ikhine, Ifaluyi Isibor and Omoregie Ogbeide Ihama. Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, who had defected to the ruling APC was perhaps, the leading aspirant in Edo PDP until things fell apart between him and Dan Orbih, the chairman. During the party’s last week’s sensitisation tour of local government areas, Orbih dropped a bombshell that the party would pick a young man as its candidate. Orbih, in an address to PDP members in Estako Central, said: “Our young party members have brilliant ideas to pilot the affairs of the state. Our governorship aspirants are a young crop of people. I can tell you that in Edo 2020 election, PDP will produce a young governorship candidate.” From the statement of  the chairman, many party chieftains deduced he was referring to Ogbeide-Ihama, a member of the House of Representative representing Oredo Constituency. This is because Ogbeide-Ihama is perceived to be having his backing. Orbih resorted to supporting the lawmaker after he fell out with Pastor Ize-Iyamu over alleged disbursement of money meant for last year’s general elections. Some PDP chieftains said Orbih’s tenure ends in March this year and he plans to use the forthcoming  Edo PDP congresses to clear the way for Ogbeide-Ihama to emerge as the flag bearer. At a stakeholders meeting held last year, the Edo PDP, for the first time since 1999, agreed not to zone its offices, including the governorship ticket. Orbih hails from Estako axis in Edo North and the chairmanship position ought to move to Edo South or Edo Central. Contenders for the governorship ticket in the PDP are from Edo Central and Edo South. It was the decision not to zone the office that made Pastor Ize-Iyamu to leave the party because he knew it would not sway in his favour. Those gunning to replace Orbih are Tony Azegbemin, Omi Imoisili, Senator Odion Ugbesia and Fred Okah. Of all these contenders, only Okah hails from Edo South. Others hail from Edo Central. The argument by some PDP chieftains backed by the party’s leader, Lucky Igbinedion, is for Orbih’s successor to come from Owan axis in Edo North to allow for a fair contest among the aspirants. What is now causing division in Edo PDP is the alleged plot by Orbih to impose Senator Ugbesia as his successor. Some local government chairman in Edo North and Edo South have keyed into the project and already pledged support for Ugbesia. During the PDP sensitisation tour of Edo North, leaders of the PDP in the area issued what is now known as the Afenmai declaration. In the Afemai declaration read by Oladele Bankole-Balogun at Agenebode, the Edo North PDP leaders demanded the position of Deputy Governor, State party Secretary,  a Board of Trustees member and a ministerial positions for the senatorial district. Chiding Edo North PDP leaders for demanding for high political offices, the leader of the Concerned Youth Forum of Edo PDP, Obaruakporo John, said the senatorial district should not demand for Deputy Governor slot when it has not won any election for the party since 2008. John opined that the demand was akin to rewarding failure and punishing loyalty. The group said Edo Central has always delivered votes for the  PDP, except in the last House of Assembly elections when all the candidates were forced on the party and the result was a total failure. “The declaration and demand for key positions in PDP such as Deputy Governor,  State Secretary,  BoT member & Ministerial positions by Edo North PDP makes us to be at loss. We wonder why a Senatorial District that has never won a single election for PDP will be demanding all these. Has PDP becomes a party that rewards failures and punish loyalty? “But, the Edo Central has never produced Governor or Deputy Governor  in Edo State.  In all previous elections governorship has always been zoned but now that its obviously the turn of Edo Central to produce governorship candidate for PDP, the Dan Orbih led leadership have planned a coup against Edo Central by leaving the zoning open to all for contest but this is not happening without some betrayals and traitors from Edo Central collaborating with Orbih to effect his hideous plan. John added: “Everyone has tried to massage the ego of Mr. Dan Orbih to see him through to the end of his tenure without brewing crisis so that PDP can have a stable party into the 2020 election. Rather Dan Orbih is seeing the calm attitude of everyone as a sign of weakness,  hence he is still trying to force his choice candidate on the Party and hand pick the Exco on all PDP Leadership. “His abysmal failure as PDP chairman; ranging from his inability to win his LGA for the 12 years as chairman couple with his Senatorial zone not being able to win any election for PDP culminating in  the exodus of his kins men to APC because of his hardened administration leaves us in confusion about the just concluded Afemai declaration. “Today in Edo State only Edo Central and South have laboured to keep PDP alive at the National Assembly in both chambers, so one is at a loss why Edo North is placing demand for the said positions, after posting nill results for PDP in both chambers. To this we are all looking forward to PDP producing a winning Chairman in the forthcoming congress and saying goodbye to a chairman that was never able to bring PDP back to Government house. “PDP must get it right without allowing the outgoing Chairman to force failure of the past into the incoming Executive; if they are serious about the future of the PDP in Edo State,” he said.  The Coordinator of PDP Youths for Justice, Alhaji Musa Kadiri, said the group would hold parralel congresses and primary, if the processes are biased and skewed in favour of Senator Ugbesia. He said: “We are saddened at the reports of happenings within the Edo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party as the party prepares for its congresses from January 15, 2020. “The crisis bedeviling the All Progressives Congress in Edo State coupled with the poor performances of Governor Godwin Obaseki has given the party a good chance to win the governorship election but the manner of the outgoing Chairman, Chief Dan Orbih is putting the PDP at risk. “The argument being put forward by some Edo PDP leaders are that aspirants in Edo Central cannot win governorship election. This is a fallacy to rig some aspirants out of the race. “We are by this briefing putting Edo PDP leaders on notice to avert pending crisis. “Uche Secondus should urgently intervene to prevent parralel congresses in Edo. All the aspirants need a level playing ground for the party’s primaries. “Edo South deserve the Chairmanship position as it has never held the position since 1999. Chief Orbih is attempting to kill Edo PDP after his tenure which is why he is pushing for Senator Ugbesia. “Ugbesia achieved nothing as a Senator and cannot lead Edo PDP to the seat of power in Edo. “The party can zoned the Chairmanship to Owan axis or Edo South senatorial district which has not produced the chairman since 1999. “We are putting Secondus on notice to save Edo PDP. Any attempt to allow Chief Orbih have his way would put the in jeopardy.” Reacting to the Afenmai declaration, Bankole-Balogun said it was the legitimate demand of Edo North PDP members. He added: “It is a legitimate demand and the reason why we are demanding that is that Edo North contribute significantly. Look at the statistics in any election, Edo North has continued to outperform other zones in terms of votes and so it is important that these demands are put so that we maximise our potentials in the next election.” Orbih, who was recently praised by Governor Nyesom Wike for helping to lift the PDP in Edo, said the PDP under him in the last 12 years has fared well. He said he led the PDP to victories in presidential elections and won two senatorial and majority of House of Representatives seats. Orbih said: “In a political party, people have interest but all I must say is that we will conduct  Congress that will throw up a new leadership of the party. We will have an Exco that we will be proud of and continue where I will stop. All our leaders are happy.” The Publicity Secretary Chris Nehikhare, said the Edo PDP has no support group with such names and described the group as faceless and unknown to the party. He said: “They are faceless organisation and being sponsored by enemies of the party.” The PDP has boasted that it would reclaim power in Edo. How it planned to remain strong and united after the congresses and primaries is another headache for the party. 