2020 winter transfers have been uncharacteristically high, especially in Europe when clubs are reluctant to allow players move. Here are some of the major January transfers so far: Victor Moses  Victor Moses joins Inter Milan on a six month loan. The Nigerian International moved to former manager’s side, Antonio Conte from Fenerbache on a loan deal with an option to buy. Lo Celso  Lo Celso signed a permanent deal at Spurs that will keep him at the club till 2025. The Argentine joined Tottenham Hotspur on loan from Spanish side, Real Betis. Spurs have signed the former Betis player on a permanent deal for €27m. Christian Eriksen  Christian Eriksen completed his move away from Tottenham Hotspur to Italian side, Inter Milan. The Danish playmaker signed for Spurs in the summer of 2013 for €11.5m and went on to become one of the finest players to feature in the English Premier League. Inter Milan secured the signing of the midfielder for €20m. Takumi Minamino  Minamino signed for Liverpool FC from Red Bull Salzburg for €7.25m. The midfielder became the first Japanese player to sign for Liverpool. The Reds acquired the Japanese player after his impressive display against them in the group stages of the Uefa Champions League. Zlatan Ibrahimovic  Ibrahimovic rejoined former Italian club giant, AC Milan after his spell at MLS side, LA Galaxy. The Swedish player agreed a deal with the club until the end of the current season with an option to extend the contract. Ashely Young  The England defender joined Inter Milan on a six- month deal from Manchester United. Wayne Rooney  Derby County secured the signing of ex- England international, Wayne Rooney from DC United. The former Manchester United
player returned to the championship side on an 18- month contract as a player-coach. Haaland  Haaland moved from Red Bull Salzburg to join Bundesliga side, Borussia Dortumund. The Norwegian International impressive display in the Austrian league and group stages of the Champions League made Dortmund sign him. Borussia Dortumund paid the sum of €20m for the young promising player on a four and a half year contract. Other Transfers; . Alexander Nubel (Schalke 04 – Bayern Munich) . Mario Manduzkic (Juventus – Al Dulhali) Free . Julian Weigl (Dortumund – Benfica) . Gedson Fernandes (Benfica – Tottenham) Loan . Louie Barry (Barcelona – Aston Villa) . Alvaro Odriozola (Madrid – Bayern Munich Munich) . Mbwana Samatta (Genk- Aston Villa) . Reinier Jesus (Flamengo – Real Madrid) . Pepe Reina (AC Milan – Aston Villa) Loan . Rhian Brewster (Liverpool – Swansea) Loan . Alexander Nubel (Schalke – Bayern Munich) deal to be completed on July, 2020.