 The Guild of Nigerian Dancers (GOND), Lagos State has held the maiden edition of the Lagos Dance Summit (TLDS. The event with the theme, ‘Building Bridges… Changing Dance Narratives’, held on December 4 at the University of Lagos was in collaboration with the Department of Creative Arts, University of Lagos (Unilag). Speaking at the event, Chairman of GOND Lagos, Ugonwa Obiayo, said TLDS will be annual program to “act as a magnifying lens to look into matters affecting dance as a practice, both positively and negatively.” She also said the program would most importantly, examine “, how dance can continue to contribute to the socio-economic and cultural growth of Nigeria.” Harping on some negativity which dance has been subjected to, Obiayo proffered a solution. “The ability for us to change these negative narratives lies not only in changing the psyche of the average dance practitioner,” she said, “but also in projecting positive voices, stories and actions of dance practitioners, leaders, scholars, experts, exporters, enthusiasts etc, through the art of using dance to tell positive stories about who we truly are. “By building bridges, dance is working at connecting, collaborating and engaging itself with the other elements of theatre, as well as aligning itself with other different professional bodies, institutions, organisations, governments etc, to bring it to relevance, as it continues to build on its potentials as a major contributor to the socio-economic and cultural development of Nigeria.” The Special Guest of Honour was GOND National President, Mr. Victor Thompson while attendees to the event include Hon.Ini Mbang. Special Adviser to the Akwa Ibom State Governor on social and support services, Sarah Boulos (Society for the Performing Arts in Nigeria) and Dr. Cornel-Best Onyekaba (Creative Arts, Unilag), Mr. Soji Adetona (Activation Manager Euro Global Distilleries), Omiko Awa, Otunba Olatunji Sotimirin, Dr. Felix Emoruwa, Koffi Idowu Nuel and Anthony Edet Offiong. Others are Ola’ Awakan, Ukalina Opuwari, Nonso Cajetan Asobe, Bunmi Olunloyo, Kenneth Uphopho and Jci Okoh. There were dance performances by Crown Troupe of Africa, Hilary Jackson Dance Company and Oworonshoki Dance Community.