Editorial  Going by the statement credited to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State toward the end of last year, the state government’s policy on ‘okada’ and tricycle operators ought to have come out by now. Governor Sanwo-Olu had, during a chat on ‘Journalists’ Hangout,’ a programme on Television Continental (TVC) said a decision had been taken at the state cabinet meeting. “We are having a security meeting tomorrow (Tuesday) and after that meeting, we are going to make a pronouncement. I don’t want to make that pronouncement here now because it has security implications. “After the meeting, there will be an announcement on the decision that the Lagos State Government has taken with its entire security operatives on what and how we want to deal with the ‘okada’ menace and the ‘kekeMarwa’ (tricycle). It’s a far-reaching decision, but we need to clarify it with the security architecture of the state,” he said. That the policy is yet to be unveiled more than two weeks after is apparently because of the rigorous thinking that should go into it, if the objective is not to be defeated from the outset. The state commissioner for information, Gbenga Omotoso, said this much last week. For sure, ‘okada’ has come to mean many things to many people. While some Lagosians see the business as indispensable in the state, others believe it is a menace that should be stopped forthwith. Both schools of thought are probably right. Due to safety concerns, dangerous road attitudes, armed robbery, stealing, to flouting of traffic laws the state government has had to clamp down on ‘okada’ operators, with about eight million of their motorcycles impounded and sent to the state’s scrap yards. For the same reason, it banned ‘okada’ from 475 roads, highways and bridges and restricted motorcycles with lower than 200cc to the inner city roads. That ‘okada’ operators have become a menace in Lagos was shown by statistics from Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA) that no fewer than 107 persons died from ‘okada’ accidents every day in 2012, while 512 persons sustained various injuries even as 442 ‘okada’ accidents were recorded daily in the state in the same year. Strict enforcement of the state road traffic laws brought sanity to Lagos roads, led to a drastic reduction in accidents, injuries and deaths as well as cases of their involvement in crime. But then, the immediate past Ambode administration in the state relaxed enforcement and it was a matter of time before chaos returned to the roads.  Painful as it might be, the truth of the matter is that Lagos has to make provision for ‘okada’ operators in its transportation system for several reasons, chief of which is the dilapidated state of the roads which has led many Lagosians to patronise ‘okada’ because of the ability of the riders to manoeuvre in traffic, even if without consideration for other road users, and consequently take them to their destinations on time. So lucrative is the business that we now have some organised operators of ‘okada;’ people who saw through the gap in the transportation sector and came in to fill it. Lagosians can no longer wish ‘okada’ away. So, the state government has to factor this into whatever it intends to do with the ‘okada’ riders. Even if they are to go away, it would be a natural process that would come with a carefully integrated transportation system that would make intra-state commuting a pleasurable delight as against the chaos that presently obtains. But then, even as the government tries to accommodate the ‘okada’ operators, it must not succumb to their flagrant violations of road traffic laws in a manner that puts other road users at risk. It must do so with the utmost sense of responsibility that would ensure a win-win situation for both the ‘okada’ operators and other Lagosians. And, in terms of enforcement of the traffic laws, particularly on ‘okada’ riders, the state government has to devise a new system that would make apprehension of law breakers among them easier and less risky than it is at present. 