As the Buhari administration seeks to enhance the depth and scope of teacher education in Nigeria, it must be careful to avoid taking ostensibly positive steps which actually frustrate the attainment of this goal. In this regard, its recent decision to establish six new colleges of education is a classic example of a retrogressive step. The colleges of education are to be set up in each of the country’s six geopolitical zones and sited in states where there are currently no federal colleges of education. The states are Bauchi, Benue, Edo, Ebonyi, Osun and Sokoto. On the face of it, it would seem that the creation of additional colleges of education is an unambiguous good, especially given the huge problems facing Nigeria’s education sector. The country was battling a lamentably poor teacher-student ratio of 35.77 as at 2010. Primary school completion rates stood at an abysmal 63 per cent (2016/17); transition rates to secondary school were 49 per cent in the 2016/17 school year, compared to 93 per cent in 2007. Even the revised estimate of 8.7 million children not going to school puts Nigeria at the top in global leagues of out-of-school children. More colleges of education are very likely to lead to the increased production of qualified teachers which is essential to tackling the country’s many education challenges, in addition to the obvious benefits derivable from a significant federal presence. However, the policy reinforces old problems even as it seeks to help solve other ones. The most obvious of these long-standing issues is the vexed question of degree-diploma discrimination whereby the graduates of polytechnics, monotechnics and colleges of education are systematically discriminated against in favour of their counterparts who attended universities. Although the Federal Government formally ended this practice in April 2018, relatively little has been done to reverse its negative effects in practice. Diploma-holders still face lower pay scales and artificial ceilings on career progression; universities still refuse diploma qualifications for entry into many postgraduate programmes. It has been argued that the most enduring solution to the problem is the upgrading of viable polytechnics, monotechnics and colleges of education to universities, as well as the establishment of more universities of education. This would have the effect of eliminating the discrimination while further enhancing the capabilities of the affected institutions to deliver on their mandates. In spite of the obvious benefits, all attempts to carry out the conversions have failed. In November 2006, the then Minister of Education, Mrs. Oby Ezekwesili, declared that the Yaba College of Technology (Yabatech) would now be known as the City University of Lagos. Eventually, the proposal was scrapped. In August 2016, it was announced that Yabatech and the Kaduna Polytechnic had become “city universities,” only for the claim to be later denied by the Federal Government. The Senate initiated procedures to begin the much-awaited upgrade in November 2016, but it appears to have stalled. It is difficult to see why government finds it so difficult to reconcile the urgent need for qualified teachers with the similarly pressing desire to end degree-diploma discrimination. Converting the top polytechnics and colleges of education to universities would be a strong signal of commitment to strengthening the prestige of such institutions, and would thereby enhance the importance of the graduates they produce. Along with the creation of specialised universities of education, the conversion of colleges of education must proceed  with renewed efforts to professionalise teaching. The Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria (TRCN) set a deadline of December 2019 for the full registration of all individuals working as teachers in the nation’s schools; it must take steps to ensure that it is taken seriously. State governors should imitate the sterling examples of Edo, Ekiti and Kaduna states, which have conducted proficiency tests for teachers. The better Nigeria’s teachers are, the better its education system will be.