The federal government and states of the South-West, on Thursday, came to agree on how the Western Nigeria Security Network (WNSN), also known as Operation Amotekun, should be run. The Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo (SAN), held a closed doors meeting with the governors, the Attorney-General and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, and the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, at the State House, Abuja, on the controversies surrounding the security network. The Attorney-General of the Federation, Malami, had declared the newly launched security outfit as illegal and a violation of the Constitution, a declaration which had received wide condemnation from leaders of the South-West region. However, the Vice President, in a statement later released by his spokesman, Mr Laolu Akande, said “the meeting was very fruitful as unanimous resolutions were made on the way forward. “Having regard to the need for all hands to be on deck in addressing the security concerns across the country, it was agreed that the structure of Amotekun should also align with the Community Policing strategy of the Federal Government. “It was also agreed that necessary legal instruments will be put in place by each of the States to give legal backing to the initiative and address all issues concerning the regulation of the security structure”, he said. Speaking to State House Correspondents earlier, Chairman of the South-West Governor’s Forum and governor of Ondo State, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu, described the meeting as fruitful, defraying some of the misconceptions that had trailed the launch of the security network. He explained that one of the terms and conditions that were arrived at during the meeting include the need for a legal framework to be structured for the operation, adding that the framework would be jointly considered. “Well we had a very fruitful discussion. Governors of south west as you know we were all there. The meeting was presided over by the Vice President. The Honourable Attorney General of the Federation was there as well as the Inspector General of Police. “We have rubbed minds and all of us have agreed on the way forward. The most important one is that we are going to have legal framework to back this Amotekun. And this legal framework is going to be one which we all are going to look at and will be sure to go without any hindrance”, he said. When asked if the security network would have to be put on hold while the necessary conditions are being met, he said “no. What I believe is our resolution is that Amotekun is there, you know the federal government is starting community policing, in essence really is about community. So, we are going to work together to see the community policing and Amotekun work in a way”. He was asked why such arrangements as are now to be pursued before Operation Amotekun was launched, the governor said there were consultations, adding that they had decided to sort out the controversy the followed politically. “No no no, there were consultations, don’t say there were no consultations.  There were consultations because, we held discussions with the IG then and what has developed is what has led to this, not that there were no consultations. We just felt that with all these noise outside it is better for us to sit down. “Remember that immediately the noise started, I said that we are going to explore political solution and all of us are here, my colleague the deputy governor of Oyo who is of the PDP, all of us are here. So we have looked at this solution to it now, both political and legal solutions to it and all of us will do it”, he said. He also explained that “the government is not trying to stop it. The attorney general has spoken on that, I’m sure you have all read the statement that he was misinterpreted. So it’s so clear, there was no time that government wanted to stop Amotekun and the AGF having spoken, it’s all about us, so there is no problem”. The meeting was at the instance of the Governors who had asked to see President Muhammadu Buhari over the controversy surrounding the Amotekun Initiative. However due to the President’s foreign engagement, he asked the Vice President to host the meeting.