Nicholas Kalu, Abuja  Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, on Wednesday visited the Inspector General of Police, IGP Mohammed Adamu, over the issue of local government administration at the Force Headquarters in Abuja. Makinde, who informed reporters of the purpose of his visit after a closed-door meeting with the IGP said he does not want chaos in Oyo State. An Oyo State High Court sitting in Ibadan, the state capital, had on Tuesday given an order restraining the sacked chairmen of the 33 local government areas and 35 Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs), from forcible takeover of the council offices across the state. The court, presided over by Justice Moshood Abass, had granted the four reliefs sought by the lead counsel to the Oyo State Government, Dr. Akin Onigbinde (SAN), including an order of interim injunction restraining the chairmen from forcibly taking over the local government councils or taking steps capable of causing breach of the peace in the state. The order of interim injunction, which, followed an ex-parte motion filed by the state government in Suit No: I/78/2020, also restrained were the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mr. Abubakar Malami (SAN), the Inspector General of Police, Mr. Mohammed Abubakar; Commissioner of Police, Oyo State Command, Mr. Shina Olukolu; and the Oyo State All Progressives Congress (APC) Chairman, Mr. Akin Oke. The parties and their agents were restrained from taking any step that could tamper with the hearing and determination of the motion on notice. Makinde said he was at the Force Headquarters to brief the IGP on the situation in the state. “You all must have heard about the issue of local government administration in Oyo State. There was a court order yesterday, restraining the IG, the CP and the AG from giving unilateral order regarding the issue of local government administration in Oyo State. So I came to brief the IG that this the situation and we do not want chaos in Oyo State. I personally I am law abiding and I came to tell the IG if there is a valid court judgment, we will obey it. He (Adamu) has given me the assurance that once he gets a copy of the court order on Wednesday, he would do the needful. We are trying to build a new country where the rule of law is supreme, so everyone should be law abiding and ensure that they don’t do anything that would create lawlessness,” he said. He said he also met the IGP over the issue of Amotekun. “Everyone is aware of the issue of Amotekun. We deliberated and have an agreement in principle to have the governors of the South-West meet with him and review the situation again. Amotekun is work in progress. We are trying to operationalize it and in doing that, all the relevant stakeholders would have to align,” he said.