  FORMER National Interim Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief Adebisi Akande, said he is with Yoruba elders to chart the way forward on the Federal Government’s stand against the launch of the Southwest Security Network known as Amotekun. He maintained that he would prefer not to give details of the efforts in the media. Fielding questions from reporters during his 81st birthday anniversary in Ila-Orangun on Thursday, the former Osun State governor said since he was not a lawyer, he would not like to make further comments on the issue. Lamenting the level of corruption in the country, the APC  stalwart said the menace has become an endemic national problem which he noted that President Muhammad Buhari might not have appreciated its huge challenge when he launched the war against it. Akande, who said Buhari is already feeling the resulting heat of corruption fighting back, however,  expressed delight that the President had  decimated Boko Haram and other insurgents inherited from the previous administration. He, therefore, advised Nigerians to support the APC-led Federal Government to grow the nation’s economy. He said: “When President Buhari came up with his policy to fight against corruption,  perhaps he might not know the likely attendant consequences.  But I’m sure he is perspering seriously without people knowing it because corruption is already fighting back.” He also urged Nigerians not to leave the fight against corruption to the Buhari alone but to shun graft and other corrupt tendencies in order to put the nation on a path of growth and development. On the raging political crisis in the APC in Edo State,  Akande  expressed confidence that the party leadership has capacity to resolve it amicably without allowing it to affect the success of the party in the forthcoming governorship election in the state. He also said that the situation in Edo is still within the capability of the party leadership to manage effectively to guarantee the success of the party in future elections. According to him, the political crisis in Edo state would soon fissle out and the party would come out of it stronger. He said the ruling party would not allow the opposition to take advantage of the crisis to post serious challenge in the control of the state. He, therefore, charged Nigerians to make sure those seeking and occupying elective political offices to have visible means of livelihood.