E-commerce platform Jumia Nigeria on Thursday said Nigeria has become the breeding ground for its leadership position on the continent. Its co-founder/co-CEO, Jeremy Hodara, who spoke during a media interaction in Lagos, during Jumia 2020 Vision Sharing Breakfast, said the country is the firm’s largest market where it innovates, try new things and get results which guide it in other parts of the continent where it operates. Giving an overview of the firm’s performance last year, Hodara said the year was indeed good for the operation of the firm, adding that managment will continue to build on and accelerate the path of profitability which its started last year. According to him, the way shoppers use the platform has changed tremendoulsy with the deepening of smartphone penetration, adding that shoppers now use their devices to shop. As a first country where e-commerce started in Africa, Hodara said the platform has had a positive impact on the ecosystem. He said, for instance, that the platform has promoted gender empowerment as 40 per cent of vendors on the platform are women. Also, former CEO, Juliet Anammah, who has been promoted to the position of Chairwoman, Jumia Nigeria and Head, Institutional Affairs, Jumia Africa, said the firm has deepened its presence across the country. Juliet said more rural communities have been integrated, stressing that communities such as Bonny Island, with peculiar terrians, are now covered. She said 30 new logitistics partners have been integrated while adoption has also been increased appreciably. Juliet added that cash on delivery is now possible in 15 cities in the north and southeast, while 1000 new hires, including 30 at management levels and above. The new CEO, Jumia Nigeria, Massimiliano Spalazzi, said the firm’s activities this year will be anchored on four major pillars which he said are giving consumers access to purchase online: enable  vendors to grow their business; connect third party partners; and empower the firm’s team.