By Odogwu Chinememma Going out on a date with a crush for the first time can be tasking, as the thoughts of how to appear on the date would be the only thought in mind. Many people, especially girls, weary themselves with their appearance and comportment, which might lead to the person looking extremely unsettled on the day of the date, which could send wrong signals to the person they are on a date with. Being real is an attribute everyone must imbibe if you must appear great on a date, avoid fake life, keeping your dress style simple and yet attractive. Below are five tips on how to look when going on a date: Be yourself: Being yourself is one of the most important of when considering your appearance when on a date. When going on a date with someone we should always appear real to avoid putting the wrong impression on your crush minds, which might last over time. Be comfortable: What you wear for a particular date should be comfortable, don’t wear a cloth that will make you adjust yourself every minute. This might make you feel so uncomfortable. When you become so uneasy during a date, the person you’re on a date with might just feel you’re not interested in him or her. Be simple yet classy: Looking simple does not mean you’ll appear or unkempt. In looking simple, you must appear neat, not with very expensive apparels but with clothing that will suggest modesty and still keep you classy and attractive enough to leave a lasting impact on you crush. Be honest: As the popular saying goes, “Honesty is the best policy”. Being honest is the best habit you can appear in when on a date, trying to impress will only prove what you’re not, some people feel they might be unacceptable, and so they tell their crush some lies that might later be used against them in future. Don’t be a talkative: When on a date with someone for the first time, you must avoid talking too much, invest the time you intend using to talk, to study the person (This doesn’t mean you should be quiet while on a date). You must also avoid saying everything you see, you can keep it and discuss about it later on.