Experts say emergency care management is a serious affair that requires meticulous planning, massive funding and other things to make it work for the people, reports Associate Editor ADEKUNLE YUSUF  All over the world, any successful accident and emergency system rests on adequate capacity at the reference centre, an organised referral system within the community, an efficient ambulance system and rapid transfer to next-level follow-up as its four major pillars. That was the verdict of Prof Wasiu Adeyemo, the Chairman of Medical Advisory Committee, Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) and Dr. Babayemi Osinaike, head of Accident and Emergency Services, LUTH, after reviewing the state of emergency medical care in the country. The two medical experts said Nigeria has a high hill to climb before its dream to join the rest of civilised world where premium is paid to every life, especially in life-threatening situations, become a reality. Tertiary hospitals, such as LUTH and its counterpart, the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), exist to provide the highest qualitative top healthcare for patients referred to them. As such, experts explain that the apex health institutions’ mandate therefore includes service, training and research as enablers to meet their obligations to the public. However, in practice, medical professionals stressed that the above-mentioned establishments merely function as ‘welfare centres,’ striving to give succour to thousands of Nigerians, even as they labour under out-dated systems in a society that is rapidly transforming into a capitalist enclave. According to Adeyemo, using a hospital-based practice of one emergency room bed to 5,000 persons, Lagos State, with a population of 20 million, should ideally have more than 4,000 emergency beds. Although Lagos has two teaching hospitals, 26 registered general hospitals, 256 public healthcare centers, 2,886 private hospitals or specialist clinics and laboratories, there are, unfortunately, fewer than 300 emergency beds at the tertiary level in the whole megacity. For instance, LUTH, which is the most-patronised referral facility in the state, only has 80 emergency beds.  How the referral system works  There are codes and ethics guiding patients’ referral, said Dr. Osinaike. A patient is mostly referred for enhanced care only after due consultation with another doctor or hospital believed to be capable of rendering specific care unavailable from the referring centre. Sometimes, lack of facility, manpower, skills or bed space may necessitate such a transfer and in that instance, the receiving hospital needed prior information, earlier preparation and must have indicated readiness to receive such patient(s). Only accident victims and rarely, a few walk-ins patients, are exempt from this procedure, experts explained. Sadly, there is no effective referral system for emergencies among the almost 3,000 healthcare facilities in Lagos. In its place is a “dumping system” where helpless patients at the several private facilities are asked to seek relief at the two state’s apex health institutions. Consequently, many of such patients usually exhaust their financial resources before referral while some others are abandoned by relations in hospitals. Some unfortunate cases can explain the dilemma and frustration apex hospitals are made to suffer on a regular basis. Sometimes in September 2019, it was discovered that five pregnant women accessed LUTH emergency services with complicated labour, each requiring a Caesarian Section, blood transfusion and admission into the Intensive Care Unit. Unfortunately, none of them was able to pay for these high-end treatments costing about N450,000. The women who were expected to plan for the delivery of their babies waited till the last moment, believing that LUTH would bear the burden. In another instance, also in LUTH, a diabetic patient was brought in unconscious with a foot-rot spreading up the leg by the day. He needed aggressive resuscitation, surgery and months of hospitalisation, even in the face of penury. His medical state forbade him to seek financial assistance as condition for continued treatment; doing so would translate into condemning him to death regardless of the fact that his bill ran into millions. Experts insist that such shortfalls should be borne by government because no Nigerian should be turned back from the hospitals for inability to pay. It is therefore now more urgent to evolve an integrated referral system among all hospitals in Lagos State, medical professionals said.  Efficient ambulance system  Same way, a robust ambulance system is a precondition in managing medical emergencies. To this end, Lagos blazed the trail 18 years ago when LASAMBUS, a state-wide ambulance service which largely responded to many accidents and emergencies within and outside the metropolis, was established. Sadly, this noble effort has suffered a regression in the last four years and is only minimally active now. Experts say the new administration of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu should, therefore, accord priority to the resuscitation of LASAMBUS and expand it to operate within all government hospitals patronised by Lagosians. A close observation reveals that critically ill patients are usually conveyed to emergency clinics in taxis, tricycles and all manners of dilapidated vehicles. In fact, reports indicate that less than 25 per cent of all patients arriving at LUTH are brought in with proper ambulances.  What transpires inside the emergency room  According to Osinaike, every patient arriving LUTH is triaged and assessed to determine the severity of his condition. This is not a random process, but an obligatory, immediate step for every patient. It is a global best practice in every emergency room setting. He said: “LUTH prides itself as one tertiary centre with a defined triage process based on the Emergency Severity Index (ESI) system.” This is an objective set of scoring standards for doctors to operate because doctors are trained to identify critically ill patients and act in an organised manner. Therefore, through the triage system, hospitals can reduce unnecessary waiting time for critically ill patients at the emergency room. The ESI categorises each patient as follows: ESI 1 – patients requiring immediate life-saving interventions; ESI 2 – those that may die within hours if unattended; ESI 3 and 4 are patients that may be seen later or in Outpatient Department; while ESI 5 are those patients that should have gone to a primary or secondary healthcare facility. At LUTH, for instance, it was discovered that only 20 per cent of patients in emergency fall into the ESI 1-2 categories; 40 per cent belong to ESI 3 and 4 and another 40 per cent classified as ESI 5. The last category comprises simple ailments as skin rash, common cold, fevers, cuts and bruises that can be treated at primary and secondary care facilities. Records in LUTH also reveal that about 80 per cent of patients seeking care at the hospital could be conveniently treated in other hospitals to allow the hospital cope effectively with its role as a centre for referral and complex cases. According to Osinaike, the ER in LUTH is run by a team of doctors, nurses, pharmacists and other healthcare workers under the supervision of a consultant. “There is a consultant in charge at Medicine, Obstetrics & Gynaecology, Surgery and Paediatrics. There is always a consultant covering each of the three shifts every day of the week. They in turn can request on any and many specialists who are on call each day to take over the management of patients after resuscitation and stabilisation. “After triage, a patient is provided a bed based on availability and resuscitative care continued in the ER. This tackles conditions as breathing airway obstruction, maintaining the airway, breathing, bleeding, inadequate heart functions and any other immediate threat(s) to life. The patient is then stabilised and made ready for the next stage on the treatment “conveyor belt”. The patient is either sent for laboratory tests, x-ray or other imaging tests, transferred to the operation theatre or admitted onto the ward. He may also be sent to collect prescribed drugs at the pharmacy and then, home to come back for out-patient appointment.” Although disposal from the ER should not take more than 6-8 hours, in practice, a patient can spend 24 hours. During this period, emergency treatments for resuscitation and stabilisation are given to all, notwithstanding their ability or not to pay. However, Osinaike disclosed that the average ER stay in LUTH is between three and five days. Patients sometimes stay a week or more. In a few cases, family members disappear one after the other once the need arises to pay for services.  “At LUTH, many of these next-step requirements are either provided through revolving funds or by PPP facilities, which require payment for services. Unfortunately, most patients, having exhausted their resources, are unable or unwilling to pay. No thanks also to the misconception that LUTH is a government establishment where no fees should be charged. This is a great impediment to bed availability in the tertiary centres.”  Who pays for healthcare?  Healthcare financing is the biggest elephant in the room and until this issue is adequately addressed, experts believe that no number of bed-spaces will be enough to cater to the flood of those who need healthcare. The National Health Insurance Scheme is designed to act as a buffer for the rich and the indigent in accessing healthcare. Sadly, less than 10 per cent of Nigerians are covered till date. This is time to review the operation of the NHIS to enable Nigerians get universal coverage. Access to emergency care has become increasingly challenging as widely reported even in the Western world. Two recent stories in the United Kingdom underscore this: the story of a boy who was managed on the floor of a hospital in Leeds and the long queue of 39 ambulances waiting for a bed space with consequent sad outcome of the death of one of the patients while waiting. These stories, as with several others, have been the major source of concern for policy makers and end users globally. “The order of attending to emergency room patients is not based on the time of arrival alone, but more on severity at presentation. This is the basis of triaging internationally in order to avoid abuse of scarce emergency resources. Even at DC General Hospital in Washington DC, a patient may wait up to three hours if considered low on the priority index while attention is focused on more critical patients,” Adeyemo said. In Lagos, coordination of referral system is being planned among the three tertiary centres, state general hospitals and a number of big private health facilities in the state. Experts say this will definitely streamline the referral process and ensure reduction in the unnecessary burden borne by patients waiting to access care. Revamping of the primary health centres started by the federal government is on-going.  “This should be backed it up with adequate, direct funding. The buy-in by state governments has been encouraging in various geo-political zones. Uncomplicated cases are sorted out by primary care or GP in western systems. These cases therefore do not queue up in tertiary centres. With adequate confidence-building measures, these new PHCs and state general hospitals should soon become the bedrock of healthcare in Nigeria, as they once were. “Health care financing must be swiftly addressed as done in all countries where short turnover times are achieved in the ER. Citizens of such countries have universal health insurance coverage and patients do not pay out-of-pocket before accessing care. There is need to increase the number of tertiary-level care centres in Lagos state. To expect a patient to travel 88km from Epe to LUTH to access tertiary care is great disservice to our people. If Abidjan, with a population of eight million, has three large teaching hospitals (Yopougon, Treichville and Macory), Lagos, with 20 million, will comfortably require six or more. Increasing the bed capacity of LUTH alone will not solve the problem; the ease of access to tertiary care must increase in the state and country,” Adeyemo said. Active private sector participation in healthcare financing is required in the pursuit of   patient-friendly, efficient hospitals. The government alone cannot finance healthcare. Stanbic IBTC Bank helped in renovating the triage section of the ER in LUTH. This renovation has helped in no small way to ease the burden experienced by critically ill patients. Globally, individuals and corporate bodies endow funds into research and healthcare to complement the efforts of government. Nigeria cannot be different. Indeed, a vibrant universal insurance coverage will rapidly promote investment by the private sector in healthcare. Currently, investors shy away from investing in emergency care and trauma facilities because they are perceived as nonviable. While orthodox healthcare came to Nigeria  as a ‘welfare package’ by colonial authorities, it has since transformed into a viable business which, if properly harnessed, will greatly contribute both directly and indirectly to the nation’s Gross Domestic Product.