Damisi Ojo, Akure  Ondo State Government has reacted to the ‘mischief’ of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party(PDP) that Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu was planning to settle herdsmen in the state. It said PDP’s ill-motivated reasoning and perversion have a clear motive: to create a situation of distrust between the people and the Government and to a large extent, paint the State Governor in a bad light. This is a failed mission. A statement by the Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Donald Ojogo said “For the records, the influx of the strangers to Ajowa Akoko was indeed reported to the Government after the community had chased the intruders away. From preliminary reports at the disposal of Government, these people were not Fulani of Nigerian descent but foreigners. ” It should also be noted that as at the time they were prevented from settling at Ajowa and subsequently chased to the boundary between Ondo and Kogi States, there were no cattle with them. “It is to be noted however, that an indigene of Ajowa Akoko who is alleged to be responsible for the unauthorised movement of these foreigners to the town has been placed under security watch. Mr Governor has consequently, ordered his immediate arrest and interrogation without further delay. “Also, the suspected collaborator of Araba, a Fulani butcher resident in Ajowa, is said to have been chased out of the town by restive youths. The statement noted that shanties built by suspected herdsmen in an industrial layout in Akure without authorisation have been evacuated by security agencies on the orders of the State Government. However, “it is pertinent to state without prejudice to the hospitality of our people that, unauthorised mass movement or influx into Ondo State will not be encouraged by Government. In the same vein, potential collaboration in this regard will not be tolerated. ” All the same, the Ondo State Government frowns strongly at any form of self-help capable of jeopardizing cordial relationship among Nigerians irrespective of religion and ethnicity. “The Ondo State Government wishes to state unequivocally that the regional security outfit, Amotekun which is billed to be unveiled in Ibadan on the January 9 will undoubtedly, create an atmosphere that will engender peaceful coexistence in the Southwest States.