By Damian Duruiheoma, Owerri The Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio, has declared the ministry would hand over some of its projects to independent managers upon completion. He also said that work on pending projects would soon commence as the ministry had already started working out modalities to complete them. Akpabio, who was in Imo State on a two-day inspection of projects embarked upon by the ministry on Friday, said all the projects were capital intensive and would require an overhead cost for effective management. The minister, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary of the ministry, Olusade Adesola added that the ministry would liaise with communities before handing over some of the projects to credible managers upon their completion. He lauded communities hosting its projects for their support and promised to resume work on pending projects. “We inspected some of the projects of the ministry which included the rehabilitation of the Okpala – Igwurita and Owerri – Elele roads. “Others are the skills acquisition centre at Egbema and housing estate, Umuagwo both in Ohaji-Egbema LGA and the Information Communication Technology (ICT) centre at Osuobodo in Oguta LGA”, Adesola said. He also commended contractors handling the ministry’s various projects for quality service adding that the ministry would not compromise its quality. Adesola added that the visit would enable the ministry to prioritise the projects so as to enable it make efficient use of available resources through effective allocation of resources. He further said that the projects were not only for the benefit of oil producing communities but for the state at large. “We thank our host communities for their support and we assure them that our minister, Senator Godswill Akpabio, will not compromise quality even with very limited resources. “We will continue to prioritise through the process of budgeting and when funds are made available, activities at project sites will resume immediately. “The contractors are doing a good job even as we are making effective use of available resources so as to make maximum impact within the confines of our resources. “Some communities and corporate organisations have expressed their interest to manage some of our projects such as the skills acquisition centre and where we evaluate and discover that there is credible expression of interest, we will not hesitate to hand over the projects to them”, he said.