 He was a well-known writer who became a traditional ruler, which mirrored the colourful trajectory of his life. Chukwuemeka Ike also made a name as the first Nigerian Registrar and Chief Executive Officer of the West African Examinations Council (WAEC). Under him, WAEC became an autonomous examinations council, issuing certificates that were internationally accepted. His stints as an administrator at the University of Ibadan and University of Nigeria, Nsukka, had prepared him for the WAEC position. Ike died on January 8, aged 88. He had a remarkable writing life. In May 2015, the Nigerian International Book Fair, held at the University of Lagos, included the Chukwuemeka Ike Book Jubilee to celebrate his 50th anniversary as a published writer. Ike’s first novel, Toads for Supper, was published in London in 1965. According to Ike, “Government College, Umuahia (1945-1950) provided a conducive environment in which I began my life career as a creative writer. Each house had a manually inscribed House Magazine, which served as an outlet for creative writing. While I was in class 4, the college introduced a printed College Magazine (later named The Umuahian). The maiden edition (1948) carried my short story, ‘In Dreamland’, giving me my first opportunity to appear in print.” After that early beginning, Ike’s writing life got a boost when he entered university. He earned a first degree in History, English and Religious Studies at University of Ibadan, and a master’s degree at Stanford University, USA. He said: “University College, Ibadan (UCI) took off from where Umuahia stopped. Chinua Achebe, who was two classes ahead of me at Umuahia, facilitated my invitation to join the Magazine Club set up by the university to promote creative writing. ‘The University Herald’, a literary magazine funded by the college authorities, gave me another outlet to appear in print as a short story writer. The Students’ Union set up a rival outlet, ‘The University Voice’, which also helped me to establish as a short story writer.”  He wrote several short stories, 11 novels, one novel in Igbo, one fictional travelogue, two non-fiction books, four monographs, and edited eight non-fiction books. His novels include The Naked Gods ( 1970); The Potter’s Wheel (1973); Sunset at Dawn (1976); Expo ‘77  (1980); The Chicken Chasers ( 1980); The Bottled Leopard (1985); Our Children Are Coming (1990) and  Conspiracy of Silence (2001). At different times, some of his novels were selected for study in educational institutions across the country, which was a testimony to his mastery of English.  Significantly, his third novel, The Potter’s Wheel, was selected as a text for Literature in English in the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) in 2011. Ike described the novel, which “focuses on the transformation of the child,” as “the first full-length Nigerian novel to be written with a Nigerian child as the principal character.”  He said of the novel: “It was my first attempt to use the novel to transform a human being.” It is noteworthy that he also wrote an Igbo version of the novel, Anu Ebu Nwa, published in 1999. By writing a novel in his mother language, Ike promoted indigenous literacy. He also promoted his hometown, Ndikelionwu, notably in Toads for Supper, Potter’s Wheel, and The Bottled Leopard. Ike advocated that creative writing should not only mirror society but also contribute to social development. He recognised the importance of youth to national development, and devoted seven of his novels to problems of youth development. He addressed youth transformation at three levels: the child (primary school), the adolescent (secondary school), and the young adult (tertiary level). When he became a traditional ruler, Ikelionwu XI of Ndikelionwu in Anambra State, it may well have been his crowning glory because it symbolised his cultural essence. 