Adediwura Adesegha, popularly known as Adediwura Blarkgold, is one of the luckiest actresses who instantly hit the limelight with her acting style. In this chat with OLAITAN GANIU, the mother of one disclosed why she has no role model, the reason for staying off the scene as well as her challenges in founding an NGO, among other issues. Excerpts:  IT’S unusual. But the first time Adediwura Adesegha known as Adediwura Blarkgold attended a film audition, she got the lead role. Ever since then, the actress has continued to captivate fans with her acting prowess. “I was so lucky to be given a lead role and I acted along with the dons of Nollywood, Faithia Williams, Yomi Fash-lanso, Funso Adeolu, Jumoke George and others,” said Blarkgold. “It was the late Abdul-Fatai Teniola of Tenifab Motion Pictures who invited me for an audition at his Ikeja office. I did well, according to compliments from his Secretary and that got me a huge role in his production titled ‘Afiwo,’” she said. For a rising star, this could be a strong foundation to build on.  This is the exact thought of an actress who had a passion for acting since her primary school days. “Acting is inbuilt for me. Glory be to God for connecting me to the proper channel in June 2008; it was when I started acting professionally,” she said. Leveraging on the positive reviews, the talented actress produced her debut flick titled,  ‘Alangba’ – Lizard as a follow up. The project, according to her, was well-embraced by her fans. “It became a breakout movie for me. In fact, I got kudos from fans all over the world. Though I had featured in other productions that people reckoned with, my movies pushed me further. At the moment, I have shot seven movies: Ikoko (Closet), Alangba (Lizard), Orooro (Bile), 40th Birthday, Deep Heat, Aago Meje Ale, Ewure Abami, The Cryptic Goat and more. I have worked with great actors like Femi Adebayo, Yinka Quadri, Dele Odule, Odun Adekola, Bolanle Ninalowo, Ronke Odunsanya, Ibrahim Chatta, Bimbo Oshin and Fausat Balogunto, to mention a few,” she said. The 42-year-old actress believes that passion conquers challenges. Blarkgold said  her passion for acting did not allow her to count a lot of challenges that came her way. “I did not count challenges when I started acting because I had passion for it, so I didn’t see the flaws. “Sometimes in life, we tend to give it all on a particular project and that is what I do in acting. Though I see challenges, I have developed a strong heart to fight them so as not to get distracted, tired or lost balance. I always try my best to block challenges, but sometimes it crawls in unexpectedly and I just ignore so as to achieve my goal,”she narrated. Blarkgold, who has been off the acting scene for a while, opened up that it was caused by her aged mother. “Acting requires total concentration to give in your best, but I can’t really go on locations like I used to because of my aged mother who has been going in and out of hospital weekly,” she said. “Though she has a nanny, I still need to be around her. I moved down to her house for proper monitoring and care, thereby affecting my career.  But I don’t mind as my mum is very dear to me.” She further promised to hit the screen back, “I was into production recently and have shot two great works,” she paused. “Currently, I’m working on a film documentary called ‘Widow’s Storm’. It’s a documentary film where you get to view various widows. It will be on my Youtube page which I am working on, and I will post clips on my social media platform and it will also be shown on TV stations.” Blarkgold certainly has a strong support system for widows. She is a philanthropist who has been catering for widows through her NGO, ‘Giving Is Fun Initiatives’. According to her, she got the inspiration to run the organization due to what her mother had been through as a widow.  She said: “Generally, I love to give. I feel fulfilled and happy when I do so and I thought of merging the two words together ‘Giving & Happiness,’ and at the same time, pass a message across to the society about the fun in giving.” She continued: “Giving for me is like a covenant between myself and God. So from my own perspective, it’s extremely important. How much you give depends on what you can afford and how convenient it is. It can’t be forced, it’s a voluntary zeal. I call what I do a ministry. I want the society to understand that it is not everybody that will climb pulpit to preach and it is not everyone that will have a church or mosque. There are millions of ways we can preach love and win souls.” Asked about her major challenges in running the NGO, Blarkgold said capital to care for the widows is what troubles her most, but she is pushing for people’s support. She said: “Not that I have all the money in the world, but getting people to support it was a little tough. I needed to make them see the transparency, zeal, genuineness in doing this.” The talented actress then paused and said: “I thank God today that Giving Is Fun Initiative is getting the support and assistance gradually. The success story has been overwhelming; it’s been encouraging and it’s getting the recognition and support each day that passes by.” Blarkgold, who just concluded the 8th edition of the NGO, said he was happy for the support she received from the Lagos State government. “I give glory to God Almighty, and I want to thank His Excellency, former Governor of Lagos State, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, for his great support. I also thank Governor   Sanwo-Olu and his wife, Dr. Mrs Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu. “The event was a great one because we supported 1,000 widows and empowered 100. Some of my colleagues were on ground as well. Femi Adebayo, Ireti Osayemi, Ronke Ojo, Lateef Adedimeji, Foluke Daramola, Lola Magret, Bimbo Thomas, Fausat Balogun, Kabira Khafidipe , Kemi Afolabi, Dayo Amusa, Toyin Alausa, Adekemi Taofeek and others were around to put smiles on widows’ faces. We had special guests at the event. Prophet Israel Oladele Ogundipe and Ara The Drummer were around. I say thank you to all these people,” she said. On what the Nigeria’s film industry is lacking and how to make an improvement, Blarkgold said: “Nollywood is really improving, though we still have a long way to go. We really need to curb piracy which is the main problem affecting our jobs. Storyline, plot structure, prosper research, cast and crew, equipment, location and more are a whole lot that has to come together to make a good production because the competition is high now. “You get what you give. We need to spread our tentacles and travel, make research on our stories before final conclusions. That’s why I appreciate Kunle Afolayan anytime I see any of his movies. He’s doing a great job. Our production shouldn’t be biased. If I can’t act a role, don’t give me because I am your friend or because you will pay lesser. Get appropriate cast and crew.” When asked about her role model, the award-winning actress with smiles shockingly said: “I don’t have any role model or mentor. I only try every day to be a better version of me. “We all have flaws. No one is perfect, so I do not have a role model or mentor. Though I have people that I appreciate and love, I do not embrace such styles. You know why? There are millions of great, talented and fantastic people all over the world, so how can I pick? We meet great people that get applauded every day.”