By Taofik Salako, Capital Market Editor  RC Credit Bureau Limited (CRC) has won the Best Credit Bureau in Nigeria 2020 award by Capital Finance International (CFI.co), a print journal and online resource reporting on business, economics and finance with its headquarters in London, United Kingdom. Managing Director, CRC Credit Bureau Limited, Tunde Popoola said the company has grown to become the largest credit reporting agency in Nigeria, responsible for over 95 per cent of the nation’s recorded credit data from commercial banks, on-bank institutions, utility companies and retailers. He said the impressive market share was as a result of a well-designed organisational structure, fine-tuned processes and highly principled governance. “CRC creates a database of risk profiles deploying diligent research and data mining. Credit providers and borrowers alike rely on CRC Credit Bureau to facilitate informed lending and borrowing decisions with fast and hard facts. Creditors can access the CRC database to check a prospective borrower’s credit history or tailor new credit products using its tech-driven development tools,” Popoola said. He noted that accessing a credit line requires a good credit history, whether private person or corporate organisation and CRC foresees fintech partnerships filling the gap in financial inclusion.  According to him, with its partnership with Fair Isaac Corporation (FICO), a world-wide leader of credit analytics, CRC has developed a methodology to standardise credit scoring across the Nigerian market and with its latest partnership with Nova, it enables Nigerians who emigrate to the US take their credit history with them, giving them access to credit products and services. The CFI.co Judges Report noted that sustainable retail lending was fuelled by digitalization and data-driven decisions and confirmed CRC Credit Bureau as the obvious choice for the 2020 Best Credit Bureau (Nigeria) award. The report showcased CRC’s choice of international partnerships. Each year, CFI.co seeks out individuals and organisations in their various sectors of the economy who truly add value to stakeholders. The awards programme aims to identify and reward excellence wherever it is found, in the hope to inspire others to further improve their own performance. The Capital Finance International judges’ panel reviews information generated from independent sources during the nomination process and draw on their members’ expertise to identify candidates for award consideration. 