By Taofik Salako, Capital Market Editor  Investors looking to earn above average return in the Nigerian capital market this year should consider a portfolio of banking, consumer goods, telecommunication and industrial goods stocks. In its outlook for 2020, CardinalStone, an investment banking group, stated that investors are expected to take advantage of bargain hunting opportunities in fundamentally strong names. Analysts selected a portfolio of 10 stocks including four leading banks, two largest cement manufacturing companies, two consumer goods companies, a telecommunication company and a conglomerate with diverse businesses. According to the report, there is substantial scope for capital gains in a portfolio consisting of Zenith Bank, United Bank for Africa, Guaranty Trust Bank, FBN Holdings, Lafarge Africa, UAC of Nigeria, Flour Mills of Nigeria, Nigerian Breweries, MTN Communications Nigeria and Dangote Cement. The report noted that the leading banks have headroom for growth while the investment case for the duo of Lafarge Africa and UAC of Nigeria have become compelling following recent restructuring efforts. The report stated that the performance of a few other consumer names is likely to be buoyed by debt refinancing initiatives while the two largest companies, MTN Nigeria and Dangote Cement, will benefit from reduced regulatory tension and strong market positioning set to buoy growth for respective duo. “We expect improvement in the domestic economy on the back of the structural changes that began in 2019. Notwithstanding, per capita income is likely to remain frail with scope for further changes in consumption patterns and, possibly, excess capacity for a few companies,” CardinalStone stated. Analysts pointed out that monetary bias could remain largely dovish, with administrative measures set to leave system liquidity at elevated levels and yields mostly lower in first half 2020. Analysts called for bold reforms to lubricate proposed implementation of Nigeria’s N10.6 trillion budget to properly stimulate growth. The report stated that investors in fixed incomes are more likely to stay short in view of expected recovery in interest rate in coming quarters.  Investors in Nigerian equities had lost about N1.71 trillion in 2019 as a combination of political risk, weak macroeconomic performance and tense global outlook drove the stock market to second consecutive negative performance. The stock market closed 2019 with negative average full-year return of -14.60 per cent for the 2019 trading year, equivalent to net capital depreciation of N1.71 trillion for the year. It had recorded negative average full-year return of -17.81 per cent in 2018. The All Share Index (ASI)- the common value-based index that tracks all share prices at the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) closed 2019 at 26,842.07 points as against its opening index of  31,430.50 points for 2019, which was also the closing index for 2018. It had opened 2018 at 38,243.19 points. With average return of -14.09 per cent by November 2019, the average decline of 0.59 per cent recorded in December 2019 nudged the full-year return to -14.60 per cent. The December 2019 negative performance marks the first time in 10 years that the market suffered a relapse in the last trading month of the year. The negative average full-year return of -14.60 per cent implies that investors in the Nigerian stock market lost nothing less than 14.6 per cent of their portfolios during the year. However, with higher losses in several sectors, actual losses by most investors may be higher than average benchmark. Aggregate market value of quoted equities closed 2019 at N12.958 trillion as against its opening value of N11.721 trillion for the year. The seeming appreciation in the year-to-date performance of aggregate market value of all quoted equities was due to the unabsorbed boost from the listing of two leading telecommunication companies- MTN Nigeria Communications Plc and Airtel Africa Plc. Based on market values, both the ASI and market capitalisation are correlated indices and without new listing or delisting, usually move simultaneously in the same direction. But the ASI is weighted, and as such adjusted for effect of new listing while the market capitalisation is a straight-line summation of share prices and issued shares. Thus, where the ASI and market capitalisation differ, the ASI is widely regarded as the true representation of the market condition.