 GOtv will broadcast LIVE a series of top football matches from big English and European leagues this week. The games, scheduled to hold from 21-25 January, will be broadcast live on SuperSport Select 2 to GOtv Jolli and GOtv Max subscribers, and on SuperSport Select 4 and SuperSport Select 5 exclusive to GOtv Max subscribers. Tottenham Hotspur will continue their chase for a top-four spot when they host Norwich City at Tottenham Stadium today. The game kicks off at 8:30pm and will be aired live on SuperSport Select 2. Spurs have struggled to score goals following the injury of their talisman and captain, Harry Kane. Manager Jose Mourinho will have to galvanize his players after their disappointing draw with Watford on Saturday, knowing that they are eight points behind the last spot for the UEFA Champions League. In La Liga, the table toppers, Barcelona will travel to Spain’s southeastern coast to face Valencia at the Mestalla on Saturday. The game will be aired live on SuperSport Select 4 at 4pm. Quique Setién began his reign as Barcelona’s manager with a hard-fought victory over Granda last week but faces  a tougher task against Valencia as his team continues their quest of retaining the league title. Captain Lionel Messi and striker Antoine Griezmann will be charged to deliver the much-needed goals to help the team remain atop the log. Valencia, on the other hand, are having a decent season and are well placed to qualify for European football next season. Elsewhere on Saturday is the FA Cup fourth round encounter between Premier League clubs, Burnley and Norwich City. The game is at 4pm and is live on SuperSport Select 2. Yet a fascinating game lies in prospect when Napoli welcomes  Juventus to the Stadio San Paulo on Sunday- the game which kicks off at 8:45pm  will be aired live on SuperSport Select 5. Napoli are still struggling to find their feet under new manager Gennaro Gattuso, having lost four and drawn one of their last six games. While Gil Azzurri finished last season second on the log but have gradually slipped out of the top 10 this campaign, gaining a paltry 24 points from 20 games, Juventus seem to have recovered from a mini-loss of form and are back on top of the log in a bid to win a record ninth consecutive Scudetto. 