By Damian Duruiheoma, Owerri  Scores of the supporters of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Imo State once again trooped to Owerri, the state capital on Thursday to continue the peaceful protest against the removal of Emeka Ihedioha from office as Governor by the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court had on January 14, 2020 removed Ihedioha and declared Senator Hope Uzodinma as the rightful winner of the March 9, 2019 governorship election. Five days after the judgement, the party’s supporters swamped to the streets of the state capital in protest and demanded the reversal of the ruling. On Thursday, the protesters shut down the streets of Owerri, the state capital and threatened to shut down the streets of Abuja, the federal capital territory to ensure the Apex Court reversed what they called ‘injustice against Ihedioha and the people of Imo State’. The protesters, who were also clad in black and mournful attires, carried placards with several inscriptions and sang sorrowful songs to express their grievances. The protest saw security agencies cordoned off Egbu, Wetheral and Mbaise Roads to forestall breakdown of law and order. Speaking during the demonstration, the former Secretary to the Government of Imo State, Uche Onyeagucha, accused the justices of the Supreme Court of bringing shame to the judiciary in Nigeria. He added that if the Apex Court refuses to reverse the injustice, the people of the state would storm Abuja and shut down the federal capital territory to drive home their demand. He said: “The justices of the Supreme Court brought shame to themselves; they brought shame to the judiciary in Nigeria and they brought shame to the people of Nigeria. Wherever they are now, they are ashamed of themselves. “But, we’re giving them opportunity by this rally to clean themselves. They have to go back and reverse themselves.  “They have to bring back justice to the people of Imo State who actually voted for Governor Emeka Ihedioha during the 2019 election”. Onyeagucha described Senator Hope Uzodinma as unelected governor. “He cannot be governor of Imo State. This state cannot be ruled by a ‘guy’ man. We will not accept him. Ihedioha is our governor and we voted for him. “What we’re doing today is to show the world that the people are still with Ihedioha. “He governed this state with integrity and he will continue to be our governor. Nobody will steal our mandate. “We want that injustice reversed. We believe there are a bunch of justices who still have conscience amongst the Supreme Court justices and who also care about the future of our democracy. They should revisit the judgement and vacate it.”