From Adesola Ikulajolu and Comfort Olafare  The Nigerian Youth Parliament has canvassed expanding the age limit requirement for jobs in public and private sectors in a bid to end unemployment in Nigeria. This call was made by the member representing Bauchi State Imrana Garba, while presenting a motion at the first sitting of the Nigerian Youth Parliament. The motion was titled: “The need for the expansion of age limit as one of the requirements for job recruitment in Nigeria’’. The sitting was held at the Kano State House of Assembly Complex, Audu Bako Secretariat. Garba pointed out that different administrations have instituted programmes to reduce unemployment but none has solved the menace among the youths. He said: ‘’Many administrations both military and democratic have come up with different programmes such as National Poverty Eradication Programme (NAPEP), Subsidy Re-investment Programme (SURE-P), Social Investment programme  coupled with the effort of National Directorate of Employment ( NDE ), among others. These all aimed at reducing the rate of unemployment; yet its scourge is still ravaging the youth population.’’ Garba added that unemployment cuts across youths whether literate or otherwise, and regardless of whether they reside in urban or rural locations. He contended that age limit would give room for people with slow education to get employed without age barrier. The motion was seconded by Esther O. Sharon representing Enugu west senatorial district. In his contribution, the co-sponsor of the motion Ugonna Okafor, representing Imo west senatorial district, expressed concerns over how age limit has denied some graduates employment opportunities in both public and private organisations. The motion was deliberated at the floor of the House in which members-Comfort Olafare, Claude Orike Ndubisi, Saliu Shinawu, Prince Olufemi, Nita Biyack George, Daniju Sultan among others, contributed. In a related development, member representing Osun East Senatorial District, simply known as Costly  Aderibigbe, also presented a motion on: ‘’The need for intentional investment in youth capital development to harness the demographic dividend’’. She urged the Federal Ministry of Youths and Sports Development to ensure that youths who are survivors of war and conflicts as well as young people living in IDPs camps are well captured in Digital Skills Entrepreneurship Empowerment and Leadership (DEEL) programme. Aderibigbe called on the NYP’s Youths Legislative Body to be at the forefront of advocacy and implementation of Nigeria’s demographic dividend road map. The motion was seconded by Imrana Garba, an engineer and member representing Bauchi central. Also at the plenary, the Chairman the Northeast caucus and Member representing Bauchi Nnorth Kamal Jibrin Jama’ar, raised a motion titled: “Youth unemployment and restiveness in the Northeast: The need for North East Development Commission (NEDC), to engage the young generation in resolving the menace’’.  He said NEDC was established in 2017, with the assent of the Bill on October 25, 2017 by President Muhammadu Buhari; and charged with to, among other things, ‘receive and manage funds from allocation of the federal account international donors for the settlement, rehabilitation and reconstruction of roads, houses and business premises of victims of insurgency, as well as tackling menace of poverty, illiteracy level, ecological problems and any other related environmental or developmental challenges’ in the Northeast ,which consists of Adamawa, Bauchi, Borno, Gombe, Taraba and Yobe. Also, a motion co-sponsored by the members of Northeast, NEDC is expected to engage the teeming youth in skills acquisitions and vocational training to improve their standard of living through the establishment of Youth Development Centers in all states nationwide. Jibrin, therefore, called on the commission as a matter of urgency, to rehabilitate schools affected by insurgency and establish new ones. Jibrin also urges NEDC to establish guidance and counseling/rehabilitation centers in all the states of the region for de-radicalisation of victims and repentant insurgents. Contributing to the motion, Shettima Umar representing Borno north, expressed concern over the level of out-of-school children in the region, advocating concerted effort towards ameliorating the problems. Shettima also urged NEDC to create an office in Maiduguri, the headquarter of Borno State in order to have firsthand information on the plight of the people of the area. 