By Kolade Adeyemi, Kano The Kano state chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has dissolved the state Executive Caretaker committee and appointed a three- member administrative committee to run its affairs pending further directive from the National headquarters. The party chairman in Dala Local Government Area, who is the Pro Tempo chairman, Mahammina Bako-Lamido, told reporters at the party’s headquarters on Wednesday in Kano that the decision to dissolve the Caretaker committee was based on section 24 (2) and (3) of the party constitution (as amended) 2017. According to him, the Caretaker committee’s three-month mandate had expired on November 2018 “and it is not renewable by virtue of section 31 (2) (e) of the constitution of the party as amended 2017.” He said following the development, the remaining existing state executive committee, comprising of chairmen of the 44 local government areas of the state, wrote to the National chairman, secretary and the National working committee of the party and notified them of the expiration of the Caretaker committee. “The letter was written on 21st June 2019 and reminder letter was written on 21st August 2019 and another letter with the caption Complaint of intimidation and harassment dated December 12th was sent to the National headquarters. “It may interest you to know that all the above correspondences were appropriately acknowledged but the letters were not replied and no action has been taken. “In the light of the above, it has shown that the National body of our great party PDP has deliberately failed to intervene into the matter and direct for the immediate appointment of a committee to conduct election in Kano state,” he said. Bako-Lamido said the intervention of party National headquarters would have curtailed the illegitimate activities of the unlawful Caretaker committee, thereby a panacea for disunity and chaos within the state chapter of the PDP. He warned the members of the disbanded Caretaker committee to desist from parading themselves as leaders of the party in the state as doing so is a clear violation of the party constitution. When contacted, the chairman of the PDP Caretaker committee in the state, Alhaji Rabi’u Sulaiman Bichi, said the aggrieved party members went to court four times and all the judgements were in their favour and other exco members. “We did not appoint ourselves. We were appointed as provided by the constitution of the party and we were not given any timeline,” he said. He said the caretaker committee will remain in office until when a congress is held.and them to stop parading themselves as exco members.