 COALITION of Saraki Advocates (COSA), Youth for Steady Progress and Development of Kwara South, G70 and Concern Kwara Youth Group all condemned the demolition of Saraki’s family property by the Kwara State government. The groups said the demolition was not only a misplaced priority, but a lack of foresight on the part of the present administration led by Governor AbdulRazak Abdulraman. In a statement jointly signed by Coordinator Concern Kwara Youth, Comr. Shittu Rilwan and Coordinator Kwara South G70, Engr. Salahudeen A Lukman, the groups said, demolition without recourse to the purpose of the house shows the lack of empathy, compassion and love for aged women who are major beneficiaries of what the house stand for. According to the statement, “the joint leadership of Coalition of Saraki Advocates (COSA), Youth for Steady Progress and Development of Kwara South G70 and Concern Kwara Youth Group wish to categorically condemn the State Government impatience and destructive move exhibited on Late Olusola Saraki House popularly known as Ile Arugbo on Thursday 2nd January, 2020. “Nigerians and most especially kwarans will remember that Late Olusola Saraki the father of Incumbent Minister of State for Transportation, Sen. Gbemisola Saraki and immediate past Senate President, Sen. Bukola Saraki is a great philanthropist with special passion cum interest in empowering aged people like his counterpart Alh Lamidi Adedibu in Oyo state. These men specialised in helping the needy and communities to achieve personal and collective goals from 70s till their death and it formed the basis of their unending love among the populace and dominance of political scene in their respective state till they quit the living world. “Government needs individuals and groups support to succeed, attacking persive opponent is only childish for government that is yet to fulfil 1% of its campaign promises. Politics is over, this is time for governance and all hands must be on deck,” the groups said. 