Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in Benue State have expressed their eagerness to return home but they fear that, that move will be suicidal if the government makes good its alleged plan to withdraw troops that have been securing the volatile areas of the state against brutal attacks from killer-herdsmen who had held them hostage. They are, therefore, renewing their pleas to the government not to withdraw the troops and also fulfil its promise to rebuild their settlements destroyed in the wake of the bloody attacks by herdsmen, so they could have homes to return to. UJA EMMANUEL, who visited the camps, reports: On January 1, 2018, the people of Benue State were woken up by the shocking news of the massacre   of over 73 defenceless villagers in parts of the state, who were eagerly  looking forward to the celebration of the  New Year. Armed herdsmen had struck overnight, killing and maiming. Dozens of houses were razed. Thousands were rendered homeless. In no time, the joy of the people had   changed into sadness and an atmosphere of gloom swept across the state. There was mourning everywhere. Preparations for the new year were discontinued in many homes. Attention soon switched to the hospitals where the dead and the wounded had been rushed. Nigerians and non-Nigerians alike were outraged. For the state government, the immediate biggest challenge arising from the mayhem was to resettle those displaced by the attack. Two years after, over 100,000 of the displaced persons remain in various camps, agonising over the circumstances that forced them out of their homes. The Nation visited the camps to see how the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) were faring.  A family from Nzorov ward in Guma Local Government Area of the state admitted spending the Christmas and New Year in a peaceful atmosphere, but complained about the alleged destruction of their melon and rice farms in the border areas by herdsmen. A member of the family, who spoke to the journalists, Atsagba Kua, pleaded with the Federal Government to reconsider its plan to withdraw troops of Operation Whirle Stroke from the area. At the Divisional Police office, Gbajimba, it was gathered that men of the force have continued to patrol the area. A police officer, who pleaded anonymity, said: “The area is very calm but we have to still keep watch in case of any eventuality.” Displaced people at Gbajimba were also unhappy at the news of the planned withdrawal of troops  from the area. Peverga Ukumbur, James Neyol and Isaac Tyokwu,all  IDPs in the Gbajimba camp, were vehement in rejecting the Federal Government’s plan. They said while they were willing to return to their villages, it would be suicidal to go back now without  security guarantee. They alleged that some of IDPs, who returned to their ancestral homes for farming, lost their crops to herdsmen who allegedly harvested such crops. They feared that the herdsmen might come back in the absence of security operatives. The Commandant of the IDPs camp in Gbajimba, Enger Terry, said the inmates would suffer more hardships if their homes are not rebuilt and security provided. He said at this point in time, contemplating the withdrawal of the troops would create further insecurity for the returning IDPs. James Neyol, an IDP, claimed that   the herdsmen are still pained by the anti-open grazing law in the state and are not willing to forgive the people of the state for the action of  Governor Samuel Ortom. At IDPs Daudu Three camp housing 7600 inmates, the Camp Manager, Oliver Ijir, and the Camp Chairman, Geoffrey Togenga, said the IDPs were ready to go home if peace was guaranteed in their areas. They said those who went to their ancestral homes to farm hurriedly returned to the camp after cattle allegedly ate up the crops they cultivated. It was the same story at Abagana camp where the IDPs asked  the Federal Government not to withdraw Operation Whirl Stroke from the troubled areas if they must return home. James Iorkyaa, camp commandant, wondered why up till now the government had not made good its promise to rebuild the homes of the IDPs destroyed during the herdsmen invasion. He said the herdsmen still move about with their cattle in some of the villages, adding that if there is peace, they would return home because they are predominantly farmers. One of the physically challenged persons from Gbajimba, Nicholas Nder, appealed to the authorities to exercise restraint and avoid jeopardising the gains already recorded in securing the lives of the people.  Nder said the government must provide alternative security in the area before contemplating the withdrawal of the soldiers if it really has the intention of protecting the people. In his reaction, the Chairman of Guma Local Government Area, Mr Anthony Shawon, said he had been in the forefront of those encouraging the IDPs to go back home. Shawon said he was shocked to learn of the government’s plan to withdraw the troops from the affected areas, pointing out that the IDPs have not been properly mobilised to go back to their homes. “What has happened to the N10billion promised by the Federal Government to rebuild the damaged houses of the people? “he asked. Continuing, he said: “The vice president visited Benue during which he also brought a prototype of the settlement programme, including the cluster houses being proposed. The chairman maintained that this was not the right time for thegovernment to contemplate the withdrawal of the security operatives, adding that with the free movement of persons among West African countries, it was likely that more of the herdsmen would come to the Benue Valley. The Ward Head of Nzorov (Tyoor Nzorov), Chief Gwatse Akaahena, in an interview, lamented the FG’s plan to withdraw troops from the troubled areas in the country. He said more soldiers should be deployed in the area to guarantee security. To the traditional ruler, attempts to reduce the presence of soldiers in the affected areas would be tantamount to abandoning the people in need of security. Chief Akaahena expressed worry about the IDPs returning to their homes when they have nowhere to stay following the destruction of their abodes during the herdsmen attacks and stated that it would be risky to allow the IDPs to go back at a time the government is contemplating withdrawing the troops. On the issue of cluster settlement patterns in the affected communities to reduce threats of attacks by herdsmen, the Tyoo appealed to the relevant authorities to support the idea and help his subjects to key into it. Also speaking with journalists, Executive Chairman of State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB), the Rev. Emmanuel Aper, said FG should not to be hasty about the planned withdrawal of troops. He said most of the IDPs were scared of returning home, adding that they might see the government’s move as a ploy to further expose them to senseless killings. In his comments, the Executive Secretary, State Emergency Management Agency, (SEMA), Dr. Emmanuel Shior, maintained that  the  government should be in the forefront of demobilising the IDPs and providing them with adequate security in their areas. He said the government should fulfil its pledge of N10 billion for the resettlement of the IDPs earmarked for three states of Nasarawa, Benue and Taraba instead of withdrawing security from the areas. According to him, withdrawing the security operatives at this time would make the state vulnerable to more attacks. The Commander of Operation Whirl Stroke, Major General Adeyemi Yekini, told The Nation that peace had returned to the farming communities, urging the IDPs not to entertain any fear. Gen. Yekni stated further that a peace-confidence mechanism was being built by all stakeholders so that people can live together with one another, especially herders and farmers.