 The Simba Group, distributors of TVS motorcycles and tricycles in Nigeria, have inaugurated a brand-new showroom and service centre in Kano. The Simba TVS Centre, which opened recently at Murtala Mohammad Way, Kano is designed to the highest international standards, and offers customers a one-stop-shop solution for motorcycles / tricycles, accessories, spare parts and service. The Simba TVS Centre was officially inaugurated by the Hon Commissioner of Transport, Barr. M.A Lawal. The showroom features the latest motorcycles and tricycles from TVS, including the recently launched TVS King Duramax – a tricycle enhanced with a higher power, and more efficient, Duralife engine which leads to longer vehicle life and stronger performance. Also on display, is the TVS King Deluxe, Nigeria’s largest selling tricycle, the TVS HLX+ motorcycle, and the TVS XL 100, dubbed the ‘Oga for Load’ due to its suitability for rural, and in particular farming, applications Speaking at the event, Rana of Simba Group said, “All automotive customers need the highest standards of buying experience which many passenger car companies have achieved in Nigeria already. But there has been absence of these experience centers in the Keke and Okada universe, and our chain of showrooms strive to close the gap.” Simba has been recognized internationally for their contributions to Socio Economic Development in Nigeria, and the company representatives were on hand to explain how their products touch the lives of millions of Nigerians everyday – creating and enabling employment opportunities. Rana added, “Simba has always been committed to social and economic development, and our motorcycles and tricycles strike at the heart of this philosophy – driving millions of Nigerians to work, to school, to pray and to get on with their daily lives; and in turn, driving the economy. Besides all those employed by us directly, our products generate employment for millions of people in the country – right from the drivers of our motorcycles and tricycles, to the dealers, microfinance partners and fleet owners that make them available, and finally to the tens of thousands of mechanics who provide after-sales-service for them. The Simba Group, one of the country’s most respected business groups, has been in Nigeria for over 30 years. In that time, the group has contributed greatly to the Nigerian economy, and its portfolio of widely recognised brands, continue to dominate industries in which Simba operates. Their TVS tricycle is the largest keke brand in the country.