Enyimba head coach Fatai Osho has praised his players after Sunday’s CAF Confederation Cup 4-1 win over Paradou AC at the Enyimba Stadium. Stanley Dimgba netted a hat trick and Victor Mbaoma scored his eighth of the season to render Abdelkahar Kadri’s late goal a mere consolation as Enyimba ran out 4-1 winners. The result has taken the People’s Elephant to second in group D, heading into the final two matches of the current stage. Sunday’s win was Osho’s first game in charge of the People Elephant following the departure of Usman Abd’Allah last Monday. Speaking to the club’s media channel after the fixture, Osho heaped praises on his players for their ability to adapt to new tactics within few days. “The time was never there so we had to do a crash programme to encompass a lot of things into what we wanted to do, and today we are happy that whatever we were able to do within those four days we were able to get a result with it. “You could see the manifestation of whatever we have been doing in the training session in their play. It’s not an easy thing to do. We must give credit to those boys because if they are not ready to learn it will be so hard to teach,” he said. …As Paradou coach attributes loss to intense heat The coach of Paradou, Francisco Chalo has blamed the 4-1 loss suffered by his club in the hands of Enyimba International Football Club on Monday in Aba, Abia State in a CAF Confederation Cup to hot weather. Chalo in a post-match press conference noted that unlike in Algeria where the weather is cold, the players couldn’t adapt to the severe hot weather within the days for which they arrived Aba. He was, however, optimistic that his club would still get to the quarter final of the competition. Enyimba interim manager, Fatai Osho hailed the resilience and determination of his players in the game. Osho also praised his players for adapting to the new attacking formation which saw them put three goals pass their opponent goalkeeper in the first half. Enyimba’s Chairman, Chief Felix Anyansi-Agwu also praised the team and said that the sacking of Usman Abd’Allah has nothing to do with the heavy defeat in Jos. He stressed that many bigger European clubs sack coaches for one reason or the other, adding that Enyimba’s case should not be misinterpreted.