 A Federal High Court in Abuja has ordered the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to file a formal response to a suit by 14 aggrieved members of the Edo State House of Assembly. Justice Ahmed Mohammed gave the order on Tuesday when, in response to an earlier order by the court, an INEC lawyer, Femi Adeyemi said his organisation would prefer to remain neutral in the case and has filed nothing. The 14 lawmakers, who have not participated in the activities of the Edo State House of Assembly,  are by the suit marked: FHC/ABJ/CS/1582/19 challenging the propriety of the alleged move by the House leadership and INEC to conduct fresh election to replace them. The plaintiffs are Victor Edoror, Washington Osifo, Vincent Uwadiae, Kingsley Ugabi, Michael Ohio-Ezomo, Sunday Aghedo and Chris Okaeben. Others are Crosby Eribo, Aliyu Oshiomhole, Oshomah Ahmed, Ganiyu Audu, Ugiagbe Dumez, Uyi Ekhosuehi and Eric Okaka. Listed as defendants, in the suit, are Speaker, Edo State House of Assembly , Frank Okiye (named as 1st defendant), and INEC (the 2nd defendant). The court, on December 12, 2019, heard the plaintiffs’ ex-parte motion for an order of interim injunction restraining the defendants from conducting by-elections in respect of their seats, purportedly declared vacant by the Speaker on December 4, 2019, pending their motion on notice. The judge did not grant their prayer, but instead, ordered the defendants to appear before the court on December 19, 2019 to show cause why the interim injunction being sought by the plaintiffs in their motion ex-parte should not be granted. Justice Mohammed ordered that court documents and the order made be served on the defendants, and adjourned til December 19, 2019. The court did not sit on December 19, 2019 prompting a further adjournment until January 7, 2020. On Tuesday, plaintiffs’ lawyer, Ikhide Ehighelua reminded the court about its order for the defendants to show cause, to which INEC’s lawyer, Femi Adeyemi, said his organisation has chosen to remain neutral and had not filed any affidavit to that effect. The 1st defendant, Okiye was not represented in court. Justice Mohammed then told Adyemi that by the provisions of Order 26 Rules 11, 12 and 13 of the Federal High Court Civil Procedure Rules, 2019, where a defendant is asked to come and show cause, the defendant is expected to file an affidavit in evidence and not an oral evidence. The judge said: “What you are telling me here is evidence. I understand you very well. You file an affidavit that you want to be neutral. “File an affidavit and explain there even if it is a two paragraphs, but not to stand at the bar and explain.” The judge ordered INEC to file an affidavit in support of its position and to show cause why the interim injunction should not be granted before the next adjourned date. He added that having decided not to oppose the applications filed by the plaintiffs, INEC should refrain from taking further steps since the matter was still pending in court. Justice Mohammed equally ordered that Okiye be served with hearing notice and adjourned till January 28, 202