From Ifunanya Osakew  Students of the University of Benin (UNIBEN), Ekenwan Campus, have applauded their Vice Chancellor Prof Lilian Salami over the renovations, clearing of bushes and the mounting of generator power plant in the campus. It will be recalled that Salami’s administration which came on board in  December, commenced renovations  in Ugbowo campus since the first week of January. Similarly, Ekenwan campus, which was almost in ruins and lacking in facilities, such as power and water, is now experiencing a facelift. The Head of Department of Mass Communication, Mrs Comfort Obaje, had decried the poor state of Ekenwan campus shortly after Prof Salami resumed. Obaje told CAMPULIFE that the institution, especially the Department of Mass Communication, had lost some key facilities supposed to aid lecturers in effectively carrying out their duty. She said: “Most of the equipment and facilities that aid lecturers to teach well are not there anymore. In most cases you will see a lecturer asking the students ‘Have you seen a radio studio or have you seen a television studio? ‘instead of showing it to them.” “The classes are not conducive for teaching and learning. The halls are not supposed to take more than 70 per cent of students at a time, but what we have now is a situation where over a 100 per cent of the students crowd into a hall. “Another issue is power which is a big challenge for us. Lack of electricity makes teaching and learning uncomfortable. A lecturer may want to use a laptop to show something to the students but because there’s no power he or she won’t be able to do so. However, the students at Ekenwan campus are happy that  eventually, the new management has decided to beam its searchlight on Ekenwan Campus. A 200-Level student of Mass Communication Henry Noble, said the immediate renovations is a sign that management is now more responsible and reliable. He said: “Getting the bush cleared and kept safe is a necessary function of the management. “And for them to have known and done that is a sign of responsibility and good representation on their own part.  “I wish to say a very big thank you to our new VC for her tireless efforts in promoting cleanliness in the school premises.” Noble’s coursemate Clinton Drum, also agreed with his friend. “The VC is doing well and I am happy about it. Staying in the hostel this past semester has not been easy for us because it was in a bad state. “We want the VC to also look into building more classrooms for us because they are not enough to contain the number of students here,” said Clinton. “The VC should also look into the high school fees and departmental dues, so that we will be able to afford it. “Most students drop out of school because they can’t afford to pay the high school fees”, said Laura Osaka a 300level student of the Department of Theatre Art. Esther Osamwen also a 200-Level st Theatre Arts undergraduate praised the VC for solving the electricity issue and also mounting a generator plant to power the campus. “There is a great improvement in the area of power. At least, we now have up to six to eight hours electricity every day. “All the giant grasses has been cleared. At least the snakes won’t be terrorising us again. “We have killed a lot of snakes in the hostels, especially the boys hostel because of the bushy environment.