LANDLORDS living on St Saviour road and adjoining streets in Ikpoba-Okha Local Government of Edo State, on Monday, halted ongoing road construction in protest of poor drainage. The protesters came out at 6 am and blocked the road with tyres. They seized a bus carrying company workers, and insisted on seeing the contractor. St Saviour road, which links over 10 communities from Third Junction in Oredo council to Benin bypass, has been in a terrible state for over 20 years. Governor Godwin Obaseki, last year, awarded the contract through Edo State Oil and Gas Producing Areas Commission (EDSOGPADEC) at N3.55 billion. Pleas by workers to allow them begin work were rebuffed as the protesters insisted the contractor and government officials must address them. Protesters spoke on their pains. Isere Frank said they don’t want the rains to cause them problem because of what they experienced last year. He said: “We are happy that this road is being constructed, but we are worried about the exit point of the flood. Our houses were flooded last year and this year might be worse. This drainage is  three feet deep and we don’t know where they are channelling the flood water to. I do not want to be chased out of my house by flood water.” Sunny Isibor said he had spent 41 years on St Saviour and he had not experienced flooding like last year after the road construction began. He said: “Last year, Obaseki came to our aid by approving the road for construction, but we saw flood during the road construction. We are not here to fight. The company is bringing the flood to our street. John Osadolor said: “I left my house three times because of flood last year. I have parked my car there since and I cannot take it out. Since they started the road, erosion has been disturbing us. We are here this morning to ask the company about the flood so that they can in turn ask the government. Where are they taking this flood water to? We thought the road would ease our problem but this is where we are.” Mrs. Isoken Ewere said: “We are landlords in Akenzua Street off, St Saviour road. We are begging them not to channel the flood water to the street. We don’t want to lose our houses. They should channel the flood water through 100 feet road to the Ikpoba River. We are begging the government to pity us.” Another woman, who lives at Edaiken Street, said she was sent packing after heavy rains last year. “Why are they taking the flood to that street? About seven streets in that axis are already suffering. We don’t need the water. Officials of the construction firm refused to comment but an official of EDSOGPADEC,  simply identified as Yakubu, pleaded with the protesters to allow work resume on the road. He said: “We need proactive action. We will make the cry harder on our boss for the coming rains not to meet the road. My chairman wants to talk to some of your leaders. He wanted to come but he sent me to come and beg you to send a delegation to our office. Please, let the contractors continue work because any delay will mean additional money for the government.” Last night, the protesters delegated some elders to go to EDSOGPADEC office for discussion on the road.