By Emmanuel Oladesu, Deputy Editor  Prominent Edo South leader Bright Ogbebor has said the senatorial district deserved many key appointments and amenities, judging by its population. He described the numerical strength as a big factor in electoral politics. Ogbebor, a lawyer, who canvassed a second term for Governor Godwin Obaseki, Edo South is also more naturally endowed than the other two districts. But, former Edo State House of Assembly Speaker Mathew Egbadon  said that Edo North Senatorial District deserved more attention. In his opinion, the district is marginalised in the distribution of developmental projects. He complained that former Governor Adams Oshiomhole ran the state without carrying along the people of the district. Egbadon, a lawyer, said the district, which is made up of 35 kingdoms, deserved more dividends of democracy. He lauded Obaseki for his achievements in the area, urging him to sustain the tempo. The former lawmaker spoke in Lagos st a town hall meeting organised Edo Stakeholders under the umbrella of ‘Uniedo Foundation,’ led by Emmanuel Ijewere. Obaseki rendered his account of stewardship at the forum attended by representatives of the three districts. Welcoming the stakeholders, Ijewere urged the people to defend the heritage of the Edo people. He said: “Edo is one. We have come to see our governor. Were we right or wrong when we voted for him? That is why we strongly here. Although we reside in Lagos, we decide what happens in Edo.” Egbadon complained that the North and South districts have appropriated key appointments and amenities in the state, adding that the Speaker that was conceded to the Central District has become a subject of bickering. He condemned the rising wave of violence and brigandage in Edo politics, saying it is unwarranted. Egbadon said: “Violence in Edo politics is condemnable. Edo people may disagree in politics, buy violence is bad. Why should people kill because of politics? Winston Churchill said it is better to jaw jaw than to war war.” Urging the governor to resolve the security challenge, he said the activities of miscreants may affect the flow of investment in the state. The representative of Edo North, Dr. Mamudu Dako, described Edo as a complex state. He said: “Edo North is the second largest district and whatever happens in Edo concerns Edo North. There is lopsided distribution of amenities; no tertiary institution, no nursing school, no functional General Hospital. We need upgraded health facilities and hospitals in Auchi, Igara.  “The governor should declare a state of emergency in Edo health sector. Schools a dilapidated.  No teacher, no facility. It is injustice to expect the pupils to compete with students from other zones. In Somorika, Akoko Edo, there is no road. “All is not well in Edo in terms of security. The political logjam should be settled. There cannot be development when there is no peace.” A lawyer, Bright Ogbebor from Edo South said:”Edo South is about 60 per cent of Edo. In terms of mineral resources, Edo South has majority. Let us back the governor. Let us support him to get a second term. He is an icon of value creation. He is a performer, an investment banker.  He has discipline. He has the destiny to get to the top.” Obaseki answered questions from the audience. He said he would get a second term because he has performed. The governor reeled out his achievements across sectors and gave himself a pass mark. He said: “I am against corruption. I am against people dipping their hands in public treasury. Money is budgeted and it is not spent on developmental projects.  It has led to mass suffering. This had led to the migration of people to Europe  through the Sahara Desert. The data on human trafficking shows that two local governments are leading in Edo. “There are some towns without ATM machines. They are excluded from the financial system. “The challenges are enormous. Everything has broken down. Where do you start from? We have resolved to solve the key ones. The key one is the people. “We said we will not negotiate on education, healthcare  security, jobs. We have 300,000 students at the basic level. I cannot be sharing. If you train the youths well, they will not go into thuggery. ” 