 Barcelona’s Asisat Oshoala has won the Women’s Africa Cup of Nations three times with Nigeria Nigeria’s Asisat Oshoala has said she wants to ‘create her own history’ after winning the 2019 Confederation of African Football’s (CAF ) Women’s Player of the Year award on Tuesday. The Super Falcons captain has now won the award for a fourth time equalling the record of fellow Nigerian Perpetua Nkwocha who claimed the award back-to-back in 2004 and 2005 and again in 2010 and 2011. Oshoala’s year included a goal at the Women’s World Cup to help Nigeria reach the last 16 in France and 10 goals in 13 appearances after joining Spanish side Barcelona in February. “I am really excited – proud of myself, four times is something to always remember,” she told BBC Sport Africa. “It keeps me going but of course there is still more work to do, I want to create my own history and not just equal someone else’s record – I’m going to give my best to create mine.” Oshoala, who claimed the award in the 2014, 2016 and 2017, was up against Valerenga and Cameroon forward Ajara Nchout as well as last year’s winner Thembi Kgatlana of Beijing BG Phoenix and South Africa. “I was actually tense about it, but it was an historical night for me,” she said. Speaking earlier on her social media accounts, the excited  former Liverpool Ladies stalwart expressed her delight for winning the award yet again: “Grateful to be African Women’s Player of the year for the 4th time. Thank God, my Family, Friends and Fans for the support. Big shout out to my club, my management, team mates at both national team and club level and of course thanks to CAF for the opportunity. “Sometimes you forget to smell the roses along the way in life. I’m always the type thinking about my next move and never really stop and celebrate the things in between. “This is such an amazing accomplishment and I’m extremely blessed to have been in this position to accomplish it. It’s a blessing to see the wonderful lives I’ve touched in my young life. I truly appreciate all the love. But there’s still work to do,” she wrote. In  a related development, Chairperson of the Nigeria Women Football League, Aisha Falode, has hailed Oshoala after she was crowned the  2019 African Women’s  Footballer of The Year. Falode was full of plaudits for the excellent player who graduated from the Nigeria Women Football League playing for Lagos-based FC Robo en route to Europe where she star for Arsenal Ladies, Liverpool Ladies and later Barcelona FC women’s team. The NWFL boss said, she was delighted that the former FC Robo of Lagos striker is now the  second woman in African football history  to win the prize for a fourth time following the feat by former Super Falcons player Perpetual Nkwocha.