The Emir of Potiskum, His Royal Highness Alhaji Umaru Bubaram Ibn Wuriwa Bauya has returned to his palace in Potiskum after his convoy came in contact with robbers along Kaduna/Zaria road on Tuesday night. The Emir who was hospitalised after the attack returned to his palace amidst mixed emotions as his subjects trooped out in droves to thank God for sparing the life of their king but their eyes were still heavy as four of the Emir’s aid including a senior tilted holder of the Emirate was killed in the skirmishes. The Nation reported that the four aids were buried on Wednesday with hundreds of thousands of sympathizers at the funeral which was held in front of the palace. The Royal father who addressed his subject at his palace regretted the incident but also thanked almighty Allah for sparing his life and other members of his convoy who survived the attack. The mornach was however saddened by the death of four of his aids who died and one that is still missing. The Royal father who spoke with a few journalists who visited his palace at Potiskum called on everybody to support the Federal Government by taken security as their primary responsibility. His words: “Thanks, be to almighty Allah for sparing our lives. First, the experience we had was after Jazi, there was a commotion and people started scaring and we stopped and after about twenty minutes, the traffic continued to flow from both ways and we felt the road was cleared. We moved for about one or two kilometers and discovered that they have mounted some road blocks and we felt they have left. But a few movement again we noticed a slowing down of vehicles and there was a traffic congestion. “At that point, we started feeling some uneasiness in us because the situation became dangerous. The traffic was so chaotic that one cannot move forward our backward. We were just about thirty seconds from our discussion then the sound of gunshots erupted. The gunshots were unbelievable. It was just like a war field. Instantly, I saw my pilot driver suaved and then hit a standing vehicle. I suspected the shooting affected him and the police people around him. “As the shooting was going on, we decided to abandoned our vehicles and take to safety. God in His infinite mercy led me to esacpe the danger zone. The gunshots continued for almost two hours. I continued trekking into the bush until when the sound of the guns was a bit far off from me. That is how I found myself, its God mercy that helped me to escape danger zone. “I was in the bush all the time the shooting was going on. The shooting started at around 11.00pm and did not stop until around 1.00am, the following day. I decided to remain in the bush up to morning time. The security people started to come for me and other groups at around 2.00am but I refused to come out at the time because, I didn’t not the objective of the attack. I stayed in the bush because I may fall a prey of the attack. I stayed in the bush until morning when the security came back and I came and they picked me up. They took me to the hospital for medical checkup. “I thank the medical doctor who is in charge of that hospital. He checked me and reported that I do not have any injury. He gave me treatment and until my fatigue was down. I told them I want to leave but they reluctantly released me to leave. “I am very grateful to Kaduna State Government, the hospital that took care of us and the security operatives. I was well comforted so I didn’t develop any trauma. I didn’t even know about the death of my people until yesterday morning when the news was brought to me that I lost four of my people in that skirmishes. Some of my policemen also sustained gunshots but were treated at the hospital. “The issue of security is not only the responsibility of the Federal Government alone. It is everybody’s responsibility because no one knows when his own time will come. Both Muslims and Christian need to pray fervently as well as supporting the security agencies by identifying suspected movements. When we are able to detect these kind of people around us then we report them to security agencies. We cannot withhold information from the security agencies and expect them to perform magic. It is only the people in the community that can assist the security agencies informing all suspected movement around them then the federal government and all other levels of government will work smoothly,” the Royal father narrated. Meanwhile, the Emir has continued to receive visitors at his palace who came to felicitate with him after the attack. Our correspondent caught up with the Secretary to Yobe State government, Baba Malam wali who led the state government delegation to the Emir’s Palace in Potiskum for the sympathy visit. He was accompanied by the Acting Head of the State Civil Service Mohammed Nura and other member os the State Excutive council.