Former Secretary General of the Nigeria Football Association (NFA), Herbert Omokhaye has urged the leadership of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) to be cautious of their action in the handling of Delta Football Association (DFA), while throwing his weight behind the South-South FA bosses for their stance on the issue. The Octogenarian told NationSport yesterday that rather that dissipating its energy on issues that could be counter-productive, he charged them to invest their time on programmes that will boost football development. “I am in support of the South-South Chairmen for their decision to rally round DFA because what we have now is not football development but people looking for posts for their personal gains. Rather than focusing on developing football in the country, the NFF is only interested in attending competitions which has not helped the fortune of the sport. “During our days in the FA, our desire was to organise more tournaments within the country, where talents would be unearthed and groom to become world stars. The politicking going on in NFF has not really helped our football. So I urge the NFF to be cautious of what they are doing in DFA as long as those in the region have said that there has never been crisis in Delta,” the erstwhile scribe of the Nigeria (Football) Referees Association (NRA) said. It would be recalled that the NFF set up a Normalisation Committee chaired by Henry Nkeki that has three months mandate to organize a fresh election in Delta. But the elected chairman of DFA, Edem Fuludu has threatened to take legal action against the NFF’s interference. Also, the South-South zone made up of FA Chairmen from Rivers, Cross Rivers, Edo, Delta and Bayelsa has faulted NFF for creating crisis where none existed. The group has threatened to boycott all NFF activities, while urging the Amaju Pinnick-led board to allow the status quo to remain in Delta as Fuludu was duly elected on July 2019 while former African Footballer of the Year, Victor Ikpeba was also elected as Vice Chairman at the poll. Chairman of Chairmen of Nigerian Football, Alhaji Ibrahim Musa Gusau has stated that the NFF resorted to appointing a Normalisation Committee to run the affairs of the Delta State Football Association (DFA) following the long-drawn crisis that bedevilled the DFA. “Early last year, the board of the Delta State Football Association wrote a petition against the acting Chairman, bordering on various allegations, and eventually held a congress where the members suspended the acting Chairman.  The NFF took note of the decision because process adopted complied with the laid down regulations for such to happen. “We gave them ample time to resolve the crisis and conduct fresh elections in full adherence to the guidelines provided by the NFF Statutes and the electoral code. But they could not.” Gusau said that in as much as the nation’s governing body for the game has no interest in who takes the mantle of leadership in the Delta State Football Association, it could not afford to play the ostrich and shirk its responsibilities when the tenure of the immediate past board had expired. “The term of the board of which Augustine Okocha was chairman, and which later appointed Edema Fuludu as acting Chairman, expired more than five months ago, without the quagmire being resolved. “We were later informed that elections were conducted and a board had emerged. There was no way elections could have been conducted in such crisis. The so-called elections did not follow the guidelines and the NFF cannot allow such to stand.” Gusau, also a member of the NFF Executive Committee and Chairman of the Zamfara State Football Association, said the meeting of chairmen of the South-South zone held in Port Harcourt on Tuesday, 21st January 2020 did not address the core issue surrounding the Delta State imbroglio. “Delta FA is an affiliate of the NFF. Our position is that it is the football stakeholders in Delta State, and particularly those who are eligible to vote in the FA elections that will elect people into the Delta State Football Association, not the entire stakeholders in the South-South zone.” Gusau expressed surprise that 1997 African Player of the Year Victor Ikpeba, who seconded the motion for the suspension of Fuludu – a 1994 Africa Cup of Nations winner with the Super Eagles – is the same man now claiming to have been elected as vice chairman to the latter. “The Normalisation Committee has started its work and we expect to have a duly elected board for the Delta State Football Association in the next three months.” 