Agha Sunday Inya  University of Nigeria (UNN) has announced plans to name one of the facilities in the institution after its former registrar, Eze Vincent Chukwuemeka Ike. This was announced by the Registrar of UNN, Dr Chris Igbokwe. This  was coming as principal officers, as well as friends, colleagues and relatives of the deceased, who was also a former Registrar of West African Examinations Council (WAEC) continued to pay tributes to him. Ike, a professor  of English Literature, died at Nnamdi Azikiwe Teaching Hospital, Nnewi, after a brief illness. He was 88. CAMPUSLIFE correspondent, who went round the institution, realised that a sombre atmosphere pervaded the institution premises. A large portrait of the deceased sat on a table draped with the flag of the university which has been conspicuously placed at the lobby of the Administrative Building located at the Nsukka Campus of the institution. Staff, students and guests of the university would pause to look at the portrait. Some take the time to sign the condolence register, while others merely nodded in shock and sorrow. His last visit to UNN was last October when he served as the Chairman of the 59th Founders’ Day Lecture. Reacting to the news of his death, UNN Vice chancellor, Prof Charles Igwe, reiterated that the history of the university would not be complete without the  mention of Ike. “He played a very significant role in ensuring that the University of Nigeria was reopened after the civil war; thus, we owe him lots of gratitude,” said  Igwe. He lamented that death had stolen from the university; an ‘administrative sage’ whose informed counsel will forever be missed. Igwe’s Deputy (Administration), Prof Pat Okpoko, said Ike’s death implied that UNN ‘’has lost a knowledge database and a harbinger of information for future generations’’.  A professor of Cultural Tourism, Okpoko described the deceased as a man of many parts who distinguished himself in all areas of endeavour. “He left indelible footprints as the Registrar of both the University of Nigeria and the West African Examinations Council (WAEC). He was one of the stars in Nigeria’s literary firmament, an accomplished academic and a traditional ruler of repute,” Okpoko said. The university’s Registrar Dr Chris Igbokwe, described the place of Chukwuemeka Ike in UNN as that of a patriarch, stating that the university was yet to recover from the shocking news of his demise. “We are very much saddened because Prof Ike single-handedly raised the University of Nigeria from the rubbles of the Civil War,” Igbokwe lamented, maintaining, that the university would waste no time in naming a prominent structure after him. Igbokwe commiserated with his family, the people of Ndikelionwu and the government of Anambra State for the loss. He prayed God to accept the deceased soul in paradise. Chairman of Senate ceremonials committee of the university, Prof Bennett Nwanguma, described the deceased as a sage who remained modest, humble and accommodating, in spite of his numerous accomplishments. He recounted his recent encounter with Ike as an experience of a lifetime, narrating how the late storyteller, as he is fondly called, held him spellbound while he reminisced over the University of Nigeria in the years of war. “We talked freely about his books, the war years, the zero-hour graduates and his recent advocacy for the spirit of ’Biafranness’, which he explained as the can-do spirit, and which enabled our people to come together and build refineries during the war,” he said. Nwanguma welcomed the UNN’ decision to immortalise the sage at the university, adding that it is an indication that “the labours of our heroes past should never be in vain.” The late Ike joined UNN  as an administrative assistant and Assistant Registrar in 1957. He became the Deputy Registrar in 1960 and served as the Registrar/Secretary to the Governing Council of the university between1963 and 1971.