By Ernest Nwokolo, Abeokuta  Police have arrested 40- year- old Olanrewaju Bamidele for stabbing his wife ,Adenike Olanrewaju, to death with screw driver after striking her down with wooden object. It was gathered Olanrewaju had misunderstanding with his wife at their home at Bisodun village in Ofada area of Ogun State, which resulted in a fight between the two. But the woman reportedly fell and slipped into coma following her being hit repeatedly with stick. The son, Ayomide Olanrewaju. 15, who witnessed the fight told the Police that his father allegedly used a screw driver to stab the mother on the her while she was in coma. The Police Public Relations Officer for the Ogun state Police Command, Abimbola Oyeyemi, in a statement said Olanrewaju was arrested by a Police team led by DSP Akinfolahan Oluseye following a complaint by the suspect’s son who reported the incident at the Ofada Police Station. Abimbola, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), said the boy reported that his father and mother had misunderstanding which resulted in a fight between them, adding that his father used a big stick to beat the mother to comma, after which he used a screw driver to stab her on the head. He said further that the villagers assisted the Police in apprehending the suspect by holding him down until the Police arrived and took him to Owode-Egba Divisional Police Headquarters. According to the Police spokesman, investigation revealed that the suspect was fond of beating his wife from time to time, and after beaten her to death; he was about to bury the corpse secretly when the deceased children who saw him digging a grave by the side of his house alerted their neighbors, who rushed to the scene and held him down waiting for Police arrival. Her remains have been deposited at the Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital (OOUTH) morgue, Sagamu, for autopsy, while the screw driver and the stick used to kill the woman have also been recovered. The Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson, has directed that the suspect be transferred to the homicide section of the State criminal investigation and intelligence department for further investigation and prosecution. 