By AbdulGafar Alabelewe, Kaduna Immediate past Deputy Vice Chancellor (DVC) Administration, Prof. Kabiru Bala, has emerged the new Vice Chancellor of Ahmadu Bello University, (ABU) Zaria. Bala emerged among 11 candidates selected for considerations out of the 17 candidates that initially applied for the prestigious position. The new Vice-Chancellor is a Professor of Building and Construction Management. Addressing a press conference at the Arewa House Kaduna on Wednesday, the University’s Pro. Chancellor and Chairman of the Governing Council, Mal. Adamu Fika flanked by other members of the Governing Council, disclosed the selection of Professor Bala. According to him, the process of the selection began on the 24th September, 2019 when the Governing Council met and authorised the publication of advertisement in a reputatable national newspapers. He said the advertisement was published on the 3rd October, 2019 and it remained open until 14th November, 2019. “On the 3rd December, 2019, the selection Board met and adopted a guideline to assist in selecting three of the applicants to be considered by the council. On 7th January, 2020, Council met and shortlisted eleven (11) candidates to be considered by the selection board. “The selection Board met for three days and selected three candidates and submitted to Council for considerations to appoint one of them as the new Vice-Chancellor. The Council met earlier this afternoon and choose Professor Kabiru Bala as the new Vice-Chancellor. I now have pleasure to present him and yo present his letter of appointment,” he stated. He however frowned at the allegation of the current Vice Chancellor, Professor Ibrahim Garba that due process was being breached on grounds that names of candidates had not been sent for clearance and guideline adopted by the selection board should have been submitted to the Council for consideration and possible amendment. Bala was born on January 7th, 1964 in Kaduna. His academic pursuits after primary school include Barewa College Zaria, from where he graduated in 1981. He enrolled for Interim Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (IJMB) at the School of Basic Studies ABU, Zaria 1982 and graduated with a Bachelors degree in Building in 1985. The New Vice Chancellor worked briefly at Amana Development Company in Kaduna and on December 10th 1987, he was offered employment as a lecturer or Graduate Assistant at the Ahmadu Bello University Zaria and rose through the ranks to become a Professor of Construction Management on 1st October 2007. After joining the ABU Zaria in 1987, he obtained Masters of Science Building Services in 1990, another Masters in Business Administration in 1998 and Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in Construction Management in 2001; all from Ahmadu Bello University. He was at the Department of Civil Engineering, Surveying and Building, University of Abertay, Dundee Scotland as a Visiting Scholar in 1995. Bala taught and examined several undergraduate and postgraduate courses, and has successfully supervised over 10 doctorates and over 30 Masters Degree students. He has over 80 publications in national and international academic journals