By Adebisi Onanuga  The police have arraigned a housewife, Mrs Esther Ijeoma Amechi who inflicted various degrees of injuries on her house help, Joy Kanu, before an Ogba Magistrate Court, Lagos. Joy Kanu, 43, is a mother of nine, two sets of twins and a triplet. Esther was arraigned over the weekend on a one count charge of assault before Magistrate Mr. O. D. Njoku. The charge, according to Police Prosecutor, Mishozunnu Samuel, stated: “That you, Esther Ijeoma Amechi, on 19/01/2020 at 23, Simach Street, Agric Ojo, Lagos, did unlawfully assaulted one Joy Kanu by using iron rod and wood to beat her and inflicted various degree of injuries on her body with multiple fracture in her two hands and head and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 173, Criminal Law of Lagos 2015”. Esther pleaded not guilty to the charge. Magistrate Njoku granted her bail in the sum of N50,000 and two sureties in the like sum. He said one of the sureties must be a relation of the defendant. Magistrate Njoku also ordered that the sureties must be gainfully employed. “They must have two years tax clearance and must swear to an affidavit of means. “They must also show correct Identity Cards which include LASRAA”, he ordered. Magistrate Njoku thereafter adjourned the case to February 19, 2020 for definite trial. Meanwhile, more fact have emerged in the case of the house help, Joy Kanu. Joy is said to be a little bit mentally unstable. It was gathered that Joy has been living with her madam, Mrs Esther Amechi for about one year and eight months before the incident.  Prior to her coming to Lagos, she was staying with Esther’s mother, in the east. However, there is controversy on whether Esther’s mother in the East is a retired judge or a cleaner in one of the courts. It was gathered that it was Esther’s mother that suggested that Joy comes to Lagos to live with her daughter, in Lagos. Joy was married to one Kanu who is the father of her nine children. It was gathered that her problem started when her husband abandoned her with the nine children for another woman. As a result, her children are scattered among relations here and there. Her madam, knowing that she is mentally challenged, will leave her in her shop, where she sells fairly used kitchen and household items sent to her from her husband who resides abroad. The source said “when customers come into the shop to buy goods, some will give Joy N1,000 note for goods worth like N100 or N200 and ask her to go out of the shop to look for change. “While she is looking for change, the customer seizes the opportunity to steal enough goods and only pays a lesser amount like N100 or N200 to her.
“When her madam returns and requests for the money for items sold, she is not able to give a good account of items sold. The end result is beating with allegations of theft.
“Joy said that last year, her madam broke her left arm with pestle during one of such altercations and sometime in November, she broke her right hand when beaten with a 2 by 2 plank and still forces her to do dishes and other house chores with the said hands while she writhes with pains”. Esther, it was gathered, sometimes, would not give her food as a form of punishment. Whenever she is hungry, Joy would beg people for money to buy bread”, the source said.