The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has commended the Supreme Court for upholding the elections of Governors Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto state, Bala Mohammed of Bauchi, Samuel Ortom of Benue and Ahmed Fintiri of Adamawa State. The party maintained that its governors won the elections in their respective states and any disposition to the contrary would have further diminished the hard earned image of the highest court of the land as Nigerians know that the PDP won in those states. In a statement on Tuesday by the spokesman for the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, the party insisted that the judgment on the four states would not in any way sway it to abandon or even diminish the nationwide agitation for a judicial review and reversal of the “miscarriage of justice” by the Court in its January 14, 2020 judgment on Imo state governorship election. It noted that by upholding the Sokoto, Bauchi, Benue and Adamawa elections, the apex court has shown that it can still be trusted to assert its independence and can further redeem its image by immediately reversing its “defective and widely condemned” judgment on Imo state. The party pointed out that Nigerians would still be agitated and the image, as well as public confidence on the Supreme Court, will still not be fully redeemed until the court summons the expected courage to review and reverse itself on the Imo judgment, in line with the consensus already expressed by citizens across board. The statement said: “This is because the miscarriage of justice in the Imo judgment is glaring, given the established fact that the Supreme Court conjured strange figures as votes and donated same to the APC and its candidate, Senator Hope Uzodimma, and used the unfounded figure as basis to declare a party that came fourth as winner of the election. “What is most embarrassing is that in allocating the conjured figures to the APC, the Supreme Court became caught in a web, as total number of votes suddenly jumped to 950,952, over and above INEC’s 823, 743 official number of accredited voters for the election. “The PDP insists that only a judicial review will guarantee justice in this matter as the PDP, the people of Imo state and Nigerians at large are not ready to allow the Supreme Court to impose a governor other than the person elected by the people at the poll. “In congratulating Governors Tambuwal, Ortom, Fintiri and Bala Mohammed, the party urged them to continue in the path of good governance for which they were elected, in line with the manifesto and vision of the PDP”. The party also called on all its elected and appointed officials as well as members, teeming supporters and Nigerians across board to continue the demand for a judicial review on Imo, adding that the PDP will continue to toe that path until justice is seen to have been done.