 Former Nigerian international Edema Fuludu might be  considering legal option to keep his mandate as the duly elected  chairman of Delta State Football  Association after the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF)  on Wednesday  named  a four-man  Normalization Committee  to run the affairs of football in the state. Fuludu was duly elected as Delta FA Chairman on July 13, 2019 with former African Footballer of the Year, Victor Ikpeba, elected as Vice Chairman. But a top echelon of NFF is fingered in the latest fiasco with covert mission to install the current Chairman of Delta State Sports Commission, Tony Okowa, as the FA chairman. In a letter dated January 15th and signed by Onoja Joshua on behalf of the NFF General Secretary, Henry Nkeki was named as the chairman of the Normalization Committee. Other member of the committee includes Emman Nuhu, Michael Amami while Azuka Ogosi, the incumbent secretary of Delta FA will serve as secretary. According to its mandate, the so-called Normalization Committee is expected to oversee the affairs of the Delta FA within a period of three months and would expectedly conduct fresh election. Football stakeholders on many social media  have expressed shock  and disbelief  over the latest impunity  by the NFF  but  Fuludu  along with other duly  elected members at the July 13 elections  have vowed to do anything within the ambit  of the law  to preserve their mandate. “The Normalization Committee is just a smokescreen by the power that be at the NFF and we know we are up against a formidable force  who just want to assert his influence in the affairs of Delta FA but we are not going to relent in our resolve to ensure  that they won’t have their way,”  a reliable source close to the former Nigeria  international told NationSport. “We know where this problem came from but we already conferring with our legal team because this issue is even beyond football, it is also about our fundamental human rights because an election was duly conducted. “ But why has it taken the NFF almost six months  to take this unpopular route by enforcing  a normalization committee when there was no dispute in the conduct of the election,” he added.