Why has Agba Jalingo, a journalist and publisher of Crossriverwatch, been in detention since last August? More than four months after he was arrested, he remains caged at a correctional centre in Calabar, Cross River State. According to the Secretary, Association of Cross River Online Journalists, Jeremiah Archibong, “Agba Jalingo’s sin was his story that asked the state government to explain how N500m that was purportedly allocated to the Cross River State Microfinance Bank was disbursed.” Archibong’s account of how Jalingo was arrested, and the sequence of events that followed his arrest, discredits the Governor Ben Ayade administration:  “I feel sad because it is disheartening to know that a case like this can go on and on without any headway. How can a government deny knowledge of this when on August 16, 2019, he received a letter from the Police in the state inviting him for an explanation on August 19. He was in Lagos engaged in other things but explained to them that the August 19 date was not feasible. “However, there was an agreement reached, but before the agreed date, he was arrested on August 22. The manner he was arrested was worrisome because the police team they sent from Cross River to Lagos to arrest him (Jalingo) alleged that he was being arrested as a kidnap suspect. They told him in the presence of his wife that he was a kidnapper who was wanted in Calabar. “They took him from Lagos to Calabar by road with handcuffs on his hands and chains on his legs. On August 28, the state microfinance bank filed a charge against him (Jalingo) in a Cross River State High Court. It clearly showed that the state government had a hand in his arrest and detention. The state government has consistently denied knowledge of his arrest and detention, claiming that it was the Federal Government that arrested him… “The judge handling the matter denied him bail. The Senior Advocate of Nigeria who was handling the case begged the judge to release Jalingo to him; the judge also turned the request down… Suddenly he is being charged with terrorism and an attempt to topple the state government.” If this account is true, then the Ayade administration has a lot of explaining to do. It is noteworthy that the Ayade administration made an effort to shed light on Jalingo’s detention through a response to a critical article. However, the attempted clarification by Chidi Onyemaizu, Senior Special Assistant on Print Media to Governor Ayade, wasn’t clarifying. According to Onyemaizu, Jalingo’s “charge sheet…clearly exculpates Governor Ayade of complicity in his (Agba Jalingo) treason case….This is because the matter in court does not have the imprimatur of the governor but that of the federal government.” Onyemaizu stated: “No less a person than Barrister Inibehe Effiong, the National Legal Adviser of Agba Jalingo’s party, the AAC, has reiterated this clearly and poignantly.” He quoted Effiong: “First, the charges against Jalingo (treason, terrorism) are essentially federal offences (based on an Act of the National Assembly). “He was not charged under the Criminal Code Law of Cross River State but under the Criminal Code Act Cap. C38 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004 and under the Terrorism (Prevention Amendment) Act 2013. “Second, he is being tried in the Federal High Court, not Cross River State High Court. “Third, the charge was filed in the name of the Federal Republic of Nigeria; not in the name of the Cross River State of Nigeria. “No State in Nigeria can institute a criminal charge against any person in the name of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “Fourth, the Attorney General of Cross River State cannot enter a nolle prosequi (cannot discontinue the case). Only the Attorney General of the Federation can do so.” It is unclear why Jalingo is charged with treason and terrorism.  The Federal Government needs to clarify the situation. The Ayade administration needs to clarify its role in the arrest of Jalingo, considering Archibong’s detailed account of how the arrest was carried out and the alleged involvement of the Cross River State Police Command. In Akwa Ibom State, which was created from the old Cross River State, 21-year-old Michael Itok was granted bail by Akwa Ibom High Court 4 last December, after spending more than 60 days in detention. His lawyer, Imo Akpan, said: “There is just one charge against him, which is based on internal security and enforcement of the law of Akwa Ibom State. He was charged under Section 6 with activities that constitute a nuisance because of some Facebook posts, which the governor considers as a nuisance. In that case, Governor Udom Emmanuel is the complainant in respect of the charge.” Itok, the marketing officer of Prudential Micro Finance Bank, was arrested and detained by the Department of State Services (DSS) on October 8 till November 26 last year when he was arraigned before Magistrate Grade II under the Akwa Ibom Internal Security and Enforcement Law. He was in prison custody before he was granted bail. It is curious that the state government, represented by the Attorney General, Uwemedimo Nwoko, opposed Itok’s bail application on the grounds that he “may jump bail” since there was a pending charge against him at the magistrates’ court. According to Itok’s lawyer, “He was arraigned on November 26 at a Magistrates’ Court in Fulga, Uyo…You can’t keep somebody away for almost 48 days and then, all of a sudden, you take him to a court that lacks jurisdiction, knowing that the judge or magistrate will say, ‘I don’t have the jurisdiction, go and wait in custody, pending the advice of the Director of Public Prosecution in the Ministry of Justice.’ Why did the Akwa Ibom State government engage in such rigmarole? What were the Facebook posts for which Itok was arrested and detained all about? “Some of the allegations against the governor are quite unprintable.  Michael Itok claimed that he was not the author of those posts, but he only shared them,” his lawyer said. The appropriate court should be allowed to perform its role. Governor Ayade and Governor Emmanuel need to convincingly show that these cases, which suggest their abuse of power, are not what they seem.