Tension swept across the world on Friday after the United States killed Iran’s highest ranking general, Qassem Soleimani, in Baghdad, Iraq. US drone missiles obliterated vehicles carrying Soleimani and his entourage of Iraqi Shiite militiamen. Killed with him were two Iranian Revolutionary Guard generals, deputy commander of Iran-backed militias in Iraq Abu Mahdi al-Muhandis, who helped besiege the US embassy Tuesday, a colonel and five others. Iran branded the action of the US an act of “international terrorism” while the country’s supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei vowed ‘harsh revenge’. The ”Jihad of Resistance will continue with more motivation,” he said. President Hassan Rouhani of Iran said that Soleimani would be avenged by Teheran and the “free nations of the region”. Moscow warned that Soleimani’s death would escalate  tensions across the Middle East, while China urged restraint from all sides, especially the United States. India also appealed for restraint. Britain, France and Germany called for  “stability” and “calm” in the region, but did not vilify the assassination. The Pentagon claimed that the strike was to save American lives and check future attacks. Soleimani’s plane had landed at the Baghdad International Airport at about  12.30am local time and was received on the tarmac by al-Muhandis, deputy commander of the pro-Iran Popular Mobilization Forces (PMF)  in Iraq. Muhandis pulled up to the aircraft steps in two cars before Soleimani and Mohammed Ridha Jabri, public relations chief for the PMF who had been travelling with him, got inside and were driven away. Soon afterwards , as the convoy headed for an access road leading out of the airport, an MQ-9 Reaper drone fired  four missiles at the cars. Within seconds, the vehicles were reduced to smoldering wrecks – killing all the occupants. Two PMF officials said Soleimani’s body was torn to pieces in the attack. A senior politician said Soleimani’s body was identified by the ring he wore. Thousands of mourners flooded the streets of Soleimani’s hometown in Kerman, while tens of thousands poured onto the streets of Tehran, chanting “Death to America” and torching the Stars and Stripes. US: ‘Why we struck’ The U.S. said its action was defensive and asked all its citizens in Iraq to leave immediately. “At the direction of the President, the U.S. military has taken decisive defensive action to protect U.S. personnel abroad by killing Qassem Soleimani,” the Pentagon said in a statement It accused  Soleimani of  “actively developing plans to attack American diplomats and service members in Iraq and throughout the region.” It added: ”General Soleimani also approved the attacks on the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad that took place this week.” The U.S. also held Soleimani and his Quds Force responsible for the deaths of hundreds of American and coalition service members. It also said he “orchestrated” a rocket attack on December 27 which killed an American. President Donald Trump, in a series of tweets after the airstrike, said: “General Qassem Soleimani has killed or badly wounded thousands of Americans over an extended period of time and was plotting to kill many more, but got caught! He was directly and indirectly responsible for the death of millions of people, including the recent large number of protesters killed in Iran itself. While Iran will never be able to properly admit it, Soleimani was both hated and feared within the country. They are not nearly as saddened as the leaders will let the outside world believe. He should have been taken out many years ago. There were  mixed reactions in the US itself to the attack with Republican senators such as Marco Rubio and Lindsey Graham, commending it while influential Democrats such as Joe Biden and Nancy Pelosi, condemning it as not well thought out and putting U.S. interests in the Middle East at risk. After the attack, Israel, a major U.S. ally, said it was increasing its defences in its borders with Lebanon and Syria. China, Russia urge restraint China and Russia warned both sides to cease an escalation of the crisis in the Middle East. The Chinese Foreign Secretary said: “China has always opposed the use of force in international relations. “We urge the relevant sides, especially the United States, to remain calm and exercise restraint to avoid further escalating tensions.” Russia’s Foreign Ministry said: “The killing of Soleimani was an adventurist step that will increase tensions throughout the region”. “Soleimani served the cause of protecting Iran’s national interests with devotion. We express our sincere condolences to the Iranian people.” Russia and Iran are key allies in the Middle East, with the militaries of both countries backing President Bashar al-Assad’s regime in Syria. India said that the heightened tension had “alarmed the world.” The Foreign Ministry said: “We have noted that a senior Iranian leader has been killed by the U.S. “The increase in tension has alarmed the world. Peace, stability and security in the region are of utmost importance to India. It is vital that the situation does not escalate further. “India has consistently advocated restraint and continues to do so.” Iraq’s caretaker Prime Minister, Adel Abdel Mahdi, said the strike which also killed an Iraqi commander, was an “aggression” that would “spark a devastating war”. “The assassination of an Iraqi military commander in an official post is an aggression against the country of Iraq, its state, its government and its people,” he said in a statement. Abdel Mahdi said the strike was a “flagrant violation of the conditions authorising the presence of US troops” on Iraqi soil. Similarly, the Syrian government accused Washington of trying to fuel conflict in the Middle East. Oil price surges after US airstrike The prices of oil and gold spiked and stocks sold off yesterday after news of the US airstrike hit the airwaves. Oil prices spiked in response to the news, as traders weighed the possibility of disruption to supply from the region. Crude (CL=Z) was up 4.5% to $63.99 per barrel and Brent (BZ=F) was up 4.5% to $69.29 per barrel. Iran sits on the Strait of Hormuz, a crucial water pathway in the global oil trade. Capital Economics said that Brent oil could climb as high as $150 per barrel, if Iran tried to blockade the passage. Gold also jumped. The “safe haven” asset rose 1.4% to $1,550.70 per ounce, the highest price since September.