Our Reporter  Yet to be screened Nollywood romantic comedy, ‘Dear Affy’ has been scheduled for screening at the Nollywood Travel Film Festival Glasgow in the United Kingdom. The screening of the movie will hold at Pollokshaw Burgh hall 2025, Pollokshaws road G43 INE Glasgow, United Kingdom on Sunday, February 23. The film festival will feature panel discussions, workshops, tours, screenings and others as parts of its official activities. The movie features Teni Entertainer, Timini Egbuson, Toyin Abraham, Jide Kosoko, Chinedu Ikedieze, MC Lively, Kolawole Ajeyemi, Uzor Arukwe, Bimbo Akintola, Odunlade Adekola, Seilat Adebowale, Faithia Williams, Kehinde Bankole, Chiwetalu Agu, Williams Uchemba, Enyinna Nwigwe, Bimbo Ademoye, Uzee Usman, Hafiz Oyetoro, Ali Nuhu, Anto Lecky, Sir Dee, Bianca Ugo and other superstars. ‘Dear Affy’ is a romantic comedy with an excellent plot. It succinctly tells the story of a beautiful damsel who is passionate about her career, she is set to get married to the man of her dreams before life suddenly happens and scuttles her well laid out plan. She is faced with the proverbial choice between the devil and the red-blue sea. She must fight all forces that want to deny her of the life she desires so much. The movie will be premiered to an exclusive audience on February 7, 2020, at the Podium before its nationwide release date in all cinemas on Valentine’s Day, February 14, 2020.  “This is good news and a booster on all our efforts,” said the movie director and executive producer, Samuel Olatunji (Bigsam). “Seeing the movie, we are aware that we have made magic but getting this love from different borders is proof that our effort was worth it. I am grateful to the organizers of Glasgow Nollywood Film Festival for choosing our film, Dear Affy. Many great people whom I cannot begin to mention worked on this project and without their effort, sacrifice and geniuses, we would not have been able to make this magic everyone wants to have a piece of. We cannot wait to make history with the movie at the festival.” Nollywood travel film festival also known as NTFF which is the largest travel festival in Nigeria, will showcase the filmmakers in partnership with Africa In-Motion Film Festival. However, ‘DEAR AFFY’ will be spotlighted in the course of the event which will host different filmmakers from around the world. The Last edition showcased female filmmakers, Tope Oshin and Blessing Egbe who led the focus on how strong female voices contribute to the growth and development of the movie industry. The Glasgow edition would feature conversations around women in film, culture exchange and the expansion of the Nigerian film industry.