Niger Delta activist and son of former Finance Minister, Mr. Emmanuel Okotie-Eboh, has reminded Niger Delta leaders that the much touted oil wealth of the region is exhaustible, and urged that all efforts must be made to ensure the success of the Niger Delta Development Commission under the guardian of Senator Godswill Akpabio, Minister of Niger Delta affairs. Okotie-Eboh, a TV producer who spoke in an exclusive interview with The Nation, said the present NDDC, under an interim management committee presents “one of the best opportunities to develop our region.” The scion of First Republic Finance Minister, Chief Festus Okotie-Eboh, remarked lamented that since its inception NDDC’s impact has not been felt through meaningful projects that have been completed across the region. “This oil will dry up someday and we will start biting our fingers saying ‘I wish I knew’. We all heard the American president, Donald Trump, telling the leaders of the Middle East that America does not need their oil any more, which in other words mean that they can go to hell with their drums of oil. This is instructive and a lesson for us in the Niger Delta and Nigerian as a nation that the glory days of crude oil is behind us. We cannot continue to rely on it as our main stay. It is the time to develop our region and make hay of what is left of the sunshine” He challenged the Federal Government and President Muhammadu Buhari to ensure that the Niger gets whatever meaningful development can be achieved in the twilight of the crude oil boom by ensure that the NDDC is adequately funded and responsive and responsible leadership put in place to midwife a new day for the region. On how to achieve this, Okotie-Eboh said the commission is already on course through President Buhari’s decision to place the NDDC under the Niger Delta Ministry, and for ordering forensic audit of commission’s contracts since its inception in 2009. “This is very beautiful move by Mr. President, and the man on the driving seat in person of Senator Godswill Akpabio is someone with a pedigree and track record of development as governor of Akwa Ibom, where his marks are still visible till this day. He is a very good choice for the job and members of IMC are also good hands for job.” He reminded the interim committee that it was important for all abandoned and ongoing jobs to be completed. He said the board should focus on those projects and follow through to ensure that the practices of the past when projects are completed on paper while nothing is on group do not bedevil the commission. Before payment are made for completed job, he said, community heads or the traditional rulers of benefiting communities should be carried along to vouch for the veracities of completion claims and qualities of the jobs done. The Warri Consultative Forum leader said his people are yearning for a development revolution in region, and called on leaders to impress on the President, whom he described as “very interested in the development of the region”  to take off all  the stumbling blocks hindering the funding of the  Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs and NDDC. Although he said the ongoing the forensic audit was a necessary step towards accountability and success of the NDDC, Okotie-Eboh remarked that it can be done without halting the wheel of development. “They can be going hand-in-hand, and this will enable the president to complete the good job he wants to do in Niger delta and imprint his name in gold. There is no doubt about his determination, because he has taken the right step with all he has done past few months.” Speaking on the constitution of the NDDC board and the hoopla it has generated, he said the president should allow equity and fair play in line with the act establishing the commission to play in the new board appointment. He said the highest oil producing areas in the producing state should be allowed to produce the MD and chairman, stressing that they states get their status as oil producing because of those areas. Speaking further, he opined that technocrats and people with proven track records should be considered in appointing in next board, stressing that Mr. President must look beyond politicians. He said the search should include technocrats such as Bismarck Rewane, Prof. Itse Sagay and others who can do better for the region. Okotie-Eboh also spoke on the regional security outfit, Amotekun, which was recently established by the governors of the Southwest. He said The governors are thinking ahead with measure and said urged the South-south to rise up to the needs of their people, In the South-south, our leaders are still thinking on how to kill our own region with underdevelopment; this is a challenge and we must wake up and work for the support, unity, security and development if the Niger Delta.