Agency Reporter The Kaduna State Deputy Governor, Dr Hadiza Balarabe, has called on those engaged in the sale of inflammable goods to move to areas that have been designated by government for such business. The deputy governor made the call when she visited victims of Saturday’s gas explosion receiving treatment at Sabo, Barau Dikko and St Gerald hospitals in Kaduna. Balarabe also paid condolence visit to the family of Prof. Simon Mallam, who died in the incident. Mallam was the Chairman of Nigeria Atomic Energy Commission and was among the six people who died in the gas explosion. Four others sustained major injuries.  Balarabe urged residents to notify the government of any gas outlet in their area, so that actions can be taken quickly. She said it was illegal to locate businesses of imflammables in populated areas.  “This unfortunate incident is an eye opener for people to know the fact that selling flammable materials within a place where we have congregation of people is actually not the best.” She called on the people to always abide by government policies put in place for their safety. “This is one thing we are really going to enforce to ensure that people do the right thing while also taking responsibility for their actions,” she said. “It is a sad weekend for this to happen early in the New Year. “It is a sad and unfortunate and this is bringing to the fore the need for us as a people to come together to expose people that come to our area and site these kind of shops that are not supposed to be situated there. “It is sad and unfortunate that we don’t take safety into consideration. “Most of the time, it takes pains for us to realise that some of the things we do are really not supposed to be done that way, I think this is one of such unfortunate situations.” Balarabe prayed for peace to those who died and fortitude for their families to bear the loss. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that the deputy governor was was accompanied by Samuel Aruwan, Commissioner, Internal Security and Home Affairs, Maimuna Abubakar, Executive Secretary State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) and officers of the Nigerian Police, Federal and State Fire Services.