Supporters of Governors Abdullahi Ganduje(Kano), Aminu Tambuwal (Sokoto) and Bala  Mohammed (Bauchi) yesterday mounted intense prayers and fasting ahead of today’s ruling on the appeals challenging their victories by the Supreme Court. Loyalists of one the appellants  Abba Kabiru Yusuf of the Peoples Democratic Party in Kano State were also seeking Allah’s  favour through fasting and prayers. Some  anxious Tambuwal supporters at Fakkon Idi, Massalaci Na Uku and Fakkon Idi praying grounds were in prayer session yesterday. It was learnt that prayers were undertaken by Peoples Democratic Part(PDP) faithful in parts of the  local government areas  across the state. Those of the All Progressives Congress were also seen  observing their prayer sessions at the Masallaci Na Uku Juma’at Mosque along Salame Area opposite the NNPC  mega filing station in Sokoto. Tambuwal of the PDP is being challenged by   Ahmed Aliyu   of the opposition All Progressives Congress(APC). The organisers of the prayer sessions for Tambuwal’s victory Mallam Isah  Unnu,  said it was purely a voluntary effort  to support  the governor. “You can see the crowd comprising men, women and children who are residents and supporters of the governor  from within the metropolis that decided to come out to observe the prayer session. Although, there was calm in the state all through yesterday, a resident who spoke with our correspondent, said he would not allow his children attend school today. “I just came  back from the church without any hitch. But I will not send my kids to school tomorrow (today) for fear of the unknown,” he said. Sokoto Police spokesman Muhammad Abubakar said there was no reduction in the number of officers and men deployed as earlier announced. He said, “The 1,000 deployed officers and men are in place across the state with a sizeable of them within the metropolis. “We decided to focus on the Sokoto metropolis and its environs, as well as on some strategic locations within.” According to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) some politicians in Bauchi  State resorted to spending their nights in the mosques . A prominent politician in Bauchi, who confirmed this development   on condition of anonymity, said because of the dicey situation at hand, he and others were not willing to take chances. He said: “Some of us resolved to leave the comfort of our bedrooms and turn to God for salvation. “We stay overnight in the mosque praying because, as Muslims, we know that All Mighty He often grants requests pleaded for during late night. “In the past one week, supporters and members of PDP and APC in the state had been voicing their optimism of emerging victorious. The level of anxiety, as well as optimism by both sides are reflected on daily basis in political programmes aired by radio stations across the state. Alhaji Uba Nana, Chairman of the APC in the state, told NAN that his party embarked on a  prayer session ahead of the verdict. Nana, who reserved all comments till after the judgment, said the party was hoping for a successful outcome at the apex court. He said: “We are reserving our comments until after the verdict on Monday; we have nothing much to say but I can tell you that we are very prayerful now. “We are in prayers and hoping for a successful outcome at the Supreme Court on Monday.” Alhaji Yayanuwa Zainabari, publicity secretary of the  PDP in the state, also said  that his party had absolute trust in the Supreme Court and believed that justice would not only be done, but would be seen to have been done. He said:“As it is now, the judiciary is the only hope of upholding the mandate given to Governor   Mohammad by the people of Bauchi State. “We have trust that the court would do justice in delivering its judgment; we have no fear at all and just as we won the election without rigging, by God’s grace, we will have course to celebrate.” Governor Mohammed had once told newsmen shortly after his victory at the Appeal Court in Jos, that he could not sleep a day to the Jos verdict. Police Spokesman Kamal Abubakar assured that the police had taken adequate measures to ensure   there was no break-down of law and order after the verdict. He said security men in all strategic locations within the state had been placed on the alert, adding that the command had also invited stakeholders of both parties for a dialogue. He said that members of the two parties had been barred from any form of celebration after the judgment to prevent breakdown of law and order. In Kano, the prayer and fasting sessions were organised by the Kwankwasiyya group of the PDP   to make the Supreme Court be in favour of Yusuf. Our correspondent who visited the state Government House reported that it was calm and empty as Ganduje and many of his aides had already moved to Abuja where the judgment would be delivered. There was also no conspicous security presence within the  Kano metropolis But a top security source , said: “We are aware of the Supreme Court judgment coming up on Monday(today),but l want to tell you that for now,we have not received any report capable of putting the state on red alert. “l can also assure you that security agencies are ready for any eventuality. However,for now there is no cause for alarm. The Commissioner of information, Mohammad Garba, insisted that victory was sure for Ganduje, going by the judgments of the Kano Governorship  Tribunal and the Appeal Court in Kaduna, which he described as fair and clear. “There is no cause for alarm.  We are confident that the Supreme Court will validate the judgments of the Kano State Governorship Electoral Tribunal and the Appeal court.” 