 A human resource outsourcing and consulting firm, Whyte Cleon Limited, is to  launch a  special entrepreneurial development training scheme for its ex-employees. The company’s  Managing Director/CEO, Mrs. Nireti Adebayo, stated this at a  briefing to mark the company’s 10th Anniversary scheduled for the first quarter of the year. Mrs Adebayo stated that over time, we have delivered unrivalled quality service to our clients and provided practical solutions to our clients assisting them in strategy formulation and execution, talent acquisition, organisational performance and human capital investment. She said: “The entrepreneurial development training is a platform through which we aim to give back to society by equipping our former colleagues with a new mind-set that will enable them become more productive, flourish, and ultimately become solutions provider and employers of labour thereby helping to lift others out of poverty”. This initiative which is the first of its kind by any organisation in the outsourcing space, attests to the status of Whyte Cleon Limited as Nigeria’s fastest-growing, “future forward”human resources solutions provider. The company is known for setting standards and breaking new grounds in the industry, being the first outsourcing company in its sector to be awarded the ISO 9001:2015 certificate for its quality management system. The company’s General Manager, Mr. Yakubu Wuyep, noted that “beneficiaries of this programme, will be our ex-colleagues’’. The entrepreneurial development classes, which are free to the staff, will be organised to teach the basics of starting a business, growing and sustaining it, towards financial freedom, self-sustenance and, ultimately, becoming employers. This is also in addition to setting up a Business Network for them”. Wuyep said: “This is an integral part of Whyte Cleon’s reputed policy on CSR and tradition of promoting workplace engagement, which dovetails into great experiential service for our clients.’’ “Our ex-colleagues are encouraged to remain members of the Cleon Cooperative Society and continue to take advantage of our savings and investment platform as well as the many asset acquisition and loan products of the cooperative, which are at interest rates of five  per cent”. With the vision “to be the preferred human resources solutions provider”, Whyte Cleon has grown from a humble beginning of a single client in the financial services sector to a client base of over 30 companies in different sectors of the economy with staff strength of over 6,000 in all states of the federation. Whyte Cleon aims to be a global company and currently has presence in  Nigeria, Ghana and Kenya.