Worried by the persistent traffic gridlock around the popular Wuse market, authorities of the Federal Capital Territory are taking steps to address the menace. GBENGA OMOKHUNU reports.  Nigerians, especially Abuja residents, have been lamenting the persistent gridlock outside the main entrance of the popular Wuse market. The nightmare has been causing series of traffic havoc without any solution in sight. Owned and managed by the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA), Wuse market is inarguably the major and most popular market in Abuja. Located in the ever busy Zone 5 area in the Wuse district, the market offers everything for the general public. Findings revealed that the market was once a secondary school, before it was converted into a market. Commercial activities are always in top gear both inside and outside the market during the day. Access to the market is always difficult because most commercial vehicles always park close to the entrance, waiting to convey passengers to their various destinations. A civil servant and resident of Abuja, Mr. John Omotayo, who spoke to our correspondent, lamented that the gridlock is getting out of hand, adding that most times, he prefers following alternative routes to get to his destination. Omotayo said: “I hope government will take a drastic step to find a lasting solution to the serious traffic problems here. It is embarrassing that even when you are not going into the market, you get trapped and end up spending almost one hour just to pass by. “The unfortunate thing is that I live very close to the market and it is so painful that I have to always pass a longer route to get to my destination. This has been on for years without solution. I will be happy if the Minister of the FCT, Malam Musa Bello will put an end to this menace. “You can imagine what will happen if there does an emergency fire incident while people are waiting in their vehicles for hours want to either go into the market or go through to other routes. While we do not pray for any disaster, an urgent solution is needed.” A commercial bus driver, Musa Ibrahim, urged government and major stakeholders to take the issue of Wuse market seriously to avert crisis. He said to achieve a free flow of traffic in and around the market, government must step on toes. Findings also revealed that one of the factors causing the gridlock is a situation where many people park their vehicles in the market car park, only to come back hours after to move their vehicles without doing any shopping in the market. This has been depriving genuine shoppers at the market parking space for their vehicles, thus compounding the traffic situation in the process.  Government’s intervention These complaints may have prompted the Ministerial Task Team on free flow of traffic to have given the Abuja Market Management Limited (AMML) a directive to immediately address the traffic situation in and around the market. The marching order was contained in a letter dated December 10, 2019 and addressed to the Managing Director, Abubakar Faruk. The letter, which was signed by the Task Team chairman,  Ikharo Attah, stated among others that, “We have noted with dismay the continuous traffic gridlock aroung the wuse market as vehicles enter the market.” Attah added that: “Having studied the situation at the market for over two months, we have come to a conclusion that the problem lies within the market itself. A situation where vehicles are pouring into the market in geometric proportions and exiting in arithmetic proportions, shows that something is significantly not adding up. Every market or shopping centre where vehicular movement does not show a balance in entry and exit always experience chaotic traffic gridlock in roads around them.”  The traffic task team chairman pointed out that, ” the FCT administration, having addressed the traffic problems at Nyanya, Dutse Alhaji, and  Kubwa Expressway, would not ignore the disturbing traffic problem around the market, which is located in the heart of the city.” Attah told the Market managers to immediately take urgent and bold steps to address the problem, which has made it difficult to traverse roads around the vicinity. He added that the Minister has shown total commitment to addressing the problem. He warned that if the traffic problem is not immediately addressed by the market managers, drastic steps would be taken to restore sanity in and around the market. The market authorities however said they had applied various manual traffic management approaches in the past, in collaboration with some relevant agencies. Regrettably, the measures taken did not address the problem. The managers said the next move was to introduce technology with automated access and tolling process. According to them the process has already reached 70 percent completion and that the automated tolling system would be rolled out in a matter of weeks. Faruk said when the process takes off, it would be programmed in such a way that people who park cars in the market for the whole day would be discouraged from doing so.” An official letter to that effect reads: “that to us, is the most sustainable strategy that can guarantee free flow of traffic in and out of the market since parking space as a fixed factor, cannot be increased endlessly to match increasing demand. “The option is to optimize the use of the available space by freeing them of pressure created by long- hour parking; and we can guarantee that this solution will deliver a win-win arrangement for everyone.” In the meantime, AMML said that it is deploying more car park managers as well as other traffic management tools with the hope of ameliorating the sufferings of shoppers in the market. His words: “We will start the tolling system by first week of February. We have started sensitization on the development. We are on it and we have deployed more personnel and we have a lot of traffic management tools. “You know with any policy, it is when you start implementing that people will start appreciating it. But for now we are on the same page and it is a win-win situation. The less the traffic, the more the people that will come to shop in the market. “We do not have security issues in the market because it is very secured. We have a private security company that has been on ground and recently, we have solar lights installed in all the nook and crannies of the market. We have a police outpost in the market with full compliments and the Department of State Security (DSS) and other security operatives oversight the market regularly. There are also CCTV units all around the market”. 