By Hamzat Ibrahim Abaga  According to Oxford Learners Dictionary, Cholera is a disease contracted from infected water that causes severe diarrhea and vomiting, and death. Cholera, sometimes called Asiatic cholera or epidemic cholera, is a disease with roots in antiquity that remains a global threat. Many parts of the world have been hit by major epidemics over the cause of human history. Cholera is an acute intestinal infection caused by the bacterium Vibrio cholerae. It can cause very rapid dehydration of the body, which can be fatal. Cholera is transmitted by contaminated food and water. It is endemic, that is, present in countries where there is inadequate access to clean water. In Nigeria, cholera is an endemic and seasonal disease, occurring yearly mostly during the rainy season and more often in areas with poor sanitation. The first series of cholera outbreaks were reported between 1970 to 1990. Major epidemics also occurred in 1992, 1995-1996, and 1997. The Federal Ministry of Health (FMH) reported over 37,000 cases and 1,434 deaths between January and October 2010, while a total of 22,797 cases of cholera with 728 deaths and a fatality rate of 3. 2 per cent were recorded in 2011. The Federal Ministry of Health reported that 37,289 cases and 1, 434 death were recorded between January and October 2010, while a total of 22, 797 cases of cholera with 728 deaths and case-fatality rate of 3. 2 per cent were recorded in 2011. Outbreaks were also recorded in 2018 with the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) reporting 42, 466 suspected cases, including  830 deaths with a case fatality rate of 1. 95 per cent from 20 of the 36 states from the beginning of 2018 to October of same year. Most of the Northern states rely on-hand dug wells and contaminated ponds as a source of drinking water. Usually, the source of the contamination is other cholera patients when their untreated diarrhoea discharge is allowed to get into water supplies.  The 2010 outbreak of cholera and gastroenteritis and the attendant deaths in some regions in Nigeria brought to the forefront the vulnerability of poor communities and most, especially children to the infection. The outbreak was attributed to rain which washed sewage into open wells and ponds, where people obtain water for drinking and household needs. The regions ravaged by the scourge include Jigawa, Bauchi, Gombe, Yobe, Borno, Adamawa, Taraba, Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Cross River, Kaduna, Osun and Rivers. This depicts major outbreak locations. Even though the epidemic was recorded in these areas, epidemiological evidence indicated that the entire country was at risk, with the postulation that the outbreak was due to hyper-virulent strains of the organism. The long-term solution for cholera control lies in economic development and universal access to safe drinking water and adequate sanitation. Actions targeting environmental conditions include the implementation of adapted long-term sustainable WASH solutions to ensure use of safe water, basic sanitation and good hygiene practices in cholera hot spots. In addition to cholera, such interventions prevent a wide range of other water-borne illnesses, as well as contributing to achieving goals related to poverty, malnutrition, and education. The WASH solutions for cholera are aligned with those of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGS). Cholera is caused by the bacterium Vibrio cholerae. People become infect after eating food or drinking water that has been contaminated by the faeces of infected persons. Raw or under cooked seafood may be a source of infection in areas where cholera is prevalent and sanitation are poor. Vegetables and fruit that have been washed with water contaminated by sewage may also transmit the infection if V cholerae is present. 