 As part of activities to celebrate its 10th year anniversary, the GDM Group, a marketing and innovation company, has changed its business focus, logo and given back to the society by donating 21 white boards to Gbagada Comprehensive Junior High School in Lagos . It also painted the school hall. The company, which used to be an experiential, event and below the line agency, is now focused on marketing and innovation. The founder, Mr. Victor Gbenga Afolabi, said: “We are changing the very core of who we are as an organisation. We started as an experiential, event, below the line agency and we began to innovate. In 2015 we became a marketing, operations and innovations company and in 2020 as we looked around the world, discovered that things are getting more dynamic. “We decided that innovation became a critical part of marketing where people wanted to be sure of the impact of marketing in what they were doing. They wanted to be sure of the impact of marketing, they wanted to be sure of the result the marketing efforts were bringing and made the decision.” Asked how his company survived the 10 years, he said marketing is a tough environment that requires one to be very creative, dynamic and do a lot of things around insight and consumer understanding. “So it takes a lot of hard-work. That’s why a lot of people move away from marketing.” He said their clients should expect a lot of change from them such that they could partner their brand and help them drive their innovations. Asked why they focus their CSR on education, he said they think education is critical. “And the industry that we play is about creativity, imagination, solving problems, adding value and decision making. So it is always a product of the mind because the product we sell is a product of the minds and imagination, investing and partnering education will help us fill our talent pipeline.” The Executive Assistant to Lagos State governor, Segun Fafore, said the government cannot do it alone, adding: “This is why they need the support of companies.” He thanked GDM Group for the donations. Fafore said technology driven education was the current trend in education globally, adding that any form of education not compliant or not on that platform was not adequate and would not put the students in any competitive position in future. He said: “It is on that note that Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has introduced Eko EXCEL – Excellence in Child Education and Learning- where pupils and students will get the best of education coding. “I am envious of the students. This is the best time to acquire education because everybody is investing in education and are aware of the importance of education. The students will be greater humans than our generation. When they say Africa is ready for the world, they are talking about them because they are better equipped, better taught and given better attention that will take them to greatness.”