Following the emergence of Aminu Achida as the Speaker of Sokoto State House of Assembly, instead of Garba Sidi, who was the party’s choice for the position, the All Progressives Congress (APC) had been thrown into turmoil. Achida was accused of alleged betrayal and double standards against the party leadership. ADAMU SULEIMAN examines the impact of the intra-party crisis and the renewed determination to work for unity in the caliphate.  FOR the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC) in Sokoto State, the misgivings over the outcome of the recent election of principal officers of the 9th Sokoto State of Assembly is an open wound that is yet to heal. It is more disturbing to the party because this is taking place at the seat of the caliphate where knowledge, ideals, legacies, respect and humility remain a common norm. This has opened a new page in the history of Sokoto State politics, as the credibility of the party is now in jeopardy. It now has to redeem its image as a platform that frowns on betrayal, disrespect for internal democracy and party loyalty. The emergence of Achida has rubbished the party’s much-vaunted progressive ideals. The APC made a significant mark in last year’s general elections under the leadership of Senator Aliyu Wamakko. After going through the thin and thick political hurdles with resilience, the party dramatically triumphed over the Governor Aminu Tambuwal-led opposition party. With three senators before losing one at the Appeal Court, 9 Representatives before declaring a rerun in two federal constituencies and 16 out of 30 state lawmakers, the APC in Sokoto State seemed to have shown its political supremacy across all elective representations. For the party which stood for Garba Sidi and one-time Chairman, Gwadabawa Local Government Area as its consensus candidate, the emergence of Achida against the party’s position dampened the desires of not only the party leader, Senator Wamakko, but the entire structure and interest of supporters across the state. Despite its control of the House of Assembly, with 16 lawmakers against 14 for the ruling PDP in the state, APC and its loyalists felt betrayed by its members who were accused of selling out to the PDP.  The development has over time created animosity between Achida and the party leadership. As a result, APC stakeholders, including party elders and supporters, seem to have lost confidence in the Speaker who is in his forties. The Speaker has since retraced his steps, by dousing the situation perceived to be dangerous to his future political ambition, especially coming 2023. For instance, the Speaker paid a courtesy call recently on APC state executives to reassure them that he and the other 15 lawmakers elected on the APC platform in the state are still loyal to the party. Achida who arrived the party secretariat, accompanied by the 15 APC lawmakers, amidst thunderous solidarity ovation by supporters of the party, stressed the need for APC faithful to have confidence over the mandate given them. He also urged members to ignore the rumour that he is working against the party’s interest, because “we are committed to the unity and progress of the APC”. He added: “I wish to also point out that people should learn to separate our party’s cause and official responsibility in governance. We are elected to serve the entire people of Sokoto State and we will continue to do so with respect to the party. Our bond of fraternity with the party leadership remains impeccable. “We need to forge ahead and not to dwell on past happenings. All of us (16) elected on the APC platform are on the same page on issues and matters of legislation as it affects our party and the state as a whole. We are for the party and will continue to strengthen the tempo of its popularity, maturity and unity. We are thankful to our members for their resilience and support.” The Speaker’s timely declaration appeared to have opened the way for an amicable settlement of the crisis. Before the visit, he had on a number of times failed to attend several important party meetings and other engagements. Earlier, the Majority Leader, Muhammad Ambarura said the APC lawmakers had been working in concert with the party leadership. He said: “We are organised and proud of our party to which we owe allegiance politically. Our loyalty to the party is paramount and we will keep doing the needful based on mutual understanding in the discharge of our functions for the development of the state.” Party Chairman Alhaji Sadiq Achida, who received the lawmakers described the visit as historic and monumental to the party’s unity and strength. He said: “This visit is solidarity coming by the Speaker and his colleagues. It shows that we have been relating well on matters important to the party, especially on legislation. We are not advising you to fight the government but do the right thing in the interest of the state. Where there is a derailment, we will not advise you to comprise.” The chairman, however, advised the lawmakers to routinely be in touch with their constituents to further cement a good relationship and support them where and when necessary. He added: “I do hope that other elected lawmakers will hold on to the party with a passion too. I recall that the Minister for Police Affairs Muhammad Dingyadi visited the party office sometimes back. This shows how relevant and strong the party is in the state.” While appreciating the wisdom of the lawmakers led by the Speaker, the party’s scribe, Abubakar Yabo (Digogo) said the step taken would further put the party on better political standing and strengthen its members’ confidence in elected officers and representatives at all levels. 