Two doctors and a patient at the Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital (AKTH) have been reported died following a suspected case of Lassa Fever in Kano. Other affected patients are said to be under the Intensive Care Unit of the teaching hospital. It was learnt a House Officer in the hospital, Ummu Kulthum died on Friday while a Anesthetist Consultant, Habeeb Musa died on Monday. The third victim, a pregnant woman, also breathed her last from suspected complications. A statement by the Kano state branch of the Nigeria Medical Association (NMA) said samples have been taken to the Nigeria Centre for Diseases Control (NCDC) in Lagos for analysis with results expected within 48 hours. The Nation learnt a pregnant woman from Bauchi state suspected to be the carrier, had a caesarean section 20 days ago at the Teaching Hospital. She was reported to have died from complications during the surgery. Speaking to reporters, the Director of Public Health and Disease Control, Kano State Ministry of Health, Dr. Imam Bello, said the a female housemanship doctor, who assisted in the cesarean section carried out on the woman by the Consultant also died. Bello said the other suspected infected Health Workers are responding to treatment, explaining that the state Isolation Centre at Yargawa in Dawakinkudu Local Government Area has been prepared where the infected persons will be quarantined. He added that all other primary contacts will also be transferred to the Isolation Centre if the need arises. According to him: “So far we received a report of three deaths from AKTH whom we are suspecting to be the case of Lassa Fever. “So far, two samples were sent to the Reference Laboratory. We are awaiting the results. “Immediately after we heard of the case, we dispatched our Rapid Response Team to investigate through the contact listing. We have activated our Isolation Centre at Yargawa where we manage such cases. “Government has given us approval to pre-position drugs and protective personal equipments. The Commissioner has briefed the Governor and convened Emergency Preparedness and Response Committee. Decisions are being taken on the issue.” It was learnt that the AKTH and Kano state Ministry of Health have entered into a crucial meeting to adopt some measures over the reported outbreak.