By Kunle Akinrinade  Distraught members of Isadare and Olakotan family of Ijumo Compound, Idedo village, Ota, Ogun State, have urged the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Alhaji Mohammed Adamu and the state’s Police Commissioner, Mr. Kenneth Ebrimson to save them from frequent attacks on their ancestral land. A petition to the police chiefs signed by their solicitors, Remi Adeoye of Destiny and Lawlords Chambers, explained that four members of the families were attacked on January 13, 2020 by persons suspected to be working for one Alhaji Mohammed Yaya Alayande, who is contesting the ownership of the land with the family. The petitioners said the victims were brutalised and matcheted during the violent attack on them. The petition reads: ‘’The Isadare/Olakotan family which obtained various judgments on the entire land located, situated, lying and being at Idedo Village, via Onibuku, Ota, Ogun State in suit No: HCT/119/2003 delivered on the 27th June 2011 and Appeal No. CA/I/322/2011 delivered on the 7th November 2014. Alayande who had been parading an invalid judgment documents had been persistently attacking the family’s tenants on the sites of their land with dangerous weapons like guns, machetes, clubs and knives, while reports to the Sango Police Area Command yielded no result, as no arrest was made. ‘’On Monday 13th January, 2020 Lukman Dabiri and Ayinla Adebowale who are brothers to High Chief Moroof Owonla, a land buyer from the Isadare and Olakotan family were said to have been attacked and machete by some person identified as Monsuru; Akeem; Fatai; Yaya; Nurudeen;  Ali and others at large who were allegedly armed with guns and machetes, while they were at the site to supply construction materials to workers. ‘’The case was immediately reported at Sango Police Area Command where Lukman and Ayinla were issued police medical referral request to seek medical attention at the General Hospital, Ota, but after that, the police team led by one Supol Mukaila alias Obulegbe and the Investigation Police Officer (I.P.O) Sergeant Wasiu have not made any arrest, instead they were said to be threatening and intimidating the complainants. ‘’Investigations however revealed that upon the application for police investigation into the land disputes, the Special Investigation Panel (SIP), office of the Inspector – General of Police (IGP), Abuja, the panel in its report dated 30th January, 2018, revealed the fact that the petitioner, Alhaji M.Y. Alayande lost a land case to his brethren on another land entirely in suit No: OT/842/10 which was filed at the customary court Ota, and the Appeal filed at the High Court, Ota in Suit No: HCT/1A/11. “ Alayande, who later got a judgment allegedly based on falsehood against his brethren was advised in the police report, to maintain peace and status, quo with his family, only for him to jump on our client’s expanse land which shared boundaries with them and continued to perpetrate his nefarious land grabbing act”, the petitioners added Alayande however denied attacking anyone on the land, noting that those who claimed to be victims were actually the ones who attacked innocent people they met within the vicinity of the property. He said there was a court judgment obtained in 1983 in favour of Adelupo family which he belongs to, arguing that there was no pending appeal on the judgment. ‘’I am not a land grabber. I am the head of Adelupo family and my family has not trespassed on any landed property. We share common border with the Isadare and Olakotan family on the land in Idedo, however, the Isadare and Olakotan family encroached on my family’s land measuring about 200 acres, despite the 1983 judgment which they did not appeal against. ‘’ We took them to court again, but instead of waiting for the outcome of the case, they hired a property agent who sent his boys to the land to attack innocent people. The matter was reported to the police and they were arrested. Confirming the story, the spokesman of Ogun Sate Police Command, Mr Abimbola Oyeyemi said that two suspects had been arrested in connection with the matter. ‘’It’s a case of assault and two suspects have been arrested in connection with the incident. It is not the business of the police to determine ownership of disputed landed property, it’s the court that will do that. Therefore, the two suspects are currently being detained at the Ota Police Area Command for further investigations.’’