Osagie Otabor, Benin  There is tension in Edo State as the Peoples Democratic Party holds its Ward congresses to elect new officials to pilot affairs of the party. This is just as the Comrade Adams Oshiomhole faction of the All Progressives Congress planned to hold rally in Irrua, Edo Central senatorial district. Governor Godwin Obaseki had earlier blamed political rallies in the state and vowed to deal with anybody or group that would flout its orders. A statement issued on Friday evening and signed by Special Adviser to Governor Obaseki on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr. Crusoe Osagie, threatened to met very stiff penalties on any individual or group who flout orders from security agencies. It reiterated the state government stand that any unauthorized rallies in the name of the All Progressives Congress (APC) must not be held in any part of the state. Osagie said the APC has neither authorized nor organized any rally. According to the statement, “The plans of the dissident Edo Peoples Movement (EPM) to again disrupt the peace in the state in Edo Central Senatorial District is unauthorized and goes against the directives of the Nigerian Police Force and the state government. “There are clandestine plans to hold a rally in Edo Central Senatorial District and government warns those orchestrating this crisis to desist forthwith. This is as similar gatherings in the past have resulted in civil disturbances, disruption of peace, injuries on innocent citizens and destruction of property, which the Edo State Government will no longer tolerate. “The Government calls on the Presidency and the Inspector General of Police to kindly call the suspended National Chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole to order and let him know that no one can be above the law of the land and his ambition to be the ultimate godfather in Edo State is not worth the lives and safety of millions of Edo people. “The Edo State Government calls on the citizens and residents of the state to be law-abiding, go about their lawful businesses and shun any action that would undermine public peace and safety.” Meanwhile, leaders of the Edo PDP, as well as aspirants to various positions, have travelled to their various Wards to mobilise supporters. Governor of Oyo State, Seyi Makinde, has been named chairman of the Edo PDP Congresses. He tenure of the incumbent executives led by Chief Dan Orbih will end in March. Those aspiring to take over from Chief Orbih are Chief Omi Imoisili, Engr. Fred Okah, Oladele Balogun and Tony Azegbemin. The outcome of Saturday’s Ward congresses would determine the fate of the governorship aspirants.