The Finance Act is a bold move by the Federal Government to redefine revenue generation through the re-engineering of the nation’s tax laws, writes Assistant Editor NDUKA CHIEJINA The National Assembly passed the Finance Bill 2019 on October 14, last year and President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday signed it into law. The objectives of the Act, as outlined by the President, are to strategically: “Promote fiscal equity by mitigating instances of regressive taxation; reform domestic tax laws to align with global best practices; introduce tax incentives for investments in infrastructure and capital markets; support small businesses in line with the ongoing Ease of Doing Business Reforms; and raise revenues for the Government by various fiscal measures, including a proposed increase in the rate of Value Added Tax (VAT) from 5 per cent to 7.5 per cent.” Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning Mrs. Zainab Shamsuna Ahmed said: “The annual budget will always be accompanied by finance bills to enable the realisation of revenue projections. Future finance bills will, therefore, provide additional opportunities to incrementally improve the fiscal policy and regulatory/legal environment to further strengthen our domestic capital market, and ultimately ensure sustained and inclusive growth and development.” The Act, among other things, amended the tax provisions and made them more responsive to the tax reform policies of the Federal Government as well as enhance its implementation and effectiveness. Companies Income Tax Act, Cap. C2, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004 (as amended to date) The Act has amended the provision of the Companies Income Tax Act to, amongst other things, curb Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) as proposed by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and thereby broaden the triggers for domestic taxation of income earned by non-resident companies in Nigeria through dependent agents and via online market platforms. The Act now addresses the taxation of industries, such as insurance, start-ups, and the capital markets, considered by the Federal Government as critical to the growth and development of the Nigerian economy to stimulate activities in those sectors and foster overall economic growth. Specifically, the Act now promotes fiscal equality by ensuring companies are not taxed twice on the same income stream; endorses the implementation of proposals to promote investments in Securities Lending Transaction and stimulate activity in the capital market. With regards to Value Added Tax Act, Cap V, LFN 2007 (as amended): the new Act now proposes to improve the efficiency of the Nigerian VAT system taking by taking into considerations recommendations from various stakeholder groups. In addition to simplifying the VAT landscape, the Act also seeks to expand VAT coverage by addressing some critical issues, such as taxation of the digital economy, VAT registration thresholds and intangibles. In the case of the Customs and Excise Tariff etc. (Consolidation), Cap C49, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004: the Act has created a level playing field by subjecting certain imported goods to excise duties similarly as their locally manufactured counterparts. The Act has also provided clarity and efficiency in the administration of individual income taxes in Nigeria as contained in the Personal Income Tax Cap P8, LFN 2007 (as amended). For Capital Gains Tax Act Cap C1, LFN 2007, the Act also covers the taxation of the business combination and seeks to prevent abuse of a provision of the Act on group restructuring. Under the Stamp Duties Act Cap S8, LFN 2007, the Act also seeks to increase revenue generation from duties on electronic stamps. The Act contains some changes to the Companies Income Tax Act, Value Added Tax (VAT) Act, Petroleum Profits Tax Act (PPTA), Personal Income Tax Act, Capital Gains Tax Act (CGTA), Customs and Excise Tariff Etc. (Consolidation) Act and Stamp Duties Act. Price Waterhouse Coopers (PWC), in its analysis of the components of the Act, stated that “Currently, companies are charged to tax at 30% on their dividend distributions where such dividends exceed the taxable profits for the year notwithstanding that profits being distributed may have been taxed in prior years, exempt from tax, or taxed under a different tax law.” This PWC said: “Particularly affects holding companies on dividends received from their subsidiaries thereby making Nigeria unattractive as a headquarters or group holding company location. The Finance Bill proposes changes to limit the application of the tax only to untaxed profits that are not exempt from tax.” On Tax on interim dividend as proposed in the Act, PWC noted that “currently, companies that declare and pay interim dividends are required to remit income tax at 30% on such dividends to the FIRS. There is a proposal to repeal this provision (which also specifies that Withholding Tax (WHT) should not be applied on dividends that are not paid in money). The world-renowned audit firm argued that “while the repeal will address the intended exemption of advance tax on interim dividend, it may also imply that WHT should be applied on bonus shares or dividend-in-specie.” With regards to the Commencement and Cessation rules, “the Bill seeks to amend the contentious commencement and cessation rules in CITA. The effect of these rules is that companies suffer tax twice on profits of at least 12 months when they commence business. Conversely, on cessation of business, a period of up to 12 months escapes tax. The removal of these rules is considered a welcome development.” For anti-avoidance provisions for business reorganisation, PWC noted that CITA empowers the FIRS to grant certain exemptions on group reorganisations, where certain criteria are fulfilled. Some of the criteria include that: i) The companies involved should be part of a “recognised group of companies”, and ii) The transaction should be for the “better organisation of that trade or business”. The Bill proposes that to obtain the exemption, the entities involved should be part of a recognised group of companies 365 days before the transaction, and the relevant assets should not be disposed of earlier than 365 days after the transaction. The Bill defines “recognised group of companies” as “…a group of companies as prescribed under accounting standards”. Under the proposed Personal Income-tax Act: the Amendment will attempt to clarify that pension contributions no longer require the approval of the Joint Tax Board (JTB) to be tax-deductible; On the other hand, the Bill seeks to remove the tax exemption on withdrawals from pension schemes except the prescribed conditions are met; Child relief (2,500 per child up to a maximum of 4) and dependent relief (2,000 per dependent for a maximum of 2) are to be deleted; Banks will be required to request for Tax Identification Number (TIN) before opening bank accounts for individuals while existing account holders must provide their TIN to continue operating their accounts; Emails are to be accepted by the tax authorities as a formal channel of correspondence with taxpayers. Penalty for failure to deduct tax will also apply to agents appointed for a tax deduction. This penalty is 10% of the tax not deducted, plus interest at the prevailing monetary policy rate of the Central Bank of Nigeria; the conditions attached to tax exemption on gratuities have been removed. Therefore gratuities are unconditionally tax exempt. The duties currently performed by the Joint Tax Board (JTB) as relates to administering the Personal Income Tax Act, will now be performed by the FIRS. This, PWC believes “seems to be an error in the process of amendments to replace the word “Board” as it appears in the Federal Board of Inland Revenue.” For Value Added Tax (VAT), the Act is introducing VAT exemption on group reorganisations, provided that the following conditions are met: The sale is to a Nigerian company and it is for the better organisation of the trade or business; The entities involved are part of a recognised group of companies 365 days before the transaction, and the relevant assets are not disposed earlier than 365 days after the transaction. To PWC, the current practice is that companies send an approval request letter under CITA Section 29(9) to the FIRS, and include a VAT exemption request, even though there is technically no basis for this in the VAT Act. For infractions, there are penalties. Penalty for VAT late filing of returns has now been increased to N50,000 for the first month and N25,000 for subsequent months of failure; the penalty for failure to register for VAT is reviewed upwards to NGN 50,000 for the first month of default and NGN 25,000 for each subsequent month of default; the penalty for failure to notify FIRS of change in company address to be reviewed upwards to N50,000 for the first month of default and N25,000 for each subsequent month of default. This penalty also covers failure to notify FIRS of permanent cessation of trade or business. Similar to the VAT amendment, the Act is also introducing Capital Gains Tax (CGT) exemption on Group reorganisations, provided that the following conditions are met: Assets are sold to a Nigerian company and is for the better organisation of the trade or business; The entities involved are within a recognised group 365 days before the transaction, and the relevant assets are not disposed earlier than 365 days after the transaction. According to PWC, the current practice is that companies send an approval request letter under CITA S29 (9) to the FIRS, and include a CGT exemption request. Currently, the CGT Act imposes CGT on compensation for loss of employment above N10,000. The Bill seeks to expand the coverage of this provision by renaming it “compensation for loss” and increase the minimum threshold from N10,000 to N10 million. Implications for the Banking Sector and Capital Market Price Waterhouse Coopers in assessing the impact of the Act on the banking sector argued that “overall, we expect the general changes being introduced by the Finance Bill and the specific amendments targeted at the banking sector and the capital market to have a positive impact especially in the medium to long term.” Implications for the Consumer and Industrial Products Industry According to PWC, “the proposed changes aimed at raising revenue for the government, and easing tax compliance burden on taxpayers with a focus on small and medium scale enterprises (SMEs). However, one major issue that needs to be addressed is making VAT in Nigeria a proper pass-through, where only the final consumer bears the burden.” This, PWC said, “means that businesses should be able to obtain credit for their VAT costs. Currently, VAT credit is only available for goods purchased for resale or used in manufacturing other products. The current “VAT” system in Nigeria is closer to a cascading Sales tax structure, and unfairly increases the cost of doing business along with each level of the value chain.” Implications for Micro, Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises Price Waterhouse Cooper, in its assessment, noted that “it is clear from these amendments that the government is trying to improve the fiscal policies and regulatory environment to stimulate growth in the MSME sector. However, there is also a deliberate effort to ensure that the sector contributes to revenue generation without excessive financial burden.” Specifically, PWC noted that “an area of focus for the government would be to formalise these businesses through the TIN project in collaboration with the banks. Although the definition of instruments for stamp duty has been expanded to cover electronic transactions to give legal backing to the Central Bank’s N50 stamp duty drive. The increase of the chargeable amount to N10,000 and above would reduce the challenges faced by SMEs and retailers who have recently transferred the N50 as an additional cost to their customers.” Digital economy PWC believes that “a bit more engagement would be required to avoid double taxation in the area of corporate income tax.” The FIRS it said “may need to provide some clarification on what mode of returns would be required for the permanent establishments. The FIRS may also need to invest in capacity to understand the businesses of taxpayers in this sector to determine what services are being provided to Nigerian residents and how to fairly determine the attributable profits. With regards to Transfer Pricing (TP) in the 2019 Finance Act, Seun Adu of PwC’s stated that “the amendments to section 27 will come as good news to many taxpayers. It will, however, be bad news or a mixed bag for some others. For now, the main casualties are taxpayers whose businesses are driven by the exploitation of IP and who must make payments to related parties for the rights to use the IP. Section 27i gives the FIRS the discretion to allow or disallow expenses incurred outside Nigeria without setting the parameters for exercising this discretion. This could lead to abuse. Surely, this has to be a good thing. You no longer have to worry that arbitrary price caps from NOTAP will determine whether or not you get a tax deduction for your related party expenses. You only need to concern yourself with applying the arm’s length principle in line with global standards, right? According to Adu, “Section 27h requires taxpayers to get the approval of the Minister of Finance to be eligible for a tax deduction for management services. In practice, the FIRS uses the approval of the National Office for Technology Acquisition and Promotion (NOTAP) as a proxy for the Minister’s approval. Similarly, section 27i gives the FIRS the discretion to determine whether or not any expense incurred outside Nigeria is allowable. This discretion is often hinged on the availability of a NOTAP approval for transactions that required such approvals.” He expressed concern that “You will not be allowed to deduct any amount over 5% of the Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Armotisation plus the Royalty (EBITDAR) relating to the business for which the intangible right was used. The percentage (5%) and profit measure (EBITDAR) applied to appear to be arbitrary and do not reflect what independent parties will agree to in all situations. This provision has significant implications for businesses that are heavily driven by intellectual property rights. Another global accounting firm, Deloitte, in its analysis of the Finance Act, stated that “the Bill is a welcome development in the tax landscape of Nigeria. It proposes provisions that can boost the economy by stimulating the growth of small and medium scale enterprises and enticing foreign direct investment into Nigeria.” “Nonetheless, we urge stakeholders to be aware of the underlying challenges and procedures to counter such challenges. For example, tax authorities and relevant government parastatals may commence preparation of administrative notes, enlightenment guides, effective compliance aid and other implementation guides. The National Assembly should also include transitional provisions to aid movement from the old regime to the new one.” “Ultimately, the proposed amendment is a good step towards achieving the objectives of the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC) concerning paying taxes. The ‘GAME’s rules’ will change. Therefore, taxpayers cannot afford to be caught ‘offside’ in their tax planning and compliance efforts. As a matter of urgency, taxpayers are advised to evaluate how Bill would impact their operations, review their tax compliance requirements and strategise for effective tax planning.”  The law In a nutshell