 THE resurgence of Boko Haram members has been described by the Chief of Army Staff (COAS) Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai as “the kicks of a dying horse gasping for the last breath.” Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai cautioned local and foreign organisations against backing insurgents. Besides, the military boss warned foreign countries and agencies against meddling into issues pertaining to national security, especially the fight against Boko Haram and the Islamic State of West African Province (ISWAP). Lt.-Gen. Buratai’s warning came a day after the European parliament, a legislative branch of the European Union (EU), said there has not been progress in the anti-insurgency fight. The parliament in its January 16, 2020 resolution said the security situation in Nigeria has deteriorated significantly. But, Col. Aminu Iliyasu, the Army Operations Media Coordinator, said the COAS has asked those bodies to make utterances that would help restore peace. A statement signed on Monday by Col. Iliyasu said: “The Chief Of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Yusufu Buratai has reassured Nigerians that the counter insurgency operations in the Northeast and indeed, other ongoing operations against our common enemies across the country, are still on course with current indicators revealing tremendous successes across the various theatres of operation. “After a careful review of the Nigerian Army operations in the Northeast, it is pertinent to state that, Headquarters, Nigerian Army, has gladly observed the renewed zeal and determination by troops to take the counter-insurgency operations to its logical conclusion with outcomes favourable to Nigeria and Nigerians as evident in the recent decimation of many Boko Haram/Islamic State West Africa Province criminals, including some of their top commanders, amidst  several arrests of the insurgents’ logistic suppliers and collaborators, numerous capture of the criminals’ arms and ammunition as well as rescue of many captives from the bondage of the insurgents. “To this end, all local and foreign interests are advised to exhibit more commitment and restraint on issues of our national security and avoid taking sides. Furthermore, all actions and utterances must be tailored towards supporting the national cause with a view to restoring peace and tranquility to our beloved country.” Lt.-Gen. Buratai assured troops that their sacrifices and that of their fallen colleagues would never be in vain. He warned those who “take delight in the suffering of innocent citizens that the day of reckoning is at their door steps.” Buratai added: “All well-meaning Nigerians, especially those in the Northeast and friends of Nigeria elsewhere are enjoined to fully support the counter insurgency operations as well as the fight against all forms of criminality across the nation”.