Experts say the crisis of proliferation of fake and adulterated medicines, which usually ends with tales of tears and sorrow, may not abate until government properly regulates the industry as is done in other climes, reports Moses Emorinken  They are everywhere; often easily encountered on the busy streets of Nigeria’s popular cities. They are merchants of death; street hawkers notorious for peddling fake medicines and their all-in-one tablets for virtually all ailments. Everywhere in the country, be it on the streets or in commercial buses, the infamous street vendors abound with their barely concealed bags and plastic baskets filled with pills of death. The unpatriotic dealers and the falsified, substandard or adulterated medicines they sell remain one of the biggest health challenges Nigeria is still grappling with. Despite incessant outcry by professionals to sanitise the industry, sale of fake medicines in a largely unregulated market is widespread in the country. Their illegal trade not only puts a bad tint on the credibility of Nigeria’s overall healthcare system, but also complicates illnesses, disabilities and leads to the eventual death of victims of a poorly regulated system. According to a 2017 report by the World Health Organisation (WHO), an estimated 1 in 10 medical products circulating in low-and middle-income countries is either substandard or falsified. Also, the report said substandard and counterfeit medicines may be responsible for up to 116,000 malaria deaths alone annually in sub-Saharan Africa. The notoriety of fake and adulterated medicines seems like an endless chain of misery because almost every Nigerian has a tragic story of loved ones – parents, brothers, sisters, uncles, aunties, or friends who have died or have had their health conditions complicated as a result of consuming fake drugs. In 2003, three children died during an open-heart surgery as a result of fake adrenaline. Reports of the investigation by the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) revealed that there were some problems with the medication, including the fact that the suxamethonium – a muscle relaxant, was of low potency, infusions were contaminated and the adrenaline was fake. Also, in 2008, at least 84 children were said to have died from consuming a paracetamol-based syrup called ‘My Pikin Teething Mixture’, produced by the then Barewa Pharmaceutical Ltd. This syrup was contaminated with engine coolant diethylene glycol. Another tragic story that will readily come to mind of watchers of events in the healthcare industry is that of late singer, Eric Arubayi, who died in 2017 at the age of 33. The late gospel artist died at a hospital in Delta State after he allegedly ingested expired drugs meant to treat his malaria and typhoid fever. A big question on the lips of many Nigerians: How long will the country continue to tolerate despairing stories of innocent Nigerians having their lives cut short as a result of fake and adulterated medicines? According to the President of the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN), Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa, a lot is intrinsically wrong with Nigeria’s regulations and enforcements in the pharmaceutical industry. “The major issue is poor and inadequate regulation. There are laws to deal with fake drugs manufacturers and importers; the problem is how we implement those laws. The failure of regulation may not be blamable to one agency or the other. The government is to blame because government is the regulator even though it has agencies that regulate. Laws are meant to be changed or strengthened. However, in situations where government is reluctant to allow bills that can better regulate the system become laws, then the problems will persist,” he stated. Like Ohuabunwa, the Chairman of Abuja branch of the Association of Hospital and Administrative Pharmacists of Nigeria (AHAPN), Abubakar Danraka, believes it is now so widespread that it has become a global problem. “The issue of fake drugs in Nigeria has become so colossal such that we cannot exonerate ourselves from the global community. In the global community, faking and adulterating of drugs is a multi-billion-dollar business. From Asia, the Caribbean, Africa – the major market, most of the issues of faking of drugs come from there. “Also, our culture in Africa promotes fake drugs. Most Africans rely on brands; the culture of ostentation where people want a particular kind of thing to show class in the society. This promotes market of falsification. Our studies have discovered that the propensity of faking of drugs is more with popular brands. For example, in the last two or three years, Swipha officially announced that they have stopped the production of Fansidar (an anti-malaria medicine). It will interest you to know that up till now, if you go to our markets (especially in the hinterlands), you will still find Fansidar being sold to Nigerians because they will demand for it. “Our people are gullible in the sense that if they have a prescription of a branded drug, he or she goes to a pharmacy and demand for the exact brand that the doctor has written. Even when the pharmacists suggest a different brand, they will insist on their exact brand, underplaying the competence and experience of the pharmacist,” Danraka said.  Quacks and their pills of death  Also, there is a prevalence of unregistered patent medicine operators popularly called ‘chemists.’ Apart from their businesses not being duly registered and licensed, the chemists who prescribe and sell medicines also do not possess any form of pharmaceutical certification. While speaking with The Nation, Ohuabunwa explained that there is an urgent need to rid the country of miscreants and quacks that are putting the lives of people in great danger and jeopardy. “What the law allows are: Pharmacies that must be manned by  pharmacists, and specifications as to how the stores are supposed to be and managed. There is also the patent medicine vendors’ licence given to people who carry some over-the-counter (OTC) products to cover areas where there are no pharmacists. Today, many are set up illegally and act like pharmacists when they are not registered. “Even within the pharmacy practice, there are people who bend the law once in a while because of greed; these unethical conducts are dealt with. The PSN has its own disciplinary and ethics committee that disciplines pharmacists. When the discipline is more than what we can handle, we move to the regulatory agency – the Pharmacists Council of Nigeria (PCN). The PCN can withdraw their certificates, suspend or remove their names from the register of pharmacists in Nigeria,” Ohuabunwa said. Also in an interview with The Nation, Danraka explained that the public needs to be enlightened that medicines are different from other basic articles of commerce, adding that some factors must be present to make drugs perform the functions for which they are intended. “The public needs to understand that medicines are not normal or basic articles of commerce and trade, but are specialised commodities. There are factors that make a medicine validly potent and useful for what it is intended to do. If you change the storage condition, for example, of a medicine that should be stored in 2-8 degrees, you may see it as medicine from the package, but I can guarantee you that 72 hours outside the regulated temperature, it is no longer what you are seeing on the package. “Asides drugs that are supposed to be stored in cold temperature, for drugs in room temperature, there is usually a caveat – it is supposed to be at room temperature away from light. Most of the drugs that hawkers are carrying right under the sun are no longer what they are when you subject them to pharmaceutical analysis, even when they still have a valid shelf life. More dangerous is when some drugs degrade and decompose, they release toxic substances. This is why we are having a lot of cases of cancers, liver diseases, etc., of unknown origin. We are paying for what we are doing because medicines are left in the hands of every tom, dick and harry. People that have no business with medicines are the ones carrying it about without knowing that these are specialised commodities that need to be handled with care,” he said. The Director-General of NAFDAC, Prof. Mojisola Adeyeye, in a press briefing last year to mark progress made by the agency, explained that it participated in the Operation Mirage, a program of the World Customs Organisation, carried out simultaneously in about 14 countries in order to help Customs officials to collaborate in the war against substandard and falsified medical products. “The street value of the substandard and falsified medical products seized was N684 million. Also, the agency has destroyed substandard and falsified medical products worth more than N3.2 billion. Twelve different individuals were caught with large amounts of substandard and fake drugs, some of which have been destroyed. Some of the people are being investigated or prosecuted or have been sentenced. However, the sentences are not stiff enough to result in deterrence. The agency, in conjunction with the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), commenced the destruction of seized consignments of substandard and falsified medical products (especially Tramadol). A total of 24 containers (24×40 ft containers) of the products have been destroyed,” she said.  The crisis of insufficient pharmacists  The WHO recommendation is that there should be 2,000 people to one pharmacist. Considering that the number of registered pharmacists in Nigeria is less than 30,000, it means the country is grossly understaffed in this aspect of healthcare delivery. According to Ohuabunwa, there are about 25,000 registered pharmacists out of which about 6,000 are out of the country. Out of this figure, there are about 18,000 pharmacists in the country, which are spread across academia, hospital pharmacy, community pharmacy, and NGOs; pharmacists are not enough. “We need to deploy more pharmacists to the rural areas. Most pharmacists in community practice like to stay where they can break even very easily because it is also a business. Therefore, the Pharmacists Council of Nigeria has introduced a new method which is dependent on the proposed Pharmacy Council bill. This is the more reason government needs to approve this bill. This bill, if signed into law, will help us create satellite pharmacies which will create more enabling environment for pharmacists to now open up the rural areas to bridge the supply gap and also help to put the miscreants in check,” he said.  Urgent need to pass the Pharmacy Council Law  According to Ohuabunwa, there is the Pharmacists Council of Nigeria that deals with the regulation of education and practice of pharmacy in Nigeria. However, the problems with pharmacy in Nigeria still persist. “The problem with pharmacy in Nigeria is that the extant law called the Pharmacists Council Law is defective in the sense that some miscreants in the pharmacy chain say it is for pharmacists only. So patent medicines dealers, technicians etc., say they are not subject to the law. This creates a problem for regulation. This is why the amendment of the law, which will also see it change its name to Pharmacy Council Law, is very important. It needs to be signed into law. “The Pharmacy Council Bill, which has been passed by the National Assembly, is yet to be signed by President Muhammadu Buhari. If signed, it will strengthen the regulation of everyone involved in the drug business. Once we get the law, it will check illegal practice. The pharmacy practice is regulated by multiple laws. We have about 12 laws. However, the main law that regulates the practice of a pharmacist is what we call the Pharmacist Council of Nigeria Act (2004). “The Pharmacists Council of Nigeria (PCN), Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN), and other stakeholders and technical groups, came together to look at all the laws, and propose the Pharmacy Council Act which not only looks at the pharmacist, but the entire pharmacy practice. The law has been pending and elapsed in the 8th Assembly and we hope this 9th Assembly will resuscitate it. The Act will go a long way in strengthening the regulation in the sense that there are more stringent penalties for defaulters and tries to factor in the reality of the times,” Ohuabunwa said.