 THE Middle East witnessed more rhetoric on Sunday with Iran and American leaders as well as their allies flexing muscles over the killing of powerful Tehran military leader Gen. Qasem Soleimani in a United States (U.S.) drone strike in Baghdad. Soleimani, head of Iran’s elite Quds Force, was killed along with Abu Mahdi al-Muhandis, deputy commander of Iraq’s Popular Mobilisation Forces (PMF, or Hashd al-Shaabi), an Iran-backed umbrella organisation comprising several militias. Several other people were also killed in Friday’s attack. The move by the U.S. has drawn condemnation from leaders and officials who fear that tensions in the region could escalate drastically. Soleimani’s killing marks a major escalation in tensions between Washington and Tehran. Under his leadership, Iran had bolstered Hezbollah in Lebanon and other pro-Iranian militant groups, expanded its military presence in Iraq and Syria and orchestrated Syria’s offensive against rebel groups in the country’s long civil war. As the world wait with bated breath what form Iran’s retaliation would take, the answer came yesterday as Tehran said it will surely “be military”. But the U.S. up the ante with President Donald Trump saying American is “ready to strike 52 Iranian sites if Tehran attacks. These came on a day thousands of people flood the streets during a funeral procession for Soleimani and al-Muhandis in Ahvaz, Iran.  Iran’s specific and direct threat The military adviser to Iran’s Supreme Leader said yesterday that Tehran’s response to the killing by the United States of its most influential general will “for sure be military”. In an exclusive interview with CNN in Tehran, the adviser – Maj. Gen. Hossein Dehghan – made the most specific and direct threat yet by a senior Iranian official following. Dehghan said Iran would retaliate directly against U.S. “military sites”. Dehghan is a former defence minister and is now the main military adviser to Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. He told CNN that reprisals would come from Iran itself, not its allied militia in the region. “It might be argued that there could be proxy operations. We can say America, Mr. Trump, has taken action directly against us — so we take direct action against America,” Dehghan said. The United States has a growing military presence in the region. Thousands of U.S. troops have been deployed to Saudi Arabia, and there are some 5,000 at bases in Iraq. The U.S. also has a major air base in Qatar and a naval presence in Bahrain, as well as troops stationed in Jordan, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates. In common with other Iranian officials, Dehghan suggested that Iran was in no hurry to retaliate and would choose its targets carefully. “Our reaction will be wise, well considered and in time, with decisive deterrent effect,” he added. Iran’s President Hassan Rouhani had earlier said that Americans would face consequences for killing Soleimani “not only today, but also in the coming years”.  Tehran rolls back nuclear deal commitments Iran on Sunday declared that it will no longer abide by any of the restrictions imposed by the 2015 nuclear deal. In a statement , it said it would no longer observe limitations on its capacity for enrichment, the level of enrichment, the stock of enriched material, or research and development. The statement came after a meeting of the Iranian cabinet in Tehran. It comes amid heightened tensions over the killing of Soleimani.  U.S. targeting” 52 Iranian sites But Trump warned that the U.S. is “targeting” 52 Iranian sites and will strike “very fast and very hard” if Tehran attacks Americans or U.S. assets. Writing on Twitter, Trump accused Iran of “talking very boldly about targeting certain USA assets”. He said the U.S. had identified 52 Iranian sites, some “at a very high level & important to Iran & the Iranian culture”, and warned they would be “hit very fast and hard”, if Tehran struck at the U.S. The president said the targets represented 52 Americans, who were held hostage in Iran for more than a year from late 1979 after they were taken from the U.S. embassy in Tehran.  U.S. govt agency website hacked Shortly after the president’s tweets were posted, the website of a U.S. government agency appeared to have been hacked by a group calling itself “Iran Cyber Security Group Hackers”. A message on the American Federal Depository Library Programme site read: “This is a message from the Islamic Republic of Iran. “We will not stop supporting our friends in the region: the oppressed people of Palestine, the oppressed people of Yemen, the people and the Syrian government, the people and government of Iraq, the oppressed people of Bahrain, the true Mujahideen resistance in Lebanon and Palestine, [they] will always be supported by us.”  The body of Soleimani back in Iran Footage filmed by Iran Press showed huge crowds taking to the streets of the Iranian city of Ahvaz, marking the beginning of ceremonies in his honour. Hundreds of thousands of mourners have turned out in Iran to receive home the remains of Qasem Soleimani, the general killed by a US drone strike in Iraq. In Ahvaz, where Soleimani served during the Iran-Iraq war (1980-88), mourners chanted: “Death to America.” Soleimani was the architect of Iran’s sphere of influence across the Middle East, and was considered to be the country’s second most powerful man. Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Khamenei, who had a close personal relationship with Soleimani, has warned of “severe revenge” for the attack, and analysts say Iran may pursue cyber-attacks against the U.S. or traditional attacks on U.S. targets or interests in the Middle East. Soleimani’s burial will take place in his home town of Kerman tomorrow.  Iraqi MPs back call to expel U.S. troops Iraqi MPs yesterday passed a resolution calling for foreign troops to leave the country after the U.S. killed Soleimani . Parliament also called for a formal complaint to be made at the UN about U.S. “violations” of Iraqi sovereignty. Some 5,000 U.S .soldiers are in Iraq as part of the international coalition against the Islamic State (IS) group. The coalition paused operations against IS in Iraq just before Sunday’s vote. It said it was doing so to enable its forces to concentrate on protecting U.S., UK and other troops at bases in Iraq.  NATO to hold urgent meeting NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg has called an urgent meeting of the military alliance’s North Atlantic Council for today in response to growing tensions in the Middle East. The ambassador-level meeting of the alliance’s main decision-making body will address the situation in Iraq after the killing of Soleimani, a spokesman told dpa in Brussels on Sunday. The ambassadors of the North Atlantic Council usually meet once a week, while its foreign and defence ministers meet around twice a year. The meeting is scheduled for 3 p.m.  U.S. army to ‘pay price’ for killing Soleimani, says Hezbollah chief Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah said the U.S. army will “pay the price” for killing Soleimani and al-Muhandis. “The American army killed them and it will pay the price,” he said in a televised speech. “The only just punishment is [to target] American military presence in the region: U.S. military bases, U.S. warships, each and every officer and soldier in the region,” Nasrallah said.  Iraq’s al-Sadr calls for ‘humiliating’ U.S. troop exit Shia leader Moqtada al-Sadr said a parliamentary resolution urging on the Iraqi government to end foreign troop presence did not go far enough and called on local and foreign militia groups to unite. Iraqi Shi’ite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr speaks during a news conference with Iraqi politician Ammar al-Hakim, leader of the Hikma Current, in Najaf “I consider this a weak response insufficient against American violation of Iraqi sovereignty and regional escalation,” al-Sadr, who leads the largest bloc in parliament, said in a letter. Pompeo: U.S. intelligence assessment was clear on Soleimani U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo defended the intelligence assessment that led to the air raid against Soleimani, saying the attacks were lawful and any future strikes would also be lawful. “The intelligence assessment made clear that no action – allowing Soleimani to continue his plotting and his planning, his terror campaign – created more risk than taking the action that we took last week,” Pompeo said in an interview with ABC. Pompeo would not say whether he had been in contact with Iranian officials but said there was no doubt in his mind that Iran “gets clearly the message from the American leadership”. ‘Iraq summons U.S. envoy over ‘violation of sovereignty’ Iraq’s foreign ministry said it summoned the U.S. ambassador following repeated U.S. air raids on Iraqi soil that killed Soleimani and al-Muahndis. The foreign ministry said the act was “a flagrant breach of Iraq’s sovereignty and of all international laws and norms that regulate relations between countries and prohibit the use of their lands to carry out attacks on neighbouring countries.”