Modern Western civilization as we know it began in the rich alluvial valleys of the Tigris and Euphrates rivers.  If care is not taken, it may yet unravel there. Civilizations go and civilizations come, but humanity remains. That is if someone is not sorely tempted to pull the ultimate nuclear trigger. There are enough itchy, psychopathic fingers lurking in many imperial palaces all over the place. But for now, we must thank God and the intrepid foot works of Swedish and European diplomats for small mercies. A nuclear Armageddon seems to have been averted for now. To soothe its injured pride and ego, Iran has been allowed to unleash its furious missiles on a safe designated area. America has been able to get away with assassination, leaving the rest to proxy warriors. Since the truce is holding, we can assume that no one is willing to perish in a nuclear inferno, at least for now. The civilized world has been granted a major reprieve.  President Donald Trump will have to look for another opportunity to test what he described with chilling and cheerless nonchalance as those beautiful equipment(s) that America has spent three trillion dollars to procure. After all this, a word has gained in prestige and global diplomatic currency. It is known as de-escalation. But de-escalation, which means to put a lid on escalation, or to stop aggravating an already aggravated situation, is not a fresh initiative. It is merely the management of mismanagement. We have said it several times in this column that America is the greatest imperial power the world has seen since the Roman Empire. Anybody who has watched on video the dramatic elimination of Al Baghdadi, the leader of ISIS, or the high-tech execution of Quassem Soleimani, the Iranian general, by a remote-controlled drone must think twice about daring the military might of America. Military experts have let it be known that after America, the next twenty five countries combined do not have the military strength of the world’s preeminent superpower. The world has never seen anything like this and it can be used for good or bad depending on the mood of America and the mind-set of the subsisting occupier of the White House. There is a Nigerian saying that a strong and powerful person who does not know the virtues of caution and discretion is the king among loafers and weaklings. Whatever its current might and inclination, America was not founded as a warrior-nation. It was founded by a group of religious and intellectual visionaries who sought to create the world anew away from the ashes of feudal Europe. It was a radical version of the new nation-state paradigm. While the rest of the world suffered from feudal accretions and the waste products of empire hang-over which hobbled the new nations, America strode boldly ahead recording spectacular successes in technology, wealth creation, modern transportation and urban development while shining forth like a little city nestling on a hill. For those not blinded by racial, religious and ideological prejudices, these are remarkable achievements on behalf of humanity and the human quest for emancipation from the realm of brutal necessities to the realm of freedom. They must be applauded. This is a drive for a higher telos which has led humanity to evolve away from their animal origins. It might of course be objected that America’s successes and achievements are based on slave labour and the genocide of native Amerindians. But as Walter Benjamin famously observed, there is no record of civilization which is not at the same time a record of barbarity. Humankind is not a fallen angel but a rising ape. But as it happened in ancient Rome, the American obsession with strength and power; its worship and glorification of the cult of the superman; its unrelenting machismo, is likely to culminate in hubris and imperial overstretch. Almost twenty years after invading Iraq, they are still bringing home American soldiers in body bags. Iraq itself has become a joke of a country, hostage to many occupying forces with its restive populace chafing under the combined weight of corruption and incompetence. We can step back a bit to view this historic carnage. When America invaded Iraq over what it considered its threat to world peace and multiple infractions, everybody predicted it was going to be a cake walk, and it was. Iraq was briskly overwhelmed. Saddam Hussein was captured and eventually executed. But as they say once again in Nigeria, what is beyond the figure of six is far greater than the figure of seven. The Iraq that America invaded and conquered, although ruled by a psychopathic bandit, was a relatively stable and moderately prosperous country. In a seven year war with Iran in which it acted as an American proxy against the emergent radical Islamic theocracy, the Iraqi army held its own. Although he murdered his own people at will, the former chicken rustler from al-Tikriti held the nation together thus maintaining the geopolitical balance in the Middle East. Almost twenty years after, Iraq is a permanent theatre of war, without an army that can pass muster and the nation at the mercy of hostile occupying forces and centrifugal religious militias. The once proud ancient Iraqi upper society, heirs to the iconic Babylonian heritage, has virtually evacuated the nation leaving it at the mercy of warlords and thuggish clerics. The entire Middle East itself has dissolved in a cauldron of carnage and bloodletting. There is something worse than despotic rule. It is anarchic mayhem. In a development that was unthinkable even under the reign of the eccentric and grandstanding Hussein, the American Embassy in Baghdad came under sustained assaults of grenades, firebombs and gunshots from demonstrators who are in reality mercenaries sponsored by the Iran Revolutionary Guards just to highlight the unpopularity of the Americans. This was the last straw for the Americans and the immediate cause of what nearly brought the world to the brink of World War 111 this past week. The Americans fingered Quassem Soleimani, the ubiquitous commander of the Special Forces responsible for the maintenance and expansion of Iranian sphere of influence abroad, as the sole culprit and financier of the covert operation which almost led to another traumatic occupation or evacuation of an American fortress abroad. Exactly forty years after the humiliating occupation of their embassy in Teheran, national memory stirred uneasily in America. Whatever anybody may say or think about Donald Trump, he remains an Alpha male and shrewd political calculator with an eye for the main chance. Trump knows that it is election year and with the fate of Jimmy Carter in mind, Trump knows that America will not put up with any handwringing, namby-pamby sissy of a president when slapped abroad. This was why General Soleimani had to go. But Qassem Soleimani was no ordinary Iranian general. He was a hero of mythical proportions among his people. He is widely credited with expanding Iran’s sphere of influence and authority abroad, turning his country into the undisputed regional power in the process. Soleimani was regarded as one of the two or three most important figures in Iran and was known to have worsted the Americans in several proxy confrontations. The general thirsted for martyrdom and had the reputation of leading his men from the front. And what a paroxysm of universal rage and grieving the death of the general has elicited from his people. The crowd of mourners was unprecedented in the history of Iran at least not since the death of the founder of the Islamic Revolution, Ayatollah Khomeini.  More than sixty people died in the stampede in a ritual re-enactment of the ancient tradition of feeding live people to the mausoleum of departing nobility. The beloved general has now had his martyrdom and near-deification by his people. It must be said that several American presidents passed up the opportunity to take out the general probably because of a rational calculation of the repercussions. But not so Donald Trump who had no such qualms. It is known in international intelligence circuits that once Israel passed up Soleimani’s coordinates to their American allies, they wasted no time in blitzing him and his entire entourage. Yet it is not as if the late Iranian general never cooperated or collaborated with American officialdom. Although going occasionally rogue to pursue the obsession with Iranian geopolitical greatness, Soleimani was known to have collaborated with American authorities in the campaign against al-Queda and ISIS. They met and exchanged intelligence several times. This led to a thawing of the relationship with Iran reaping the economic bounty as the unlocking of assets frozen by the Americans led the Iranian economy to grow by twelve percent. Why would the Iranians prefer this peace and growing prosperity with confrontation and hostility with America abroad? This is what has led some distinguished American commentators to naively dismiss Soleimani as an overrated military and political strategist. This is a dialogue of the deaf reflecting widely incompatible and mutually unintelligible political habitus and fundamentally divergent worldviews. Whoever told the Americans that the Iranians would like to exchange domestic prosperity for international quietude and loss of prestige? So that after being well-fed and well-housed their people can start demanding for equal rights and western-style democracy? It is all a question of contending hubris. As heirs to an ancient civilization, the Iranian leadership long for a world in which the ancient supremacy of Persia would be restored irrespective of the plight of the people at home. The irony of Soleimani’s assassination is that it has for now put a lid on a growing campaign for more openness and inclusive democracy in Iranian society. No one in his right mind will call for freedom of expression and female rights in the current conjuncture. That would mean a short suicide notice. The internal upheaval caused by the death of the general has led the entire Iranian population to solidify behind what is essentially a fascist Islamic clerisy. Hurt and humiliated, the Iranian leadership will most likely resume their nuclear programme which they will now believe is what makes the difference between their nation and a North Korea or Russia which America dare not humIt is an impossible global conundrum whose violent ripples are likely to be with us for some time. This is not just a clash of civilization, a tussle between an ancient Empire and a new one but a collision of different trajectories to modernity and modernization. One people’s poison is another people’s venison. The more tolerant and liberal nations of Europe must get America and Iran talking once again. It is good to celebrate some of our remaining academic heroes while they are still alive so that their labour will not be in vain. The Nigerian society is so harsh and hostile to our ancient dons that many of them go into swift and steep social and psychological decline once they retire from the system. It is like throwing a fish out of water. In the late sixties, the Faculty of Engineering at the University of Lagos boasted of a world class staff list that was at the global summit of the discipline. A faculty that hosted Ayodele Awojobi, the late Mechanical Engineering avatar, among other luminaries of the profession could not be shunted aside in any gathering of engineering professors anywhere in the world at that point in time. Many of the returning PhDs had already made their mark as outstanding graduate students in the best regarded sanctuaries of the profession. A very good friend of snooper who was later to migrate back and distinguish himself as a globally respected expert in Automotive Engineering at the University of Birmingham described a typical seminar at the faculty as resembling a collision of altars with cutting edge concepts from MIT, Moscow, Waterloo, Sorbonne, Harvard, Cambridge, Imperial College and DEFLT in Holland among others clashing in frenetic ferment.  It was a great time to study engineering in Nigeria. Alas, nothing lasts for long in the hot and sultry tropics. By the end of the eighties, many of these extraordinary brains, tired and disillusioned, were beginning to wing their way back to the west with their tail between their legs. Some quietly switched to the private sector and prosperous consultancies in order to beat the offside trap of poverty and social disregard. But among stars, there are superstars. Ephraim Okon, who plied his trade mainly in the Civil Engineering Department, was one of the greatest professors to have graced the Unilag Faculty of Engineering. By the time he left, he was already a legend. Professor Okon dazzled his students with his brilliance, his wit, his originality and his versatility. A gifted conversationalist, his students adored, worshipped and feared him in equal measure. Any student of Engineering at the University of Lagos in the golden seventies and eighties must remember a particular academic affliction known as Okon rigour. Despite his amiable and clubbable personality, Okon punished wishy-washy thinking and jejune logic with maximum penalty and he not only demanded solutions to intractable engineering problems, he demanded the most elegant solution. This was to become the war cry of many of his students after graduation. A sizeable number of his former students have gone on to distinguish themselves in academics and other sectors of the economy. It was one of these, a bosom friend of snooper who later became the Managing Director of one of Nigeria’s telecommunication subsidiaries, who drew our attention to the fact that the great man turned eighty yesterday. Here is wishing Professor Ephraim Okon many happy returns. 