 THERE is unease in the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria, over the appointment of a new Vice Chancellor (VC) for the first generation institution. Interview for the job is expected to hold on Monday, but the selection board has not released guidelines for the exercise, it was learnt on Thursday. The institution’s registrar, Malam Abdullahi Ahmed Kundila, who is the secretary to the governing council, sources said, does not also have the guidelines. The university has a template for the selection and appointment of a vice chancellor and this was used in 2010 and 2015. A source claimed that another template has been developed for the 2020 exercise to favour a candidate believed to be backed by some members of the selection board. The board which is headed by the council chairman, Malam Adamu Fika, comprises a former registrar, Bayero University, Kano Alhaji Sani Ibrahim; Dean, Faculty of Life Sciences, Prof Nasiru Shuaibu; former Physics Head of Department, Prof Sadiq Mohammed; and Mrs. Dada, an external member of the council representing the Federal Ministry of Education. The harmonised guidelines and those of the Federal Ministry of Education obtained by The Nation are the same. They list the qualities the VC must have. These are: educational qualifications, academic leadership, administrative experience, professional standing, and proficiency in information, communication and technology (ICT). Others are societal linkages, ability to attract funds for research grant and physical development, contribution to knowledge, academic publications, interview performance and three referee reports. But the selection board is said to have introduced a criterion, which seems to favour its preferred candidates. The board, it was learnt, is keeping its template under wraps for fear of its rejection by other council members. The members were said to have rejected move to reduce the candidates’ age limit from 65 to 60 years. When the age limit  was pegged at 65 years in the advertorials in some newspapers last October,  many top academics including former vice-chancellors reportedly applied for the job. The Director, ABU’s Public Affairs Directorate, Dr Ismail Shehu, declined comments when contacted.