Eleven people have been killed and four women kidnapped as unknown armed gunmen attacked five communities in Shiroro local government area. The communities namely Kudodo, Galapai, Dnakpala Makera, and Dnalgwa were attacked in the early hours of Saturday. The bandits were said to have moved from house to house to carry out their activities. This latest attack is coming barely one week after eight communities were sacked by bandits in the same Shiroro local government where a village Head and 16 others were killed. One of the victims of the attack, Saidu Yisa, said that two of his wives were raped by four of the bandits in his presence before he was shot at a closed range. The Senator representing Niger East senatorial district, Alhaji Sani Musa, confirmed the latest attack saying that the situation is getting out of hand. He lamented over the incessant killings and once again, called the federal government and security agencies to up their strategies. “As the attacks continued, more villagers in my constituency are awaiting their fate as no sign of succor seems to be coming their way.  It is confirmed that the bandits are attacking all through the night to this afternoon and most communities are in grave danger”, he said. Meanwhile, Governor Abubakar Sani Bello has deployed land and air surveillance by security personnel to the affected communities. The security agencies have been directed to fish and flush out the bandits terrorizing the communities. The governor who condemned the renewed banditry attacks on kudodo Nakpala, and Gulapai communities of Shiroro Local Government Area said that stringent military action would henceforth be taken to bring an end to the persistent attacks in the state. The Governor who lamented that the bandits are taking advantage of the vastness and difficult terrain of the forestland to unleash terror on innocent people stated that the state government is fully supporting the joint security task force to chase the armed bandits out of the state. While sympathizing with the victims of the recent armed banditry attacks in the affected communities, the governor called for calm in the affected communities appealing to them to cooperate with and assist security agencies by providing credible intelligence reports that will uncover the hideout of the bandits.