Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq on Tuesday congratulated the people of the state on the successful completion of year 2019, which he said heralded a new dawn for the people with the outcome of the general elections. Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Rafiu Ajakaye, said in a statement: “We spent substantial part of the outgoing year trying to stabilise a state that was left in ruins because of years of neglect – whether in the area of water supply, basic healthcare, primary education, workers’ welfare, and other basic amenities. “We changed the water situation to an appreciable extent, restored some sanity to the primary health sector with hundreds of millions of counterpart funds, and returned Kwara to reckoning at the Universal Basic Education Commission. We are resuscitating dying state institutions, restoring dignity and running cost back to the civil service, returning life back to the sports sector, and gradually stopping the bleeding of public resources, among others.” AbdulRazaq said the New Year would be decisive for Kwara in terms of socio-economic and human capital development, adding that the administration would also insist on using public funds to advance public interest only and encourage a new political culture of probity and modesty in the spirit of the Otoge revolution. Calling for more support from the citizens, the statement also said the governor would work with the progressive leadership of the House of Assembly to fast-track the passage of the Freedom of Information Bill to deepen transparency and accountability. He, however, called on citizens to guide against fake news, which the governor warned posed grave danger to public peace and order. Meanwhile, some residents of Ilorin have expressed optimism of a better New Year as well as good governance in 2020. Some of them who spoke with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Ilorin yesterday said that the New Year promised to be delightful. A trader, Mrs. Funmilayo Adedotun, expressed hope that the New Year would bring about economic turnaround in the nation.