C & I Leasing Plc has indicated that the 2018 audited financial statement of its Ghana subsidiary, Leasafric Ghana Limited, will be restated in order to correct errors in the accounts. Leasafric Ghana Limited accounts for 10 per cent of the C & I Leasing Group’s financial performance. C & I Leasing holds the majority 71 per cent equity stake in Leasafric, a non-bank financial institution incorporated in Ghana in 1992 to carry on the business of finance leasing as its principal business. In a regulatory filing at the weekend, the board of C & I Leasing stated that the auditors to Leasafric, Deloitte & Touché, had conducted a review in order to ascertain the impact of the errors on Leasafric financial statement. “Following the review, the auditors have recommended that the financial statement be restated for 2018 in order to effect the correction. Based on the auditor’s review, C&I Leasing Plc has estimated the impact of the restatement on its group’s 2019 financial performance to be a maximum of N25.5 million and therefore considered not significant,” C & I Leasing stated. C&I Leasing assured the investing public that the group is resilient and well diversified to cushion the impact of the detected financial error noting that adequate and robust control frameworks have been put in place to prevent a recurrence. C & I Leasing recently extended the offer period for its ongoing rights issue to January 13, 2020. Application list for the rights issue had opened on Monday November 18, 2019 and was scheduled to close on Friday, December 27, 2019. C & I Leasing is seeking to raise N3.23 billion from existing shareholders through a rights issue of 539 million ordinary shares of 50 kobo each at N6 per share. The rights were pre-allotted on the basis of four new ordinary shares of 50 kobo each for every three ordinary shares of 50 kobo each held as at the close of business on Wednesday, September 04, 2019. The company would use the net proceeds of the offer to bolster its working capital and increase leasing assets. AbraaJ Investment Management Limited (AIML), which had secured approval to convert its $10 million loan in C & I Leasing to equities in the Nigerian leasing company, and thus became a majority shareholder, has indicated that it will not be picking its rights. Renounced rights are usually sold through trading on the NSE or through pro rata allocation to other shareholders that demand for additional shares. C & I Leasing had in January 2019 concluded a massive share reconstruction that saw cancellation of 1.479 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each, about 79 per cent of the company’s pre-consolidation issued share capital. The share capital reconstruction had reduced the leasing company’s outstanding shares from 1.883 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each to new total outstanding ordinary shares of 404.25 million ordinary shares of 50 Kobo each. Under the share consolidation, four ordinary shares of 50 kobo each were consolidated into one ordinary share of 50 kobo each.