From Juliana Agbo, Abuja  Solidaridad Network has launched a five-year programme in four key oil palm producing countries to boost agriculture and generate revenue. The programme known as the National Initiatives for Sustainable and Climate-smart Oil Palm Smallholders (NISCOPS) was launched in Accra, Ghana recently to enable governments  support and work with farmers towards more sustainable, climate smart palm oil production as well as contribute to Paris Agreement, Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) objectives and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). NISCOPS is implemented by Solidaridad in Ghana and Solidaridad in partnership with IDH in Indonesia, Malaysia and Nigeria. The programme is being implemented in Africa (Ghana and Nigeria) and Asia (Indonesia and Malaysia) with the initial funding support from the government of the Netherlands. The programme has an inception year (2019) with the implementation phase I from 2020 to 2023 and implementation phase II from 2024 and beyond. The Regional Director, Solidaridad West Africa, Mr. Isaac Gyamfi, at the launch of the programme in Accra, Ghana, said Solidaridad is in term with the current global and local realities especially on climate change and agriculture. According to him, “We are now using our over 50 years experience of both foot and brain on the ground through our works to contribute to shaping practices and policies at local, districts, national and global levels”. Gyamfi stated that the organisation have also supported the revitalisation of the Oil Palm Development Association of Ghana (OPDAG), adding that it has also played a role in the establishment of the Tree Crops Development Authority.  Also speaking, Solidaridad Senior Climate Specialist for Africa and the NISCOPS Technical Coordinator, Dr. Samson Ogallah,  stated that the Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) of the programme is built on the three pillars of Climate Smart Agriculture (CSA) of Productivity, Adaptation and Mitigation. Ogallah added that the programme in addition to its contribution to the NDCs and SDGs of the four countries, aimed to further build capacity of smallholders (organizations) and local institutions to improve performance as well as support development of landscape level mechanisms to operate in ‘vulnerable’ landscapes prone to deforestation. In her speech at the event, Deputy Head of Mission, Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, Ghana, Katja Lasseur, expressed the commitment of the government of the Netherlands to the programme and call on other partners and stakeholders to come on board in order to achieve the laudable objectives of the programme. A nine-member National Advisory Committee (NAC) to advise the programme was inaugurated. The NAC members comprised of Public and Private sector representatives from the Oil Palm Development Association of Ghana, Oil Palm Research Institute, Ministries of Food and Agriculture; Trade and Industry; Local Government and Rural Development; Land and Natural Resources; Environment, Science, Technology and Innovation (Environmental Protection Agency and Forestry Commission).  