General Overseer of the Saints Gospel Church, also known as Hand of Fire, Pastor Jacob Shodeinde has assured Nigerians that all prayers will be answered in 2020. The cleric spoke at the closing of the December edition of the Jesus Passover held at the church auditorium in Igando, Lagos State. According to him, 2020 will be a good year for Nigeria where every prayer will be answered, but Nigerians need to be more prayerful. The cleric preached tolerance among all religions, saying only in unity will prayers be fully answered. Shodeinde also clarified the controversy on Christmas, saying nobody knows the actual birth date of Jesus Christ but it is biblical to celebrate Christmas, which is a festival to celebrate the birth of Christ. He said: “We don’t want a situation where Christians and Muslims will be fighting themselves and that is why we will continue to pray for Nigeria. I was in the United Kingdom when God called me to come home and pray for Nigeria, and since then, I have not stopped praying for Nigeria. “Earlier this year, I said God will take control of all the problems confronting Nigeria, during and after the elections, and you can see how God has done just that.” The cleric also condemned the rise in fake miracles pervading Christianity. According to him, a rise in fake miracles is a sign of the end time as written in the Bible. “Those people are not called by God; they are not part of the kingdom of God but of this world because they are after money. The church of God is not to gather money but to save souls for the kingdom. God will soon expose them,” he added. Pastor Shodeinde urged Nigerians to be more prayerful and get closer to God because God has promised good reward for obedient servants in 2020. The cleric also advised the government to listen to the people because without the people there will be no government. “Let the government have a listening hear so as to take the country to the next level. And as is our mandate, we will continue to pray for the government,” he added.