University of Uyo (UNIUYO) has organised an orientation for the newly-admitted students for 2019/2020 academic session. The event, which lasted three days, was held at the Onyema Ugochukwu Hall, Town Campus and was attended by top officials led by the Vice-Chancellor Prof Enefiok  Essien;  Deputy VC (Administration) Prof Nyaudoh Ndaeyo; Deputy VC (Academics) Prof Enoidem Usoro;  Registrar Mr. Aniediabasi Udofia; Bursar Mr Imoh Markson; Librarian Prof Ahiaoma Ibegwam; the Dean, Students Affairs Dr Aniekan Brown; and President, Students’ Union led by Emmanuel Akpan. The event was aimed at helping the new students know the institution’s code of conduct and regulations. Essien advised the new students to take their admission as a golden opportunity, saying that not all that applied for admission had the opportunity to be part of the university community. Enefiok said the management had developed zero-tolerance for indecent dressing and misconduct. He assured the students of the institution’s support and warned them against taking part in any illegal activities on campus. “You are first a student before anything else on campus; therefore make your studies a priority,” Essien warned. The varsity’s Registrar Mr Aniedi Udofia, explained to the new students the benefits of doing registration on time. He warned that late registration attracts penalty and should be avoided. Akpan informed the new students about various activities of the union. He reiterated the support of SU for all students and assured them of always being there for them in the event of any difficulties. Emmanuel advised the students to be focused and take their studies seriously, adding that discipline is a virtue every student must work hard to acquire. The highpoint of the event was the practical demonstration of how to put off fire outbreak using fire extinguishers by the personnel of the state Fire Service. Some of the students, who spoke with CAMPUSLIFE, thanked the school management for organising the programme and promised to abide by the rules and regulations of the institution.