By Chinaka Okoro  The Supreme Court’s judgment that sacked former Governor Emeka Ihedioha of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as the governor of Imo State and installed Senator Hope Uzodinma of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has been described as a victory for democracy as well as a true reflection of the people’s will. Eze Ndigbo of Lagos State and Chairman Igbo Council of Ndieze in Lagos State, Christian Uchechukwu Nwachukwu (JP) stated this on Saturday while addressing reporters at the Lagos State Igbo Community Centre at Nwachukwu Drive, Okota Isolo Lagos on the recent political development in the Eastern Heartland State. He noted that contrary to some insinuations in certain quarters of foul play by the Apex Court, facts were obvious that the APC candidate in the March 9, 2019 governorship election in Imo State was short changed through the alleged exclusion of some of the votes he scored in about 388 units during the election. Nwachukwu, who said Imo State has not fared well during successive administrations, expressed his optimistism that Governor Uzodinma will deploy his wealth of experience in the development of the state, which he said is blessed with abundant human and natural resources. He said: “With Governor Hope Uzodinma at the helm of affairs in Imo State, there is a ray of hope for the state which has largely been described as a civil service state due to lack of industries. I am confident that the former Senate Committee Chairman on Aviation will do everything within his powers to lift Imo.  “Being a man who understands the plight of his people, he will do something differently in order to enhance the well-being of the people. When his campaign organisation paid homage to the palace in 2019 in the course of electioneering, he promised to revive all ailing industries in the state in a bid to create jobs for the teeming youths. “Ala Imo has longed for a man who will take it to a greater height; and this seems to be the time God Almighty is restoring hope to the people by giving them a governor who is Hope Uzodinma. I am convinced that he will work assiduously toward industrialising the state so that those indigenous to it and who are unemployed will have jobs, thereby contributing to the economic growth of the state.” Stressing that the victory of Uzodinma is a blessing to Ndi Imo, Eze Nwachukwu noted that with emphasis being placed on diversification of the economy through agriculture, Imo State will benefit immensely from the concerted efforts of Governor Uzodinma and his deputy, Professor Placid Njoku; who he described as “an eminent scholar and a Professor of Agriculture.” “Governor Uzodinma and his Deputy, Prof. Placid Njoku are good combination. Working with Prof. Njoku, a Professor of Agriculture and the first Vice-Chancellor of the Federal University of Agriculture Umudike, Abia State, there will be mutual understanding and perfect deployment of their experiences towards evolving policies and programmes for the benefit of the people.” Eze Nwachukwu urged the Imo State Governor to run an all-inclusive government by working towards unification of all factions of the APC in Imo State for a common goal. He also advised him to work toward alleviating the suffering of the poor in Imo State. 