Several state governors have launched top level efforts to stave off the strike brewing over the delay in implementing the new minimum wage. Governors Ben Ayade (Cross River), Yahya Bello (Kogi), and AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq (Kwara) have commenced negotiations with labour in their states to ensure that the stalemate is resolved before the January 31 ultimatum issued by the Nigeria Labour  Congress (NLC) for the payment of the minimum wage in all the states. Governor Ayade last Friday inaugurated the state public service negotiating team for the implementation of the new minimum wage. Ayade who was represented by his deputy, Professor Ivara Esu, said his administration was willing to pay the new minimum wage. He said: “We are only here to negotiate the consequential adjustments that will affect salaries from Grade levels 7 to 17. In doing that, we carefully selected this team of technocrats and strong labour people not just from the state civil service but from the local government for the negotiations.” But he urged the team to bear in mind the state’s financial reality. “In carrying out these negotiations, you must ensure that you think about the purse of the state as in the entire South South zone, Cross River is the only state that does not get a penny as extra revenue coming from oil,” he said. The committee is to present its report on or before January 31, 2020. Speaking on behalf of the team, the chairman of the negotiation team, Dr Chris Ekeng Ita said, “the first job has been made easy by the caliber of people that are meant to negotiate because they are knowledgeable”. Kogi: “We’re working hard to pay” The Special Adviser on Information to the Kogi governor, Mr. Kingsley Fanwo, told The Nation in Lokoja that government is in dialogue with labour to “ensure there is no industrial crisis.” He said:  “The new minimum wage requires financial engineering. We are working hard and I can assure you that the governor is fully committed to paying the minimum wage”. Kwara also gets minimum wage negotiating committee The Kwara State Government has also assembled its own negotiating team to interface with labour unions on the minimum wage. Following a directive by Governor AbdulRazaq, the Head of Service, Mrs Modupe Oluwole, constituted the  panel which comprises Commissioners for Finance (Chairman); Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs (member); Works and Transport (member);among others. The secretary of the committee is the Director (Establishment and Pension) Mrs Onaolapo Alaya. Negotiation still ongoing in Delta Talks between the Delta State government and Nigerian Labour Congress, Delta Chapter appear to be taking too long, although Governor Ifeanyi Okowa has pledged to pay the new wage. It was learnt that the committee inaugurated by the government and chaired by the Secretary to the State government, Mr Chiedu Ebie, has continued negotiations with the union despite lingering issues of the proper computations of basic salary. However, the Chairman of the Delta State NLC, Mr. Goodluck Ofobruku, said, “We are still negotiating in Delta, but everything is going well. In the next one week we will come out with a template.” Ebonyi begins payment of minimum wage The Ebonyi State government last week commenced payment of January salary to workers with the new minimum wage. Some workers told The Nation that they had received alerts of payment of their January salary with the new salaries structure. Governor David Umahi had said earlier that the January salary of workers would be paid with the new wage structure adopted between Organized Labour in the state and government on or before the 10 January Information Commissioner, Uchenna Orji, confirmed the payment of the salary to the workers. Ebonyi is the first state in the Southeast to pay the new minimum wage. Sokoto using staff audit to weed out ghost and child workers The Sokoto State government has launched a wide scale staff audit to verify and weed out ghost workers within its service. Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal announced this on Thursday night at the signing and submission of the report by the state committee on the implementation of the new minimum wage and consequential adjustments. The committee was established to resolve   the new minimum wage and consequential adjustments matter stalemate. I will pay what I can afford, says Taraba governor The Taraba State government says while it fully subscribes to the new minimum wage, it will only pay its workers what it has the financial capacity to pay. Chief Bala Dan Abu, Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity to Governor Darius Ishaku said: “We cannot do anything on the minimum wage independently. We are willing to comply with the federal government directive. So, we will pay. “But at the end of the day, we shall request that the labour in our state should show some understanding, given our financial peculiarity”. Ekiti still talking with workers on consequential adjustment The Chief Press Secretary to Ekiti State governor, Mr. Yinka Oyebode, said that the state was optimistic about the fruitful outcome of its current negotiation with labour on the consequential adjustment of the N30,000 minimum wage. Oyebode said discussion was still ongoing between the government and labour team to work out modalities for the implementation of the new minimum wage. “I can confirm to you that we are both talking on regular basis. The negotiation is ongoing and it has reached an advanced stage,” he said. Niger seeks way to avert strike Governor Abubakar Sani Bello of Niger State met last Friday in Minna with the Secretary to the State Government, the Head of Service and other Commissioners with a view to averting strike in the state over the new minimum wage. The Nigeria Labour Union had given government a  21-day  ultimatum to start implementing the minimum wage. We’ll pay, says Ondo governor Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State said: “Organised Labour and Government have been having discussions and negotiations, and we are finetuning our conclusions to ensure that we come up with the most acceptable and sustainable salary structure, considering the financial strength of the state. The Nigeria Labour Congress(NLC) and the  Trade Union Congress(TUC) in the state confirmed that talks are in progress but declared that  payment of  the N30,000 minimum wage is  non-negotiable. Anambra to start payment of new minimum wage January Governor Willie Obiano of Anambra State has assured the work force in the state that government will start payment of the new minimum wage this month. But he wants them to work hard to improve the state’s Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) to make it easier for him. Negotiation between the government and labour on the matter is still in progress. When The Nation called the state Chairman of NLC, Jerry Nnubia to react on the matter, he refused to pick the phone. He also did not respond to text messages sent to him. But Information and Public Enlightenment Commissioner, C-Don Adinuba, said yesterday that the state government was ready to commence payment of the new minimum wage this month. Enugu won’t be the odd one out, says Igbokwe The Chairman of the Enugu State Joint Public’s Service Negotiating Council, Mr. Chukwuma Igbokwe, has said that the state  will prove its  ” glorious position as the most peaceful state with the most labour friendly Governor,” by implementing the new minimum wage structure. Igbokwe assured workers that the implementation of the minimum wage would soon take off in the state “as the governor of Enugu State, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, has put in place procedures for that purpose.” According to him, the 11-man committee comprising six government officials and five labour leaders are currently brainstorming with a view to achieving a favourable consequential salary adjustment on the new wage. Osun inaugurates committee on minimum wage The Osun State government has inaugurated a committee to conclude arrangement on payment of the minimum wage to the workers in its employ. The Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Mr. Ismail Omipidan, said the Gboyega Oyetola administration is committed to the welfare of workers, adding that the inauguration of the committee was to prove the state government’s sincerity on the minimum wage. Gov. Buni assures Yobe workers new minimum wage in January Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State last week made an express pronouncement that workers in the state will enjoy the new minimum wage with effect from January, 2020. Gov. Buni who make the pronouncement at the swearing in of his SSG and eight Permanent Secretaries at the Banquet Hall of Government House, Damaturu. The governor’s announcement followed a thunderous applause that almost brought down the roof of the hall. The Nation reports that the state government had earlier constituted an 11- man committee on 13th January 2020 to work out modalities for the consequential adjustment table to ensure  the payment of the new minimum wage to workers of the state.