From Damisi Ojo, Akure  A governorship aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ondo State, Prince Adebanjo Edema, has promised to tackle poverty, if elected. Edema, who hails from Ilaje Local Government Area of the state, spoke with reporters in Akure on his ambition. He said: “It is pathetic that most politicians make people poor and impoverished so that they can come back to them for survival, but I have decided to fight poverty and hunger in the Sunshine State. “I am an agriculturist,so I understand agriculture a lot and Ondo State has all it takes to be the best in Nigeria. I will call people to join hands with me to fight promoters of poverty and hunger in the state if I am elected as the next governor in the state.  “I will do so in ordet to enable them know their right and what they are entitled to.” Edema added that he would ensure sustainable development and a better future for the state. He said: “We will be committed to work together with the people to promote sustained development in three dimensions: economic, social and environmental in a balanced and integrated manner because our commitment will be unprecedented in scope and significance. Edema said his administration would prioritise education and have a unique plan for Infrastructural development. “I will have unique plan for education sector and education will be all-inclusive and qualitative from childhood to adulthood. This will lead to real democracy because if people are educated, they will understand our policies and programmes. The aspirant promised to run an all- inclusive government where individuals will be stakeholders for transformation of the state. He said everybody would be involved in the governance of the state,stressing that all communities will have major roles to play in having master plans of their communities unlike when people are disconnected from their government. Asked if he could dislodge Akeredolu, he said it was people votes that would determine if they are pleased with the government in the state. His words: “If you go out and seek people’s opinion, they  will tell you that they want better governance because they need government of their own.”