Editorial  The Socio- conomic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has filed a suit at the Federal Capital Territory High Court to stop a seemingly wrong application of public funds. The civil society organisation is irked by an edict passed last year by the Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC), according retired council chairmen, vice chairmen and councillors the right to pension for life. SERAP contends that it is wrong for the local councils to legislate on pension since it falls on the exclusive legislative list under the 1999 Constitution. We agree with SERAP that the greed of politicians must be curbed at all cost. They appear to be insensitive to the plight of those who gave them the mandate to serve, otherwise, why would someone elected to serve at the base of the governance structure seek to turn it to a lifetime opportunity to draw fund from the till? At various levels, this parasitic instinct has been manifested. It took a similar suit by SERAP to stop former governors now serving as senators or ministers from drawing double emoluments from the treasury. Aside influencing the state legislatures to pass laws placing them on indefensible pensions and other benefits for life, the governors, upon manipulating their ways to other high offices, are paid full salaries. Local councils must have been encouraged by the unlawful example. The SERAP suits and victories in court should have called the attention of federal lawmakers to the duty to stand for the people they represent by passing legislations to check reckless application of scarce resources to satisfy private needs. It has become imperative for the National Assembly to organise a joint sitting to which the Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC), the National Wages Commission, the civil society groups and the general public would be invited to discuss remunerations, as well as pension for public officials.  The rate at which the common patrimony is being converted by officials would eventually sink the country if not checked in time. President Muhammadu Buhari should also take interest in the health of the federation he would be handing over in 2023. Given his interest in making local councils an effective third tier of government, he should step in to avert the conversion of the councils to agencies reserved for paying pensions only. In the instant case, the President has the full right to intervene since the FCT is administered directly by the Federal Government through one of his ministers. As the Federal High Court, Lagos, decided in the case of ex-governors receiving double salaries, all council officials who are caught in the web should refund whatever they have received. It’s the duty of all Nigerians to ensure that all tiers, arms, agencies and departments of government serve the people. Other civil society bodies should join SERAP in the bid to sanitise the country. It is obvious that unless there is a reorientation of the general citizenry, the people will be getting poorer as the politicians feed fat on national resources.