 GROUP Managing Director/CEO, Access Bank Plc, Herbert Wigwe, Executive Secretary/CEO, Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC), Yewande Sadiku, Director of Research & Chief Economist, Nigerian Economic Summit Group (NESG), Olusegun Omisakin, among others, will be speaking at the Vantage Forum, a business and economic  event organised by The Elevation Church (TEC). TEC has hosted Vantage Forum for six years and this year’s edition is themed ‘Harnessing business opportunities through innovation in Africa’s 1.3 billion people Market.’ Vantage Forum 2020 will hold on Thursday at the Pistis Conference Centre, Jakande, Lekki, Lagos On why the church is organising a business event, TEC Lead Pastor, Godman Akinlabi said  that Vantage Forum is the church’s contribution to the development of corporate Nigeria. “Vantage Forum is a veritable platform for crafting broad-based agendas that can stimulate economic growth for the country, and the African continent as a whole,” he said. ”At TEC, we recognise the nexus between the church and national development. The gospel of Christ is not only about going to heaven but also living an impactful life on earth. This is why capacity building has become an essential part of our policy as a church and Vantage Forum is one of our capacity building initiatives,” he continued. Akinlabi added that the church wants people to develop their potential and play in their various fields with ‘a sense of vision and leadership’. According to the Chief Operating Officer of TEC, Tunji Iyiola, Vantage Forum 2020 has a rich repertoire of activities, including conversations about leveraging on economic trends for business success. There will be panel sessions, question and answer sessions, and an exhibition for businesses. There will also be a fresh focus on the African continent. “Quite a number of our attendees have interests beyond Nigeria, and it is imperative that this year, we expand our scope to cover the African economic landscape,” Iyiola said. According to the Chairman, the event’s Organising Committee, Theo Adewale Onadeko, with the inauguration of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA) in 2018, commercial interest in Africa is on the increase. “It’s the big idea we are talking about, an economy with a population of 1.3 billion and a GDP of $2.5 trillion,” he said. 