Fresh from the euphoria of the Telecom Brand of the Year Award bestowed on Globacom recently by the World Branding Forum in Kensington Palace, London, Thisday Newspapers on Monday honoured the giant digital telecommunication company, Globacom, with the Brand of the Decade award as part of activities lined up to celebrate its Silver Jubilee anniversary. In the grand event that attracted Nigerian industry leaders, the organisers of the awards also recognised Globacom’s Chairman, Dr. Mike Adenuga Jr., with the award of Enterpreneur of the Decade. Before the enthusiastic audience, Publisher of Thisday, Prince Nduka Obaigbena, acknowledged the immense contribution of Globacom in growing the Nigerian economy since its emergence over 15 years ago.  He specifically recognised the array of innovative products and services that the company has developed and its value-add to human existence in the country and beyond. Similarly, the organizers acknowledged the personal contributions of Dr. Adenuga in developing the economy through his investments in various areas of the economy in Nigeria. They noted that his business interests span across many industries, and remarked that “Dr. Adenuga remains a major  pillar of the Nigerian economy.” The organisers said that Globacom emerged as Brand of the Decade in the “People’s Choice” category, while Dr. Adenuga clinched the Entrepreneur of the Decade award in the “Editor’s Choice” category. Receiving the award plaque from Hadiza Bala Usman, Managing Director of Nigerian Ports Authority, highly elated Mrs. Bella Disu, Globacom’s executive vice chairman said she was delighted to receive the People’s Choice: Brand of the Decade award on behalf of Globacom.  She thanked ThisDay and everyone who voted. According to Mrs. Disu, “being affirmed so strongly by those we serve is indeed the highest honour.  I thank all our millions of subscribers for their continued support.” Receiving the plaque of Entrepreneur of the  Decade award from Mrs. Udo Udoma, Miss Folashade Michael-Adenuga, executive director of Globacom, thanked the Editors of Thisday Newspapers for recognizing “the contributions of Dr. Adenuga to the growth of the economy” and appreciated all for the honour done to him. Globacom has remained committed to providing seamless telecoms services, in addition to empowering its teeming subscribers in many ways. Reacting to the award as the Brand of the Decade, the company confirmed that resourcefulness and commitment to innovation and service excellence were the factors that propelled the brand to the peak of Nigerian telecoms industry. Most importantly, it acknowledged the support of the over 50 million subscribers on the platform of the telecoms company in Nigeria. Dr. Adenuga is the chairman of Mike Adenuga Group which includes Globacom Limited, Conoil Plc, Conoil Producing, Continental Oil and Gas Ltd.  He also has interests in Banking, Real Estate and Construction sectors of the economy. Guests were thrilled at Thisday Silver Jubilee awards event by two outstanding international artistes, Nigerian-born Asa, and American John Legend.  Both serenaded the audience with melodious tunes that kept the excited audience on their feet, dancing and chorusing to the songs.