  THE Yoruba and their picturesque expressions! One, the hubris-stricken Aafa (Islamic cleric) that carries his saara (communal feasting, especially of neighbourhood children, to aid a prayer point) beyond the precincts of his mosque. Another, the mud carving, suddenly craving for a bath at the stream!  Who doesn’t know that carving craves for own doom? The Yoruba and their picturesque expressions! Yet, these ancient sayings may well have had Seyi Makinde, the governor of Oyo State, in mind, with his ill-advised bluff to flex gubernatorial muscles he doesn’t have, in the face of a clear Supreme Court verdict, on the inviolability of the tenures, of elected local government chairmen and councillors. The Oyo chapter of the Association of Local Governments of Nigeria (ALGON) rolled out the bazooka, blazing with the Supreme Court judgment and the federal attorney-general’s advisory to the governor to reinstate Oyo elected chairmen and councillors, he had purportedly sacked two hours after assuming his own mandate on 29 May 2019. “This is legitimate,” Oyo ALGON quipped, “after the attorney-general of the federation, Mr. Abubakar Malami, has again called the attention of Oyo State government and the Inspector-General of Police to the subsisting Supreme Court judgment reinforcing Section 7(1) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) and pronounced as illegal and unconstitutional the dissolution of elected local council administration by state governors or state assemblies in Nigeria, with no court order to back it up.” But the embattled Oyo government had returned fire, threatening, as reported by The Nation of January 27, the “full observance of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) regarding the ongoing controversy surrounding the dissolution of the 68 illegal local councils”.  But illegal — says who?  The court or the governor and his cronies, over-reaching themselves, and pronouncing where they lack legal powers? But the Oyo gubernatorial party upped the ante and raised the threat decibel: again quoting The Nation’s reportage: “individuals threatening to derail the peace of the state to desist from such ruinous path or face the full wrath of the law.” It’s the classic ad-baculum resort — threatening force, after losing reasoned argument! It’s the oldest trick in the book.  But what if the outlaw, in this case, is the thundering and puffing Oyo government itself, making all the row, just because it must back out from its illegal LG dissolution, after a clear and definitive judgment by the Supreme Court?  Clearly, there is a limit to bluff, when the law is clear? Of course, if the Oyo government has any issues with the conduct of the elections that brought the present LG officials to office, let it proceed to court.  Indeed, not a few have held the polls were bad faith from the outgoing Biola Ajimobi government; and that a wholesale APC-dominated LGs won’t go well with a PDP-controlled state government.  An APC Oyo government could probably have held to the same position too, had fortunes changed — universal politics of convenience and no principles! Even then, the law is the law, and every office created by law should hold the law as sacrosanct.  So, until Makinde can get a counter legal order, he has no choice but to comply.  Honestly, continued bluff at this point sounds being plain stupid! 