Imo Governor Hope Uzodinma has pleaded with the people of the state to be patient with his administration and assess his performance after one year in office. He also restated his commitment towards conducting local government elections in accordance with local government laws. Uzodinma, who made the plea while receiving the leaderships of the Organised Labour at the Government House Owerri, asked for support of the people, assuring of his sincerity to work for the state. He said: “It is not about political party or where you come from, its all about having the capacity to deliver. “If in the next one year, the narratives have not changed, people can now talk. But you must give me a chance. I know I will not fail.” Uzodimma solicited for partnership with the Organised Labour, assuring them of his commitment to serve the people with utmost sincerity. He extended his hands of fellowship to the unions and promised that Labour issues will be taken seriously. While expressing confidence that he will make payment of the new minimum wage a top priority, the governor directed the committee set up for the new minimum wage to liaise with the Secretary to the Government and come up with their report for quick implementation. Uzodinma, who assured of prompt payment of salaries and pensions, said: “I am not going to joke with payment of salaries and pensions, by 26th and 27th of every month, salaries must be paid complete. “The era of unnecessary deductions are over. We must return the civil service to function and create the necessary checks and balances”. He also assured of his readiness to conduct fresh local government election in line with local government laws in the state. He stated this when the chairmen of the traditional rulers from the 27 local government areas of Imo State led by the Chairman Imo State Council of Traditional Rulers, His Majesty, Eze Agunwa Ohiri paid him a courtesy call. Governor Uzodinma stated that the previous election conducted by the administration of Rochas Okorocha was not in compliance with the local laws. According to him, conducting elections in 645 autonomous communities as wards was not only illegal but not well thought out by the Okorocha administration, because according to him, the state could not afford to bear the financial burden associated with it. He assured of his readiness to conduct council elections in few months time, disclosing that in the meantime, the local government areas would be run by the Directors of Administration and General Services (DAGS) pending the conduct of elections. The governor reminded the monarchs that their role cannot be over emphasized in ensuring peace and tranquility. He assured them that his policies will meet the yearnings and aspirations of Imo people.