PENCOM  IBRAHIM: My name is Ibrahim and I work with Nigeria Immigration Service, a DSI by rank. My RSA, initially, was domiciled with the acquired Amana Pension Limited that was at the time of my documentation was at the Gwagwalada Paramilitary Board in 2009. Having registered with the Amana before it folded up, my pin was not given to me and I was left in the unknown for quite some years until IPPIS made me to understand that Sigma Pension acquired Amana Pension. I contacted Sigma and complained. They advised me for a new RSA registration and after doing that and given the new pin number, they later called me and inform me of an old pin that Amana never gave to me. Sigma later advise me to use the old pin of which I agreed. My complaint is, as IPPIS started paying my salary, my pension deduction from Sigma is updating me based on the deduction from the commencement of IPPIS without the previous balance from my RSA hitherto domiciled with Amana. Please help me. PENCOM: The relevant Department would require the PIN of the complainant to assist them further.  ABDULLAHI: My name is Abdullahi. My PFA is Trustfund. I  retired since 2014. I did my biodata in August 2018 and after that I went to my PFA Trustfund to request for my 25 per cent of my  savings, but  was told that PenCom did not send money for MDA. I am seriously in need of money because my children school fees  are becoming a problem. Please I need your quick response. Thanks.  Complainant: I want to know  when my friend who started working for the Federal Government at 21, was retired at 39, paid gratuity? When will she be paid pension monthly? She was retired 12 years ago. She is now 51 without pension. When will she start receiving pension monthly? Thanks for your attention. PENCOM: The relevant Department would require the PIN of the complainant to assist you further.  ABDULSALAM: My name is Abdulsalam, a staff member of Yaba LCDA, Lagos. I have been with Stanbic IBTC Pension since its inception. But just this month, my pension fund was transferred to Leadway Pensure without my authorisation. Please what can I do because I want Stanbic as my pension manager.  STANBIC IBTC PENSION: Please note that the policy of the National Pension Commission (PenCom) on multiple registrations is the ‘First PIN’ rule, which recognises the first RSA PIN generated for a client as the valid one to be maintained. Based on this, Mr Abdulsalam’s first PIN as confirmed by PenCom is the PIN registered with Leadway Pensure. Therefore, his RSA PIN with us was invalidated and the funds transferred to his valid Pension Fund Administrator in January 2019. Kindly note that Mr Abdulsalam was informed of his valid RSA PIN with Leadway via a letter dated  October 10, 2018.  We advise that he provides his Leadway PIN to his employer to ensure his RSA is credited timely. However, he can choose to transfer back to us once the transfer window is opened by PenCom. Do note that we also called him to provide further clarification, but our calls were not picked. We would try again.  OLAYORI:  My name is Olayori. I am a retiree of the National Assembly Commission.  I worked as a Legislative Aide to a former Senator. We left National Assembly in 2011 and I have been collecting  N7872.87 monthly pension. However, since last November, the payment stopped. My PFA is IEI-ANCHOR Pension. I will appreciate if you can assist to find out why the payment is stopped. Thank you for your anticipated cooperation.  IEI-ANCHOR Pension: We shall look into his case and revert.  PENCOM: The relevant department would require the pin of the complainant to assist you.  ADIGUN: My name is Adigun and my PFA is First Guarantee. The issue I want to discuss affects all contributory pensioners who were Osun State Government employees that retired in 2016 to date. None of these sets has received either gratuity or pension since he or she retired. The real problem we have is unknown as we were fed with lies by various PFAs. Kindly advise us on the way out of this predicament.  PENCOM: The relevant Department would require the PIN of the complainant to assist them further.