 Katsina State Government on Wednesday announced measures aimed at tackling resurgence of banditry and restoring relative peace and security the state had been enjoying in the past months since the dialogue with bandits. Special Assistant to the Governor on Security Matters, Alhaji Ibrahim Ahmad Katsina, who stated this in an exclusive interview with The Nation in Katsina, however disagreed with some media reports that the accord with the bandits had broken down. He identified recent pockets of attacks recorded in some parts of the state as community based, adding that the state government was currently rallying support of community leaders, the media, vigilance groups and security agencies to address the situation. “The state government is working hard to restore security in the few isolated areas affected by the recent attacks. We appeal to all and sundry for maximum cooperation and support,’’ he said. He further listed some of the new measures to include streamlining information dissemination on security matters at the rural and community level, dialoguing with relevant stakeholders, including traditional and community leaders, reviving the vigilance groups and community policing, as well as and ensuring increased tempo of the activities of security agencies in the state. In a related development, the State Police Command assured citizens of the state that the security architecture remained intact, despite recent attacks by bandits. The spokesman of the State Police Command, Superintendent Gambo Isah, told The Nation exclusively that the state’s security architecture and the dialogue between the state government and the bandits were still intact, despite the attacks. He said: “Contrary to insinuations in certain quarters, the dialogue between the state government and the bandits is still intact and unbroken. We are on top of the situation as shown in our recent report of successes recorded. We are currently beefing up our presence in the rural communities and monitoring of areas that are currently witnessing pockets of attacks. ‘’These bandits are taking advantage because they are used to enjoying a bigger life, spending a lot of money, getting money so easily through kidnapping.  We are aware of this few that doesn’t want to come on board. But I’m telling you 70 per cent of these forest commanders have accepted the dialogue process and they are cooperating with the security agencies. “So many of them have been assisting us, if there is any incident in those community, we work hand in hand with them, they even assist us to go out to see that we fight the battle together with them so I cannot say the peace process has broken down.’’