Damisi Ojo, Akure  Leaders of Nigerian Youths across the six geopolitical zones and FCT, Abuja on Saturday met in Akure, the Ondo State Capital to inaugurate President Muhammadu Buhari Centre for Good Governance (PMBCGG) with the Senate Deputy Majority Leader,Prof Ajayi Boroffice as its Grand Patron. The sole aim of the centre is to sensitize rural dwellers, market women and artisans on the remote and immediate benefits of the policies and programmes of the present administration. Prominent among its programmes include border closure and ban on rice importation which has brought values to the production of local rice in Nigeria, made positive impacts on the economy, especially the survival of rice mills hitherto struggling to survive due to smuggling which has led to the creation of jobs to over three million Nigerians.
.
The Acting National Chairman of the PMBCGG, Mr Sunday Ogunmola said plans were underway to sensitize communities across the country through the Centre Voluntary Initiative on government programmes, achievements and core values. He said since inception of President Buhari’s administration, they had articulated all his achievements from 2015 till date, stressing that they have been able to compile 1,000 visible achievements of Buhari’s administration across the country. According to him,” we are taking them to the 36 states and Abuja down to the grassroots. We are moving to markets and public places to interface with market women, artisans,organising town hall meetings in the presence of traditional ruler and religious leaders. ” Whatever we think we need to do to make sure we acquaint Nigerians with what President Buhari has been doing for their betterment. Ogunmola used the occasion to formally pronounced Prof Ajayi Boroffice,the Senator representing Ondo North District as the Grand Patron of the Centre. He commended the Senate Deputy Majority Leader for his unalloyed support for Buhari and the APC. He highlighted some of the donations Boroffice offered the PMBCGG for its smooth take-off such as situation office, multi-million office equipment, furniture and two new buses among others The Acting National Secretary of the Centre, Alhaji Hassan Kabir urged Nigerian Youths not to allow themselves to be used against government by unscrupulous politicians as cannon folder for violence, thuggery and terrorism.