The Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), Gen Gabriel Olonisakin, has asked Nigerians not to use the misconduct of a few bad eggs in the military to generalise the behaviour and effectiveness of the Nigerian military. He gave this caution through the Chief of Defence Civil/Military Corporation, Rear Admiral Obed Ngalabak, while trying to partner with the Ned Nwoko Foundation to reverse the negative public perceptions suffered by the Nigerian military. He is of course right to worry about the implications of lumping the military in one disreputable basket, but whether the image problem the Nigerian military faces is just that of a few bad eggs bringing shame upon the military is another thing entirely. Presenting the message of the CDS to Mr Nwoko, Rear Admiral Ngalabak said: “The Chief of Defence Staff has asked that we meet you because the civil-military relations is bad, it needs to be brought together and a person like you will go a long way to support this project. There was a certain article on some soldiers recently misbehaving in Lagos; but I want to say that in every family, there are black sheep, and this is just an example of that. Sometimes, it is because of the challenges they themselves are having: they are frustrated, and they have no way of letting it out, and so sometimes they behave like that; but that is not saying that is who we are, it is not everybody. We are trying to use this opportunity to correct some of these impressions and make people understand that the military is Nigerians, they are fighting for Nigeria and what we are doing is for Nigerians.” There is no military that does not have a few black sheep, but there are provisions to deal with them. Perhaps it is time the Nigerian military reassessed their training and doctrine manual, for the image problem they are contending with is feared to be more than what a few black sheep could cause. It is suspected that the problem has become systemic, and it is eating away at the heart of the military. The CDS talked about an article referencing a few soldiers misbehaving in Lagos; but almost on a daily basis, and as the military continues to be sucked into police duties, misbehaving soldiers have become omnipresent. From misbehaving at checkpoints to stopping traffic and taking selfies on major highways, and on to many other acts of brutality, Nigerian soldiers have acquired a reputation for unpredictability, homicidal rage, contempt for the rule of law, and other dangerous malfeasances. These problems are not just the end result of a few misbehaving soldiers; they are the product of a military alienated from discipline and national vision of who they are and what their roles in a democracy should be. But it is good the military leadership has at least recognised that it is confronting a big problem, one that requires an urgent solution. But that solution will not come from mere reorientation and propaganda campaigns. They must come from the military embarking on a comprehensive and top to bottom restructuring of their training and doctrine manual to inculcate zero tolerance for misbehaviour. The Nigerian military was not always like this. But admittedly the challenges they are being called upon to handle today have also substantially changed, thereby exposing them to far more intensive, continuous, corrupting and corrosive interactions with the civil populace, a culture that is alien to, if not subversive of, their training. The problem is deeper and wider than the military can manage. It is good for them to recognise that they are a part of the problem, and must need to take firm steps to restructure their training and operations. But as some of the statements of their top officers sometimes indicate, including when they set up panels to probe the misbehaviour of some of their men, such as the killing of policemen in Taraba months ago, they have often pulled their punches, appear protective of their men and reputation, and often see themselves as superior to the constitution and members of the public. Their mindset, which has been terribly distorted over the past few decades, must also be comprehensively addressed if the image deficit is to be bridged. And as the 2015 Zaria killings of Shiite members also show, too much has gone wrong for any desultory publicity blitz and propaganda to address. The federal government has the biggest responsibility to mould a military Nigerians can be proud of. They must know that Nigerians are dismayed by domestic and international reports of the misbehaviour of a few Nigerian soldiers. The government has deployed the military too pervasively and too casually to engender and retain service discipline. They guide pipelines, carry out strictly police duties, escort top politicians, are sometimes recruited unofficially as debt collectors, and generally conduct themselves above the law. The misbehaving soldiers may be few, as the CDS has pointed out, but they have managed by their indiscriminate unruliness to give the impression that their misbehaviour is pervasive in the military. Much more than the military, it is the government that is best placed to effectively tackle the problem; and the solution must be radical and substantial to be effective.