Damisi Ojo,Akure  Ondo State Governor and Chairman of the South West Governors Forum, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu arrangements have been concluded to start recruitment into the Western Nigeria Security Network(WNSN) ‘Operation Amotekun’ in the six Southwest States. The Governor said those willing to work in the new security outfit would be trained by certified security experts. According to Akeredolu’s Special Adviser on security, Mr Jimoh Dojumo at a Press Conference in Akure, the state capital, the Governors are working on modalities for recruitment into the security outfit and the date it will commence. The programme was organised by a group,Democratic Peace Movement (DPM) to drum support for the second term of governor Akeredolu in office. He however said security issue is not what could be revealed in the media. According to him” You keep certain things in order to achieve your desired results. I won’t reveal our modalties but I will simply tell you that we are working round the clock for the commencement of Operation Amotekun. Akeredolu enthused that Amotekun has come to stay, adding that they are not usurping the power of police on the issue of the security outfit,adding that due consultations were made before the launch of the security outfit. He said the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu was personally and officially carried along in all the processes that led to the launch of the security outfit. Besides, he hinted that the IGP sent a representative to the South West security summit held in Ibadan, Oyo State where the six Governors of the region agreed to set up the security outfit. ” we are assuring the people of the resolve of the six Governors of the South West to fight insecurity in the region. ” Operation Amotekun will in no small way pose serious challenge to those playing with the peace of the region. The governor hinted that his government has expended huge amount of money on the fight against kidnapping and killing by herdsmen in some parts of the state. The coordinator of the group, Prof Olu Aboluwoye said Akeredolu had performed well in all aspects of life and must be retained in office.