Blockchain technology has been touted by many experts as a major factor that will contribute to Nigeria’s gross domestic product (GDP) growth between now and 2025. They are pushing for it to drive e-governance, economic growth and job creation. One way to achieve this is by encouraging the government and private sector to transit from traditional ways of doing business to more efficient digitised business models that reduce fraud, promote transparency and economic growth. DANIEL ESSIET reports.  The Globenova Corporation Blockchain Summit in Lagos provided international experts the opportunity to x-ray the digital technology and Nigeria’s economic development. The summit was conceived to bring the best minds and global ideas together for a series of inspiring discussions, covering the areas of Blockchain technologies. A roster of international speakers presented an array of themes centring on Blockchain technologies, with emphasis on areas relevant to: banking and financial industry, government services, supply chains, entrepreneurship and innovation, investment and venture capital and skills and competencies development. According to experts, Blockchain technologies have the potential to revolutionise trade as well as support the creation of a new value-added economy. For instance, while the Customs Service is witnessing technological transformation with the adoption of Blockchain technology, Globenova Corporation Managing Partner, Toks Olaoluwa said Nigeria is capturing only a fraction of its digital economic potential and will need to make strategic investments to develop a dynamic, transformative digital economy. Olaoluwa said the present economic system requires certain technologies to achieve fast, strong and sustainable growth. These range from artificial intelligence, advanced robotics, autonomous vehicles, advanced geographic information systems (GIS), cloud computing, digital payments for internet things, among others. He added that digitalisation was the new game changer and is set to become the new normal as it has immense potential to achieve transformational changes and promote all-inclusive growth and development in the economy. The value addition to each of the sectors, he noted, is expected to generate tremendous economic benefits. According to him, Blockchain is defined as online distributed database that can be used by individuals who want to complete transactions involving multiple parties. It is an emerging technology for any innovation-obsessed government. Like a giant digital bulletin board, Olaoluwa said Blockchain creates an online ledger or database where records can be shared, moved and maintained on a transparent network, without compromising security. With such activities available to be seen by a blockchain’s many collaborators, Olaoluwa said the system is inherently secure, making it far less vulnerable to tampering, hacking and corruption than current systems. He said the technology represents a potential foundation for an innovation economy in Nigeria and could prove instrumental in sparking a new industrial revolution. According to him, its possibilities stretch far beyond cutting out the middleman in financial transactions, which often create higher costs for users and extra delays from processing times. He said they range from improving the efficiency of government services, to developing robust electronic-voting systems, to building reliable land-registry systems.  E-governance For experts, e-governance and digitilisation of government records, have been a slow-paced process in Nigeria, which has added to the red-tape. To revamp the system, the government is promoting digitalisation for enhanced efficiency. Olaoluwa said the government should strive to be as open, transparent and collaborative as possible. According to him, Blockchain, the technology underlying distributed ledgers, offers a new approach to transparency and collaboration. He explained that when assets are registered or transactions are recorded on Blockchain, data can be shared widely and seamlessly too. He said participants in a transaction on Blockchain have access to the same records and there is no need for third-party intermediaries to validate transactions or verify identities or ownership. According to him, the feasibility of Blockchain-based voting is one of the first areas the government should begin to explore. As part of a collaborative ecosystem enabled by Blockchain, he said the government should re-invent existing processes to provide a consistent, transparent and open view of activities. He noted that Blockchain has the potential to make processes more democratic, secure, transparent and efficient. The immutability of a Blockchain, according to him, makes it nearly impossible for changes to be made once established, which increases confidence in data integrity and reduces opportunities for fraud. He stressed that it was time Nigeria and the rest of Africa turned to Blockchain to conduct government business as they seek to improve service delivery to their citizens, eliminate the manual distribution of documents, especially among top officials and boost confidence in the public sector. He said his organisation was ready to work with the Federal Government and the private sector to ensure that Nigeria harness Blockchain and other kinds of innovation to eliminate extreme poverty and boost shared prosperity. Likewise, Schull Technologies Chief Executive, Kenny Oseni said the time is most opportune for Nigeria to embrace technological developments and translate them into opportunities for creation of millions of employment opportunities. He said there was a need for massive skilling and re-skilling of workforce so as to make them job-ready, adding that the government needed a completely innovative approach that facilitates trust in cooperation. He said this will be based on Blockchain technology, allowing public investments to be carried out transparently and securely. The features of Blockchain, according to him, create enormous advantages, adding that every action is stored in a Blockchain, a continuously expandable list of data sets. Once data has been saved in a Blockchain, he said, it cannot be changed. Above all, the data is not stored centrally on a server or on the computers of a single company. Instead, the documentation is decentralised on the computers of all users. That is what makes the system so secure. Indeed, advancements in information technology are opening up new frontiers, including artificial intelligence, automation, big data and block chain.  To  catch up, Oseni  stressed that ensuring that every person has the appropriate skills for an ever-growing digital world is essential to engender innovation, productivity and growth. The government, he said, must support digital transformation to spur job growth, economic output expansion and increased opportunities to attract businesses and infrastructure investments. Convergence Tech Chief Executive Officer, Chami Akmeemana said Blockchain has the power to transform how every industry does business by making interactions more secure, transparent, efficient and cost-effective. He said Blockchain is now being increasingly explored by different industries that are looking to benefit from the speed and accuracy offered by the emerging technology. One of the group’s projects is using Blockchain  to help farmers in Mongolia to deliver sustainable cashmere. Cashmere is Mongolia’s second largest export in terms of trading volume. Convergence tech used Ethereum-based Blockchain technology to interact with  over 70  different herders and eight co-operatives. Herders used a simple Android app to register their cashmere along with RFID tags, which then gets pinned on a map instantly. This allowed targeted incentives for herders, who were following sustainability practices and trainings and allowed for end-to-end supply chain tracking of where sustainable cashmere came from, and what herder was associated. For  many of  the farmers, the Android phones alone generated a lot of interest and enthusiasm. 471kg of cashmere was tracked through this system from nomadic small-scale growers to a processing factory in Ulaanbaatar and ultimately to end consumers willing to pay premiums for sustainable cashmere.  This was a consensual process from both sides, with herders stepping up and willing to have their goods marked in return for training on better practices and the hope of opening markets to paying price premiums for truly sustainable high-quality cashmere.  Land registrations Land registries across the world are either almost entirely badly kept or are distorted or mismanaged. Blockchain has the potential to eliminate the scope of forgery, fraud, tampering, as well as the distribution of records. One area, Akmeemana wants the government to deploy Blockchain is land registry. He explained that a system which comprises un-erasable data records that have permanent audit trails will promote better land governance. Apart from making all transactions verifiable and accountable, he said a Blockchain system secures property rights for lawful owners; enhance trust in the land governance system, thus making a marked improvement in the ease of doing business. He explained that a Blockchain land registry platform offers a distributed database that lets anyone record and access information.  The other advantage is that Blockchain registry platforms let key players upload the title documentation to the network where signers can sign the document and others can access the document and verify it whenever needed. Furthermore, he explained that many countries have started exploring the potential offered by Blockchain in reconstructing the land registry process. Similarly, the Vice-President, Product Innovation, Convergence Tech, Erik Zvaigzne said Blockchain provides a transparent solution on issues associated with land registries. The solution, according to him, is incorporating many key benefits of the technology within the registry’s platform, such as: an immutable history of transactional records, records permanently linked to the system and can be seen by any party at any time. He said Blockchain technology can be applied to practical uses in everything ranging from data sharing to industrial innovation. Convergence tech has already developed a Blockchain-enabled land registry for the state of Haryana in India. And another project in Afghanistan investigated opportunities to use technology within existing police payroll systems. According to Report Linker, an international market research publication, Blockchain is the underlying technology that originated in the form of a public ledger to keep track of all crypto-currencies transactions. The technology works as an electronic transaction-processing and record-keeping system. This allows various participants that are connected to the network, usually public, to track information through a secure network, thereby eliminating the need for any kind of third-party verification. The increasing demand for the technology across financial services, consumer or industrial products, technology, media and telecom, health care, transportation and public sector is largely responsible for driving the market toward growth. Deloitte Insights said fintech remains a Blockchain leader, but more  organisations  in  more  sectors such  as  technology,  media,  telecommunications,  life  sciences  and  health  care  and  government-are  expanding  and  diversifying  their  Blockchain  initiatives. Irish Tech News, an award-winning online publication said top and respected corporations such as IBM are among leading Blockchain employers. However, the massive banks now prefer to make more direct and straightforward Blockchain investments. Following the prediction of Gartner, an international research firm, a business value of about $176 billion is expected to be created by Blockchain by 2025 while it is also expected to increase to over $3 trillion by 2030.