Dr Olusegun Aluko, an architect, is the Rector, Federal Polytechnic, Ilaro. In this interview with FREDRICK ADEGBOYE and Elizabeth Olatundun, Aluko speaks on his achievements and plans for the institution.  You transferred your services from the Federal Polytechnic, Nasarawa to the Federal Polytechnic, Ilaro in 1988, nine years after the latter was founded. Why? One, I got a better offer; and that was my primary purpose of coming. Secondly, the rector there at Nasarawa was moved to Federal Polytechnic, Ilaro, and we had been working together at Nasarawa. When he got here, there was no single architect in this institution and he needed an architect badly. So, he got in touch with me, persuaded me to come with a better offer. The Federal Polytechnic, Ilaro is not where it is when it was established 40 years ago. What are the things your administration has up its sleeves to grow the school bigger? At this time, I should not be asked what I have in view again because I have been on this seat for the past five years. I know we have contributed our own quota to this institution. Maybe from the time I took over, I think I would have added between 12  to 15 new programmes to the school. We have established so many departments. So, we have about 15 new programmes and the population has grown from 6000 to 9000. And in terms of structures, for the past five years, we have added about eight structures. We have three auditoriums, one conference centre, Mass Communication building, entrepreneurship educational centre, agricultural village, workshop for Environmental Studies and a new guest house. What about innovative technology? Since we took over, we have changed the narrative of the school. We now focus on our core area, which is manufacturing and invention. As of today, we have about four patented work. We have the electronic mobile waste disposal system, we have the power welding machine, we have a complete palm kernel producing line that can produce all products pertaining to palm oil, kernel oil etc. Then, we have the juice extractor line; any form of fruit we can convert them to juice. We have fabrication for all; those ones have been patented by the National Office for Technology Acquisition and Promotion. And a lot of other things we are still working on. We have what we call electronic mail box, that if you drop a mail inside your pigeon hole, it will reflect on your phone that you have a mail inside your pigeon hole and it will be there until you pick the mail. If another mail drops, it will show you have two mails. What is the idea behind the agricultural village? You will remember that Federal Government is shifting from dependence on oil as a means of foreign exchange. And we know that agriculture is one of the endowments of this country. This country is highly endowed with a lot of agricultural land and virtually all crops can grow in Nigeria depending on where we stand in the country. And to tackle unemployment, government assumes that people should go back to agriculture because if you cannot feed yourself as a nation then you have a problem. So, the focus of the government is on agricultural, manufacturing and others.  So, we key into it since we have a lot of land. We have an agric- mechanical and engineering – department. So, all those equipment that can add value to agricultural products, we start manufacturing them, so that when we harvest our plantains, we don’t just go and sell them, we convert them to plantain chips and sell. When we harvest our corn, we don’t just sell them, we convert them to feed for our poultry and our poultry will give us eggs. Then, the palm kernel, that’s where we are  because palm kernel takes longer time to grow but we already have the line for producing it. Not that we just produce, as we are doing things, we are teaching our students so that when they go out, they have something on their hands. Having held various positions before becoming the Provost, which of those positions do you consider most tasking? The ASUP (Academic Staff Union of Polytevhnic) chairman was the most tasking because one, it involved a lot of travelling and I have phobia for travelling. Secondly, it’s a position that is too demanding; a lot of expectations – both reasonable and unreasonable. As a leader, some of your subjects know that this thing is not their right; yet they want the leader to fight for it. However, to the glory of God, I think I was able to survive it because I stood on principle and I think that’s one of the reasons they also have to respect my opinion. I would tell them: ‘If this is not right and you want us to fight for it, I will not be a party to it’. They know where I stand on every issue. And they never fought you? They cannot, because facts cannot be contradicted. For instance, if you say you are not promoted the question I will ask is: ‘Are you qualified?’ Yes, the criteria for promotion are there, and I would want to know if the people have met them? If you have not, why are you saying you are not promoted? When I was ASUP chairman, I was not promoted because I did not meet the criteria; and I didn’t fight anybody. So, why will they force ASUP to fight for the person that is not promoted when he’s not qualified? They know where I stand on every issue and it has helped me. Of all the architectural projects you have worked on or undertaken, both within and outside the campus, which would you say delights you the most? It’s our beautiful gate. I just did the design but when people saw it, they call it the Beautiful Gate and it has a symbolic interpretation. You know there is a beautiful gate in the Bible. You have received many awards. You must definitely cherish one over and above others. Naturally, it was when I was adjudged the best Rector – that was 2017. It was given to me by the Arewa Media Group. You know it’s an award that doesn’t come from within. Arewa group is in Kaduna, and for them to notice what you have done there, it shows you have done something that people can recognise. In ranking, what position is Federal Polytechnic, Ilaro? According to the National Board for Technical Education, we are the second best polytechnic in Nigeria. How do you rate polytechnic education in Nigeria? Polytechnic education is not being given the rightful and adequate attention. People do not have the statistics to judge that they (polytechnics) are not doing badly. If you look at the employment rate in Nigeria, you will discover that the polytechnic graduates are not the most-hit.