 THERE are growing concerns that a lot may not bode well for the oil and gas sector. What is your projection for the sector in 2020? Certainly, people have reasons to be apprehensive. The industry remains critical to Nigeria because it is contributing 70-75 % to government revenue but less than 10% to GDP. The latter is the greatest concern because oil and gas activities tend to not have linkages with national economy beyond flamboyant life style of few elites. They made money in Nigeria but spent most of it abroad, hence the apprehensiveness that the collapse of the industry may lead to the Venezuela experience and hopefully never the Yugoslavia disintegration. I think the All Progressives Congress (APC) government missed a great opportunity withholding President Assent to the Petroleum Industry Governance Bill (PIGB or the Bill). It would have sent a positive signal to better investment climate for the next decade. The Deep Offshore Sharing Contract Act as amended has been described as a game changer of sorts considering the benefits it would attract to the country in terms of investment within the oil and gas sector. Do you share such sentiments? No I don’t. The royalty emphasis is regressive to investors with too much emphasis on early rent extraction. On the other hand, the flexibility of the schemes is palatable but dampened in my opinion because of additional royalty by value. It portrays government tendency to be risk averse. In fact, it is a legislation that may inhibit further development of assets in the long run when cost oil has been fully recovered. I am not opposed to the act by any means, but could have created a palliative measure to counteract the regressive nature of royalty by avoiding royalty rate by price. If government wants more because of rising price, a better approach would have been through profit oil not royalty. Some school of thoughts however hold the view and very strongly too that the Deep Offshore Act may erode investment in the sector because of the incurably defective laws? What’s your take? I share that sentiment as explained earlier. We are no longer the bride not because of geology but poor industry governance and disregard for mutuality of interests between government, society and investors. Whilst countries like Equatorial Guinea are further opening up their space to maximise investments in the country with a projected revenue of $1.4b in 2020 in the oil and gas sector, Nigeria is however anticipating a revenue decrease in 2020 in the sector, hence the government  has resorted to borrowing to make up for the shortfall. What can be done? Fiscal responsibility is bane for effective maximisation of revenue from exhaustive resources.  To me it is about spending oil and gas money on physical infrastructure and human capital development not for subsidising consumption to the tune of one quarter of national budget annually! It leaves much to be desired, especially when misery index of the society is not ameliorated by such spending! According to a recent report by the Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI), there are over 200 idle oil blocks yet to be allocated by the federal government. At a time government is complaining of paucity of funds, don’t you think allocations of such idle oil blocks may fetch the government some good money? Block allocation in some jurisdiction is a necessary condition for reserves growth and production capacity expansion. I am dumbfounded by the inaction of government in this respect. The last formal bidding for block in Nigeria, I think was 2007, right and I am not talking about block renewal. Get me right, you get something for signature bonus, but that should not be the primary reason for offering block for sales. It is about expanding reserves and building production capacity for energy business sustainability. The target was 3mln barrel per day in 2010, and 4mln barrel per day and 49 billion reserves in 2020. Well, no way to attain this if from 2010-2019, there was no formal bidding for oil blocks. Last weekend the Nigeria LNG Limited sealed the $10b Train 7 Project deal, which has been projected to create over 40,000 direct and indirect jobs. How feasible is this? Certainly it’s good news indeed that there is a final investment decision (FID) for train 7. It is also true that the multiplier effect in such spending is huge. I give kudos to the management of the Nigeria LNG Limited for this judging from Nigeria business environment in comparison to Mozambique, Angola, Ghana or even Australia or Qatar. However, it may interest you that at the introduction of liquefied natural gas (LNG) as a viable means to make gas less of a regional commodity, Nigeria ranked neck to neck with Qatar. But while we are celebrating train 7, I think Qatar has gone past train 70.   