From Adesoji Adeniyi, Osogbo.  The Chairman, Federal Civil Service Commission, Deaconess Joanna Ayo, has identified inadequate funding, corruption and lack of accountability and transparency as the bane of tertiary education in Nigeria. Delivering a lecture entitled: “Higher Education in Nigeria” at the Bowen University, Iwo, Osun State, Ayo, an educationist, advised the government to give priority to education. According to her, one of the major  problems besetting higher education in Nigeria is inadequate funding. She said other problems include  inconsistent policies due to change in governments, lack of continuity of programmes which are more pronounced in public universities and infrastructural decay. She further explained that disruption of higher education system as a result of industrial action and riot, lack of research grants, poor conditions of service and poor  remuneration of lecturers among others as some of the many challenges of  higher education in the country.  Urging students to be more studious, Ayo said students should begin to work hard to actualise their dreams. She said: “No matter how naive, no matter how impossible, no matter how realistic, what is your life’s ambition? You must dream a dream and work hard towards  actualising your dream. “Why have you decided to have a university education? University education is more than acquisition of knowledge for work, for position, for power, for anything tangible. It is the development of the totality of a man; the development of a sound mind in a sound body. “Be curious, be mentally alert to your environment. Fear God, respect all people and respect yourself.Know your God-given strengths and your weakness so that you can maximise your strength and opportunities of life ; and turn your weakness to God to show His strength through them. “Do not settle for second place. God has created you to rule and subdue, so have confidence in your God-given ability. Remember  you are fearfully and wonderfully made.” She, therefore, lauded the management of the Bowen University and the founding fathers for their vision which she said had helped affected many lives academically, morally and spiritually. 