It is a New Year. It is also a new decade. And these facts pop up questions in my mind: Will Nigeria and Africa become new? Will old things pass away? The fresh air hovering around also puts me in a reflection mood. And China comes to my mind, not for being in constant fight with the United States or for its funny kind of democracy, but for the lessons Nigeria and Africa can learn from this nation, which at the end of two decades of hardship and internal conflict in 1980 had a telephone penetration rate of 0.22 per cent—one of the lowest rates in the world at the time. Telephone lines were restricted only to senior government officials. Poverty rate was 88 per cent and registered vehicles were 365,000. I was in Shenzhen, the home of Huawei in China, in April last year. Last Friday, I was back in China. This time around, I went beyond Shenzhen. I was in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and many other parts of China. In 24 hours, I was in all these cities and towns and I returned to Lagos that same Friday. I even took a break to see Sugar Rush, Jade Osiberu’s latest movie at the Genesis Cinema inside the Maryland Mall. After the movie, I returned to China to complete my odyssey. Let me confess before I am taken for a liar. The trip was not physical. It was spiritual and the talisman that took me there is known as Travelling with Big Brother. The ‘juju man’ behind this talisman is Solomon Elusoji, a journalist who spent ten months in the new Big Brother and recorded his junket across China. Elusoji uses a style which shows his creative writing skills. The book is like a letter to his best friend, Elizabeth who had told Elusoji that going to China was like going to war. Reading Elusoji brought back memories of the little China I saw in Shenzhen. Until the early 80s, the city was on its knees. Like the bulk of China, poverty was a friend to many of its inhabitants. All it took to change this city’s fortune — and by extension, China’s fortune — was a right decision by a focused leadership. The government of the time had no money to spend in developing the city so it declared the city a special economic zone. Foreign investors were encouraged with all manners of incentives. The first focus was how to reform the nation’s telecommunications sector, which was in a terrible state. Like it was in Nigeria and for the bulk of Africa at the time, the telephone was for the rich. The investors changed all that and in a few years, the telephone became for all. This era gave birth to Huawei, now a giant in the global telecommunications world. Elusoji took me further than Shenzhen. Through him, I was educated about the Chinese brand of politics. The Chinese have a political event known as ‘The Two Sessions’. The Two Sessions, Elusoji observed, is China’s stab at a democratic spirit. It is a conference of the country’s legislative and consultative bodies, the National People’s congress (NPC) and the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC). “The NPC, made up of 3,000 delegates from across the country, is the country’s legislature. But it is not your typical democratic law-making assembly – it has never voted down a proposed law from the Communist Party, China’s sole ruling party. However, since it held its first meeting in 1954, instances of dissent and a lack of consensus have increased, leading some to believe that China is becoming increasingly democratic. “In 1982, three delegates abstained from a vote for the first time; the first ‘no’ vote was cast six years later. Then in 1972 only two-thirds of the congress voted in favour of the Three Gorges Dam, a highly controversial project that took decades to come to fruition,” Elusoji wrote. The NPC delegates, according to Elusoji, are elected by provincial lawmakers chosen by lower-level assemblies at the city and country level. China, Elusoji wrote, does not recognise dual nationality for its citizens. What Elusoji has to say about Hainan broke my heart. The picture of Sanya’s Phoenix International Airport in Travelling With Big Brother makes the Murtala Mohammed International Airport looks like an airstrip. The airport is “a stunning modern edifice that facilitates flights between 136 domestic and 23 international airlines”. Sanya is on Hainan Island. It is China’s southernmost province and is known as the Hawaii of China. In 2017, Elusoji wrote, the city made the New York Times’ top 52 places to visit in the world. Tourist arrivals, in 2015, were about 15 million. Revenue from tourism businesses are in billions of dollars. Like Shenzhen, the Chinese government designated the island as a special economic zone, a decision, which made property prices jump up. In April 2018, President Xi Jinping followed up the special economic zone status by deciding to build the whole of Hainan Island into a pilot international free trade zone. Hainan’s infrastructure development is solid and has helped drive tourism. Its high speed railway was completed in 2015. The road network allows hitch-free movement around the Island. Like all good developments, Hainan’s growth has its downside: the ordinary people have been priced out of town. Ecological deterioration and water pollution are also issues the city is battling with. Hubei is another destination Elusoji dragged me to. It is known as a ‘province of lakes’ and its capital, Wuhan, is described as the ‘City of Rivers’. The Poverty Alleviation project in Lijiawa village and other parts of China are initiatives Nigeria needs to copy, and fast, too. “In Lijiawan, a village with 844 people and 234 households, the poverty alleviation project has resulted in a collectively built solar panel which generated power that is sold to the national grid. Revenue generated from the solar panel’s electricity each year is as high as 60,000 RMB (about $8,000),” wrote Elusoji. The book also took me back to Guangzhou, which I flew in through during my April last year trip to Shenzhen. What it has to tell me about Beijing makes me have a mixed feeling about whether or not we will ever get infrastructure and others things right and when. My final take: This year, Nigeria needs to declare special economic zones in many cities. Studying and adapting the China model may go a long way. We also need poverty alleviation villages to free our people from the shackles of want and lack. Elusoji’s book, with its crisp and descriptive language, has made him taller in my sight. This is a very important book that is not just for only those interested in Sino-Africa relations; it is a book that reads so well that even if you want nothing to do with the land where Google and Facebook are banned, you will still enjoy the creative energy poured into writing it. Happy 2020!