  But for the existence of the requisite viable institutions, appropriate laws and the necessary public consciousness on the part of a patriotic citizen in Lagos State, we would most probably have been writing now about the death of a 14-year-old baby girl who was born with grave health complications to a family in the state. After her delivery at a private hospital in Surulere, Lagos, the baby was diagnosed as suffering from severe jaundice and in need of urgent blood transfusion if she was to survive. Unfortunately, there was a clog in the wheel of what should have been a rational and straightforward process of saving the valuable life of an infant through necessary medical care. And this was the religion of her parents, Mr. and Mrs. Emmanuel Onokpise of Abata Close, Orile–Iganmu, Lagos, who belong to the Jehovah’s Witnesses sect. One of the tenets of their faith forbids blood transfusion and the parents of the girl stoutly refused to allow her being transfused with blood. Indeed, they forcibly ensured her discharge from hospital against medical advice and took the helpless child home despite her fragile health condition. Thanks to a concerned and conscientious member of the public, however, who petitioned the relevant authorities on the matter. Immediate action was taken to rescue the child from her parent’s custody and ensure she received the necessary medical attention that guaranteed her survival. A critical factor in safeguarding the life of this child is the existence and effectiveness of the Office of the Public Defender (OPD), which offers free legal services to indigent persons. The OPD was petitioned on the issue and it acted decisively to remedy the situation. On its part, the OPD was empowered to carry out its mandate in this instance because of the existence of the relevant laws, namely, the Lagos Child Rights Law of 2015 and the Lagos State Safeguarding and Child Protection Policy of 2016. Acting on the basis of the relevant sections of these laws, and in concert with men of the Nigeria Police Force, Adeniji-Adele and Orile police stations, the OPD overcame the vehement resistance of members of the Jehovah’s Witnesses and enforced the right of the baby girl to life.  That the weight of the child had dropped from 2.2 kilogrammes at birth to less than 1.7 kilogrammes when she was retrieved from her parents for proper care shows how fast her health was deteriorating. While the parents as adults have the right to hold to religious beliefs and practices of their choice within the context of the law, such rights do not extend to jeopardising the right of their offspring to life. In terms of the life, safety and wellbeing of the child, parental responsibility is subordinate to the requirements of statutes enacted by the state. The Director of the OPD in Lagos State, Mrs. Olayinka Adeyemi, thus hit the nail on the head when she declared that “The current administration will not spare any effort in protecting the rights of women, children, the vulnerable and indigent residents of the state, irrespective of gender and religion”. The right of religious liberty that citizens are constitutionally guaranteed must not be allowed to impede the right of individuals to life. This is particularly so in the case of children who have not reached the appropriate age of being able to take responsibility for their beliefs and choices. They must not be allowed to become unjust victims of the sometimes ignorant choices and practices of their parents or guardians. This case brings to the fore the need for all states in the country which have not done so to enact the requisite laws and establish the accompanying institutions to protect the rights of the vulnerable, including children, as Lagos State has done.