Our Reporter  HIS stage name, Alabi Yellow, overshadowed his real name, Dayo Akinpelu. He was a well-known actor in the Yoruba movie industry, and attained the status of a veteran with more than four decades of acting experience. He died at 62 on December 22. Akinpelu’s selection last year for a role in Kunle Afolayan’s movie, Mokalik, after having been out of the spotlight for some time, was a testimony to his talent and relevance. Afolayan was quoted as saying that Mokalik, released in May, “holds the record of 2019 highest selling Nollywood film in opening week.” This information shows that many people saw Akinpelu perform in the movie, which tells the story of an 11-year-old boy from the middle-class suburbs who is sent to work as an apprentice at a mechanic’s workshop far from his home. When the boy’s father arrives to take him home, he has to make up his mind if he wants to return to school or continue as an apprentice. Akinpelu explained: “My role is that of Ajentina. Ajentina is a mechanic assistant chairman that knows much about the mechanic work and he has so many apprentices under him, showing them what they should do and what they should not do. The storyline is fine, very, very educative …This film is a public enlightenment programme and many people would learn that there should be a vocational set-up in life.” An account of his acting trajectory, which he provided in an interview, showed how he had taken an interest in acting at a young age. Significantly, the account also reflects the development of theatre arts in the country: “I started when I was in primary school at African Methodist School, Ikorodu. Then, I was in primary three. There is a biblical story about Job, and we acted that story on stage and I took the part of Satan that went to torment Job. The audience was large and vivacious. So, when I came out of the stage, people came and gave me money. Later, I joined my late master, Pa Oyin Adejobi in 1978. We did a lot of TV programmes. “I think we had two television stations then -WNTV/WNBS and NTA Channel 10 in Lagos. Before I left the place, we shot a few celluloid films, Aiye, from our late legend, Baba Ogunde (Hubert Ogunde). It was shot from 1979 to 1980. Then Baba Moses Olaiya comes in, Ade Love comes in, Ajani Ogun too. I left my master in 1981 to start my own theatre group. And since I started the theatre group, I’ve made a name. God has helped me to promote the talent.”  In 1985, Akinpelu notably participated in a 13-episode programme on family planning jointly produced by Ogun State Television and the US-based John Hopkins University Population Communication Service. Akinpelu’s selection for the programme, which was recorded in Nigeria, showed his rating as an actor. He represented an era when the performer’s passion came first, and not what such passion could bring materially. He saw himself as an educator, and regarded acting as a vehicle for education. He was proud of his role and its social significance. “Anything we did then was with passion,” he recalled. “It’s not the money but the interest, the passion was there. When people see you on television or hear you on radio, people knew these people were special. They saw actors and actresses as special people because they educate people. They teach people what to do and what not to do.” To his credit, he also wrote a Yoruba literature book, A ba oko ku, for pupils in Junior Secondary School, which was included in the syllabus. Through his acting and writing, he helped to popularise Yoruba, which made him an interesting promoter of indigenous language. 