 A member of the House of Representatives, Hon. Olubunmi Ogunlola has applauded South West Governors for the formation of the joint security outfit code-named ‘Operation Amotekun’ to tackle insecurity in the region. Ogunlola, who represents Ekiti West Federal Constituency II, said the security architecture was a prompt and proactive step to promote a regional response to checkmate the prevailing scourge of kidnapping, banditry, and herdsmen /farmers’ clash in Southwest. In a statement in Ado-Ekiti on Saturday, the federal lawmaker commended the Governors of Ondo and Ekiti State, Rotimi Akeredolu(SAN) and Kayode Fayemi respectively, for spearheading the establishment of Amotekun. She said the upsurge of insecurity in the region all pointed to the need for a strong proactive approach that would complement the effort of the existing security architecture to safeguard lives and property in all states of the region. “This is a great initiative in view of the vulnerability of the region to various security challenges. For me, Operation Amotekun is a right step in the right direction because the killings recorded in  Southwest between 2018 and 2019 were down too much. “And I believe with this, the people can now sleep with their two eyes closed since the security outfit will now serve as an immediate intervention to stem the tide of banditry, kidnapping and attendant killings in the region”, she said. She further stressed the need for the use of modern technology and innovation in surveillance, saying such would enhance ‘Amotekun’ operation in achieving its foundational objective of stemming the tide of kidnapping, banditry, herdsmen/farmers’ clash and other crimes in the region. She called on the people of Southwest, irrespective of their political affiliation to support the initiative and see it as the best way to make the region crime-free. Also, the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), said the measure would curb the high state of kidnapping and ritual Killings in the southwest zone. NANS warned politicians against politicizing operations of the security body, saying doing so would thwart the kernel for the establishment of the lofty security outfit. A statement in Ado Ekiti by NANS’ Coordinator Zone D, Comrade Samuel  Olawale and Assistant General Secretary, Com. Ibukun Titilayo Samuel expressed the readiness of the students’  body to coalesce efforts with operatives of the security outfit to combat insecurity in the region. “We are pleased with the news of the launching of the security operation today. The Operation which was launched with 120 red-colored Amotekun Hilux vehicles will tackle kidnapping and other criminal activities in the Southwest region. “The joint operation of trained vigilant groups, Agebekoya and the OPC under Amotekun, will complement the existing security measures already put in place by the federal government. “We charge the security outfit to work hand- in -hand with the already existing security agencies to bring sanity to our environment and stamp out criminals, who were bent on frustrating the development of the South West region”. NANS charged the Southwest governors to ensure that the operatives are exposed to community policing training, aside putting up proper structures that will guarantee provision of necessary logistics, for the sustainability of the outfits.