By Damisi Ojo, Akure  Stakeholders in the ruling All Progressives Congress(APC) in Ondo state under the aegis of Unity Forum(UF) otherwise called ‘Estranged/Aggrieved’ members have faulted the statement credited to Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu that the party would lose the coming governorship election if he was not picked as candidate. The governor, while speaking with reporters last weekend in Abuja, was quoted as saying he is the only person who could win election in the state based on pedigree, popularity, achievements and general acceptability by majority. However, the group through a statement signed by the group’s leader and former deputy Governor Ali Olanusi described said the statement smacks of arrogance. It said: ” The greatest calamity that can befall the APC in Ondo state is to give the gubernatorial ticket of APC to the incumbent governor in the coming election “It is a public knowledge that the governor mismanaged the Congress of APC in the state, sponsored and campaign for the candidates of Action Alliance in the February 16, 2019 elections. “For a governor that engaged openly in anti-party activities and thereby made President Muhammmadu Buhari and other candidates of APC to fail in Ondo state during February 2019 election; for a governor that his actions have divided his party and created crisis of confidence among members. “For a governor that disrespects traditional rulers and prominent citizens of the state; for a governor that encouraged capital flight thereby created hunger and promotes poverty, his statement is an empty boast. “Akeredolu has suddenly realised the strength of the party and the futility of his attempts to render the party impotent. He neither accommodates the party leaders in the state nor respects the party leaders at the national. “The party will not miss if he so decides to port into the zenith of his political alliance that he thought will safe him from the crisis he created for himself in APC. In reality, his exit will constitute a reprieve to the party in Ondo state should he find it necessary to go to another party. “The day of reckoning is just around the corner as the party he struggled to kill is hale and hearty through the efforts of other credible leaders of the party who toil day and night to minimise the negative effects of his actions on the party”. 