 THE closure of the Art and Craft village (opposite  Sheraton Abuja) valued at N9.8 billion is the reason why some people wanted me jailed, Otunba Segun Runsewe, the Director-General of National Council For Art and Culture (NCAC) has claimed. Runsewe also noted that the forces wanted him out of office for not dancing to their tunes. Justice Jude Okeke of a High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, had ordered that he (Runsewe) be sent to prison for alleged contempt and disobedience to an order made by the Court on December 15, 2017. The NCAC boss who gave reasons for the closure of the Art and Craft Village said the place had become a den of robbers and illicit drug sale. While describing the Arts and Craft Village as a “rented house for hooligans, robbers, criminals and depot for illegal arms”, the NCAC said the area had become “security threat not only to Abuja residents but also to foreigners who engage in early hours exercises.” Runsewe who made the clarification in Abuja yesterday said:  “The Art and Craft Village valued at N9.8 billion is the reason behind why some people wanted me hounded into jail and removed from office because I refused to dance to their tunes”. He said, “The Art and Craft village was turned into a drug den, a hold-bay and rented house for hooligans and criminals. The area had been turned to a depot for illegal arms and sundry criminal activities. “It is a security threat not only to Abuja residents but also to foreigners who engage in early hours exercises through the street in the morning. They were molested by criminals from this location. “So I wonder why some people are bent on converting government property to a haven of inappropriate engagement. Hence, the police have to close down the place.” “The Art and Craft Village belongs to the Federal Republic of Nigeria. It does not belong to me but to the Nigerian people. So I would be failing in my duties as a public officer and appointee of government if I cannot protect government property to which I was mandated to oversee. If the area opens for business, it will provide over 300 jobs to Nigerians and reduce crime rate.” He further stressed that it was imperative to clear the air on this issue to help stem the tide of negative reactions and “reassure Nigerians that all hands must be on deck to protect the interest of any property that belongs to Nigeria and ensure that they are not misapplied or abused.” He therefore assured Nigerians that he will do his best to protect the country’s cultural assets. “I will do my best within the ambits of the law to secure and protect Nigerian cultural assets including those outside the shores of Nigeria”, he stated. 