At a conference in Lagos on Monday, to commemorate 50 years of the end of the Nigerian civil war, stakeholders advocated ways to avoid a reoccurrence of the 30-month fratricidal conflict that claimed over two and half million lives. Deputy Political Editor RAYMOND MORDI, who witnessed the event, gives a summary of the presentations  MOST of the problems associated with Nigeria today could be traced to the events preceding the 30-month fratricidal conflict that engulfed it, following the two coups of 1966, particularly the truncation of the federal basis on which the country was governed and the poor implementation of the postwar policy of reconciliation, rehabilitation and reconstruction. The above was the consensus at after the “Never Again” conference, which took place in Lagos on Monday to commemorate 50 years of the end of the war that has remained a reference point in Nigeria’s political discourse. The conference, which was put together by Nzuko Umunna, a think-tank of Igbo professionals in Nigeria and the Diaspora, and Ndigbo Lagos, the umbrella body of all Igbo organisations, took place under the theme, “Never Again: Nigerian Civil War: 50 Year’s After”. Eminent personalities that addressed the gathering included the Economic Summit Group (NESG), Prof Anya O. Anya; President General, Ndigbo Lagos, Major General Abel Umahi (rtd); veteran broadcaster and musician, Onyeka Onwenu; former adviser to President Olusegun Obasanjo, Mr Akin Osuntokun; and the Director-General, Northern Elders’ Forum, Prof Yima Sen. Akintoye, a former senator and leader of the Yoruba World Congress set the tone for other speakers when he said there good reasons to fear today that the character of the affairs of the country these days and the prevailing mood among Nigerians are chillingly similar to the character of the affairs of the country in the months leading to our civil war. He said: “The government of our country is being managed in ways that make it look like an exclusive preserve of a particular minority. The voices of the majority register protests continually and are continually disrespected and ignored.” The historian added that Nigeria is in crisis and if the citizens can no longer hold together as one entity , there is a need to find a rational solution so that the nation would not plunge into any form of war. Akintoye, who was co-chairman, said this is the time for Nigeria to restructure. He added: “To make restructuring produce a full and abiding good for our country, we must now, for the first time, correct a serious mistake which we have been making from the beginning, especially from the beginning of independent Nigeria. The mistake is that we have been ignoring the fundamental fact that underlies our country.” Soyinka agrees with the former senator that something must be done to forestall another civil war. In his keynote address, the Nobel Laureate said that no nation ever survived two civil wars and there is a need to embrace unity in Nigeria. He said it was absurd for anyone to say that the unity of Nigeria is not negotiable. The respected elder statesman said one of the ways to say ‘Never Again’ is to enthrone the principles of democracy. He said humanity tends to forget lessons too soon and pursue the same course of action, again and again, leading to the same consequences. He said the capacity for resilience should not be seen as an excuse or justification for tempting faith and that the vital goal of humanity is not merely to survive but to live in dignity. The Nobel Laureate said countries like Scotland, the defunct Soviet Union, Ethiopia and Sudan used dialogue to settle their national question and that the unity of Nigeria must be negotiated for the country to move forward. Prof. Utomi, who is the Chairman of Nzuko Umunna, as well as that of the event’s planning committee, said there is need for the decentralisation of Nigeria’s government, adding that such a move will bring the government closer to Nigerians. This, he said, would aid an effective government. His words: “Government should be decentralised and moved closer to the people for effectiveness.” The professor of political economy and management expert said the problems that caused the civil war must be addressed for the betterment of the future of Nigerians. His words: “We must address the issues that led to the Civil War. I can tell you that if the Biafran war is fought today, there will be no Nigeria because the international community now recognises self-determination.” No single government official attended the event, though they were invited by the organisers. The conferees pointed out that the country has continued to drift towards the precipice, perhaps because those in authority are shy to talk about the civil war and its aftermath. They drew the attention of the gathering to the strategy adopted in Rwanda, which has insisted that the best way to guarantee that the genocide that took place in the country does nor reoccur is to talk about it continuously. In this regard, Utomi said the inability to manage public conversation is a major challenge to nation-building in Nigeria. He said: “If you go to social media today, you will know that Nigeria is at war. The young people, who were not anywhere near the war, hate so much, and you wonder why? This is a failure of leadership in Nigeria.” He said there is a need to educate the young ones and drive sustainable public conversation on Nigerian problems. He added that a great part of the problem is leadership failure and Nigeria’s essence has become that of democratisation of mediocrity. Similarly, Gen. Yakubu Gowon, who presided over the civil war, said though the war ended 50 years ago, it has continued to be a veritable reference point in the country’s history. The former Head of State, who could not attend the event, because he was outside the country, addressed the conference via a video recording. Gowon also joined those calling for dialogue to avert another war. His words: “I urge all Nigerians to ensure that we avert another civil war in Nigeria”. He added: “We must do all in our power as responsible leaders and citizens of this great country and nation to create enabling platforms, to dialogue and proffer ideas on how we can live together in peace and harmony for the good of all Nigerians and the black race as a whole; thus ensuring political, economic, security and development of the country.”  One of the organisers of the event, Abel Umahi, said the conference symbolises a national reflection in the civil war which will herald a new chapter in Nigeria’s history. The President General, Ndigbo Lagos, said: “This Never Again conference is geared towards promoting nation-building, forgiveness, healing of wounds, reintegration, stability and national cohesion.” Umahi said history must be brought back into the nation’s education and school syllabus. The retired military officer explained that the aim of the conference was to sensitise Nigerians on the need for forgiveness, healing, and national cohesion. He urged Nigerians to see the present situation in the country as a moment for national reflection, stressing that there was an urgent need to build bridges of unity and peace. On his part, Prof. Anya, who chaired the occasion, called on Nigerians to eschew violence as a nation and work collaboratively to make Nigeria great. He said that Nigeria is in trouble partly because the nation went through a temptation period that led to the war. He added: “Nigerians have never reflected on the past history since the beginning of the good period. This is the first opportunity for us to do so.” The professor of Zoology said the Nigerian situation is not unique, as there are other countries that have gone through it. He said Nigeria should learn from others and from her past mistakes. He said: “Nigeria’s situation is not unique. Other countries have gone through the same experience. We as a country must learn from other countries that have survived from the horror of war. Germany fought a war and lost; same as Japan. But 30 years after, Germany became one of the best economies in the world. Japan also experienced a similar thing. So, losing does not make you a failure.” A visibly angry Onwenu, who was one of the three panellists, vented her frustration while speaking as one of the three-panel discussants at the conference. She said her family’s abandoned property was seized after the war and was never returned. She said: “For me, the war never ended. My poor mother went to back (after the war) to claim the property; she was beaten into a coma by people she had helped all her life and sent to school because she is an Igbo woman, and now Port Harcourt belonged to another set of people. “I was born and raised in Port Harcourt. My father, Dike Onwenu was the first Arondizuogu man in the federal house and he was representing Port Harcourt constituency. He was the principal of Enitonna High School. He was a brilliant man, but he died too early. When he died, he had only laid the foundation for his house. Later, the home that a widow built was seized as an abandoned property. “The road that is now known as Harold Wilson Road used to be Dike Onwenu Road. That’s on account of the sacrifices that the Onwenus, the Ikokus, and the rest made in building Port Harcourt.” She said she was involved in the war as a humanitarian caregiver. Her words: “I fought in the war as a going girl between 14 and 17 years, and I lost many relatives. I carried babies who died in my arms. I treated old people who took days to die. People were dying of hunger, even our soldiers were dying if hunger. But thank God we survived. “Here I am. I was able to travel outside the countries for studies; thanks to my sister who was at Harvard at that time. But we all came back to develop Nigeria. I have tried to use the little talent God has given me for the betterment of the country. But I am angry at Nigeria.” Another panellist, Prof Sen, said anyone who wants to start another war with the hope of conscripting Tiv people to fight for the union is wasting his time because his people are wiser now and will not be used to fight another war. He said 60 per cent of the federal troops in Biafra during the war were Tivs. He added: “Why did you drag us into that unreasonable war? Do you know that almost every Tiv family lost someone in that war? The question is, for what?” Sen who was one of the panellists said it would be in everyone’s interest if Nigeria is made to work. He said: “We are here today because we want to end this Biafra war. If it never ended, we must end it. If the Rwandans can learn the lesson from their experience, why can’t we?” Former presidential aide, Osuntokun, said even the likes of Gen. T.Y. Danjuma (rtd) who played a key role in the war on the federal side is beginning to regret his role. Osuntokun said: “This attitude is different from what it used to be. He used to be celebratory about it. But there is nothing to celebrate about the war.” He said: “Many problems of this world, in this age of over-communication, can be simplified by going back to the first principles. One of the first principles is to wake up everybody and say, how can everyone be a better human being? “Biafra is the central issue of Nigeria’s political history. And the attitude of Nigeria to Biafra will indicate the kind of nation we are; whether we have improved or become worse.” The former political adviser said those advocating for remedial action about Biafra are not doing it just for the Southeast, but the country as a whole. He added: “It is contradictory to think, for instance, that in saying the next Nigerian president should be an Igbo, you are doing the Igbo favour. You are not. “Today, the handshake across the Niger, in the relationship between the Southeast and the Southwest, there is no trait that binds that relationship more meaningfully than the action of the late Adekunle Fajuyi. It shows you the meaning of powerful symbols.” Osuntokun, who was the third panellist, said there was no reason for the war to have happened, adding that if those who carried out the revenge coup of July 1966 knew that the January coup was never Igbo conspiracy against them, there would have been no need to carry it out. He said: “We don’t need to be apportioning blames when we seek to improve ourselves. Again, let me tell you something – and I’m not pandering to you – people seem to miss one very crucial element about the coup of January 15, 1966. There is no way you can have a cast of those coup leaders and not presume they were acting on behalf of Nigeria, not on behalf of the Igbo. It is otherwise illogical. This idea of saying that it was an Igbo coup is wrong; it was not. It’s just that it was badly managed.” Osuntokun said there is a need for reconciliation. His words: “The first step would be for everyone to own up to their mistakes, so as to make it easy for the country to move forward. We need to confront the ghost of Biafra. But, you can’t convince those that have made up their minds. You can only try to say, I don’t see what you did as bad; you only made a mistake. “Obviously, if the July 1966 coup was in response to the January coup, then it was a mistaken reaction. They did what they did because they believe the January 15 coup was a conspiracy of the Igbo against them. But that’s a mistake. Now, if you now know that it was not an Igbo conspiracy, you would not have done it. That’s the only meaningful way to proceed for Nigeria. We have to reach common grounds.” The former presidential aide and strategist added that there can be no meaningful progress without restructuring. His words: “Those of us who are talking about restructuring are actually talking about restoration. You took Nigeria from four to the present 36 states that is chaotic, and we day no; let’s go back because the farther you move under the wrong arrangement, the more chaotic it becomes.” The Lower Niger Congress (LNC) and its Movement for New Nigeria (MNN) partner endorses the prescriptions of Prof. Akintoye and other speakers, particularly their call for restructuring. In a statement circulated at the conference venue, they said, given the countrywide recognition of the deficiencies of the 1999 Constitution on which the Nigerian federation is based, the first step should be the wholesale jettisoning of the document, followed by the fashioning of successor constitutional arrangements agreed on by the constituent components of the federation. The statement reads in part: “Looking back soberly at the factors that precipitated the collapse of the federation in 1966 and the 30-month war waged between 1967 and 1970 to re-establish the broken down union, and now faced with a clear and present danger of a disastrous collapse and catastrophic disintegration, the most urgent task before the stakeholders is to emplace without further delay, a transition process through which the 1999 Constitution can be eased out and through which a successor constitutional arrangement can be distilled, just like South Africa had to do between 1990 and 1994 to ease itself out of the apartheid quagmire. “Accordingly, and unless we have chosen to perish the thought of somehow salvaging the defunct Nigerian federation, the first order of business inside 2020 will be to formally suspend any plans of elections in 2023 under 1999 Constitution, whilst the current constitutional and governance structures will function on a transitional basis subject to agreed modalities.” 