A High Court of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) in Gwagwalada has scheduled ruling for Thursday in the applications for bail filed by former Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation (AGF), Mohammed Adoke, and two others. Justice Abubakar Kutigi chose January 30, 2020 for ruling after entertaining arguments from lawyers to parties in the criminal case filed against Adoke and six others by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). At the hearing of the various bail applications, defence lawyers Mike Ozekhome (SAN) – for the first defendant; Wole Olanipekun (SAN) – for the second defendant and Mahmud Magaji (SAN) – for the third defendant – prayed the court to grant their clients to bail. “We have filed two critical documents to show that the defendant will not jump bail. We also urge the court to grant him bail based on his health condition. We humbly urge the court to grant him bail,” Ozekhome said. Olanipekun said: “One of the exhibits did not show that he (his client) ran away. He was not deported. “He was not extradited. He bought his own ticket back to Nigeria on his own. We urge the court to exercise discretion to grant him bail.” Magaji said: “The applicant has been under investigation for 13 years and he has never failed his invitation. “He is also a member of the profession (law). He has spent 35 years in this profession and it is unfortunate that he found himself in the dock.” In arguing his objection to the bail application, lead prosecution lawyer Bala prayed the court to decline bail to the defendants. On Adoke’s case, Sanga said no case of ill health had been proven by the defendant, more so that the ex-AGF did not voluntarily return to the country but allegedly extradited by Interpol. “We have a counter-affidavit, dated January 24, 2020, and filed on the same date. It contains 11 paragraphs, deposed to by Ahmed Ibrahim, an officer of the EFCC. “The contention is that no ill health has been proven. We have exhibits EF1 and EF2 and the point is that it is the Interpol that handed him over to us. “Interpol said we should come and collect him. So, how come he returned on his own?” Sanga said. On the other two defendants, Sanga argued that the prosecution was opposed to the bail being granted them.