 The Tiv ethnic group in Taraba state have praised Governor Darius Ishaku for his efforts in brokering peace between them and the Jukuns in southern Taraba. This was made known in a press conference by the Tiv members of the 30-member Peace Committee set up by Ishaku to find a lasting solution to the Tiv/Jukun protracted crisis. The group asked the governor to call one of their brothers, Yakubu Tor-Agbidye to order, for allegedly “inciting the general public against them.” They also refuted claims that Tor-Agbidye, a Ph.D holder of Veterinary Medicine, is the Tiv leader in Taraba State. Those at the press conference included: Teghtegh Shaakaa, Samson Tor Musa, Kurason Kura, Jime Yongo, Ukaa Ukondo, Mrs. Mercy Gbashi and Stephen Butu. The group’s spokesman, Jime Yongo, said Tor-Agbidye’s utterances in the media were capable of disrupting the 70 percent peace process achieved by the committee, which will spark off a resurgence of the crisis. “Yakubu Tor-Agbidye mischievously berated, castigated, maligned, disparaged, condemned and incited the general public against the formidable, credible and highly intelligently committed Tiv members of the Taraba State 30-man peace and reconciliation committee constituted by Governor Darius Ishaku to broker peace in the lingering crisis between the Jukun and the Tiv people of southern Taraba. “Without any fear of contradiction, the committee has recorded remarkable achievements and has succeeded in bringing relative peace in southern Taraba, having worked tirelessly with the council chairmen, traditional rulers, security agencies and key stakeholders in the affected areas. “Following the intensive work of the committee, roadblocks and rural markets in the affected areas of Takum and Donga have been opened. The Tiv and Jukun now patronise these roads and markets freely. “It is on record that the committee delivered relief materials to the displaced Tiv people in Wukari, Takum and Donga local government areas. “The committee has submitted its report, which included our demands, and we are waiting for the governor’s response. “As at now, the displaced people in Donga and Takum have returned almost fully and are going about their normal businesses. “We appreciate Governor Ishaku as he has already met some of our demands, by declaring that we are indigenes of Taraba. He also appointed one of us in his cabinet as commissioner. “Governor Ishaku, in his first term, appointed 12 Tiv sons and daughters as commissioners, Special Advisers, Senior Special Assistants, Senior Assistants and board members. This was the highest in the history of appointment of Tiv people in key government positions since the creation of Taraba state, even the defunct Gongola state. “Tor-Agbidye is parading at far away Abuja; he has just come back from the United States. His wife and children are safe in America and he knows only little or nothing about events trending in Taraba state. The group urged the governor, the Tiv and Jukuns to disregard the “ranting” of Tor-Agbidye, which they observed, was capable of making the people to pick up arms again to continue the fight. It however, observed that the displaced people were yet to return to their ancestral homes in Wukari, as peace has not been achieved in Wukari as much as in Takum and Donga. It pleaded with the council boss of Wukari, the Jukun traditional rulers and other key stakeholders of Wukari to emulate their brothers from Takum and Donga and allow the displaced Tiv persons to return. “Wars fought on the battle field are always settled through dialogue on the round table,” the group’s spokesman, Yongo, said.