Following the deceleration of Amotekun Security outfit as illegal by the Attorney General of the federation, Abubakar Malami, Secretary General of ACF, Chief Anthony Sani, has asked the South-West governor to go to court. The ACF scribe, in a telephone interview with Saturday Nation, said the Amotekun security outfit was not a wrong idea. He, however, said that now that Federal Government has declared the outfit illegal, the South-West governors should either take it that way or challenge the Federal Government in court. Chief Anthony Sani also advised that beyond the security approach state governors should address the underlying causes of insecurity, which according to him, is poverty caused by unemployment and endemic ignorance. He said governors should also pressurise the Federal Government to ensure the numbers of soldiers and police personnel are enough, adequately trained and properly equipped to combat insecurity across the country. According the ACF Secretary-General, “I have repeatedly said that there is nothing wrong with states or groups coming together to unleash their synergistic potential against collective challenges for common good, provided such approaches do not breach the provisions of the constitution. “But, since there appears not to be a clear consensus among the six states of South West about the mode of operation of the Amotekun, I would not be able to provide a well-informed comment on the matter. “Now that the Federal Government is reported to have declared Amotekun illegal, it is left for the South-West Governors to either accept the position of the Federal Government or to challenge it in the court of law. That is how democracy works. “However, it is my candid opinion that the state governors should address the underlying causes of insecurity which include poverty that comes with unemployment and endemic ignorance. “They should pressure the national government to ensure the numbers of soldiers and police personnel are enough, adequately trained and properly equipped,” he said.