Our Reporter  The seventh edition of the Lagos Theatre Festival (LTF) is set to hold between February 27, 2020 and March 1, 2020. The event holds in multiple locations within the Lagos metropolis including National Museum Lagos, African Artists Foundation, British Council, Alliance Française with Freedom Park, Broad Street, Lagos Island as the main Festival Hub amongst other venues. This year’s festival, with the theme, ‘Going out of Bounds’, will feature over 120 events – drama, opera, dance, comedy, and spoken word and evening events of karaoke, comedy, music performances and disco. There will be side attractions to include the LTF Leisure Market bringing together vendors providing food, art and crafts, and services for the pleasure of attendants (families included) of the Festival. There will also be learning opportunities with workshops and panel discussions included in festival activities for talent development. At a press conference held on Monday, the chairman of LTF Foundation Olasupo Shasore (SAN) said that the festival is aimed at portraying Lagos as the home of artistic expressions. The Festival Executive Director, Bikiya Graham-Douglas shared that LTF remains focused on creating opportunities for upcoming performing artists through its site-specific scope of presentations outside the traditional theatre. “This festival will create platforms for many.  We want local and international production companies to see the Lagos Theatre Festival as a hub that fosters exchange and collaborations while telling our stories and promoting our culture.” The Artistic Director, Lydia Idakula-Sobogun added that the event will bring together shows and events by over 45 production companies from home and abroad selected specifically to suit this year’s theme “Going out of Bounds” and the selection was made from over three hundred entries for LTF2020. This year’s edition, in partnership with the British Council, is aimed at exceeding bounds and festival tickets are available for purchase on Ariiya Tickets, www.lagostheatrefestival.org, and Freedom Park Lagos. The Festival was founded by British Council in 2013 as part of its ambitions of fostering exchange, collaboration and strengthening relationships between Nigerian and British artistes through the presentation of high quality Nigerian and British theatre. The Festival is now managed by the Lagos Theatre Festival Foundation, a not-for-profit organization. The foundation is run by a Board of Directors including Olasupo Shasore SAN, Ajoke Jacobs, Tosin Oshinowo, David Evans, Bolanle Austen-Peters and Ojoma Ochai. Since its inception in 2013, Lagos Theatre Festival has hosted 6 festivals, with 260 productions, 50 workshops, and over 420 shows. 