 FEARS that separatist and ethnic groups might take advantage of the introduction of the Western Nigeria Security Network codenamed Operation Amotekun to undermine national security were largely responsible for the declaration of the initiative as illegal by the federal government,The Nation can now confirm. Some members of the kitchen cabinet of President Muhammadu Buhari and security chiefs are also opposed to Operation Amotekun, because of what a source termed  regional tone given to it by the SouthWest governors. Attorney General of the Federal Abubakar  Malami (SAN) branded the initiative illegal last week soon after it was launched  in Ibadan. The Minister claimed it runs contrary to the provisions of the Nigerian law. However,The Nation gathered that some key players in the presidency interpreted the coming  of Operation Amotekun as part of the ploy to  introduce regional politics through the backdoor. The President’s strategists rate  the operation as a violation of Sections 2, 17 and 45 of the Second Schedule to the 1999 Constitution. The strategists have joined issues with the governors for not consulting President Muhammadu Buhari before the launch. It was learnt that some security chiefs feared  that some ethnic  and separatist organizations like  the Indigenous People of Biafra  (IPOB) and the Movement for the Actualization of the Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB)   might take advantage of Operation Amotekun to threaten national security. Besides, the  assumption that Amotekun Militia might bear arms did not sit well with some forces in the presidency prompting  Malami to issue the statement on the ‘illegality’ of the initiative. Malami was said to have got clearance from the presidency before issuing the statement On their part,the  South-West governors have reached out to Police  Inspector-General  Adamu Mohammed and the Director-General of the Department of State Security Services (DSS), Mallam Yusuf Magaji Bichi to clarify a few misgivings. They told the IGP and the DSS DG that Operation Amotekun is not different from a neighbourhood watch security organization. Investigation showed  that the governors notified the President about the launch of Operation Amotekun through the “appropriate quarters.” They went ahead with the launch when there were no words from the President against it or raising security issues. Despite the misgivings on Operation Amotekun, the governors are awaiting Buhari’s invitation to present the true picture of situation to him instead of relying on some false reports. A reliable source, who spoke in confidence with our correspondent, said: “The launch of Operation Amotekun caught the President and his strategists unawares because the President was not personally briefed by the South-West governors. “The governors actually routed their plans to the President through the appropriate quarters of communication  but there was a gap somewhere. The President’s men are angry because the whole process was untidy. “And those who had preliminary talks with the governors on the launch did not brief the President properly. “The governors are awaiting an invitation from the President to present the concept of Operation Amotekun, the scope and modalities to him.” Findings by our correspondent revealed five grouses of the President’s men and security chiefs namely: Another source said: “The President’s strategists and security chiefs were uncomfortable with the regional tone given to the launch of Operation Amotekun  which may force other regions to follow suit, especially the backers of IPOB and MASSOB. “Since 1967, when 12 states were created, the nation’s regional structure  has been dismantled. Those in government and security chiefs see politics behind Operation Amotekun than security concerns. “The governors are aware that there are 67 items on the Exclusive Legislative List and they should have pushed for constitutional amendment to move Policing to the Concurrent Legislative List or for the recognition of Neighbourhood Watch. “There is also no guarantee that Amotekun Militia will not bear arms. Proliferation of arms by extra-constitutional outfits is worrisome to security chiefs. “The security chiefs had expressed reservations on the launch of Amotekun without Operational Procedures and with Insignia  which suggested it is a parallel security agency. “All these factors made the AGF Malami to declare Operation Amotekun illegal.” One of the South-West governors, who briefed our correspondent in confidence, said: “There are many misrepresentations about Operation Amotekun which is purely a neighbourhood watch to complement the Nigeria Police and other security agencies. Amotekun was a response to the yearnings of our people, it is purely an intelligence outfit or back up for the police and other agencies. “We have sent one of us to the IGP and the DG of DSS where it was clarified that  Amotekun Militia will not bear arms. They have police and DSS operatives guarding us, they can ask them to spy on us (which they have been doing)  on whether or not we are providing arms for Amotekun Militia. “No one is importing arms; no one is arming militia and Amotekun is not designed to undermine the Police and other agencies. It is not a return to regionalism in any manner whatsoever. Responding to a question, the source added: “We actually followed the normal communication channel in relating with the Presidency before we launched Operation Amotekun. We could not have slighted the President. “Before the launch, we had audience with the Police and some security agencies. We were expecting the IGP at the launch until we did not see him at the last minutes. “We see all the noise against Operation Amotekun as a storm in a tea cup. We hope to meet the President soon and clarify the grey areas.”