Our Reporter  The National Films and Video Censors Board (NFVCB) last Friday publicly burnt over 30,000 seized illicit movies and video works worth N100 million in Lagos. Some of the items destroyed included multiple-in-one films, unclassified foreign, local and pornographic films, all in DVDs and CDs format. Noting that the operation would be a continuous exercise until piracy was completely curbed in the country, NFVCB’s Execuive Director Adedayo Thomas said many of the burnt products were pornographic with other obnoxious materials illegally imported into the country. “The board is strongly determined to stamp out the distribution of illicit movies to safeguard the future of the nation,” he said. “Our collaboration across board has led to massive seizure of pornographic films and other unwholesome video works by our Lagos zonal office. “That is why we are here to carry out the symbolic burning of the seized items worth N100 million. We have done this in Abuja, Kaduna, and we did at Kano yesterday, while Southeast and Southsouth states will follow suit.” Thomas clarified that the NFVCB board did not place a total ban on foreign films, neither was there any intention to prevent Nigerians from accessing foreign creative contents.  According to him, only foreign films that have not been classified and approved by the board are banned as cinemas in Nigeria screen approved foreign movies to the delight of movie enthusiasts. “There is no outright ban here,” he said. “It is never accepted in other organised climes to trade in their markets without necessary approval and commitment to taxes. The influx of unapproved and proliferation of mostly pirated foreign movies do not just infringe intellectual property rights, it denies the owners the fruit of their labours. “The transliteration of these movies into local languages even makes the act more criminal and adds nothing in profit to the original content owners. This sends a wrong signal about us to other countries. We can as well imagine the struggles of our local filmmakers who have to contend with many challenges to survive. We need to foster a level-playing field for them to thrive as well.” The Executive Director urged parents and guardians to influence children and their wards to go for only films and video works classified by the board. Veteran Nollywood actress, Hilda Dokubo, an Ambassador to the board, commended the exercise, which she said was aimed at protecting the creative industry practitioners’ trade and right.