Our Reporter  Cucumber is rich in water content which helps to hydrate the body. It is also low in calories. Cucumber normalizes the blood pressure during summer. It is rich in nutrient content which prevents from various health problems such as acidity, asthma, arthritis, gout and eczema.  Cucumber possess high amount of silica that helps to develop the healthy and strong connective tissues in the ligaments, cartilage, tendons, muscles and bone. The high presence of silica provides a brighter and healthier skin. Cucumber is high in water content which helps to hydrate the body. It is also used to treat various skin ailments such as swelling and sunburn. The compound such as caffeic acid and ascorbic acid helps to avoid water loss from the body. Cucumber contains fiber and water which prevents from kidney stones and constipation. The daily intake of Cucumber increases the fiber intake. Cucumber is also a great source of potassium, Vitamin C, silica, Vitamin A and magnesium. All these nutrients provide various health benefits. (1) The studies show that the high intake of potassium, magnesium and fiber helps to lower the blood pressure and maintains it to normal levels. The intake of the diet rich in these complexes with the diet such as low fat diary items, seafood, lean meat and poultry reduce the systolic pressure by 5.5 points and diastolic pressure by 3.0 points. The hormone found in Cucumber is essential for the production of insulin by the beta cells. Cucumber has zero Glycemic Index. The carbohydrates raise the level of glucose but the carbohydrates in Cucumber could be digested by the diabetic patients easily. The intake of Cucumber helps to maintain the glucose levels. Cucumber eliminates the toxins and waste from the body. It also effectively treats arthritis as it clears the uric acid. It assists in the secretion of urine. It also enhances the function of liver, kidney, urinary bladder and pancreatic functions. It is effective for controlling diabetic mellitus and blood pressure. The daily intake of Cucumber juice helps to treat eczema and gout. The addition of Cucumber to the diet prevent from stomach and lung problems. It enhances the flexibility of muscles, promote blood circulation and soothe nerves. Cucumber is rich in minerals which prevent the nail split on the toes and fingers. Vitamin K in Cucumber prevent from arteries calcification that leads to heart attacks. It prevents deposit of hard and harmful plaque. Vitamin K is an essential nutrient that reduces inflammation and protects cells. The intake of Vitamin K is essential to maintain healthy blood pressure and reduce the risk of cardiac arrest. Vitamin K assists to regulate the hormone function that helps to lower the PMS cramps and menstrual pains. It is helpful for excessive bleeding and provides relief from PMS symptoms. The excessive bleeding is the cause for more pain and cramps during menstrual cycle. The studies shows that the deficiency of Vitamin K worse these symptoms. Vitamin K reduces the chances of colon, prostate, nasal, stomach and oral cancer. The study shows that the high Vitamin K helps to stabilize liver cancer and enhance their liver function. The diet rich in Vitamin K reduces the chances of cancer and cardiovascular disease. Vitamin K speeds up the healing of bruising and bleeding of cuts. The deficiency of Vitamin K results to the Haemorrhagic disease of newborns where the blood clotting does not take place properly. The study shows that newborns should be given Vitamin K injection at birth in order to eliminate HDN. The studies show that an adequate intake of Vitamin K can prevent osteoporosis in people. Vitamin K is essential to use calcium in order to build bones. Vitamin K can promote bone health and lower the chances of bone fractures. The studies reported that Vitamin K increase the mineral density of bones in osteoporotic patients along with lowering the fracture risk. Vitamin K has the positive effect on the calcium balance which is vital for metabolism of bones. Source: healthbenefitstimes.co