By Muyiwa Lucas  Sector 4 of the joint border drill under the ‘Exercise Swift Response,’ has recorded over N300 million seizures in the last two weeks in some Northwestern states. The Border Drill Sector 4 comprises Sokoto, Kebbi, Katsina, Zamfara, Jigawa and Kaduna states. The Sector, led by Aliyu Mohammed, said it achieved the feat in conjunction with the Nigeria Customs Service and Armed Forces of Nigeria. Mohammed, who was in Yauri, Kebbi State, said a huge petroleum smuggling cartel was trailed and uncovered by his men, adding that  tankers of petroleum products suspected to be Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) were discovered at a location where smugglers discharged them into drums to be smuggled through the borders. The sector also made seizures of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) in jerry cans last week, including rice, textiles, cars and other smuggled items in the areas under the command. Mohammed said the operations were carried out in a strategic manner to avoid fire outbreak or explosions that could emanate from petroleum products. According to him, the tankers, pipes drums, jerry cans and other tools being deployed to aid the smuggling act have become seizures “When I resumed here, I addressed my men and charged them to be ready to smoke out smugglers and seize their wares. I am happy to disclose that our efforts are paying off. We will never compromise. Wherever they are or operate within our area of coverage, we shall continue to be on their trail to seize their wares and arrest them.    There will be zero tolerance for smuggling and other unlawful behaviours here. We are being very careful and strategic with them. We apply a lot of tact and intelligence to achieve seizures without casualties. You know that petroleum products are volatile and dangerous. It could lead to fire and explosion if we are not careful,” he explained. Mohammed commended the officers and men of sister security agencies like the Nigerian Army, Nigerian Immigration Service, for their efforts at achieving the results. He said the smugglers were caught napping by their operations and assured that his men would continue to take them by surprise by storming their storehouses, depot for trans loading and intercepting whatever they are smuggling into or out of the country. “Illegally taking petrol meant for Nigerian use out of the country through borders is an act of economic sabotage and we must not allow it to stand. These smugglers are enemies of the country and our people. They divert full petrol tankers to remote places and empty the petrol into drums and jerry cans for ease of smuggling through the borders. What we are doing in this operation, particularly in Sector 4 is to protect our country from insecurity and protect the economy from saboteurs who do not mean well for us,” he said. Mohammed assured that his sector will continue to make life difficult for smugglers all the time, promising that the Command is already moving into places smugglers never thought they could be caught. “I can confirm to you that we are fully deploying our manpower and total logistics to maximum use for us to get these results.” he said. 