To ensure peace returns to the state, Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde on Wednesday visited the Inspector- General of Police (IGP), Adamu Mohammed, in Abuja. He said his administration would not condone violence. The governor, who addressed reporters on the premises of the Force Headquarters, said he had briefed the IGP on the security situation. A statement signed by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, said Governor Makinde declared that his administration “does not want chaos in Oyo State.” He added that he would obey the judgment of the court once the pending appeals on the local government dissolution are decided. The governor, who said as a law-abiding individual, he is ready to work with others to build a new country where the rule of law is supreme, urged everyone to be law-abiding. Makinde said he was in Abuja to meet Abubakar to discuss the issue of local government dissolution crisis and the Western Nigerian Security Network, codenamed Amotekun. The governor said that the security network was work in progress, adding that the Southwest governors were already operationalising it. He said the governors would meet the IGP to review the situation on the intervention. Makinde said: “We are here basically to discuss two things. You all must have heard about the issue of local government administration in Oyo State. “There is a court order yesterday restraining the IG, the CP and the AIG from giving unilateral order regarding the issue of local government administration in Oyo State. “I came to brief the Inspector- General of Police that this is the situation. We do not want chaos in Oyo State. I am a law-abiding person; if there is a court judgment, I will obey it. The IGP has given me the assurance that once he gets the copy of the court order, he will do the needful. “Secondly, everybody is aware of the issue with Amotekun; we deliberated on it and we had an agreement in principle to have the governors of the Southwest meet with the IGP to review the situation. Amotekun is work in progress, we are trying to operationalise it and in doing that all the relevant stakeholders would have to align. “We are trying to build a new country where the rule of law is supreme. So everybody should be law-abiding, ensure that they don’t do anything that will create lawlessness.”