Our Reporter  The Conservator-General, National Park Service, Alhaji Ibrahim Goni, said the Service is taking measures to protecting, not only Nigeria land, but also farmers. Speaking in Lagos, Goni said the National Parks Community has  a rich agricultural history with hundreds of farmers settling in such areas with farming, which have got Nigerians gainfully engaged. Although unusual for parklands, he said farming is one of the only viable and practical methods for maintaining the countryside and the Service is working to ensure a stable future for farmers. He said the Service has constructed roads to enable farmers move their produce to the market and that there is emphasis on sustainable farming to keep the land fertile, protects it from development and help to maintain wildlife habitats. He reiterated that the policy thrust of the Service is to provide security, manage, and regulate the use of the diverse and unique natural resources within the National Parks in the country. He said there are seven national parks across the country. These include  Chad Basin National Park (CBNP), Cross River National Park (CRNP), Gashaka Gumti National Park (GGNP), Kainji Lake National Park (KLNP) Old Oyo National Park (OONP), Okomu National Park (ONP) and Kamuku National Park (KNP). According to him, each park has  its animal and plant resources. For instance, while a roll call of animals at the Chad Basin National Park may include Giraffe, Hartebeest, Elephant Red-fronted gazelle,   Spotted hyena, Jackal, Serval cat, Ceracal, Python, Monitor lizard and various snakes, that of the Old Oyo consists of Buffon’s kob, Roan Antelope, Western hartebeest, Bush buck, baboon, Patas monkey, Oribi, Grimm’s duiker, lion, Warthog, Water buck, Red Flanked Duiker, Black and white Colobus monkey, Green monkey, among others. The distribution of animals and birds, just like the vegetation at each of the parks, differs from south to north with more animals being sighted in the south probably due to availability of water and food all year round in additional to the vegetation cover which provides shelter. Also, these parks are endowed with water resources running across most times the breath or length as the case may be: As it is the case with the Kainji lake national park for instance, the stretch of 5340.82sq/km is blessed with the popular Oli River. Despite the abundance of this natural and cultural attributes within the National Parks and the role they play, he said Nigerians were yet to appreciate the importance of the Protected Areas and their contributions to the mitigation of climate change, security, well-being of citizenry, and  the  economy.  According to the Conservator- General, the main objectives for establishing National Parks are: the conservation of selected and representative examples of wildlife communities in Nigeria, the protection of endangered species of wild plants and animals and their habitats, to preserve the culture, historical and archaeological features in the abandoned sites, to protect, preserve, conserve and manage representative samples of indigenous flora and fauna of the geographical region of Nigeria. He urged the public to visit the National Park to appreciate the aesthetic, spiritual and ecological values of nature in the maintenance of a healthy environment. Like any other organisation, he continued that the National Park Service just has its own peculiar challenges. These include Illegal activities within the parks, armed banditry and insurgency in and around the parks, poor quality of tourism infrastructure, lack of zeal of Nigerians for leisure and tourism, poor road network to the parks and inadequate number of modern operational equipment. With the dwindling fortunes from oil, he urged the government should look inwards for ways to revive the hitherto neglected sectors in a bid to diversify the economy. The Conservator-General, reiterated the determination of the Service to build a virile National Park system that will turn Nigeria into a preferred destination. The National Park, according to him, is a key component of economic development as it has a role to play in attracting direct foreign investments into the country. It is for this reason; he said the National Park Service is ready to work with stakeholders, to provide the enabling environment to attract both local and international investments.