Onimisi Alao, Yola  Many Boko Haram insurgents may have been killed and a couple of soldiers injured during a gun battle between the insurgents and security forces in Michika, Adamawa State on Thursday evening. Our correspondent gathered that the insurgents had entered the town at 6.20pm in a planned attack but soldiers repelled them. More feelers from Michika by early Friday afternoon indicated however that while the military succeeded in killing unspecified number of the insurgents, the insurgents too fought back and inflicted injuries on a number of soldiers. Different sources said the insurgents had stormed the town on motorcycles through Koppa village, shooting sporadically and causing residents to flee to neighbouring towns for safety. The sources affirmed that the insurgents, for a while, succeeded in breaking into shops and seizing wares the superior firepower of the military eventually repelled the attack In the peculiar command structure of the military in the Adamawa/Borno axis, no military spokesperson could be made to speak on the incident and the Adamawa State Police Command declined comment. But the Chairman of Michika Local Government Area, Michael Shehu, confirmed the attack on his domain. He however declared things had calmed down.
“Some residents who fled the town have started returning, because the attackers were repelled by the soldiers,” the council chairman said. Sen Ishaku Abbo, who represents the area in the National Assembly, confirmed the attack and the response of the military. Abbo said the military did a gallant job of protecting Michika by repelling the Boko Haram insurgents “who attempted to infiltrate into the towns Thursday evening.” The Michika LGA is in the same unenviable league with its neighbour, the Madagali LGA as the two LGAs in Adamawa State that Boko Haram terrorists still invade. The two LGAs were frequently attacked close to the 2019 general elections, causing uncertainty and forcing the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to conduct the election in only three centres in the whole of Madagali LGA.