9mobile has partnered d.light Solar, a global leader in solar energy, to provide affordable solar-powered solutions for households and small businesses in the country. The partnership, which aligns with one of 9mobile’s core brand values – innovation – is also in tandem with the vision of d.light Solar, to deliver affordable solar-powered solutions to households and small businesses. Speaking during the contract signing ceremony,  Acting Managing Director, 9mobile,Stephane Beuvelet, said he was proud of what the partnership represents in terms of solving household energy challenges in an innovative and environmentally friendly way while also promoting financial inclusion. Stephane expressed confidence in the viability of the partnership, given the proven capabilities of the two brands. “We are excited at this opportunity to yet demonstrate our core value as not just a mobile network operator (MNO) but as a total solution provider. By this strategic partnership with d.light Solar, we are solving a very critical concern of majority of Nigerians, which is access to stable power supply for basic home systems and amenities,” he said. Nigeria Country Lead, d.light Solar, Kenneth Esenwah, lauded the business ethics of 9mobile saying, “we admire the corporate governance policy of 9mobile and see this partnership as a big opportunity to accelerate solar energy adoption across Nigeria. Through 9mobile’s retail channels, and payment platform. This development inches us closer towards our ambition of positively impacting 100 million lives with our solar-powered solutions in over 70 developing countries. We congratulate the 9mobile team for making this partnership possible and look forward to inspiring testimonies from Nigerians.’’ With the partnership, customers can simply walk into a 9mobile Experience Centre and signup to own a d.light product such as the X1000 Solar Home System which comes equipped with a solar TV, solar fan, solar panel, energy saving LED bulbs and fluorescent lights, mobile phone charging for smart and feature phones, portable FM/AM radio and a torchlight. All with a two-year warranty.  9mobile will provide a fast, secure and convenient mobile payment solution.