From Osagie Otabor, Bénin  A governorship aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party, Dr. Ifaluyi Isibor, has kicked against comments by Chairman of the PDP, Chief Dan Orbih, that the party plans a young candidate to be its flag bearer for the gubernatorial race in Edo State. Dr. Isibor who was in the House of Representatives between 2007 and 2011 said it was not yet time for a young person, a greenhorn without experience to govern Edo State. Isibor who spoke in an interview in Bénin City stated that situation in Kogi State and the outburst between Governors Seriake Dickson and Nyesom Wike happened because they are all young men. He said it would be better to have a Methuselah as Governor in Edo State and everywhere is peaceful and progressing when compared to having a young person and nobody can go out because of insecurity. According to him, “It depends on what he meant by younger. It is his own wish for the PDP ticket to be given to a younger candidate. We can see what is happening in Kogi State where Yahaya Bello is turning everywhere to be something else. Nobody is proud with what is happening in Kogi.  “The recent outburst between Governors of Bayelsa and Rivers did not go down well with me. It happened because they are very young. It is good to use young people in certain areas but not governance of Edo State in particular. It is not yet time for a young person, a greenhorn, without experience. We still know our value, we still know what to say. Age is a figure. “We are looking for those who can perform. I am sure Orbih was quoted out of context. If you asked him again, he will change his voice.” Dr. Isibor further insisted that the PDP could win the Edo election if it fields the right candidate like himself. “Winning the election is Edo require a purposeful candidate. A candidate that has the experience, a candidate that has the love, the knowledge, that knows the nitty gritty of Edo. “Once that candidate is projected, the majority of Edo people will defer to such a person. That person is myself. It is very clear that this is someone who made best of the little opportunity he was given. If I am given the candidacy of the PDP, I assure the PDP can win Edo again.”