Adams Aliyu Oshiomhole, former Edo State governor and national chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), remains in the eye of the storm. Will he triumph over his traducers and keep his job? In the last six months, the APC top seat has been hot for him. He is facing battles on many fronts from his party men. Some members of the National Executive Committee (NEC) and National Working Committee (NWC)   want him out for what they describe as his high- handedness. But, he beats them to their plots as majority pass   a vote of confidence in him through their signatures on the loyalty form. Oshiomhole’s sin, according to his critics, is that he runs a one-man show, sometimes, not even from the party secretariat, but from his private office. He is also under fire for not calling meetings regularly and not filling vacant positions of Deputy National Chairman (South) vacated by Minister of Trade and Investment Adeniyi Adebayo and National Secretary vacated by Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni. During the last NEC meeting, majority of chairmen of state chapters foiled a plot to rusticate him. Contrary to the intention of the ‘coup plotters,’ he was given a clean bill of health amid the tension that engulfed the meeting. Oshiomhole is also facing heat from the local chapter of the party in his home state, Edo, where many of  his loyalists have deserted him. Factional chairman of Edo APC, Anselm Ojezua, placed him on suspension, following the protracted feud between him and Governor Godwin Obaseki. APC governors, who are said to be locked in 2023 permutations, have taken sides in the Edo imbroglio. To them, Oshiomhole’s cup is full and he should therefore go. The governors are the main power bloc in the ruling party. Yet, they failed in their desperate and determined effort to oust him. Their game plan was to get the endorsement of the national party leader, President Muhammadu Buhari, for their plot. But the masterminds could not get a quorum. While Kebbi State Governor Atiku Bagudu and his Kaduna counterpart, Mallam Nasiru El-Rufai, were believed to be the architects, Governors Adegboyega Oyetola of Osun and Baba Gana Zulum of Borno State refused to support the ‘coup.’ Opinion is still divided on the push for Oshiomhole’s resignation. If Oshiomhole is prevailed upon or pressurised to resign, who succeeds him? Oshiomhole, a former Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) leader, can only sleep with one eye closed. The forces against him are formidable. A source said the tempo of agitations for his removal may be sustained till the party’s mid-term non-elective convention. But, it appears that he may wax stronger ahead of the judgment day. For example, following the lifting of suspension on notable stalwarts recently, a rapprochement is being brokered between Oshiomhole and Ondo State Governor Rotimi Akeredolu (SAN), an ardent critic of the chairman, by credible Southwest APC chieftains. Akeredolu, Owelle Rochas Okorocha and Ibikunle Amosun were suspended for anti-party activities during the last elections. They allegedly sponsored governorship and parliamentary candidates on the platforms of opposition parties against the APC standard bearers. However, the suspension produced a weak consequence as it did not diminish the status of the suspended leaders. Why the war against Oshiomhole may be sustained and predicated on that fact, with him in the saddle, he remains a big obstacle to the 2023 calculations of anti-presidential zoning elements. On assumption of office, the chairman said he will not merely warm the number one party seat. He has often asserted his authority and insisted on party supremacy and discipline. But, on some occasions too, his actions were devoid of tact. Oshiomhole is believed to be combative. It may have become his undoing. He seems to lack the skill to handle his colleagues in the party who are governors and former governors. But recently, not only did the party retain Kogi, it also won the governorship poll in Bayelsa. Will the chairman survive the sustained antagonism by the powerful forces in his party? The onus is on Oshiomhole to demonstrate courage. It is not by soft peddling on his avowed commitment to party supremacy and discipline. But, he should try to pacify the aggrieved, pursue  reconciliation and convince critical stakeholders that his actions are geared towards party’s interest.