Editorial  When the Director-General of the National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC), Olusegun Runsewe, announced plans to revive the popular Argungu Fishing Festival this year, the public greeted the news with restrained excitement and cautious optimism. This is understandable after a puzzling 10-year break. As a sign of seriousness, Runsewe had displayed promotional items to the Emir of Argungu, Kebbi State, Samaria Mohammed Mera, during his visit to the council’s headquarters in Abuja last December, saying, “we will continue to support it henceforth.” Against this backdrop, the Kebbi State Government’s inauguration of a 16-member committee for the 2020 Argungu International and Cultural Fishing Festival, scheduled for March, is another step forward. Deputy Governor Samaila Yombe made a thought-provoking observation while inaugurating the committee on January 18:  “The festival used to be held once in a year but unfortunately for unforeseen circumstances which we cannot explain, this event could not hold for the past 10 years.” Surely, there must be reasons for the break. It’s too easy to say the government can’t explain why the festival was stopped for a decade. According to the former director-general of the festival, Abubakar Ladan, “Before the festival was put on hold, the government had stopped funding it because the festival generated a lot of money to sponsor itself.”  So, if money wasn’t a problem, what happened? The Kebbi State Government’s move to hire the services of a marketing consultant to get the private sector interested in sponsorship is a step in the right direction. It would require some effort to re-introduce the fishing festival to the private sector for sponsorship. That is the price to pay for discontinuity. The 10-year interruption, no doubt, created a wall between the custodians of the festival and the usual sponsors, which must be removed to achieve the desired cooperation. The four-day festival had drawn tourists from around the world that came to see the major attraction, a fishing competition involving thousands of men who jumped into MatanFada River, and tried to catch the biggest fish for a prize.  The competitors were allowed to use only traditional fishing tools, but many used their hands to exhibit their skill. The contest was a spectacle; and the prize money, which was as much as $7, 500, was attractive. The biggest fish caught in the history of the festival, in 2005, weighed 75kg. It was expected that when the festival was taken over by the Kebbi State Government because of its growing popularity and economic potential, the governmental involvement would ensure the festival’s continuity. For a festival that dates back to 1934, it has been in existence long enough to deserve continuity.  The endorsement of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), and its listing as an Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity, speaks volumes about the festival’s significance and why it should be continued. The effort to revive the Argungu Fishing Festival is commendable. The Federal Government is also in the mix. Minister of Information and Culture Lai Mohammed promoted the festival on a global stage at the 2020 International Tourism Trade Fair (Fitur) in Madrid, Spain, where he spoke about Nigeria’s tourism potential. “We are shifting attention to rural tourism,” he said. “This is because at the end of the day, those in rural areas are the owners of the cultural sites and tangible assets.” Tourism development requires more than paying lip service to it. Vision, focus and organisation are essential, and a lack of these has been mainly responsible for the lack of development in the country’s tourism sector. We welcome back the country’s popular fishing festival. The authorities should tackle the problems that stopped it for a decade. Other tourist attractions that need to be revived should also be given the necessary attention.