Sir: Operation Amotekun, put together under the auspices of the Western Nigeria Security Network (WNSN) by governors in the southwest, continues to elicit wide reactions from a cross-section of Nigerians at home and abroad. This should be expected because of the political and security implications of that decision, which has been described as creative, innovative, and timely, even though some critics, on the other hand, do not agree on its uniqueness. South-west states, just like other geopolitical zones, are at the receiving end of the state of insecurity. The Operation Amotekun initiative is certainly a timely defensive response to the litany of crime and criminality plaguing Yorubaland. The Amotekun initiative is supported on the premise that each segment of the Nigerian state has its peculiarity in terms of security landscape and topography, culture, language, and unique needs. It is the basis for the much-clamoured community/state/local policing. The Amotekun initiative is purely locally-driven and for the good of the locality. This arrangement is allowed under the subsisting federal constitution that we have. This is contrary to the belief in certain quarters that the task of protecting people’s lives and property is exclusively the duty of the national government. The southwest states never clamoured for external security; what they had always strived for is internal security against intruders such as herdsmen, armed robbers, kidnappers, and other criminal elements killing, maiming and wreaking havoc. This is where the Attorney-General of the Federation erred. Nigerians should not read unnecessary meanings into the operation of the new group. It is a communal attempt at tackling the series of security challenges facing our people. It is not an effort to target a particular group of people, secede from the republic, or promote certain political agenda. It is also not a creation to compete with the existing security agencies or cause mayhem for the incumbent national government; rather, it is meant to complement security activities of the police and other security agencies. Beyond the euphoria of establishing the outfit, the respective state governments should put strong administrative machinery in place to coordinate the affairs of the new vigilante group. Though locally-centred, the use of technology should be embraced for effective service delivery in the areas of collaboration with other internal security agencies like the Nigeria Police, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Department of State Services, among others. It should not be operated like a guerrilla group or be misconstrued as a cultist or fetish group. Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta.