“Plural and sharply divided societies all over the world attempt to manage their diversities and divisive tendencies through one, or a combination of, policy alternatives in the organisation and management of their public services for performance  and Nigeria is not an exception. Often times, these policy choices turn out to be delicate arrangements, but when carefully conceived, crafted and practiced, it provides opportunity for centre-seeking and centre-fleeing forces to interact peacefully and co-habit on agreed terms. One of such policy alternatives adopted for the management of public service in Nigeria for even representation is the federal character principle which was borne out of the need to ensure an even spread of government appointments in all the regions, states and local government councils in the country.” – Engr Nnaji Onovo, in Rotational Presidency as Equaliser and Balancing Factor”. I have expected to see the usual scurrilous comments that follow the type of advertised press statement made by the Afenifere Renewal Group (ARG) this past week and published in The Nation of Monday, January 6, 2020. The abusive responses are often based on the illogic that because you are a known supporter of  President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC, you cannot criticise either, lest you are deemed to have instantly become a wailer. I believe I put such Lilliputian thoughts to sleep recently on Face book when I replied as follows to a post of that genre: “I see a lot of ignorance passing muster as wisdom here all because? (Name deliberately omitted) has a permanent “YESSIR” choir which, always unreflectingly, queue behind him, whatever it is he writes. Now tell me what is wrong in calling attention to the shortcomings you observe in even the person you love the most? Let us put things in their proper perspective. Where would Nigeria be today if the Dezianis were still stealing, looting the treasury for self, and their leaders and other thieving comrades; if monies paid for crude liftings were not being paid into the national treasury so bad a CBN governor had to cry out? What were we supposed to have done when outright predators were in charge, who completely looted billions of dollars meant for equipping an army that was fighting a war? Re elect that type of president so that Ali Babas could continue their predatory reign unchecked? Do I really blame you guys who would rather Nigeria had been stolen off the face of the earth? Those of us you now see as hell bent, wishing to belong to your wailing class, are the fartherest from any such thing. Buhari remains miles ahead of his predecessor in personal integrity. Unfortunately, he has permitted himself to be surrounded by an unelected mafia of self seekers who do not see his primary duty as ruling for Nigeria but rather ruling for the benefit of his northern compatriots, which is both a big shame and a disappointment. Some of us saw this and reacted publicly, drawing attention to these errors and what names did you not call us?  Didn’t some of you even say I was running an errand for somebody who is younger than I but who I respect hugely all the same? Only idiots or people suffering from outright ossification would say that because he/she is supporting somebody, he is estopped from drawing attention, or out rightly, even publicly, criticising his egregious mistakes. That for me, as an Ekiti, is a NO NO. I advise you apply logic, reason together and discover that it is more effective when a supporter does this than when a known enemy regurgitates their routine bad belle. I expect your usual vitriol’s”. I did not know I hit a bull’s eye until I realised that since 28th December, 2019, there hadn’t been a whimper from the about 16 other commentators. I digress. This past week, what I had expected for so long, but in vain, from APC leaders in the South, but especially in the Southwest, happened. The Afenifere Renewal Group undertook a robust, critical, and no-holds-barred evaluation, no scrutiny, of the Buhari administration. For far too long, in my view, APC leaders in the Southwest have not helped the president in his politics as far as nation building is concerned. While I  do not expect them to insert themselves  into the president’s domestic affairs, I believe that had they as much as remonstrated, even privately, against  his lopsided appointments, it would have been near impossible for those oiling  it to so summarily shoot down the first lady when she spoke vigorously against it. Indeed, as at the time she spoke, her angst was that she wasn’t seeing many of those people, from other parts of Nigeria, who campaigned for the president. Today, she would be surprised that of the few she saw then, many have now been sacked and,   almost all, routinely being replaced by northerners. Certainly no true federation should be run in this manner. I  was, therefore,  not surprised that this issue is one of those matters the ARG described as “significant issues in Nigeria’s policy environment” especially on   the question of equity, not only in appointments, but in those  areas which  they  say if  not re – calibrated,  stand a distinct possibility of negatively impacting President Buhari’s legacy. For reasons of space constraint I shall deal with only two of the four key issues the Afenifere Renewal Group touched on. The advertised press statement kicked off by recalling Vision2020, which predated the administration, and its own medium term Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP), which was intended to have reduced petroleum products’ importation by 60% this year, describing both as monumental failures. Since both now seem  peripheral, I have chosen to look at the following two issues, namely, the VISA ON Arrival Policy and what it described as RULE OF LAW AND NATIONAL INTEREST. Concerning the Visa policy, ARG did not hide its disdain, describing its promulgation as imperial. In its view, this is an important issue that should have been discussed back home before its announcement in Egypt. It raised other posers. For instance, it asked the question as to which people the president referred to as “we”, when in announcing the policy he said: “We in Nigeria have already taken the strategic decision to bring down barriers that have hindered the free movement of our people within the continent by introducing the issuance of Visa at the port of entry into Nigeria to all persons holding passports of African countries with effect from January 2020”? It asked whether this was discussed, officially, at any level of government in Nigeria or was it a campaign promise by the APC? What about reciprocity; has the government secured any? In view of all these, ARG concluded that the policy is not only not in conformity with the Nigerian constitution, it is in bad faith and against the indigenous peoples of Nigeria whose consent was not sought on a matter that will dilute the country’s population and alter its demographic composition. RULE OF LAW AND NATIONAL INTEREST ARG was no less unsparing, stating that, and I quote:”there have been a number of assaults on the Rule of Law under this administration, a phenomenon that is now spreading to the sub-national level with state governments now exhibiting similar rascality by treating critics’ views as treason”. The administration, it further said, is weaponising a nebulous national interest to terrorise citizens and incarcerate people, using the cynical strategy of endless filing of new charges against those they desire to hold against valid court orders”. Although, it has been argued in some quarters that the Attorney General and Minister of Justice must bear the responsibility for these inhuman acts, I make bold to say that in a few years time,  Nigerians  may not see or hear of  Mr. Malami anywhere near the Nigerian public service, but not so President Buhari. Where is Andoakaa today near the seat of power in Nigeria? The president should always have an eye on his place in history. Concluding, ARG did not shy away from making some suggestions which include the following: .”We call for the immediate suspension of the Visa on Arrival policy to allow for appropriate consultation and preparation.