The absence of an Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) witness has stalled the trial of the Founder of Power of the Holy Ghost Evangelical Ministry a.k.a ‘Tuesday Tuesday Church’, Prophet Cletus Ilongwo who was accused of swindling a member of his church of N49.6million. During resumed sitting of the court on Monday, the prosecuting counsel for the EFCC, Mr Nkemruwem Anana, told the court that the witness who is an EFCC official had traveled for a course. Anana told the trial judge, Justice Sherifat Solebo the witness has not returned from the trip. He also told the court that the commission had earlier informed the counsel to the defendant, Mrs Titilola Akinlawon (SAN) that the matter may not likely hold and that they were likely to ask the court for an adjournment. Responding to the submission of the EFCC counsel, the defence counsel, Mrs Akinlawon noted that the EFCC had consistently delayed the trial. Akinlawon recalled that the prosecution counsel has also failed to file the additional information of the witness which was the basis for the last adjournment. “Every adjournment has been at the instance of the prosecution, the have been delaying the matter. I want the court to bear in mind the conduct of the prosecution when this matter is concluded,” Akinlawon said. Anana, however denied that the prosecution was delaying the trial and said that he will file required document in court and will also serve the Akinlawon a copy of the document. Justice Solebo adjourned the case until Feb. 6, for continuation of trial. Prophet Ilongwo was arraigned on November 5, 2018 and had plead not guilty to an 11-count charge of unlawful conversion of property. According to the EFCC, Ilongwo committed the offences between January and April 2016. The EFCC alleged that prophet Ilongwo collected the funds from one Obinna Ezenwaka on the pretext that he would help m purchase a property located 165c, Diamond Estate  Amuwo Odofin. He however failed to purchase the same property. Anana alleged that the funds were collected from Ezenwaka through Ilongwo’s Bank account 1003455899.