Medical-doctor-turned businessman, Dr. Chuma Markolex Igbokwe, has had a mixed experience with life since he returned to his home-country Nigeria, after  sojourning abroad.  Now based in Abuja, he is a consultant with the National Assembly, where he is contributing his quota to the development of the country while also continuing with his businesses that stretch into other choice sectors of the economy. In this interview with PAUL UKPABIO, he takes us into his life journey, his sojourn abroad and the life lessons he has learnt.  LET’S go a little down memory lane. What was life like for you, growing up in the Eastern part of Nigeria? While growing up, did you consider yourself a privileged child? My earliest memory of childhood was growing up in the streets of Lagos. We lived in Mushin, which was relatively crowded given that my dad was a worker of the Nigerian railways at the Mushin station at the time. Like most kids around, we found various ways to entertain ourselves and spend time at each other’s houses. It was very much like a form of communal living. I was not born with a silver spoon in my mouth. We just had the basic things at home. Tell us a few things you remember about your childhood and a few about your parents. My both parents are now deceased. My dad was a railways worker and an avid supporter of Enugu Rangers Football Club. At an early age, I was exposed to travelling on the trains. I also remember the communal viewing and analysis of all the Nigerian El-Classico of the time viz a viz Rangers vs IICC. I also remember being taken to watch football matches played by teams like Stores, ACB,  Bendel Insurance, Raca Rovers and Sharks. I also recall all the Saturday morning shopping trips with my mum to Kajola market, meeting her customers and being proudly introduced to them. I looked forward to the perks that came with such visits. Mum was also strict on the need to supervise my school home work. In those days, polygamy was popular. Was that the situation in your house? I am the third child in a typical Igbo family of six children. My uncle, Mr. Eke, lived with us and was not only a committed Christian but an ardent church goer. I soon began to accompany him to attend ECWA Church at the age of five. Here I can say that my spiritual life was moulded and the values that inform who I am today were inculcated. I had great teachers at Sunday school. I sang in the choir, learnt the rudiments of leadership through youth groups and remained committed to key Christian values. It was also during this stage of my life that I made many childhood friends of different faiths. We just grew up together and played together oblivious of our ethnic, cultural or religious differences. What decided education for you and tell us about your educational background? Educationally, I prayed earnestly to be the best that I could be and for wisdom. I had my primary education at the Lagos City Council School, Fadeyi, Lagos, left with a distinction at the school leaving certificate exams. Secondary education was at one of the best secondary schools in Lagos then, Baptist Academy, Shepherd Hill, Obanikoro. It was at ‘Baptacads’ as we called the school that further core values were embedded in my peers and me. It was an all boys’ school with a huge number of privileged kids and outstanding academic records. It provided for stiff academic competition and robust build up in areas of debating, music, social skills training, Christian values and sports. I had outstanding WAEC results having achieved Grade 1 distinction and had an amazing JAMB result with an offer to study medicine at Ife. I was to later travel abroad for training as a commercial pilot coupled with specialist training in medicine and international work as a diplomat. You had an offer to study medicine in Ife. Did you take up the offer? I had the highest score on JAMB admission.I decided to take the offer. You later travelled abroad for training as a commercial pilot and a specialist in medicine and international work as a diplomat, how did you combine all these? I had to take up flying as a leisure job while I completed my specialist training. I subsequently went into business, which included healthcare management, mining and maritime security. The UK company, of which I was CEO, held uranium and gold license rights in Niger Republic. The huge investment made by my company into mining in Niger naturally brought us to the attention of the then President Tandja.  It also coincided with Niger exploring the possibility of opening her British mission. My business interest in the UK also spanned British politics being a citizen of Great Britain myself. Based on this, I was appointed as the first consul of Niger to the UK. You seem to love pets, which ones do you keep? Yes, mostly dogs but I love animals in general. Why did you go abroad? And what kind of life did you meet with abroad as compared to Nigeria? I went to further my education in search of the Golden Fleece. I also went to gain some useful work and management experience. The UK is a much more disciplined society where much is expected of individuals and you are handsomely rewarded for achieving set goals.  It’s a well run country by individuals with the interest of the greater majority at heart. Nigeria is a highly indisciplined society unfortunately lacking in robust institutions compared to the west and we are yet to evolve those critical institutions needed to move forward. In my opinion, although we possess a lot of academic graduates, we are lacking in quality human resources needed to develop and man these institutions. What motivated you to return to Nigeria? In 2011, my father passed on, which informed my final decision to relocate back. It also coincided with series of business investments, which my partners and I were making in Nigeria. You most often dress like a musician, have you ever tried your hands on music and what can you say about your kind of fashion and style? I pretty much dress smart and I love keeping it casual and simple. I am not one for blings or crazy hairdos.  At what point did family and marriage knock on your door? Sadly, I have not been successful with marriage. Marriage and companionship is good but should not be to the detriment of one’s mental health and state of mind. The man who finds a good wife has found a good thing. So, are you in search of your kind of woman now? I’m actually already in love with a beautiful, caring, well-educated young woman who is intellectually engaging, warm-hearted, domesticated, ambitious and God-fearing. Being a consultant to the National Assembly, what does it entail? Consultancy here is in the area of research and advisory. I undertake research activities on behalf of law makers and provide concise briefings in areas requested. In your estimation, don’t you think the National Assembly in the last three dispensations has been in the news for the wrong reasons too often? To an extent, NASS may have been in the news for the wrong reasons, particularly in the last three dispensations, but on the whole, they could only give what they were only capable of delivering. The quality of work often correlates with the quality and support structures available to law makers at any one time. The 9th Assembly, in my opinion, has been well prepared for the job through detailed induction courses and other areas; and the current leadership appears more focused on solution finding than at picking up fights with other arms. The salary of lawmakers continues to be a matter for discussion in public spaces and many consider it high, what is your opinion and what do you consider best? The law makers, in my opinion, are reasonably paid but the bone of contention is in the area of allowances which are much higher compared to comparable democracies and similar economies. Not too soon after the last elections, death has been snatching one law maker after another. Was it that the election process was too stressful for them because of their health? Why is Nigerian politics played on the lines of at all cost? The general state of our healthcare infrastructure coupled with our lifestyle choices appear to be the main reasons for untimely deaths here in Nigeria. This is not negating the role that stressful political campaigns play in the lives of politicians and the fact that most members of NASS are over 50 years old often with underlying healthcare challenges and there is hardly time to address these. Given opportunity, will you go into politics? You create your own opportunity, I believe. My desire is to continue to contribute to the development of my country in whatever capacity I find myself and support the leadership. Personally, I have tremendous respect for Dr. Uche Ogah, current Minister of State for Mines and Steel and he enjoys my patronage. What do you value most and why? I value my personal relationship with God most as it’s the only guarantee of eternal life. Presently, is this the Nigeria of your dreams? The current Nigeria is far from the Nigeria of my dreams. I enjoyed tuition free education throughout my educational life at the expense of the Nigerian nation. There’s a need to give back at all cost. What sports did you grow up with? Have you developed interest in newer sports? I grew up with football and table tennis, which remain my first and main love but while in the UK, I further developed interests in cricket, rugby and golf. These are all great sports. How do you spend your holidays? Do you have memories of a particular holiday you enjoyed most? My holidays are mainly spent travelling to places of interest in Nigeria. Many beautiful and historical sites in Nigeria. What inspires you? I am greatly inspired by the challenges and the opportunities that Nigeria presents. It is a sufficient inspiration. What are you passionate about? I’m truly passionate about helping in building the Nigeria of our unborn children.