 THE Federal Government on Tuesday expressed dismay over the decision of some governors to disregard the resolution of the National Economic Council on Right of Way charges in the telecom industry. The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Ali Pantami, spoke on Tuesday in Abuja. He said the action of the governors would be counter-productive to Federal Government’s plan to deepen broadband penetration and attract investments into the sector. The minister noted that it was wrong for some governors to increase Right of Way charge by 1,200 per cent against the agreed charge of N145 per linear metre of fibre. “We received with dismay the decision of some states of the federation to increase the Right of Way charges in disregard of the resolutions reached by the National Economic Council (NEC),” the minister said in a statement in Abuja. Noting that the Federal Government frowned at the flagrant disregard for the resolutions of the NEC, Pantami advised the governors to reconsider their position in the interest of the economy. He said: “It may be recalled that in 2013, NEC set up a committee comprising governors and ministers to review the issues of multiple taxation in the telecommunications industry in Nigeria and its impact. “The committee, after extensive and wide-ranging consultations, resolved to harmonise the taxes applicable to broadband-related activities and streamline the taxation management processes across the federation. “Specifically, to deepen broadband penetration for the social and economic development of the country, the committee agreed to the uniform Right of Way (RoW) charge of N145.00 per linear metre of fibre. “It may also be recalled that in October 2019, we had written to all the governors, drawing their attention to these resolutions and soliciting their support and collaboration towards the realisation of the National Digital Economy by fast-tracking the deployment of broadband infrastructure for the provision of affordable internet services to underserved and unserved areas.”  