Telling stories is the new paradigm shift in contemporary brand building. Brands use this method to communicate their value offerings to their targeted audience and elicit responses from them. JANE CHIJIOKE writes.  Attention in today’s digitally driven society has become a scarce commodity.   Experts say the attention span of a human being has reduced to eight seconds. With this minute attention span, consumers are bombarded with multiple marketing messages  daily, making it tougher for brands to communicate their products to their target audience. More so, with accessibility to information, the digital space has continued to offer convenience and instant gratification, thus, the human touch has become more difficult and coveted. Operating in such business environment, brands need to do more to connect with their audience in a much deeper level. One of such ways is employing the art of storytelling. Telling stories is an ancient mode of communication. It is a narrative about an experience, event or series of events, aimed at passing a message to the intended audience.  It arguably improves listening skills and makes the message more memorable. When stories are told, they engage with the cortex of the brain which is responsible for language and emotions. People love to hear stories. Stories are the reason people would want to stay glued to a particular movie, soap opera and even listen to gist among their peers. This art has been adjudged to be effective in engaging consumers. Practitioners in Integrated Marketing Communication are gradually adopting this art of telling stories in their creative contents.  They are of the view that to increase potential customer conversions, making emotional connections would captivate both consumers and prospective ones. According to Global Brand Network founder, Esoshe Igbonoba, a compelling brand story can shape the way a brand is viewed, triggers consumers loyalty, increases sales and boost the visibility of a brand. She noted that is a communication tool that can be leveraged to communicate a brand identity, purpose and essence as well as have the potential to improve consumers’ ability to recall any information embedded in the marketing content. Igbonoba remarked that brand storytelling became a global phenomenon in marketing in early 2012, when there was a widespread acceptance about the role of storytelling in content marketing for brands. “In fact, it was largely termed, ‘the Year of Storytelling’. In early 2011, the number of marketers listing storytelling as a skill was little. But by 2014, storytelling became a key part of their profile  of almost a quarter of a million marketers, seven per cent of all marketers worldwide. This data shows how high marketers ranked storytelling skill. Though it is not a new strategy, there’s so much emphasis on it because of its effectiveness,” she said. With its benefits, it is still not well- utilised in the country’s marketing communications. Experts argued that that creating an emotional brand attachment has remained a key issue for brands. According to Digital Strategy and Planning Manager, Insight Publicis, Kayode Adeola, the  challenge for brand marketers is to find a way to be human, relevant and profitable to  consumers. He noted that brands spend time talking about their products, how they are better, cheaper, faster or bigger.  “All that is good, but you need to tell human stories to have meaning in the lives of the target consumers,” he said. He said in an environment where consumers are bombarded with various marketing messages, consumers would only remember a message that means something deeper than facts, noise or another salesy message. He explained that while consumers are busy tuning out marketing messages, they are making deeper connection with brands that can communicate with their emotions. “There was a time when logic was powerful, you only need to say and show your product  is better or cheaper and consumers will come running through you doors. But now,  you need to go deeper into how your products makes them better.  It is beyond having good quality to offer, you need to know how well to communicate that quality to your consumers. Brands that have leveraged storytelling use human stories to connect with their consumers need states and life goals and get their products to play a role in it,” he added. Igbonoba hinted that brands need to learn how to tell their stories and how to work with creatives to bring their stories to life. She noted that there are some Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (SMEs) that have great products and good stories to tell, but are losing out because they don’t have the technical know-how to leverage storytelling as a marketing strategy for their business. Recently, the founding Chairman of Marketing Space, George Thorpe advised brands and IMC practitioners to prirotise telling their stories for their growth projections. Speaking at a forum organised by Marketing Edge Magazine, which had its theme  “Storytelling as a new paradigm shift in contemporary brand building: convergence of creativity and technology”, he underscored the importance of the art, stating that it should be  deployed in a more consumer-centric manner. “Stories should make the consumer the hero. He should see himself in the story,” he said. Corroborating him, the Chief Executive Officer, Oracle Experience, Felix King, explained that for brands to stay ahead, in a seemingly unfavourably economy, they must tell genuine stories in such as way that the narratives resonate with their consumers and prospective ones to have  a long lasting effect on them. For Dotun Babatunde, a digital marketing practitioner, storytelling has become more imperative for brand building. Increasingly, he said, reaching the consumer is becoming more difficult and telling stories provide the avenue for brands to communicate their values, with the aim to evoke an emotional response. He advised that stories should be authentic, consistent, have understanding of the consumers and be able to elucidate response from the audience.