 The peace in diepsloot, Johannesburg has been ruffled as locals are calling on foreign nationals to leave their community. The locals staged a protest over the killing of a police captain, it was learnt. The protest against foreign nationals, according to Benjamin Okoli, President Nigerian Citizens Association South Africa (NICASA) followed the allegation that suspected killers of the police captain is a foreign national. Okoli noted that the police captain was killed during a shoot out with robbers. He however stated that the south African PolIce are working really hard bring the situation under control. Narrating the story to The Nation Newspaper,  NICASA President said, “there is a protest in diepsloot Johannesburg. The locals are protesting and demanding that foreign nationals should leave their community. They blame the foreigners for crimes in their area. The situation was caused because of the killing of a Police captain in the area early last week. “The police while responding to a robbery tip off encountered the robbers and a gun fight ensued between them and the police. “A police captain was shot and killed in the process, while the killer escaped. A manhunt for the killer of the police captain commenced, and the killer was arrested in the kruggersdorp area in Johannesburg on Tuesday. “The community on learning the identity of the killer robber that he is a foreign national We have advised our Citizens to be vigilant and monitor situation around their area.” He however stressed that it was not another xenophobia ans neither was it targeted at Nigerians. “This situation is not targeted at Nigerians but foreign nationals especially those resident in the area. This is not a xenophobia attack, but an attack occasioned by the unwarranted brutal killing of a Police personnel. The community does not take the killing of their police members lightly. They consider an attack on their police as an attack on their Country especially when it is committed by a foreigner.” While urging Nigerians in South Africa to remain law abiding and go about their lawdul business, he however said NICASA “will continue to monitor the situation as it develop”. Okoli noted that the Consul General has been informed of the  development while also hoping  that situation does not escalate.