If anything, the tone of NERC raises a question about whether government agencies consider citizens as stakeholders. Power has been a problem for a generation. We know we need to pick up the pace of progress… In the past few months, we have engaged extensively with stakeholders to develop a series of comprehensive solutions to improve the reliability and availability of electricity across the country. These solutions include ensuring fiscal sustainability for the sector, increasing both government and private sector investments in the power transmission and distribution segments, improving payment transparency through the deployment of smart meters and ensuring regulatory actions maximise service delivery. We have in place a new deal with Siemens, supported by the German government…to invest in new capacity for generation, transmission, and distribution—President Mohammadu Buhari 2020 New Year Message. Many innocent Nigerians, particularly those at the lower end of the socio-economic ladder would have been uplifted on 1st of January when their President released this message of hope about one of the hitherto hope-diminishing aspects of government-citizen relations in the country. Such persons would have jumped up in excitement beside their generators and kegs of diesel with the word PROGRESS written large on their faces. Such excitement was not supposed to last. Four days later, the Nigerian Electricity Regulator Commission (NERC) released its own decree about the tariff on electricity going up in April by close to 50 percent. In the evening of January 6, I visited the Zenith Yuletide decorations in Victoria Island and moved around in the company of citizens who must have come there to appreciate the beauty of electricity that they hardly see in their sections of the country. As I walked in the midst of many parents holding the hands of their children and grandchildren, the discussions I heard went back and forth to the matter of the new electricity tariff. One recurrent theme in the discussions that hit my ears was the fear of conspiracy—cosmic and man-induced against Nigeria. Following are a few examples of the worries on the minds of people who may not have any expertise in how governments work, even though they are confident about the power of electricity to improve the quality of the lives of their families. Some of the conspiracy theories are almost as old as Nigeria. The oldest one dated back to 1966 after the first coup d’etat against the Independence federal and regional governments. A man apparently in his 70s said that the threat to regular electricity supply started with the military governments in the 1960s. Military rulers were believed to have no interest in investing in reliable electricity, he stated, because they did not want too many citizens to be independent economically to the point of challenging military rule and that all they were interested in were changes in nomenclature from ECN to NEPA and later to PHCN, but hardly in fundamental changes capable of putting Nigeria in the club of energy-sufficient countries poised for domestic industrial revolution. Another conspiracy theory refers to absence of serious commitment to revolution in the energy sector by the civilian government between military regimes, such as the government of Alhaji Shehu Shagari and later two of the three post-military governments of Olusegun Obasanjo and Umaru Yar’Adua who chose to dance more about the need for regular supply of power in the country without ensuring that whatever they invested in the power sector yield any outcome. One other conspiracy theory is that powerful politicians and businessmen friendly to suppliers of generators and diesel did not sincerely believe in providing adequate investment in the energy sector, for fear of embarrassing their associates and customers. No on the part of this writer to believe any of these conspiracy theories, but it is logical to see them as projections of the fears or frustrations of the average citizen who see the significance of their lives as diminished by lack of electricity. Surprisingly, none of the purveyors of decades-old facile theories about why Nigeria had been incapable to solve its energy crisis in 54 of its 60 years of life expressed doubts that the end of conspiracy had been signalled by President Buhari’s statement in his end of year message to Nigerians cited overleaf. The only man who made references to the president’s speech stated that he was sure that the president would not put his integrity on the line on his promise to deliver electricity to the country in 2020. One woman followed by a village of grandchildren said that welcoming Siemens suggests a recognition of gaps in the privatisation of the power sector carried out by President Jonathan, reminding her husband about President Buhari’s assurance regarding Siemens’ intervention in building new capacity for generation, transmission, and distribution: “These projects will be done under close scrutiny and transparency—there will be no more extravagant claims that end only in waste, theft, and mismanagement.” But the announcement of new tariffs that almost doubled the old one which NERC claimed to be a minor change: “We wish to provide guidance that the minor review implemented by the commission was a retrospective adjustment of the tariff regime released in 2015. Trivialising an increase or review of 40% increase or review as minor shows lack of sensitivity to majority of consumers. Any doubt that human rights groups have gone to court to protect the interest of consumers? Is it impossible in our country that the case may drag in court for another year? It is such insensitivity by government agencies and companies with special connection to government that generates conspiracy theories, such as we have itemised in preceding paragraphs. Whoever wrote the president’s New Year speech has shown more sensitivity to citizens than those who crafted the announcement of NERC. Juxtaposing President Buhari’s assurance: “The next 12 months will witness the gradual implementation of these actions, after which Nigerians can expect to see significant improvement in electricity service supply reliability and deliver” with NERC’s “We wish to provide guidance that the minor review implemented by the commission was a retrospective adjustment of the tariff regime released in 2015” suggests how distant NERC is from citizens and their frustrations about poor performance of the power sector. If anything, the tone of NERC raises a question about whether government agencies consider citizens as stakeholders. The kind of communication that should have existed between agencies of government and citizens did not seem to have existed before the NERC released its ‘minor review’ assessment. In other climes, there would have been formal and informal consultations with citizens, apart from discussion between government and representatives of labour unions. The average Nigerian seems exposed enough to believe that there can be no development in the modern age without provision of adequate electricity. Limiting consultations on such important matters to discussion between government agencies and labour leaders may not be enough, especially not after the experience of the country with Oil Subsidy. Nobody has given citizens adequate explanations why DisCos are to be paid subsidy so that they can have funds to operate companies they acquired after de-regulation of the energy sector. From the mixture of frustration and excitement I observed on faces of the people whose discussions I was privileged to hear in Victoria Island a few days ago, I feel more confident than before that government agencies need to treat citizens as stakeholders whose views are as important as those of owners of DisCos about how to develop the country’s power sector. Before final decisions are made on a sector that cannot succeed without citizens as consumers of energy, there ought to be consultations with citizens directly, in addition to consultations with leaders of trade unions. Majority of consumers of electricity are not members of trade unions in most countries including Nigeria. It is myopic to define stakeholders in a way that ignores consumers of a public good that cannot be sustained without the support of 200 million consumers. It is the penchant to leave citizens out of discussion of matters of national and common interest that encourages citizens to construct all manners of conspiracy theories about Nigeria’s failure since 1966 to provide adequate electricity supply for an eternally growing population. Having an option for referendum on development of power may be more useful than most of our leaders can imagine, because Nigerians know that lack of regular electricity in the country is a source of mass poverty. 