  Apart from Odunayo Adekuoroye who has become the face of wrestling in Nigeria, Purity Akuh stood out as the man behind the successes of some of the finest female wrestlers on the continent. As an athlete, he was humble and calm on the mat and his performance at national competitions aided his call-up to the national team. He also represented Nigeria at continental tournaments, which also helped him become one of the few Nigerian wrestlers to turn professional. Akuh narrates his foray into wrestling: “I took to wrestling while I was in school because it’s all about supremacy so I wanted a combat sport that will give me an edge over my friends. Even at home and during our evening recreation, we wrestled to know who was the strongest. But I got involved in wrestling fully when I was too strong for my mates and it was a bit difficult for some senior ones to handle me. So I then developed deep interest in wrestling.” From being a local champion in Ondo State, Akuh rose to become the national champion at the 2004 National Sports Festival in Abuja. “At the national level, I became a national champion from 2004 to 2012 having won the 2004 National Sports Festival in Abuja. I represented Ondo State to retain the title again at the 2006 edition in Ogun State. This earned me a call-up to the national team where I was part of the team to the 2010 African Championship in Egypt. I was also able to get a professional club in Germany known as KFC in Leipzig, where I won several medals for the team,” he added. After embarking on a six-month coaching course at Leipzig University, he decided to return home to take up coaching. His words: “I spent six months with the KFC Club and after than I decided to enrol for a six-month coaching course at Leipzig University. It was while I was in Germany that I got a wind that Nigeria wrestling team was on a training tour in Germany. “I decided to assist in the camp and it was there I met Daniel Igali who encouraged me to return home and join him to groom top wrestlers for the country.” On his decision to turn to coaching, Akuh said: “I decided to become a coach because I have passion for the sport, especially to train athletes who will achieve much more than I did in wrestling. “Also I wanted to help the youths to channel their energy into sports. Through the sport, fame and fortune have come my way and it has given me the chance to wine and dine with president, governors, and kings in Nigeria and abroad.” On the uniqueness of wrestling as sport: “Wrestling is unique as a sport everyone understands (to take down). It is meant for mentally tough people compared to other sports.” Describing wrestling as what his life revolves round, Akuh added: “Wrestling has really changed my life because it has given me opportunity to travel around the world. It has also given me opportunity to study and improve my standard as well as the ability to understand and relate with different kind of people.” Watching Akuh relating with his athletes is like father to children tie and this, he said, has helped him to bring out the best in the wrestlers. “My relationship with my athletes is like father to son, daughter to daughter. We relate like friends and I am happy about it. I bring out the best in my athletes by designing proper training methods that involve scientific training and words of encouragement coupled with my cordial relationship with them has helped bring out the best in them.” On why he has more female wrestlers than male, he said: “I have more of top female wrestlers than males because I started my coaching career with the female. Though I have a good number of male wrestlers that are doing well in both the national and international levels. The results we are getting from wrestling was made possible by the grace of God, hard work from both coaches and athletes coupled with athletes’ determination.” Akuh would not want to remember what happened at Rio 2016 Olympic Games, when he said: “2016 Rio Olympics Games in Brazil  was my worst moment in wrestling. It was a major tournament I prepared my wrestlers for, unfortunately we could not make it to the podium. It was an experience I would not want to remember again.” As long as Akuh would not want to refer to 2016 Olympic Games, he cannot forget some moments in his career, especially 2014 Glasgow Commonwealth Games in Scotland. “My memorable moment as an athlete  was when I qualified  to represent my country in an international competition and we were in the plane with my green and white tracksuit. Also as a coach  I would cherish when Odunayo Adekuoroye and Aminat Adeniyi won gold respectively at Glasgow 2014 Commonwealth Games in Scotland.” To reaffirm his passion for wrestling, Akuh is ready to encourage his wards to take to the sport. “For now, none of my children is into wrestling as my boys are not up to the age. Hopefully, when they get to age 6 they will join me. But as for my daughters, I am at the edge of convincing them to join me,” he said. Considering the honours that wrestling has brought to Nigeria, Akuh believes wrestling would soon be rivalling top sports in terms of popularity. “I am sure that in the next five years, wrestling will be more popular in Nigeria and we will be recording more medals at the world level and in Olympics as the platform is already built,” he added. Apart from the goodies sports have given Akuh in life, his marriage was also a product of his romance with sport. “I met my wife through sports. She was then a basketball player and studying law at Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU). It was while doing sport that we met and we have been together since 2005; I believe we will spend the rest of our lives together,” Akuh enthused. Already, Akuh is eagerly looking forward to Tokyo 2020 as an optimist who believes wrestling will fetch the country some medals. “I am very optimistic that wrestling will fetch Nigeria medals at Tokyo 2020. We are more experienced and we have the athletes that can deliver. We will not be too complacent but continue to train and hope to attend more competitions to get exposed to top class athletes that we may likely face in Tokyo. I am sure of our chances this year because our athletes are capable to make it to the podium this year,” he said. For his philosophy of life, Akuh said: “My life philosophy is that with God all things are possible. Also I would want to be remembered as someone who made positive impact in people’s lives; a patriot and I also aspire to leave a legacy as the first wrestling coach to lead his team to world championships and Olympics by claiming gold medals for Nigeria.” Apart from wrestling, Akuh likes relaxing, reading and listening to music, while his favourite colour is blue and white. Akuh’s soft-spot for Toyota cars, especially highlander, cannot be underestimated. For his efforts in 2017, Akuh was adjudged Coach of the Year at the annual Nigerian Sports Award while at the 2019 African Wrestling Championship in Tunisia, he was named the best coach of the tournament.