The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) on Tuesday detained Senator Shehu Sani, who represented Kaduna Central in the National Assembly between 2015 and 2019. The commission also summoned Sani Dauda, who is the complainant, to appear tomorrow in a face-to-face interaction with Sani. Dressed in a white kaftan with a brown cap and black shoes, Sani was interrogated at the EFCC headquarters in Jabi, Abuja. There were indications last night that he might be transferred to one of EFCC’s old cells in Wuse 2, Abuja. According to a source, Sani was arrested for alleged extortion of   $20,000 from the  Chairman/ CEO of ASD Motors, Alhaji Sani Dauda, who was a chairman of Peugeot Automobile Nigeria (PAN) Limited. But another source claimed that the embattled ex-lawkmaker demanded $20,000 from the CEO of ASD Motors to meet EFCC Chairman Ibrahim Magu  on his behalf in connection with a case. Suspecting a foul play, the car dealer parted with an initial instalment of $10,000 and pledged a balance, if the case was withdrawn. A top source said: “He (Sani) was said to have collected the $20,000 from the Chairman/CEO of ASD Motors on the grounds that he is very close to the EFCC boss. “He was subsequently arrested and granted administrative bail while he refunded the money to the victim. “He was asked to report but made himself incommunicado. He must have been scamming a lot of people, dropping the name of the EFCC boss.” Sani was being grilled last night by detectives on the “deal” between him and Dauda. The source added: “We are likely to detain him till after the New Year festival because he is still  writing his statement.” But another source gave more insights into what actually transpired between Sani and Dauda. The second source added: “There is no doubt that bribe cash exchanged hands between Senator Sani and the owner of ASD Motors because a refund has been made. “The whole incident started on November 14, 2019, when the former lawmaker went to sympathise with the ASD Motors chairman over an incident. It was in the process a discussion started on some challenges being faced by the car dealer. “The two later met again on November 19, 2019, on the cases involving the owner of the ASD Motors in a court and in the EFCC. About N5 million allegedly was given to the senator through a bureau de change operator to address the case in court. “On November 20, 2019, the senator had audience with the owner of ASD Motors where he said he was allegedly in touch with EFCC investigators and prosecutors and that they had pledged to handle the matter. “Later, he was alleged to have claimed that the investigators were demanding cash to give to the Acting EFCC chairman, Ibrahim Magu. It was at this point he suggested $20,000. “At this stage, the car dealer became suspicious and claimed that he did not have $20,000 but he could afford $10,000 till after the intercession has succeeded. “Despite the offer of $10,000, there was no result as the EFCC was still adamant on the case of the owner of ASD Motors.” It was gathered that based on the development, Dauda complained to the EFCC. “The truth is that the cash has been retrieved from Sani,” the source added.