 Nigeria’s Super Eagles’ journey to FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022 will began in earnest today as the team get to know its foes in the second round of the qualifiers when the draw of the continent’s qualifying competition take place at the Ritz-Carlton Hotel in the Egyptian capital of Cairo. The 14 first-round winners will be joined in the draw by Nigeria and 25 highest African nations in the FIFA/Coca-Cola World ranking (as of December 2019). The 40 teams will be drawn into 10 groups of four, with only the section winners advancing to the third round. According to the schedule, the group phase of the second round starts in March 2020 and comes to an end in October 2021. The third round which will be made up of 10 group winners will be drawn into five two-legged knockout ties to be played in November 2021. Nigeria has been lined up in the continent’s big guns in Pot 1 with Tunisia, Morocco, Egypt and Senegal, all five having featured at the last FIFA World Cup in Russia. Others in Pot 1 are reigning CAF Africa Cup of Nations champions, Algeria, Ghana, Cameroon, Congo DR and Mali. The Leopards have not graced the World Cup finals since Germany 1974, when they played as Zaire, while the Eagles of Mali have never qualified. However, Nigeria will be aiming for seventh appearances at the Mundial under the watchful eyes of Coach Gernot Rohr. Meanwhile, the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA) has announced exclusive live broadcast of the draw live from Cairo. The telecast will start shortly before the 6pm (Nigerian time) event, which holds at Ritz-Carlton Hotel in Cairo. This is the first indication of the resolve of NTA in partnership with its marketing consultancy HotSports to bring all the matches of the qualifiers and the finals of Qatar 2022 to its teeming viewers and their associated brands. NTA has the right to broadcast on free-to-air channels the matches of Nigeria’s national teams and clubs in continental competitions. The partnership between NTA and HotSports delivered all the matches of last year’s Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt to millions of homes in Nigeria. The matches were produced at the Lagos facility of HS Media Group, the holding company of HotSports.