 FIDELITY Bank Plc on Monday gave out cash and gift prizes to winners in its ongoing Get Alert in Millions (GAIM) promo Season 4  promo held in Lagos. Two customers, Omolade Olatawura and Isabella Chekwube received N1 million each. At the prize presentation held at the Ska Tinubu branch of the bank, Victoria Island, Lagos, Managing Director/CEO, Nnamdi Okonkwo, noted it is the bank’s ninth promo in 13 years. Okonkwo, represented the Executive Director, Shared Services and Products, Chijioke Ugochukwu, added that the bank is improving people’s living standard. Thirteen  customers of  the bank last week, emerged millionaires in the third monthly draw of the GAIM promo Season 4 in Lagos. The bank also rewarded loyal customers with prizes worth N16 million in the categories of N2 million and N1 million. The bank presented consolation prizes in form of fridges, television sets and power generating sets to winners who were happy with the gesture. The presentation  was witnessed by the relevant regulatory bodies, including the National Lottery Regulatory Commission (NLRC), Lagos State Lotteries Board (LSLB) and Consumer Protection Council (CPC). They include Dare Abiodun Emmanuel; Ugwu Philomena Nneka; Chinenye Catherine Olunna; Egberi Agbarha Kelvin; Ivang Stanley Oham; Chinelo Loveth Egbuchunem; Dare Abiodun Emmanuel; Itabiyi Gbolahan Olakunle Hassan & Adejoke Jokotade; Larei Chindo; Chigozie Darlington Emoka; Khadijah Umar; Muazzam Ad Maizare; Isabella Chekwube Uche; and Omolade Bamitale Olatawura. Others are Joseph James Abah; Oghenetega Emmanuel Erus; Blessing Chidinma Okafor; Loveline Uche Okonkwo; Nafisat Ali Lawal; Comfort Ita Asuquo; Mohammed Halima Sadiya, among others. The Regional Bank Head, Victoria Island branch, Chinwe Iloghalu, said: “We have had the GAIM promo for 13 years and we are already creating millionaires in 2020 and this is such a big win for Fidelity Bank. The objective of this promo is to deepen the savings culture and improve domestic businesses and so far we will always remain that bank that keeps to its word.” Shedding light on how customers could qualify for the draw, Head, Savings Group, Fidelity Bank, Janet Nnabuko, stated that existing and new customers could win by topping their account with N10,000 or opening a new account and building it up to N20,000. 