 RESIDENTS of Ajao Estate in Oshodi Isolo Local Government yesterday appealed to the Lagos State Government to ban Okada in their area. They said they wanted the recent ban on operations of commercial motorcycles, popularly called Okada, to be extended to their area, to forestall what they described as “security breach”. The residents, under the aegis of Ajao Estate Central Community Development Association, protested peacefully at the Alausa Secretariat. They implored Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to proscribe okada operations in their community. The protesters said they could no longer sleep with their two eyes closed following fear of insecurity arising from uncontrolled operations of commercial motorcyclists. The Chairman of the community association, Chief Martins Adegboyega, who led the protest, described the presence of Okada in the community as an “unwarranted invasion”, stressing that residents no longer feel safe with the operations of commercial motorcyclists. He said that residents unanimously agreed on the move and wanted the government to ban Okada in their neighbourhood. A petition sent to the governor, signed by the residents’ legal adviser, Chief Leo Ikeagwu, reads: “Our estate has been taken over by criminals in the guise of Okada riders. Their activities have been banned in the estate since 2015 after they engaged the police in a fight. These criminals are back in our community in full force. “We have watched helplessly the influx of Okada riders, who, to our dismay, now block the entrance into Ajao Estate from Ejigbo, causing traffic jam and security breaches. Bag snatching is now on the increase and pedestrians are in fear. “It is worthy to note that an eight-year-old boy was recently kidnapped by some criminals, who used Okada to operate. But, for the quick intervention of some vigilant security guards, who blocked the entrance gate; it would have been a different story entirely. “Residents of Ajao Estate can no longer sleep with their eyes closed as a result of fear. Those who return from their work places at night are no longer safe. We humbly request an immediate action that will be put in place to continuously check this influx of Okada riders, so that we can be at peace once again. “The residents, at a meeting with the local government chairman and our lawmaker in the House of Representatives agreed that Okada riders should not be allowed into Ajao Estate again to curb crimes. “We want to state that shuttle buses and Keke NAPEP are in place to convey passengers from the Airport Road to Ejigbo Link Bridge to and fro. Okada riders have no business whatsoever in Ajao Estate.”