Rasaq Ibrahim, Ado-Ekiti  Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, on Wednesday swore in three new Permanent Secretaries into the State Civil Service with a charge to key into the restoration agenda of his administration. Fayemi said his administration is on the right path towards making a difference in the life of the people, urging the new appointees to drive the agenda as it relates to their Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs). The three new Permanent Secretaries: Mr. Adeleke Adefolaju, Mr. Afolabi Adebiyi and Ayodele Adeyanju were sworn in on behalf of the Governor by the Deputy Governor, Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi. The governor disclosed that the appointment of the new Permanent Secretaries was strictly based on merit and world best practice which he described as one of the hallmarks of his administration. The ceremony was witnessed by the Secretary to the State Government, Hon. Biodun Oyebanji; the Head of Service, Mr. Ayodeji Ajayi; the Chief of Staff, Hon. Biodun Omoleye; the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr. Olawale Fapohunda, traditional rulers, community leaders and well wishers of the new appointees. Fayemi stressed that he was more determined to serve the people who voted his administration to power noting that the experience since coming on board has further strengthened his resolve that “Ekiti people deserve nothing but the best.” Their appointment, according to the governor, was in line with his administration’s quest to strengthen and reposition the public service for optimum performance describing Permanent Secretaries as “drivers of government policies and programmes through the various MDAs. He stated that the inauguration of the new appointees was another fulfilment of his promise to continually revitalize and reinforce the state public service with competent and dutiful hands. He said: “I congratulate the newly appointed Permanent Secretaries, and welcome you on board. The position you attain is very important and sensitive in the running of this administration, therefore, a lot is expected of you. You are expected to be the champions of our restoration agenda. “Your appointment is not by happenstance but by deliberate and calculated efforts aimed at repositioning the civil service for effective and efficient delivery of good services as well as enhancement of good governance which is one of the pillars of this administration. “I urge you to live up to the dictates of your new status as this appointment was based on your outstanding career trajectories which were found to be in line with the skills and competences required to drive the agenda of this government. “I also assure all of you that you have no reason to be sycophantic as long as you do your work well to enhance the performance of the government and to make life more meaningful for Ekiti Kete. “I, therefore, charge you to see your appointment as a call to serve, a call to etch your name on the sands of time in Ekiti State and a call to be part of positive history. I implore you to do your best to justify the confidence reposed in you.” Speaking on behalf of the new Permanent Secretaries, Mr. Adefolaju appreciated the Governor for finding them worthy of their new status promising not to let the people of the state down in the discharge of their duties.