 The biggest Public Relations (PR) tool any nation can use to sharpen the world’s perception of what obtains there beyond the biases of fifth columnists is sports – it is free of prejudice. It is an emotive thing. Responses on sporting arenas are spontaneous and they stick for life. Sports is a massive movement of enthusiasts who stick to their convictions, even in troubled times. Sadly, the Nigerian leadership has been unable to visualise the connection of governance with sports. The latest of such missed opportunity was Saturday’s reception with world boxing champion Anthony Joshua in London. When Joshua beat Andy Ruiz, the sports minister Sunday Dare, in the euphoria of the comeback victory by the Nigeria-born, wanted the world champion to visit President Muhammadu Buhari in Aso Rock, to help sustain his dream of being a true Nigerian, not the British-born toga when things are rosy or the derogatory Nigeria-born when caught in acts of misconduct. Sunday Dare wanted to use the hot-iron theory by ensuring that Nigeria hosted the champion before his British counterparts. It didn’t happen, but the process of getting Joshua to be in Nigeria with his belts began, raising the adrenalin of renowned Nigerian marketers and big firms desirous to link the goods and services of their clients with a global brand called Anthony Joshua. Joshua apologised for stalling on the arrangement with Sunday Dare, which emboldened the resolve of those marketers to sustain their plans, especially when he promised to be back in the country middle of January or was it February. The date was tentative because Joshua cancelled the Sunday Dare arrangement to meet with his hitherto planned meetings (before the fight plans) with his sponsors and business partners. Wise supporters who  put their cash and services where the mouths were wanted to savour the sweetness of a brand they had invested in, but suffered a momentary blip with the first loss to Ruiz last year. A thank you visit by the world champion to President Buhari in Nigeria, not London, in an Olympic year, would have helped raised the image of our sports globally. In fact, the windows for bilateral relations for such a visit are huge. This writer was, therefore, shocked when pictures emerged last Saturday, with Joshua prostrating (good home training) before President Buhari inside a small room compared to his global reputation. I looked around the hall or is it room and saw government functionaries. No reputable television stations to capture the visit of a world champion to the President of Africa’s most populous country. What we relied on back home were pictures dropped in the social media by the president’s official photographer and an amateur video recording done by some of those present in the room. My heart sank. Again, I flipped through the pictures I didn’t see the sports minister. I knew immediately where we got it wrong. Those who factored the commendable meet the President stunts with Joshua ought to have included the sports minister in the trip. For all that the exercise was worth, we couldn’t get any form of commitment from the world champion towards the development of the fistic trade here. Naming the boxing hall inside the Moshood Kashimawo Olawale Abiola Stadium in Abuja after Joshua would have given the game the breath of fresh air it requires now. We also lost the best chance to officially invite Joshua to come to Nigeria where he would be celebrated by Nigerians, including taking a trip round each of the 36 states and Abuja, flaunting his belts. We have a window to redeem ourselves, which includes getting Joshua to make his next title defence happen in Nigeria. The pre-fight hypes and marketing blitz associated with such important boxing encounters would keep Nigeria in the focal view before, during and after the epoch event. This kind of fight could ignite interest in the fistic trade that has diminished since the late Dick Tiger era. An international title defence involving Joshua would open a new vista for sports marketers and event managers to understudy the innovations such an event comes with. Of course, the foreign firms that have such relationships with Brand Joshua would be willing to open new outlets here for as long as Joshua keeps winning titles. Joshua’s visit to the president was a welcome development but it delayed the process of Buhari bestowing on the boxer with a befitting national award, typical of what the British government gave him last year. There can’t be a better way to ‘reclaim’ Joshua than with such a high honour that would make the headlines in the media. Of course, in accepting the award, the boxer would make commitments that would raise the bar for boxing in terms of equipment, facilities and sponsorship. Need I state the fact that our firms would eagerly want to do business with their foreign counterparts? Visualise Joshua holding the National Sports Festival’s torch and trotting towards the Games’ bowl to light up the torch and the attendant crowd around him on his way up, then you would appreciate why the sports minister and the Edo State government, headed by Governor Godwin Obaseki, should be supported to get the world champion in Benin City to actualise this novel dream. The talk that Joshua didn’t participate in the National Sports Festival is bunkum if we must raise the profile of the Games. I had the unique privilege to carry the London 2012 Olympic Games torch around Birmingham, London, with several world beaters such as the late Muhammed Ali et al. I wasn’t an Olympian before I did that. So what stops Joshua from lighting the Edo 2020 National Sports Festival’s torch inside the Samuel Osaigbovo Ogbemudia stadium in Benin City in March, with pomp and ceremony? Sports and its ancillary parts would grow in geometric projections if our administrators think outside the box. And this includes copying the way things are done in other climes.  And this… Femi Fani-Kayode is at it again. The former Minister of Aviation took to his twitter page to lambast Anthony Joshua for prostrating before President Buhari.  Femi’s tweet read: “I find this behaviour utterly repulsive and disgusting. Prostrating for his slave-master, a blood-thirsty dictator and tyrant who is viciously prosecuting and humiliating his people. What a crying shame. This speaks volume. He has lost me.” I think Femi has gone beyond redemption with this derogatory remarks about President Buhari and Joshua. This is sports, and it does not mix with politics. Anthony Joshua has only proven to be a true African with proper home training. He recognises the blessings inherent in giving honour to whom it is due. I think Femi should be humble enough to learn from the young man and also learn to control his vituperations. You can’t claim to be civilised and enlightened and use terrible adjectives on a fellow human. Oh I forgot, Femi, perhaps suffers from mouth diarrhoea since his mouth was not mopped with hot cloth (won ko fi aso mo enu Femi ni kekere) at birth.  Clap for Ndidi Please don’t wake me up from this dream. I’ve been pinching myself daily to find out if what I have read in the newspapers are not fairytales. Each time I visit the internet, I read Leicester City’s players’, coaches’, fans’ and officials’ comments acknowledging a Nigerian’s awesome contributions to the team’s fortunes this European season. The proud Nigerian is Wilfred Ndidi, a young kid from one of the backstreets in Nigeria, showing the world that several things are good in this polity. “He’s so valuable to us,” Brendan Rodgers revealed. “That type of player, especially at this time of the season, is vital for you. He’s improved. If you look at how he plays, it’s not just his aggression and his defensive side – he’s always available for the ball. “He’s constantly on it and gets us playing forward and defending forward. There are not too many better than him who do that job. He’s a phenomenal player. So to have him back, and early, is a huge boost. It’s great, great news for us.” It sounds like fiction to read and hear commentaries which recognise Ndidi as the pivot of Leicester, not Jamie Vardy, foxes’ top scorer with 17 goals in the current Barclays English Premier League. Happily, Ndidi returned to the pitch and played for 60 minutes, with Leicester winning handsomely by 4-1 against strugglers West Ham, thus confirming what a gem Ndidi is to the Foxes. Following the clash, Rodgers praised Ndidi’s remarkable return, while he was also satisfied with his performance. “It’s remarkable, really,” the Leicester City boss said after the game, according to quotes from Goal. “We were thinking he could only play 25-30 minutes. Obviously, he was fine to come on and play a full hour. He is genetically blessed, and he recovered very, very well. And he was excellent, Rodgers added. Welcome from your injury spell. Thank you for making Nigerians proud in Europe.