By Adekunle Yusuf  As part of its commitment to help address the health challenges created by micronutrient deficiency, Nestle Nigeria Plc. has re-launched one of its products, Golden Morn to combat anaemia. According to the World Bank development indicators for 2017, an estimated 200 million people on the African continent are undernourished, their numbers having increased by almost 20 percent since the early 1990s and, in Nigeria, almost 26 million people are undernourished. The new product is produced with maize and soya cereal, fortified with grain smart which is unique blend of vitamins and minerals include Vitamin A, Vitamin B1, Vitamin B1, Vitamin B5, Vitamin C and iron. Speaking on the new product, MD/CEO of Nestle Nigeria, Mauricio Alarcon, said the company is committed to helping to develop sustainable solution to this menace through the inclusion of bio-fortified food crops and the fortification of the products. According to him, over 80 per cent of Nestle products sold in Nigeria are fortified with micronutrients reaching 34 million households. “The re-launch of Golden Morn is one more step towards fulfilling our commitment to help address the health challenges created by micronutrient deficiency, especially iron deficiency among the most vulnerable in our society.” Alarcon noted that the product was created in Nigeria by Nigerians, produced in Nigeria with 100 per cent locally sourced agricultural and packaging materials.  “Local sourcing is not only a smart business decision to ensure supply but also the right thing to do as it contributes to transforming small and medium scale businesses involved in Nestlé’s value chain either directly or indirectly. Our business model is built on our belief that our business will only be profitable in the long term by creating value for shareholders and for society, particularly in the communities where we operate, a concept we call Creating Shared Value (CSV).” In his goodwill speech, the Minister of  Agriculture and Rural Development, Alhaji Sabo Nanono, represented by the Director, Federal Department of Agriculture, Mrs. Karima Babangida, commended Nestle Nigeria Plc for being a key stakeholder and partner of the ministry in producing and supplying quality and nutritious products towards the reduction of malnutrition in Nigeria. She offered that the focus is to reverse the ugly trend and poor statistics of Nigeria’s burdens of malnutrition. As we all know, malnutrition slows down development while, on the other hand, improved nutrition is key to healthy life, cognitive development in our children, higher productivity. “The relaunch of Gold Morn fortified with vitamins and minerals could not have come at a better time than now. This is a typical private sector investment that would contribute to greatly reducing malnutrition and boosting the economy of our nation. The Federal Government is encouraging more private sector investments in the production and marketing of bio-fortified foods and other micro-nutrient-rich commodities.”