By Ambrose Nnaji  ID Africa, owners of theNETng and producers of Nigerian Entertainment Conference (NECLive) have announced a new format for the 8th edition of its conference scheduled to hold this April. This includes live concert, award show, workshops, and satellite events, among others. NECLive which is the premier and largest gathering of entertainment industry professionals in Nigeria will be expanding its format to accommodate new activities, events and programmes in order to deepen its impact and contributions to Nigeria’s entertainment and creative industry. Its founder and convener, Ayeni Adekunle, said for the past seven years, NECLive had run as an intensive full day, nine-hour event featuring powerful panel sessions, insights from industry leaders and critically innovative conversations. According to him, past editions have seen over 12,000  attendees, reached over 60 million viewers online and through live TV, and hosted over 450 industry experts as speakers and panelists, including MI Abaga, 2Baba, Omotola Jalade-Ekeinde, Simi, Davido, Bayo Adekanmbi, D’Banj, among others. The two-day event featuring keynote speeches, panel discussions, training workshops and masterclasses, product exhibitions, an awards show, performances and multiple satellite events holding in venues around Lagos, Adekunle, said. Speaking in Lagos on the theme: “Building The Future”, Ayeni said it is expected to explore various ways of maximizing the potential and impact of recent steps in distribution, cinemas, events, promotions, exhibitions, productions and festivals, and how stakeholders can erect the infrastructure necessary to build the desired future for Nigeria’s creative and entertainment industry. “With this new approach, NECLive8 hopes to propose tougher conversations and push stakeholders towards extracting more value from the ecosystem than is currently obtainable.  The expansion will also allow for opportunities to introduce more experiential consumer activations and activities which will offer more value to attendees, creative and brand partners”, he stated. According to him, the two-day programme will now incorporate the standard elements of NECLive alongside new elements such as an awards dinner designed to celebrate the best of Nigerian entertainment, and a concert which will feature performances from across the spectrum of Nigeria’s entertainment industry. Organised annually since 2013, the forum he said brings together practitioners from all sectors of the entertainment industry for a full day of conversations, workshops, exhibitions and master classes. It serves as a platform for discussing challenges, exchanging ideas and finding a strengthened pathway for the entertainment industry in Nigeria to thrive. As a media and consumer tech company, ID Africa has also built and owns a number of fast-growing media properties and events such as theNETng, Neusroom, 234Star, Orin, NECLive, Social4Media Masterclass, Nigerian Twitter Map and others, he stated.