 PEOPLE are anxious in seven states especially Imo and Sokoto States ahead of today’s consideration of the governorship electoral petition by the Supreme Court. Supporters of Sokoto State Governor Aminu Tambuwal and Imo State Governor Eneka Ihedioha are awaiting the verdict of the apex court with bated breath. The other governors whose cases are to be considered today are Abdullahi  Ganduje Kano; Simon Lalong, Plateaue; Samuel Ortom, Benue;  Bala Muhammed,   Bauchi  and Ahmadu .Fintiri,  Adamawa.. Although the Supreme Court only sent a hearing notice to the lawyers, the apex court might deliver its verdict. This was the same way it happened last week when the decision on some states were delivered unexpectedly. Besides, the legal litigation time has almost elapsed. The police are on red alert in Sokoto. It has deployed 1000 men to prevent a breakdown of law and order. Commissioner of Police Ibrahim Kaoje said: “We are on a 24-hour red alert and we are on standby   round the clock, 24/7. We will not waiver in our sustained routine and surprise tactics to keep the peace. “We will leave no stone unturned in keeping the state safe and secure   for all  law abiding residents to conduct their lawful businesses.” He added that the policemen would remain on the streets  in line with a recent directive  by the Police  headquarters . In Imo, the PDP and the APC expressed optimism that today’s judgment would favour them. The key issue to be determined by the Supreme Court in this case is whether Ihedioha won two-thirds of votes in two-thirds of the local governments in the state. The APC permutation is reinforced by the recent prediction by Catholic priest Rev. Father Ejike Mbaka that the candidate of the APC, Hope Uzodinma would take over the reins of power    the PDP-led government. Supporters of both parties have been throwing brickbats at each other since the Mbaka prediction. They have taken to all platforms including placing newspaper advertorials to lambast each other. A philanthropist, Princess Ogbuefi Ezinwa, wrote on her Facebook wall, “I am extremely tensed about Monday(today)   judgment more than many Governor Ihedioha’s appointees. My party, my people and the entire Imolites, God please keep us all alive to be witnesses.” The state publicity secretary of  APC, Enyinnaya Onuegbu, said that evidence so far show that Uzodinma won the election. However, another  official of the PDP, who pleaded not to be mentioned said,   “We are praying that the judgment goes in our favour but we are not at peace with the situation.” Police spokesman Orlando Ikeokwu, said the command  was working with other security agencies to ensure that there was no breakdown of law and order. He advised the people to  go about their businesses without fear of intimidation or molestation. Ikeokwu  said, “We also warn all  parties involved to maintain decorum. If you must rejoice or jubilate do that with respect.” As the Supreme Court set to give final judgment on the Kano state Governorship election, between Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje and the PDP candidate Abba Kabiru Yusuf,the ancient city of Kano remain in an uneasy calm. Police Spokesman Abdullahi Haruna, said “security is intact as we monitoring situation. We won’t entertain any breach of law and order in this state.” Another senior policeman, who also spoke said, “we are aware of the Supreme Court judgment tomorrow(today) but l want to tell you that for now, we have not received  any report of danger. “But l can also assure you that security agencies are ready for any eventuality. However for now,  there is no cause for alarm In Makurdi, The Nation learnt that most top government and PDP officials in the state had travelled to Abuja where the judgment would be delivered. Police spokesperson in the state , Kate   Sewuese,  said  they were ready to  deal with anyone found fomenting trouble ahead of the judgment . Jos, the Plateau State capital was  calm on Sunday Lalong of the APC triumphed at both the Governorship Petitions Tribunal and at tbe Appeal level before the PDP and its candidate headed to the Supreme Court. Both parties (APC and PDP)  are expectant of  positive verdict. In Bauchi, the ruling PDP and APC  expressed confidence that they would coast to victory again. A  chieftain of the PDP, Muhammad Idris, ruled out any chances of the APC having upper hand at the supreme court.  He cited the  massive support given by the generality of the people  the PDP  as   reason why the governor   Mohammed  was   unshaken. He said, “ Our expectation for Monday is winning. We don’t have any battle, we started from the tribunal, to the Court of Appeal now to the final judgment which is the Supreme Court. “We are confident of the judiciary system in the country. We don’t believe there is   any  need for panic. Am assuring you by the  God of  grace we are going to win our case. The  generality of people of Bauchi state are behind Governor Mohammed.  A trader in the market can attest to that. “Our achievement in the last eight months surpasses that of the  immediate past All progressive Congress  led Administration in the last four years. There is no panic because we don’t have any skeleton in our cupboard ” The APC and its candidate Mohammed  Abubakar had prayed to the Supreme Court to set aside the victories of the governor at both the tribunal and the Appeal court.