JOHN:  My name is John. I retireed from the Federal Polytecnic, Idah in 2018. My PFA is Sigma. I did my biodata in July 17, 2017 and my last salary was paid in September 2018. If PenCom’s objective is the prompt payment of retirement benefits, how come mine has not been paid? And what are the causes of this long delay?  PENCOM: He needs to forward his enrolment slip to enable the Commission access his records.  FOLOWOSELE: My name is Folowosele. I retired as a civil servant. Please what document do I submit to enable PENCOM process my pension?  PENCOM: He needs to contact the Pension Desk Officer (PDO) of his MDA to get the necessary documents for enrolment. He is also required to come along with the PDO to the enrolment centre for his/her attestation.  TOR: I retired from the Nigeria Immigration Services. I was in service when the National Pension Commission (PenCom) in 2004 was introduced. By 2006, I registered with First Alliance Pension Limited, which has metamorphosed into ARM Pension Managers with a PIN 100####. But certificate issuance was delayed. This created anxiety prompting me to register with another pension manager, Stanbic IBTC Pension with PIN PEN100####. I retired in May 2016.  In December 29 of the same year, I applied for harmonisation of my pension managers to the PenCom into one pension manager to facilitate payment of my pension. PenCom replied me in a letter dated February 1, 2017. In the reply, PenCom recognised the first PIN registered with ARM as a valid PIN and that Stanbic IBTC PIN is considered invalid. That ARM Pension Managers PFA Limited would retain the first valid pin on its data base while Stanbic IBTC Pension Managers would de-activate the second invalid Pin from its data base. PENCOM advised that I should maintain Retirement Saving Account PIN with ARM pension for all pension transactions. PENCOM promised to reconcile the contributions in the valid PIN to ensure that the contributions were brought up to date, while the valid PIN would be refunded to the Federal Government through its accounts with the Central Bank of Nigeria. Kindly assist me solve this problem.   PENCOM: His retirement benefits were paid into the second PIN with Stanbic IBTC.  He is advised to write the Commission for treatment.  ASUQUO: I am Asuquo from Akwa Ibom State. Please what are the rules and regulations of the payment for Federal Government retirees? Secondly, I retired last April. When will my accrued right be paid? PENCOM: The rules and regulation for the payment of Federal Government’s retirement benefits under the CPS starts by participating in the Commission’s Pre-retirement verification and enrolment. The prospective retiree/retiree needs to contact the Pension Desk Officer (PDO) of his/her MDA to get the necessary documents for enrolment. He/she is also required to come along with the PDO to the enrolment centre for his/her attestation. After the exercise, the retirement benefits are determined and paid into the RSA of the retiree based on the information provided by the retiree during enrolment. But please NOTE that retirement benefits are paid subject to release of funds by FG for payment of accrued rights.  BENJAMIN: I am Benjamin. I retired in 2006 under the old NEPA/PHCN and by transition from NELMCO to PTAD. My monthly pension of January and March 2015 were omitted. I went to PTAD five times and did all what I was told to do but to my surprise, each time I went there, they would tell me ‘no fund’ Please intervene for me.  PTAD: The pensioner is required to submit his bank statement from July 2014 to date to PTAD Office Abuja, including his complaint to enable us investigate and resolve his complaint.  ISA: Madam, this is from one of the Pre-1996 Railway pensioner in Nasarawa State. My name is Isa. Our 18 months arrears (part of 52 months) since the time of former President Goodluck Jonathan is yet to be cleared. Also, railway pensioners are the least paid nationwide. Kindly use your good office to help and solve our problems. We “Thank You” for been there for US. PTAD: It is an assumed liability by some group of pensioners in the NRC. The group is yet to forward any supporting documents. ALICE: My name is Alice. Well-done and thanks to The Nation for its concern for pensioners. My pension number is annonymous. I did verification since August 2017 but PTAD has not paid me till date. I am a state pensioner with federal share. I retired on April 30, 2008 without payment till date. Thank you.  PTAD: The pensioner’s complaint has been investigated. She will receive payment as funds are allocated and released by the Federal Government.  SUNDAY: I retired in June 2003 from the service of a former government agency changed to National Clearing and Forwarding Agency. I received my pension from March 2008 to April 2018. But they stopped my pension after April and I don’t know why. Please help me.  PTAD: If Mr Eshiet has been verified, we advise that he sends a clearly scanned copy of his verification slip to complaints@ptad.gov.ng. If he has not been verified, he can visit our Abuja or Lagos office with his employment documents, BVN and original stamped bank statement from April 2018 till date to be verified and monthly pension payment resumed if eligible.