From Abdulwaheed Sofiullahi The Students’ Union (SU) of the  Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto (UDUS) has written the leadership of the institution, seeking extension of deadline for tuition payment. The development followed criticisms by students on the SU President Comrade Faruku Barade who earlier supported the leadership’s directive that put the deadline for registration at the weekend. Speaking with CAMPUSLIFE, the Dean of Students Prof Aminu Mode, warned that students who failed to meet up with the deadline risked deferring a session. Last week, CAMPUSLIFE ran a story where many of the affected students appealed to the institution’s for extension. Earlier, Barade supported the three weeks’ window by the institution, adding that there was no point for extension. “It is trite to our students of UDUS. Even this hostel power generator is not functioning. You will hear students complaining and crying out about it. So how can the university maintain all these without students paying their registration fee on time?” Baraade had said in his defence of management. He continued: “It is only in UDUS that students write exams without payment of school fees. It’s only in UDUS that students enjoy clinical services without payment of TISHIP (Tertiary Institutions Social Health Insurance Programme). So, I urge our students to comply with the registration policy. “Please, we should be fair to the management. I want you to know that the management of the university is basically on the students registration fee. If we are not willing to pay this in time, how can the university survive?” In what appeared like a U-turn however, SU, in its letter dated  January 22, signed by Barade, pleaded for additional three weeks.  The memo reads in part: “With deep sense of humanity Sir, we hereby write for the subject above. ‘’The student leaders of Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto and the entire students are grateful on the leniency and caring heart of the school. We appreciate your commitment for enhancing the well-being of the students. “However, subject to the resolution reached by the Students Union, we beseech the management to extend the deadline of the registration from the earlier date (25th January) to 15th of February, 2020,”. According to the letter, Barade’s put his appeal for extension on the financial situations of many students as well as anomalies in the payment system. “Sir, most of our students are willing to pay but they are experiencing anomalies while generating remita. Again, due to economic condition, most people are depending on salary while others are less privileged students that are shouldering their academic responsibilities by themselves. They are therefore not used to this newly introduced system which we believe is for the benefit of all,” Barade added. Speaking with CAMPUSLIFE Barade confirmed that the letter had been submitted to Mode who, who upon receipt, promised that their plea would be considered by university.