The National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, on Tuesday expressed optimism that the I-can-do-it spirit of Nigerians will see Nigeria overcome its challenges  in 2020. Tinubu hailed “President Muhammadu Buhari and his administration for establishing the foundation for greater things (for the nation and its citizens) this new year and for future years to come.” He called on Nigerians to, in this New Year, “do away with the weaknesses of fear and   division” and imbibe the “courage to be our better selves’’ so that Nigeria could become a  greater nation. The statement by the former Lagos State governor  is titled ”Tinubu’s New Year message to Nigerians: Past difficulties should not deter us from benefits of greater future.” It reads: “As we look back on the past year and decade, we thank God for his kindness and mercy in keeping and sustaining us. “As we enter the New Year and this new decade, we look up to God to carry us forward that our nation continues to advance as is our good and proper destiny. “For each and every Nigerian, no matter your region, religion or ethnicity may this year be a year of peace, prosperity and progress. “May all share in the dream that is Nigeria and may that dream come ever closer to becoming our daily reality. “Throughout the years of our existence, we have had days of celebration. We have also suffered through nights of turmoil. Through it all, we have always maintained that if we stay united and work hard, our nation will become a better home.  This has not always been an easy thing to do. “But we are a resilient and strong people. The difficulties of the past cannot deter us from the benefits of a greater future. No matter the odds, we strive. No matter how much others say we cannot, we still achieve. No matter how long the road, we shall walk it. “We have come far in many ways. I thank all patriotic Nigerians for the progress thus far made. I commend President Muhammadu Buhari and his administration for establishing the foundation for greater things this New Year and for future years to come. There are things we must continue do to perfect this nation. “For this new year, let us all take heart and commit ourselves to do better as individuals and as citizens of a Nigeria joined in purpose and in the belief that this nation is the best hope, not only for us, but for Africa and the black race. “Let us pledge to act toward each other with the strength of unity and compassion. Let us do away with the weaknesses of fear and   division. As long as we have the courage to be our better selves, we shall make Nigeria a greater nation.”