 IN the last one week or so, the Supreme Court disposed a number of governorship election cases brought before it by aggrieved candidates in the March 9, 2019 elections. Bauchi, Plateau, Sokoto, Adamawa, Benue and Kano were among the states that had their cases finally determined. Before then, the apex court had also handed down its verdict on the Imo governorship election appeals brought before it by three aggrieved candidates. Unlike the seeming general relief that followed rulings in the above six states, that of Imo was greeted with considerable uproar, anger and disbelief. It generated so much controversy and tension that the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP) leadership had to address a hurried press briefing in which they levelled several damaging allegations against the leadership of the judiciary and the government in power. The National Chairman of the PDP, Uche Secondus apparently sensing that a very dangerous precedent had been set by the judgment warned, “any further attempt to subvert justice in the pending petitions on Sokoto, Bauchi, Benue, Adamawa as well as Kano and Plateau states will be firmly and vehemently resisted”. As things turned out, those six cases have been finally determined. And there appears some relief that justice has not only been done but seen to have been done in most of them. It is left to be conjectured whether the way these judgments turned out to the seeming satisfaction of the public has anything to do with the alarm and warning by the PDP. Whatever the case, it is worthy of note that they are bereft of the protestations, anger and accusations that marked the judgment on the Imo petition. The proper reading of the serenity in public order arising from the Supreme Court’s judgments in the six states in contrast with the national anger and rejection of its ruling on Imo is that the public knows when the course of justice has been served. That is the issue to contend with. And what are the issues?  The apex court had in its ruling voided the election of governor Emeka Ihedioha of the PDP and declared Hope Uzodinma of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as the winner. It further ordered that Uzodinma should be sworn-in immediately based on its admission of results from the contentious 388 polling units which the APC candidate claimed were excluded from the total number of votes credited to him by the INEC. The Supreme Court noted that results from the cancelled polling units amounted to 213, 295 votes and admitted them as lawful votes. The court further directed the addition of all the unlawfully cancelled votes it said were due to Uzodinma and declared that Ihedioha was not duly elected by majority of lawful votes. By the figures released by the INEC after the elections, total accredited votes stood at 823,743 while total valid votes amounted to 714, 355. But with the Supreme Court’s new additions, the total number of valid votes increased to 950, 925.  This amounted to 127, 209 votes in excess of the accredited votes of 823, 743. This singular arithmetical error raises issues as to the criteria used by the apex court in arriving at the decision that Uzodinma won the election. If we go by that figure in the strictest sense of it, what we are confronted with is over voting which cannot confer electoral advantage on any of the candidates. How the apex court generated figures over and above that duly accredited by INEC is at the heart of the absurdity of the ruling. Curiously, the contradiction arising from that arithmetic error was glossed over in awarding victory to the APC candidate. There are also issues regarding the possibility of a candidate that came fourth in that election taking advantage of the said results to overtake all the other candidates to the point of emerging victorious. We have also been treated to the legal incongruities of tendering and admitting the results of the 388 polling units even when the electoral umpire had dismissed them as alien to them and without showing the standing of the other parties in the contest in those units. This point is further illustrated given that in the state assembly election that was held contemporaneously with the governorship polls; the PDP won 13 seats, AA eight and APGA six seats making up the 27 local governments of the state. Curiously, the APC did not win any seat in that election. All these go to reinforce the widely held view that there is more to the ruling of the Supreme Court than ordinarily meets the eyes. It is therefore not surprising that the verdict has not been well received across the country. The general view is that it compromised the collective will of the Imo electorate as expressed at the ballot box. The matter is not just about Ihedioha. It is also not just about Imo State. It is about the rule of law, justice and the overall future of democratic engagement in this country. It is all about the inalienable rights of a people to determine those to preside over their affairs through the instrumentality of periodic, free and fair elections. It is about the sovereignty of the electorate; the relevance of representative democracy as the most cherished construct to approximate the collective will of a people. These are the conceptual and philosophical issues that have come under trial by the ruling of the apex court as it concerns Imo State. Above all, it is also about the relevance and integrity of the judiciary as an impartial arbiter. These conceptual and philosophical issues have miserably come under serious interrogation with a crisis of relevance to contend with. Or are we to take comfort in Thrasymachus’ notion of justice in Plato’s Republic as ‘the interest of the stronger’? What of the Marxian perspective that the judiciary is part of the superstructure that protects the interests of the ruling class.  What will be the overall impact of the increasing challenge of such notions on societal cohesion? We raise these questions because western capitalism/democracy is an ideological construct for societal organization. The same goes for communism and its variant of socialism. These were competing paradigms for organizing statecraft. But we are all very familiar with the setting in of systemic decay in the former Soviet Union. Due to the stagnation of their economy and polity, Mikhail Gorbachev introduced the policy of perestroika and glasnosts which culminated in a chain of events that led to the collapse of communism. That is now history. But there is nothing to rule out systemic stress or decay within the capitalist economy especially if the very foundation (democracy) on which it was erected is no longer living to expectations. The point here is that democracy is an ideological construct for societal organization. It is based on a set rules and its relevance or lack of it will depend on how effective it is in living up to those rules without which its legitimacy will become suspect. That is the dialectics we are confronted with by the Supreme Court judgment in the Imo governorship election. It is all about the propriety and legitimacy of judicial decisions. It is about the legitimacy of the electoral process as the most cherished paradigm for approximating the collective will of a people. These are the principles that have come under serious attack by the curious and inexplicable ruling of the apex court in the Imo case. There are many unresolved issues in that judgment that will impair our judicial and electoral processes if allowed to linger. The arithmetic errors and how the Supreme Courts arrived at their decision to elevate the fourth to the first position need further clarifications if the course of justice and democracy is to be seen to have been served. 