From Okodili Ndidi, Abuja  What could have been one of the deadliest attacks by the Boko Haram Islamic Sect on an Internally Displaced Persons’ (IDP) camp in Gamborou-Ngala Council Area of Borno State was successfully repelled by troops of the Operation Lafiya Dole. Some of the insurgents including those strapped with suicide vests were killed in a gun duel with troops. The terrorists according to a statement by the Nigerian Army Operations Media Coordinator, Colonel Aminu Iliyasu, were headed to the IDP Camp in five gun trucks, motorcycles and scores of foot soldiers before they were engaged by troops who spotted their movement. According to the statement “in a unique display of courage and resilience on their part, troops of 3 Battalion (Main) Operation LAFIYA DOLE deployed in Gamborou-Ngala LGA of Borno State gallantly repelled a Boko Haram attack on the Ngala Community. “The criminal insurgents sneaked into the peaceful community in five Gun Trucks, motorcycles and a number of foot soldiers through the rear of a Humanitarian hub using a farm as cover with the heinous intent to unleash one of the most devastating terror attacks in recent times. “Fortunately for the residents, the vigilant troops responded swiftly, engaging the criminals with overwhelming superior firepower, thereby forcing them to beat a hasty retreat in complete disarray”. It added that, “during the ensuing pursuit and exploitation embarked upon by the troops, one Boko Haram criminal suicide truck driver strapped with a suicide vest was neutralised. “Items captured during the encounter include one AK 47 Rifle, one FN Rifle, one motorcycle and one heavily laden Vehicle Borne Improvised Explosive Device with deadly explosive materials. “Preliminary investigations revealed that the Vehicle Borne Improvised Explosive Device and the suicide bomber were heading to the Internally Displaced Persons Camp in Gamborou-Ngala before the valiant troops intercepted and foiled the murderous plan of the insurgents.  “Additionally, 5 Humanitarian workers who took refuge in a bunker during the attack were successfully rescued by the troops”. In a related development, according to the Army Operations spokesperson, “troops of the same 3 Battalion (Main) Operation LAFIYA DOLE deployed at Ngala bridge gallantly repelled another Boko Haram attack on their location. “The criminal insurgents came in 3 Gun Trucks and a number of foot soldiers late afternoon but the rugged troops immediately swung into action, engaging and decimating the marauding criminals and inflicting heavy casualty on both their men and equipment. “At the end of the encounter, two out of the three Boko Haram criminals’ Gun Trucks were captured. Additionally, two Anti-Aircraft guns, one General Purpose Machine Gun, 2 AK 47 Rifles, one General Purpose Machine Gun barrel, 688 rounds of 7.62mm NATO ammunition, 20 rounds of PKT ammunition, 63 rounds of .50 ammunition were also captured. “One neutralized body of the criminal insurgents was recovered during exploitation while several other bodies and wounded were believed to be carted away as evident by the trails of blood found along their withdrawal route”. The statement continued that, “in another development, the Joint Tactical Team deployed to Borno and Yobe States apprehended a Boko Haram female recruiter, one Zainab Usman at Modu Sulemri area of Abujan Talakawa Ward of Maiduguri Metropolitan Council in Borno State. “Preliminary investigation revealed that the suspect is a wife of Alai Usman, a high profile Islamic State West Africa Province logistics supplier. The suspect is believed to be in contact with other high profile Boko Haram/Islamic State West Africa Province Commanders, helping them to recruit young fighters”.