THE NATION  AKARI: Hello Omobola, I am Zakari from Niger State, the next of kin (NoK) with Account Number 0112725263, who is still begging you and your organisation to reintroduce my case to the PTAD management for their inability to pay my father’s death benefit since my verification in October 2017. They were able to pay Nitel staff members and 500 NOKs, who did their verification in February 2018, which was three months after our verification. MAKAMA: My name is Makama, a retiree from NARICT Zaria with  pension verification number anonymous. My complaint is the non-payment of my November 2019 pension and 33 per cent arrears, which was recently paid. I kindly request for your intervention for the release of the above- mentioned money. OWOEYE: My name is Owoeye, an Osun State pensioner with Federal share. My documents were scanned on August 14, last year. My complaint is the non-payment of my pension for 36 months from December 2006. ASHAGIDIGBI: I am Ashagidigbi Moshood, a pensioner. I have not received my September payment. Kindly investigate what the problem with Polaris Bank. All other banks have credited their pensioners. It happened like this last month. Please do something.  ODUSHOLU: My name is Odusholu. I retired from the Federal Ministry of Transport, Lagos on level 06 in 1977. Till now, my pension is N8115.67. The national minimum wage has been increased thrice after I retired and the last was N18,000. At present, the new minimum wage is N30,000. Kindly help me to correct the mistake. OBUARU: My name is Obuaru. I am from Port Harcourt. I retired as a Superintendent of Police in November 2017. I applied to Leadway for annuity, but till date, my money has not been transferred to Leadway. Kindly help. FATAI: My name is Fatai. I retired from Nigeria Customs Service in December 2003. My complaint is the stoppage of my monthly pension since January 2016. I have made many trips to Abuja on this problem. The latest one was on Tuesday, June 6, last year. I made another trip to PTAD Abuja on their invitation earlier extended to me on Monday, June 13, last year, to sort out the matter of my monthly pension stoppage. PTAD officials sorted out my file. They requested and collected from me my details such as a photocopy each, my retirement letter, appointment letter, account number, statement of account from January 2016 to last May and all other details. But up till now, I have not heard anything from PTAD. Please help me. I am in penury and dying. Thanks.   