Star singer, Damini Ebunoluwa Ogulu famously known as Burna Boy, will attempt to win the Grammy award in his category today.  He is nominated with other great musical artists in the 62nd Annual Grammy awards holding at the Staples Centre in Los Angeles, United States. Burna Boy is nominated in the Best World Music Album category where he will be competing with Altin Gun (Gece), Bokanté & Metropole Orkest Conducted By Jules Buckley (What Heat), Nathalie Joachim With Spektral Quartet (Fanm D’ayiti) and Angelique Kidjo (Celia).If he wins, he won’t be the first Nigerian to record the feat. These are other Nigerians who won the awards in the past that you may not know about: Four- time Grammy Award winner, Helen Folasade Adu, professionally known as Sade Adu, was born in Ibadan on January 16, 1959. Sade grew up in Essex, England and became a Nigerian-British singer, songwriter, and actress, who was the lead singer of her eponymous band. She gained recognition as a fashion designer and part-time model, not long after she joined the band Pride in the early 1980s. After gaining attention as a performer, she formed the band Sade, and secured a recording contract with Epic Records in 1983. As a Nigerian, Sade has won numerous awards which include: *American Music Awards 2002 *Brit Awards 1985 *Grammy Awards 1986, 1994, 2002, 2011 *Porin Awards 2011.  Hakeem Seriki famously known as Chamillionaire is a Nigerian-American rapper, entrepreneur and investor who resides in Houston, Texas. He was born on November 28, 1979 in Washington, D.C., United States. He started his musical career as a solo artist with local releases in 2002, which includes the collaborative album “Get Ya Mind Correct” with fellow Houston rapper and childhood friend Paul Wall. He was signed to Universal Records in 2005 and released The Sound of Revenge under Universal. It included hit singles “Turn It Up” featuring Lil’ Flip and the number-one, Grammy-winning hit “Ridin'” featuring Krayzie Bone of Bone Thugs-n-Harmony. Chamillionaire has won one Grammy award from two nominations in 2007 with his song “Ridin”. Cynthia Onyedinmanasu Chinasaokwu Erivo is an English actress, singer, and songwriter who was born on January 8, 1987. She is known for her performance as Celie in the Broadway revival of The Color Purple, for which she won the 2016 Tony Award for Best Actress in a Musical, the Drama Desk Award for Outstanding Actress in a Musical, the Grammy Award for Best Musical Theater Album, and the Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Musical Performance in a Daytime Program, the latter two she shared with the rest of the cast. She won the Grammy Award for Best Musical Theater Album in 2017. Cynthia is announced as part of the presenters in the 2020 Grammy award. * Seal Sikiru Adepoju is a Nigerian percussionist and recording artist, he is primarily in the genres of traditional African music and world music. He plays a variety of instruments and styles. In 1985, Adepoju migrated to America to play with O. J. Ekemode’s Nigerian All-Stars, and three months later met Babatunde Olatunji who was a Nigerian drummer, educator, social activist, and recording artist. Adepoju won the Grammy Award for Best Contemporary World Music Album at the 51st Grammy Awards in Los Angeles in 2009. Olalekan Babalola is a Nigerian jazz percussionist and musician, who was Born in Lagos State, in 1960. He began playing the conga at a young age, he has released seven albums and jointly won two Grammy Awards. He won two Grammy Awards in 2006 and 2009. Kevin Olusola is a Nigerian-American musician, who was born on October 5, 1988. Olusola is a beat boxer, cellist, rapper, record producer, singer, and songwriter. He is best known as the beatboxer of the vocal band Pentatonix. After the group won NBC’s The Sing-Off in 2011, they released five albums, which all charted in the top 5 of the Billboard 200 charts, have sold over 2 million records, and have amassed more than two billion views on their YouTube channel. Olusola’s musical group Pentatonix won the Grammy Award three different times, in 2015, 2016, 2017.