 NSIA Group, one of the leaders in the bancassurance sector in West and Central Africa, has celebrated its 25th Anniversary. The celebration held at the Group Head office at Abidjan and across Africa. Its President, Jean Kacou Diagou, in a statement, stated that the group founded in 1995 as Nouvelle Société Interafricaine d’Assurance (the New Inter-African Insurance Company) – renamed NSIA – has experienced a tremendous rise in recent decades. According to him, from a family company of 10 employees, with a capital of 300 million FCFA and operating in the insurance sector in Côte d’Ivoire, the NSIA Group has become a major player in bancassurance with 2,800 employees spread across 12 countries. He said: “NSIA’s gradual and continuous growth has been driven by strategic acquisitions, first in Côte d’Ivoire and then in the sub-region. Assurances Généraux de France (AGF), International Bank of West Africa (BIAO) and more recently Diamond Bank (in African countries like Togo, Cameroun, etc. with the exception of Nigeria) are among the most notable transactions. “I am happy and proud of what has become of the NSIA Group, the leader in the Banking and Insurance sector. I thank our customers and investors who have accompanied and trusted us to this day. NSIA is also the fruit of the implication of each of the collaborators whom I would also like to salute.” NSIA Group Director-General, Kacou Diagou said committed to a winning strategy, the group targets Top 5 position in each of its businesses, in each of its countries of presence. This strategy revolves around innovation and internal growth. The NSIA Banking offers is well-established in Côte d’Ivoire. The next step for NSIA Bank will be to strengthen its positions in the five countries of presence and to expand its presence in the countries covered by the insurance arm. We intend to actively participate in the banking of the West and Central African populations through financial inclusion programmes.” The Group Deputy Managing Director, Insurance of the NSIA Group, Dominique Diagou Ehile, on his part, noted that the group’s insurance division intends to respond to the major challenges of transformation of the African society. On the personal market, he said the rise of the middle class would require supporting the needs of populations in terms of protection and provident insurance while providing innovative solutions. The digitalisation of our offers represents a tremendous growth driver. The NSIA Group intends to play a major role in the development of the African economy and provide lasting responses to the socio-economic challenges of the next decade, he added.