The Governor of Osun State, Alhaji Adegboyega Oyetola and his deputy, Mr Benedith Alabi were among dignitaries who witnessed the fourth coronation anniversary of the Oluwo of Iwo, Oba AbdulRaheed Akanbi on Thursday. The anniversary was marked with unveiling of Telu Square constructed by Oba Akanbi at the centre of the town. Speaking at the occasion, Governor Oyetola urged the people of Iwo to support the Oluwo and also show understanding to his administration, promising to honour his campaign promises. He said work had since commenced on the Iwo-Osogbo highway and called for patience while the construction lasts. The governor also encouraged the youths to  be creative and shun acts that would pit them against the law, saying his administration is committed to bequeath a better future to the youths and other residents of the state. Oba Akanbi used the occasion to announce an end to the feud between him and a prominent indigene of the town, Chief Abiola Ogundokun, attributing the development to Governor Oyetola whom he said, was the instrument for the peace. Breaking the development down, the Oluwo said he had visited the Government House in Osogbo on Wednesday where Chief Ogundokun met him and the governor brokered the truce in what he called good faith. “Right there in his office, His Excellency said it was high time we ended the rift. And for a governor who has honoured me at different occasions, I had to reciprocate his gestures by embracing Chief Ogundokun. Any honour which Governor Oyetola gives me is honour to the entire people of Iwo. Because of this, it is all over. We are in a new dawn in Iwo when beautiful things like this square will be coming to the town,” he said. Ten beneficiaries of the Oluwo economic empowerment scheme received a sum of N100,000 each during presentation made by Governor Oyetola amidst ovation. “This empowerment scheme is just a tip of the iceberg in my resolve to reduce poverty with my little resources. When I came to the throne four years ago, I made it known that I would always work to complement the efforts of each government because I am exposed enough to know that the workload on government is too enormous, the Oluwo said. Dignitaries who attended the unveiling of the gold-painted Telu Square included the Chief of Staff,  Mr.  Gbenga Adebusuyi, former Secretary to the State Government, Alhaji Moshood Adeoti and traditional rulers.