By Damian Duruiheoma, Owerri Imo Governor Hope Uzodinma has raised the alarm over a secret plan by the opposition’s Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to incite the members of the House of Assembly to initiate impeachment proceedings against him. The Governor warned PDP members in the state to desist from false propaganda, mischief-making and malice against him or face the wrath of the law. Uzodinma’s alarm and warning followed some media reports that the Federal Government has failed to make any comment on his alleged $ 12 m (N 4.3 bn) fraud case as well as the travel ban on him. In a statement by the Chief Press Secretary/Media Adviser to him, Oguike Nwachukwu, Uzodinma accused the PDP of sponsoring the media report to incite the publuc and members of the state House of Assembly to impeach him. “We know the game plan of the PDP because we are aware that they have been secretly inciting Imo State House of Assembly members to think of how to impeach the governor. So they are trying to rake up anything they can, even falsehood, to incite the public,” the statement reads. The governor disclosed that he had already briefed his lawyers, who he said were studying the publication for appropriate legal action. He said the media publication, which tried to raise dust about him on old allegations, had been long settled and dismissed as non issues. The publication had claimed that the Presidency was keeping mum over allegations of non assets declaration, dud cheque and travel ban against the governor. The statement accused the PDP members in the state of sponsoring the publication “even when they are aware that there is no iota of truth in the allegations”. The statement added that the allegation was a sheer mischief and malice borne out of frustration because “they know very well that the assets declaration allegation was fallaciously contrived by the disgraced former Chairman of the Presidential Panel on Recovery of Public Properties, Mr. Okoi Obon-Obia which has been thrown out by the court”. On the issue of the so-called travel ban on him, Uzodimma, clarified that he had travelled twice out of the country and had no impediment according to the demands of his office. On the so-called dud cheque allegation, the statement added that it was a non issue which had long been dismissed by the courts and had nothing to do with the governor.