For 12 years, insurance operators cried as they were charged double tax in billions on premiums and claims paid to the insured. The new Finance Bill has just made the difference they have been clamouring for. Omobola Tolu-Kusimo reports. Underwriters have been pursuing an amendment to the Companies Income Tax (Amendment) Act 2007 (CITA) to relieve insurance companies of the heavy tax burden they grapple with. For several years, they engaged the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) over the controversial tax issues in the insurance industry. In the controversial law, some sections compelled insurance companies to pay out their capital in the form of a minimum tax because they are almost always in a never-ending refund cycle with the tax authorities. Originally, the CITA was meant to amend and simplify controversial aspects in its policy, instead, it made it more obscure particularly for the insurance sector. In Section 16(2)(a) of the CITA, the profits of a life business insurance company are calculated by taking management expenses, including commission, subject to subsection (8)(b) of the Act from gross income (investment income and revaluation surplus). Section 16(1)(b) states that profits will be calculated for non-life businesses, for tax purposes by deducting the reinsurance cost and a reserve for unexpired risk (the premium corresponding to the time period remaining on an insurance policy), subject to subsection (8)(a) of the Act from a gross premium, interest and other income receivable in Nigeria. But with the new Finance Bill passed by the National Assembly and signed into law by President Muhammadu Buhari, insurers have been relieved of the unwholesome tax burden that had drained their earnings. The new law, according to the operators, has deleted certain inhibitive rules for them, making it possible for them to carry forward losses indefinitely as opposed to the four-year restriction that was in place. The Director-General, Nigerian Insurers Association (NIA), Mrs. Yetunde Ilori, said the industry has been looking forward to the tax review which is part of the new law. She stated that the review is a welcome and favourable development to the industry, noting that the tax relief will affect all stakeholders. The Chief Finance Officer, LASACO Assurance Plc, Akinwale Sofile affirmed that the new Finance Bill is a good thing to happen to the country especially, the insurance industry. He said Section 16 in the former Income Tax Act is not favourable to the industry which ‘’we have been fighting since 2007 and which has been taken care of in the new Finance Bill’’. He, however, stated that the 7.5 per cent Value Added tax (VAT) is another aspect of the new Finance Bill that has become contentious for insurers. He said: “The VAT raised to 7.5 percent from five percent in the new Bill will affect our business. The first reason is because we pay VAT on behalf of brokers. Premium is not vatable but the commission earned by brokers is vatable. Unfortunately, because the brokers deduct their commission before paying the insurance companies going by regulation, understanding and market agreement between the insurers and the brokers, the companies agreed to pay the VAT on their behalf. “So it means we will be paying 7.5 per cent for brokers and this is the only aspect of the Bill that will increase our overhead. But for tax, it is something that has lightened our burden as far as Company Income Tax is concerned. We will now pay tax as other companies are being taxed.” The Executive Secretary, Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers, Fatai Adegbenro, said the tax review is a good development for insurance industry as the amounts incurred on the unnecessary taxes would now be injected into the operations of the insurance companies. He said with the new Bill, Life and non-life businesses would no longer be liable to special minimum tax provision and all wholly, exclusively, reasonably and necessarily incurred expenses will be tax deductible. ”Furthermore, “taxable investment income” would be limited to “income derived from the investment of shareholders’ funds”. This seeks to clarify taxable income and limits it to income accruing to the insurance company as against income accruing to the insurance fund. Nonetheless, the Bill, when passed into law, would be a game- changer in ensuring the fair taxation of insurance companies.