A woman and her 14- year- old son have been abducted by gunmen, who broke into their residence in Juji village, Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna state. The incident, The Nation learnt, occurred on Tuesday when the bandits invaded the community and were shooting sporadically. The bandits were said to have taken the woman after the bandits broke into their home. The 14- year- old son of the woman was said to have protested against the abduction of his mother and insisted that he must accompany her. A resident of the area told our correspondent that the kidnappers scaled the fence into the residence of the victims. According to him: “The kidnappers stormed Juji around after midnight and headed to the residence of their victims. “When they got into the compound by scaling the fence and they started knocking at the door and ordered the victims to open the door. “But when nobody responded, they smashed one of the windows in an attempt to enter the room. The burglaries on the window was too strong, so they used digger to break them to enter the room. “They took the woman and as they were going with her, her eldest son who is 14 years old, protested and insisted that he must follow his mother and they left with them. “As I am speaking with you now, the kidnappers have not said anything and we are very worried since the incident took place over 24 hours ago“. He further said that the incident was reported at the Sabon Tasha Divisional Police Station on Tuesday and the police visited the scene of the incident. He lamented the spates of abduction in the area, saying another member of the community was kidnapped by gunmen last Thursday. “We are living in fear and we are calling on government to protect us. We are also trying to come together as a community to see how we can protect ourselves from these criminals. “But government needs to live up to its responsibility of protecting lives and property of citizens.” He said. When contacted, Kaduna State Police Command’s Public Relations Officer, DSP Yakubu Sabo said, he was still awaiting report on the incident from Sabon Tasha Divisional Police Officer.