Nigerian Air Force (NAF) has acquired two AugustaWestland 109 Power Helicopters to fight insurgency and other crimes The two helicopters, with the associated equipment and spares, were bought in Italy and flown to the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport in Abuja a fortnight ago. The helicopters have increased the number of aircraft in NAF’s fleet to 47. NAF’s Director of Public Relations and Information, Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola, announced the acquisition of the helicopters in a statement in Abuja. He said: “NAF is set to induct the second batch of two new AgustaWestland 109 power attack helicopters procured by the Federal Government as part of the fleet enhancement efforts to enable more effective and efficient employment of air power to tackle the security challenges facing the nation. “The two helicopters, along with associated equipment and spares, arrived in Nnamdi Azikwe International Airport, Abuja, on board a Boeing 737-400 Cargolux Airline aircraft from Malpensa International Airport in Italy on January 15, 2020. “They were received by a NAF team, led by Air Commodore Halim Adebowale, as well as the Country Representative of Leonardo Helicopters, manufacturers of the aircraft. NAF engineers and technicians, in collaboration with a team from Leonardo, have begun assembly of the helicopters, preparatory to their induction into service.” The statement added: “It would be recalled that the NAF had received the first batch of two new Agusta 109 power helicopters that were inducted into the Service on April 29, 2019, during the 55th NAF Day celebration in Abuja. The service, within the last five years, has taken delivery of 21 brand new aircraft, including 10 Super Mushshak, five Mi-35M helicopter gunships, two Bell 412 helicopters and four Agusta 109 power helicopters. “Beside these, 15 additional aircraft have been ordered by the Federal Government, which include 12 Super Tucano attack aircraft and three JF-17 Thunder multi-role fighter aircraft. In addition, the Service also took over 11 aircraft from other ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs). These include three EC-135 helicopters and three Dauphin helicopters from the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), three Donier 228 aircraft and two Agusta 101 from the Presidential Air Fleet (PAF); making an unprecedented total of 47 aircraft that have either been inducted into the NAF or ordered for the service since 2015.” “Alss, over 20 previously grounded aircraft have been reactivated within the past five years. After induction, the two new helicopters will be deployed in theatres of operation across the country to reinforce NAF’s capability in the fight against insurgency and other forms of criminality.”