Firm, Okwudili Ijezie & Co. (Chartered Accountants) founded by Chief Blakey Okwudili Ijezie, will be organising a tax seminar on the Finance Act. The seminar will focus on underlying challenges and procedures to counter such challenges. The event will hold at the Sheraton Lagos Hotel Thursday and Friday. President/Chairman of Council, Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria (CITN), Dame Olajumoke Simplice, will be the keynote speaker, while the chairman of the seminar will be Chief Preye Ogriki, pioneer Commissioner for finance and Economic Planning, Bayelsa State. Other professionals who are guest speakers and facilitators are Patrick Modilim, former Deputy General Manager, Zenith Bank Plc who will be presenting the Topic: Finance Act 2019: An Overview. Immediate past Executive Chairman, Abia State Internal Revenue Service, Udochukwu Ogbonna will be talking on Finance Act 2019: Underlying challenges and procedures to counter such challenges. Former Commissioner for Finance and Economic Development, Ekiti State and former Managing Director /CEO, United Bank for Africa, Nairobi, Kenya, Dr. Tunji Adeniyi will present Financial Act 2019: Opportunities and Threats to MSMEs (Micro, Small and Medium-size Enterprises). Finance Act 2019: How It Affects The Financial Services Industry (Banking, Insurance and Capital Market sub- sectors) will be presented by Chief Blakey Ijezie, Chief Executive Officer of I & I Investments Limited. Alhaji Musa Mamman Kolo, Chief Executive Officer, Armlink Ventures and former General Manager/GCFO, Continental Reinsurance plc, the Premier Pan-African Reinsurer, will also present the topic, Finance Act 2019: Tax Incentives Embedded In Different Sectors. Managing Partner/CEO, Okwudili Ijezie & Co. (Chartered Accountants), Blakey Okwudili Ijezie will be talking on Finance Act 2019: Implications of the Value Added Tax Hike from five per cent to 7.5 per cent. The Targeted Audience for the Seminar are Chief Financial Officers (CFOs), Management Accountants, Tax Managers and Consultants, Financial Controllers, Internal and External Auditors, Finance Administrators/Analysts in SMEs and start-ups, Microfinance, Commercial, Mortgage and Merchant Banks, Officers of various States Internal Revenue Services and the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) as well as Individuals, especially Bank Account holders,  who are now required to possess TIN (Tax Identification Number) Cards