 Chief Razak Akanni Okoya, who turns 80 on January 12, is an inspiring example of a self-made man. He started small and made it big. An eminent industrialist and chairman of  Eleganza Group and RAO Property Investment Company, Okoya’s success story is a lesson in hard work, focus and self-belief. It’s remarkable that he ended his formal education at Ansar-ud-deen Primary School, Oke popo, Lagos, but didn’t allow that limitation to limit his dreams. Okoya got interested in business at a young age, and he followed his heart, even though it meant discontinuing his education. His account shows why he chose business life: “Yes, my father was a tailor. And we were also selling tailoring materials, buttons and so on. So, most of the time, I was with my father to sell those things. “From the age of 12, 13, 14, I was active. I was in shop business… I was going to school, but I had no time. I had to stay in my father’s shop. Before I got to school in the morning, I would have missed one or two subjects. I was always a late comer. “I was not impressed by our teachers in school…In school, I could see my teacher in worn and often shabby clothes and at the same time, I could see the well-dressed businessmen of Dosunmu Street, the heart of business in Lagos then. It was easy for me to choose business life.” He took a loan from his mother, which he added to his savings, and started importing and selling goods from Japan. He later started a manufacturing business, making buttons, jewellery and shoes. He invested in machines and the training of workers, and made appealing products. Indeed, he played a pioneering role as a producer of made-in-Nigeria goods. It’s been a long journey from his early days in business, but it’s been a fruitful journey. His Eleganza Industries produce household goods, including cutlery, food warmers, ice chests, electric fans, cosmetics and ballpoint pens, and his brand is well known in the country and in West Africa. To Okoya’s credit, Eleganza, rated as “one of the biggest homegrown conglomerates in Nigeria today,” with more than six factories, employs thousands of Nigerians, which is an important socio-economic contribution. It’s a measure of his entrepreneurial success that Thisday Newspapers honoured him with a Lifetime Achievement Award as Business Entrepreneur of Our Time.  Beyond doing business and making money, Okoya publicly offers the wisdom of his experience on occasion. On Nigeria’s power problem and how it stifles the country, he said in an interview: “The major issue is electricity. So, once you get light…constant electricity, 50 percent of our problems will be solved. Once you get that done, fifty percent of the country will be happy. Fifty percent will be employed. Unemployment will reduce. I put my 60 years of experience at stake.” Another notable intervention is his advice on the country’s educational system and its emphasis on university studies to the detriment of vocational training. “Our orientation should change,” according to him. “We need more vocational schools, technical schools. Technical school is the answer… The nation is not yet in the right direction.” Okoya hasn’t been distracted from business life, demonstrating a consistency of vision that underscores the passion that drew him to business. “I am not as active as before,” he said, with the approach of his 80th birthday. “My legacy will be sustained. In Europe, you have business empires lasting centuries, many generations.” It’s a positive thing that he is confident about the continuity of his business empire. He gives the impression that he has prepared others for such continuity, which shows that he is a forward-looking business giant.