The Oyo State Police Command on Sunday reacted to the reported shooting by its men on the scene of the fire outbreak at Akesan market, Oyo where three persons were allegedly shot dead. The Police, while absolving its men of any involvement in the shooting, said the shooting was actually carried out by a sister security agent, who opened fire and killed a young boy. In a statement on behalf of Police Commissioner Mr. Shina Olukolu, spokesman Olugbenga Fadeyi, a Superintendent of Police (SP), said besides the death of one person, three others sustained bullet injuries, adding that the injured were recuperating in a medical facility at Oyo. The statement, which sympathised with the families of the victims of the fire incident, enjoined residents to switch off electrical appliances when not in use or when they are out of their houses, to prevent power surge and sparks that may lead to fire outbreak. The statement read: “The attention of the Commissioner of Police Oyo State Police Command, Shina Olukolu, has been drawn to the purported story being reported by some media houses and online publications that police personnel in Oyo town, consequent upon the violent reactions by the citizens upon the inability of the Fire Service to deal with the fire incident that occurred at Akesan market in Oyo town, allegedly shot dead three persons. The fire was allegedly allowed to fester, which led to a substantial part of the market being burnt.” “The Commissioner of Police wishes to state categorically that contrary to the widely spread rumour of police killings that there was no single shot fired by the police personnel deployed proactively and professionally to provide security on the scene of the fire incident at Akesan market in Oyo town. Instead, the police personnel under the able supervision of DPO Durbar and Area Commander, Oyo Area Command prevented hoodlums and the mob from attacking the Oyo State Government Fire Station in the town as well as the Durbar Police Station. “Adequate security measures were provided at the market to deter hoodlums massed on the scene from looting shops and belongings. But, at about 0700 hrs, a report was received at the Durbar Police Station by the DPO that a sister security agency had arrived on the scene to assist in the provision of security. Unfortunately, gunshots rang out from their direction skywards. But, unfortunately, one Warred Aderoju Akano, male, aged 14, was allegedly hit and he died, while three others, namely Jimoh Idris, male, aged 14, Sulu Qudinai, male, aged 20 and Wasiu Taiwo, male, aged 21 sustained gunshot injuries and are recuperating in an hospital in Oyo town. The CP commiserates with the bereaved family and the families of the injured. He also sympathises with those whose shops were razed. He urges them to be calm and not to take the law into their hands, assuring them that the police will investigate the incident and get to its root.”