Based on deep insights of market trends, Huawei has a strong understanding of what younger consumers are looking for – they put a strong emphasis on product appearance and uniqueness and want to be entertained while enjoying a premium user experience. In response to this, Huawei launched the HUAWEI Y9s to meet younger users’ requirements for smartphone products. A phone that is all screen The HUAWEI Y9s is a big phone. Not only does it have a HUAWEI Ultra Fullview display that is 6.59 inches, but it is also free of notches, holes or sliders. HUAWEI Y9s sports a 6.59-inch negative LCD display (2340×1080) with a 1,500:1 contrast ratio. It has a wide color gamut of 85% (typical value) and can display 16.7 million colours. In addition to natural color reproduction, the screen brings out the finest details and make colors more saturated and vibrant. Instead of using the mainstream notch design, dewdrop and hole-punch display, HUAWEI Y9s uses a FullView Display with a pop-up camera design to deliver a true FullView Display experience. With a boundary-free screen and sharp details, the display takes the smartphone viewing experience to a higher level. HUAWEI Y9s features a micro-seam earpiece and a hidden ambient light sensor to make upper and bottom bezels thinner. Y9s has a 30% thinner top bezel and a 6% thinner bottom bezel. Along with an aspect ratio of 19.5:9, the screen-to-body ratio is increased to 91% (AA/CG). Such ultimate bezel-less design breaks the boundaries of a screen to bring users a wider and brighter FullView Display experience. A cool auto pop-up selfie camera With a large bezel-less display, Huawei had to find a way to add a front-facing camera. The result? A 16-megapixel camera with F2.2 aperture that raises out of the phone’s top edge when needed and then closes after you’ve finished snapping selfies. Huawei also designed an intelligent fall protection detector to retract the camera when it detects any free falls. The front camera can also identify instantly and accurately eight scenarios of different objects and scenes thanks to artificial intelligence. The latter also implements diverse photographic effects, such as butterfly lighting, by reconstructing the light source to provide 3D portrait lighting for selfies and portraits. 48MP AI Triple Camera in the back The AI Triple Camera system includes a 48MP Main Camera, an 8MP 120-degree Ultra Wide Angle Camera and a 2MP Depth Camera. With a native resolution of 48MP, the main camera enables users to create clear images and capture more amazing details. The main camera is a 6 Plastic (6P) lens. Compared with a 5P Lens, it can capture more light, which gives the camera a higher resolution and contrast to further improve image quality. In addition, the main camera uses a 1/2-inch sensor to provide greater light sensitivity, allowing the device to produce enhanced image quality in low-light environments. The practical 8MP Ultra Wide Angle Camera offers a 120-degree field-of-view and supports Ultra Wide Angle Video. It is 53.8% wider than the traditional 78-degree lens, almost doubling the viewing angle. Whether for wild nature scenes or group photos, the Ultra Wide Angle Camera can capture a wider view and more fun.
Meanwhile, the 2MP Depth Camera works with the Main Camera to measure the distance between the subject and the camera. By doing this, it can create professional bokeh effects to highlight the subject just like using a wide aperture lens Premium power
Huawei added a massive 4,000mAh battery to HUAWEI Y9s. At the core of this device, is Kirin 710F chipset, and the operating system is EMUI 9. In addition, this phone comes with 6GB RAM and 128GB ROM good enough storage for all your pictures, videos and files. Side-Mounted Fingerprint: Unlock in 0.3 Seconds
HUAWEI Y9s adopts a side-fingerprint design, which combines the power button and fingerprint unlock button into one. This design ensures the integrity of the front and back panels, and also makes the idea of “using one button for multiple purposes” a reality. Slightly tap the button to lock/unlock the screen. Press and hold for one second to activate Voice Assistant. Press and hold for up to three seconds to switch off the phone. In terms of unlock speed, HUAWEI Y9s provides instant recognition and unlock, which takes only 0.31 seconds with just one tap.  Premium Quality at an Affordable Price
From the inside out, the new HUAWEI Y9s is optimised to provide a combination of premium design and powerful performance at an affordable price. HUAWEI Y9s features a Fullview Display with an integrated pop-up camera. It also learning from Huawei flagship’s optical design concept and uses a glass back to re-interpret the beauty of salt flats. Besides, it brings upgraded features, such as a 48MP rear AI Triple Camera system. As the latest addition to the HUAWEI Y Series, Y9s will take entry-level smartphones to the next level, delivering more fun and enjoyment to users. The HUAWEI Y9s is now available in Jumia, SLOT and Pointek nationwide.