 THERE are strong indications last night that Manchester United m ay strike a deal for former Super Eagles striker Odion Ighalo before the end of the January Transfer Window today. Since last week, words were rife that the struggling English Premier League side had been linked with a shock move for the former Watford striker United from Chinese side Shanghai Shenhua as a late injury replacement for Marcus Rashford. English tabloid Daily Mirror  further  hinted  last night that  Ighalo  is mulling over  the possible switch  from China to England following  spread of  the Coronavirus  in the Asian country. “Ighalo is currently in limbo due to the coronavirus health scare, which has forced the Chinese Super League to delay the start of the 2020 season,” declared London Daily Mirror. “As a result of the delay, Ighalo is due to fly to Europe later today(Thursday) , which would allow him to put pen to paper on a move before the window slams shut on Friday.” Incidentally, the Chinese Football Association (CFA) had expressed fears that the rapidly spreading of coronavirus might force several stars out of the Chinese Super League while announcing the postponement of all domestic games. “Chinese Super League stars could be tempted into looking for new clubs after the Chinese Football Association (CFA) announced the postponement of all domestic games due to the rapidly spreading coronavirus,” Sky Sports Football tweeted the CFA notice. Only on Monday, sources close to Ighalo informed NationSport that the 2019 African Cup of Nations (AFCON) top scorer is unperturbed with the Manchester United transfer rumours. “Ighalo is not disturbed with the rumours linking him to Manchester United and that’s why he has chosen not to make any statement about the transfer speculation,” the source close to the player told NationSport few days ago. Just last year, Ighalo reportedly turned down a short-loan move to Catalan giants, FC Barcelona, saying he preferred a longer contact than an ‘a six-month loan and strictly as a back-up striker’.