Emma Elekwa, Onitsha  A middle-aged woman on Tuesday sustained injuries while four others escaped unhurt in a petrol tanker crash in along Nnewi-Otolo road, Nnewi, Anambra state. The State Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) Andrew Kumapayi, who confirmed the incident in a statement, attributed the crash to Speed Limit Violation. He said no death was recorded, adding that the victim was rushed to the hospital for medical attention. He said, “A tanker, laden with PMS but with no visible registration number was reported to have crashed near the traffic light, along Nnewi- Otolo Road, Nnewi, at about 8.30am. “The FRSC rescue team from Nnewi Unit Command got to the scene at 8.44am after receiving information about the crash at about 8.40am. “The probable cause of the crash has been attributed to Speed Limit Violation (SPV). “A total of 4 persons were involved, out of which a female adult was injured. “The Fire Service and other sister agencies are fully on ground, ensuring sanity in the area.” He warned motorists to approach the area with caution, just as he called on all road users to always use the road responsibly to avoid future occurrence. Similarly, a tanker with local cooking gas reportedly crashed into a gutter at Upper Iweka, along Onitsha-Awka expressway. Some residents of the area were seen scooping the inflammable content before the arrival of the security operatives who cordoned off the area. The Police spokesperson, Haruna Mohammed, while confirming the incident, said police and other emergency responders were on ground to forestall any calamity. He added that traffic was diverted to safer lane. He said, “At about 2:30pm, a Mack Tanker with Reg No JJJ 106 XU fully loaded with cooking gas lost control and crashed into the pavement of Onitsha/Awka Express way, about 150m away from the Pedestrian Bridge, MCC, Onitsha. “Members of the public are kindly advised to keep off the area in view of the combustible nature of the product being carried by the truck until situation is brought under control and obstruction cleared.