 ONE of our major defects as mortars is the tendency to view time only from the prism of eternity. That essentially is a feature that distinguishes from the Creator in whose eyes the bible says a thousand years is like one day. “A thousand years in your sight are like a day that has just gone by, or like a watch in the night,” said biblical David in one of his Psalms. Man, on his part, tends to think that a year is as enduring as a thousand years. That is why we set a time frame within which we would accomplish a task or fulfill a promise, only for the time we promised to sneak in like a thief in the night. As it is with individuals, so also it is with nations. For example, in the heady days of the Gen. Ibrahim Babangida-led military administration between 1985 and 1994, the government picked 2000 as the year every good thing of life Nigerians desired would become available. Thus the government vowed that by Year 2000, there would be food for all, good health for all, sound education for all, good house for all, uninterrupted electricity supply for all, good roads for all and even good wives and good husbands for everyone. Lost on the administration was the fact that Year 2000 was barely a decade away at the time they were making the vows. Twenty years into the millennium, the country is still wallowing in Thomas Hobbes’s state of nature where life, according to the 16th Century British philosopher, is solitary, poor, nasty, brutish and short. Two decades after the proposed El Dorado year, there are far more unhealthy Nigerians than there are healthy ones. Today, only a few of the citizens who can afford to jet out to the UK, Germany, America or other advanced countries mainly with funds looted from our common patrimony can boast of access to good health care because our so-called hospitals are still nothing but mere consulting clinics. The housing sector has not fared better either. In Lagos, Abuja, Enugu, Kano, Port Harcourt and other major cities, the underneath of flyover bridges are still homes to millions. A World Bank report in 2015 indicated that Nigeria with a population of about 174 million people was facing a national housing deficit of about 17 million units. The report put the country’s housing deficit in 1991 at seven million units, rising to 12 million in 2007 and 14 million in 2010 before it hit the 17 million mark. Four years after, the figures can only be more discomforting. Power supply remains yet epileptic as the agency saddled with the task of providing electricity has been busy dispensing darkness. Even the change of nomenclature from National Electric Power Authority (NEPA) to Power Holding Company of Nigeria (PHCN) has done little to alter the ugly situation. A few years ago, the Federal Government, in its bid to fully privatise the agency, unbundled it into the power generation companies (GENCOs) and the power distribution companies (DISCOs). The initiative is yet to translate into regular supply of electricity even though some people would argue that there has been a marked improvement since the new arrangement. The network of roads from Lagos to Maiduguri and from Port Harcourt to Kano remains yet a death trap. If anything, they have only helped in facilitating the operations of robbers, kidnappers, terrorists and other criminal elements who are taking advantage of the dilapidated conditions of the roads to attack, molest and torment innocent commuters. It is the 21st Century but pipe borne water remains a pipe dream in most communities in a country touted as the giant of Africa. As it turned out, the touted good life for all was a mere political rhetoric employed by the dissembling Babangida administration to raise the hope of Nigerians while he quietly plotted the bid to perpetuate himself in office. Unfortunately, he boxed himself into a corner and had to leave office with his tail between his legs after the wild protests that greeted his annulment of the 1993 presidential election won by the late business mogul and candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), Bashorun MKO Abiola. Motivated perhaps by the widespread disappointment that greeted the failed promise of good life for all, the civilian administration of the late former President Umaru Yar’Adua initiated the Vision 20-2020 agenda. The summary of the said vision was that by 2020, Nigeria would be one of the 20 largest economies in the world, able to consolidate its leadership role in Africa and establish itself as a significant player in the global economic and political arena. The idea was meant to leverage on the immense natural and human resources the country is endowed with as well as its coastal location for it to realize its huge economic potential. Buoyed by the seeming growth in the nation’s economy with its ranking among the N11—countries identified by Goldman Sachs Group, a leading global investment banking, securities and investment management firm, to have the potential for attaining global competitiveness on the basis of their economic and demographic settings and the foundation they have already laid for reforms. To this end, an institutional framework was established to help transform into reality the nation’s lofty dream of being numbered among the 20 largest economies in the world by the current year. Not only was a secretariat dedicated to the course, the then government of the late former President Yar’Adua also constituted such bodies  as the National Council on Vision 2020, National Steering Committee, Project Steering Committee, National Technical Working Groups, Business Support Groups, Programme Coordination Office, Vision 2020 Stakeholder Development Committee, state governments, MDAs and Special Interest Groups, among others. Sadly, Yar’Adua died in office after a protracted illness, almost a decade before 2020 arrived. His deputy and successor, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, was simply not interested in the vision, hence it died naturally. But if the dubious politicking of the Babangida junta aborted the vision of good life for all by Year 2000 and the death of Yar’Adua robbed the nation the chance to be counted among the world’s 20 largest economies in 2020, they are no licence for successive administrations to run the country without a vision. The question must then be asked: what is President Buhari and his APC government’s vision for Nigeria?