Officials of the Federal Capital Territory Authority (FCTA) and the Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC) are at daggers drawn over who own the mandate to collect mobile advertisement tax. GBENGA OMOKHUNU reports  A war of attrition between the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) and the Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC) over tax collection has gone bloody. Tax officials of the two government departments on Tuesday, clashed in the streets of Abuja as they struggled over who owned the mandate to collect taxes on mobile advertisement and signage. Trouble started when officials of the Outdoor Advertising and Signages (DOAS) of the FCTA were informed that AMAC officials had seized some vehicles bearing mobile advertisements of some companies that had duly paid prescribed taxes to DOAS. According to reports, the AMAC officials had insisted that it’s the right of the council collect such taxes and that the seized branded vehicles would not be released until the right taxes were paid to AMAC. On getting the report, the Director of DOAS, Dr. Babagana Adam, had mobilised his men to the scene to effect the release of the impounded vehicles. But the AMAC tax collectors had put up a resistance, insisting that DOAS had no right under the law to collect taxes on mobile advertisement on branded vehicles. In the ensuing melee, about 30 of the revenue collectors said to have been engaged by AMAC, pounced on the DOAS Director and his men. The revenue collectors said to be armed with hockey sticks and batons, went berserk, striking at everyone in sight. A cameraman, Godwin Ameh, attached to the office of the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), was the first to get a dose of the revenue collectors’ rage. Ameh was beaten with a couple of hockey sticks and his camera seized by the rampaging men. Three other officials of DOAS – Ebere Nwokocha, Emeghara Justice Ebere and Alhaji Haliru Ismail were also reportedly attacked by the stick and baton-wielding men. They were however rescued by some policemen nearby and officials of the Directorate of Road Traffic Services (DRTS). But as far as the AMAC revenue collectors were concerned, the battle was not over yet. Taking advantage of their numbers, they were said to have abducted three officials of DOAS, pushed them into a waiting vehicle and zoomed off. But the Director of DOAS and a few of his men gave them a chase. The two warring parties eventually ended up at the Wuye police station, which is about six kilometres from the scene of the clash. The story however changed at the police station, as 11 of the AMAC “complainants” were detained by the police. Describing the AMAC revenue collectors as “extortionists”, DOAS Director, Adam said he did not mobilise his men for a confrontation with the AMAC men, but that he went to the scene to seek amicable settlement of the disagreement. Adam, who called for security protection for his men said, “We did not go there to fight. We just went to talk as we did at Utako junction where they listened to us and released the vehicles. When we took those extortionists to the police station, we were talking about other vehicles that had been detained, only for us to come back and then we were mobbed by the thugs that have been brought, as we learned, from outside the FCT. “And they are thugs as you can see they look like bouncers, and they were imported into Abuja just to settle scores; that DOAS should not collect the Mobile Advertisement Rates from FCT residents. It is to the glory of God that some of us are standing here. If FCT wants high internally generated revenue and standards, we need to protect those who do the work. We need more security, not to molest but to do the work. Some of us have the zeal to work, we do not want to be armchair executives, which is why we are in the field.”  Who is empowered to collect taxes on mobile advertisement? There are conflicting claims between the two warring parties over who is empowered by law to collect the said tax. The entire city centre, including space where the FCTA office is located, falls under the jurisdiction of AMAC. But the authorities of the FCTA have continued to lay claim to the right to collect the tax. According to them, there is an extant law, dating back to 2012, giving the FCTA the right to the taxes, stressing that the law, which had been gazetted, took the right away from all the six area councils in the FCT. “However, since that time, a cabal in AMAC has been defrauding the government to the tune of over N1.8 billion. Just last month, the director of DOAS published an advertorial that the collection of mobile adverts has been handed over to his department and residents were to pay into a TSA account, not the way the so-called task team is collecting cash.”  Efforts made by our correspondent to get a reaction from the chairman of AMAC, Abdullahi Candido over the matter were futile as of the time of filing this report. Also, the Council’s Head of Department of Revenue, Danlami Awaje would not comment as he was said to be “very busy”. Meanwhile, AMAC, in a recent official memo to the Director of DOAS, published in the Wednesday, January 8, 2020 edition of Daily Trust newspaper, stated categorically that the right to collect mobile advert taxes had not been ceded to the DOAS. The memo was signed by the chairman of AMAC, Abdullahi Candido. The memo, entitled, “Collection of revenue on signposts, signages and mobile advertisement”, reads in part: “As a follow-up to the understanding between your office and the council, and the series of meetings held, I have the pleasure to inform you that you are allowed the collection of revenue on third party signages only while the council, through its technical partner, Yabannie Fair Rise Ltd., will collect all first signages. “Similarly, the collection of mobile advertisement is to be handled by the council as it is not part of the franchise given to your office by the council. Your office should therefore not distribute demands notice on mobile adverts to avoid duplication of demands on these items. “It is hoped that these clarifications will put to rest all confusion and misunderstanding surrounding our operations to avoid conflicts on the field. While thanking you for your usual co-operation, please be assured of our maximum co-operation.”  Police detain suspects The FCT police command has been battling with cases of violent attacks in recent times, over mobile advertisement tax involving AMAC and FCTA revenue officials. According to the FCT Commissioner of Police, Bala Chiroma, the command had, in the past few weeks, arrested a number touts posing as revenue collectors. Chiroma said the touts had in many instances, extorted and assaulted unsuspecting members of the public. “Members of the syndicate are also notorious for assaulting and inflicting injuries on government officials who are discharging their lawful duties”, Chiroma said. The police boss said 14 suspects were already in custody while a few others are on the run. Chiroma assured that the 14 suspects would be charged to court after investigation. According to him, a Toyota Hiace bus used by the touts as the operational vehicle had been recovered by his men. He, however, did not say that the suspects in police custody were officials or agents of AMAC. 