The cruel murder of a 400-level female student of the Lagos State University, Favour Daley-Oladele for ritual purposes has exposed all that is wrong with our society. The despicable manner of her killing is bound to offend the sensibilities of even the most callous. That accounted for the strong condemnations and opprobrium that trailed the incident. But for the pacification by the authorities of that institution, the outrage that trailed the killing could have snowballed to students’ unrest with outcomes that could have disrupted public peace. According to reports, the girl who had visited her parents and was about to return to school had a sudden phone call. Unknown to her parents, the call was from her boyfriend and instead of returning to school, she made straight to see him at the designated place. But that decision was to be the greatest mistake of her life. She did not know that her supposed boyfriend had perfected devious plans to kill her on that day. The supposed boyfriend, 23-year old Adeeko Owolabi who was said to be an ex-student of the same university, apparently propelled by vaulting ambition had connived  with a white garment self-acclaimed pastor, Segun Philips to murder her for money making ritual purposes. He lured Favor to a hotel where he drugged her. Having achieved his ill plan of getting his victim in a state of unconsciousness, Owolabi then took her to his accomplice pastor’s church where he smashed her head with a pestle given to him by the pastor leading to Favour’s instant death. The rest that followed exposed the bestiality, brutality and animalistic instincts of the said pastor. They were waiting for the transformation to overnight rich people when the bubble burst. The police tracked them down to their evil location and arrested them courtesy of modern technology. They all confessed to their crimes. But for the good job done by the police; the parents of Favour who had been searching frantically for her for days, would never have come to terms with the circumstances of her mysterious disappearance. Favour is not alone in the rising incidents of missing persons, many of which have remained largely mysterious. But for the tracking of her phone to that evil location, we may never have got to know that ritual killing propelled by the get-rich-quick syndrome that has afflicted our society was behind it all. It is sad that the belief that killing of humans for rituals could lead to opulence is fast gaining traction within our society. Or how else do we rationalize that 23-year old Owolabi could easily succumb to the notion that he can become rich overnight through ritual killing and had to kill his girlfriend for that purpose? That is how bad the matter has degenerated. And it is a potent danger our society is currently confronted with. It would appear the ranks of those swayed by such weird beliefs are swelling by the day. The society is obviously at great risk if nothing is done to check the increasing class of young people who are attracted to the nation that killing people for rituals could lead to instant wealth. It is time to dig deep into that festering obnoxious notion and practice. We need to really ask questions regarding the veracity of the claims that using human parts for rituals leads to the acquisition of power and wealth. They are mundane practices and beliefs that lack empirical verification. That ipso facto, lends them to intense research. Getting to the root of it all may prove difficult given the very surreptitious manner they are carried out. But the reality that we live with them daily and many of our young ones are increasingly lured into such beliefs should instruct we cannot but interrogate the phenomenon. We cannot afford to dismiss the trend with a wave of the hand. It is systemic challenge any responsible government must confront if anything, to save the army of those increasingly lured into such beliefs. The said pastor who claimed to possess the powers to make people rich through ritual killings demanded N250, 000 before his voodoo chambers could do the magic and got N210, 000. If he had such powers to make people rich overnight, what business does he have asking for N250, 000? For a person that possesses such supernatural powers, the minimum expectation is that he should have converted them to help himself first. In order words, he should have first made himself very rich. But he is not rich. That is why he still demanded that paltry sum. What an irony! Curiously also, the likes of Owolabi could not read between the lines to decode the duplicity in the entire arrangement. And he has ended up stuffing life out of an innocent girl and ended up very badly. There is the urgent need for conversation at various levels on this subject matter with the government taking the lead. Ritual killings have become such a threat to human existence that our governments cannot sit idly and allow the ugly practice to fester. It is not just enough for the police to arrest and prosecute the culprits. It is not sufficient that those caught are jailed or even made to pay the supreme sacrifice. The situation calls for conscious and concerted efforts by the various levels of governments to dig deeper into the phenomenon. Those arrested for such offences should be made to show the public evidence of their supernatural powers to make people rich overnight. In the case at hand, Philips should be brought to the public domain to demonstrate evidence of the claims he made to Owolabi that led him to kill his girlfriend. We will like to know if he really has such powers. If yes, he should demonstrate them and explain why he still demanded money before he could activate his voodoo chambers. The way he goes about this, will make a lot of impression on the very impressionable segments of our society that are easy victims of such bogus claims. Besides, there should by sensitization seminars and ancillary conversations to interrogate the notion that ritual killings lead to quick wealth. Just recently, we had a similar interrogation of the notion of witchcraft. The Prof. B.I.C Ijomah Centre for Policy Studies and Research of the University of Nigeria, Nsukka held an international conference to explore the notion of witchcraft. Though there were initial complaints as to the real intentions of its organizers, the conference still came out on a very positive note. Key discussants were unanimous that witchcraft only existed in the figment of the imaginations of the gullible. In order words, there is nothing like witchcraft even as sundry pastors and preachers regularly deploy such non-verifiable notions to hoodwink and hold their gullible members hostage for self-serving reasons. Not unexpectedly, many families have been torn apart by allegations and counter allegations of witchcraft even when they lack empirical evidence of its occurrence. There have also been many instances of killings based on phony allegations of the same phenomenon. Just as the centre interrogated witchcraft, the next attention should be focused on ritual killings. At a time technological innovations are in vogue, it is really disconcerting that the superior powers we crave for here are in the areas of the mundane, occult and voodoo. These issues must be interrogated for us to make real progress.