With over 5 million cars and 200,000 commercial vehicles on the roads (when the national average is 11 vehicles per kilometer), Lagos daily records an average of 227 vehicles per kilometer of road. Therefore, it is not wrong to state that road transportation contributes immensely to the economy of the commercial hub of Nigeria and Lagos conductors are huge players in the chain. If you are a regular commuter within the Lagos city, you must have noticed at least one of the following attributes in a typical Lagos conductor: Logistics abilities: Here and there are usually road repairs and new construction around the tiny network of just 9,100 roads every day, which often results in traffic gridlocks, an average of 30 hours in on a weekly basis. Owing to the abilities of the conductors to foresee routes less congested, he/she advises the driver on the route to travel so as to beat the traffic. That is helpful for the Lagos working population who is rushing to work or an important appointment. The ability to discern the road ‘less taken’ by the conductors sometimes comes with a price too — that is when the driver decides to hike the fare by N50 or N100 on the excuse that most roads are clogged. Traffic control abilities: There must be enthusiasm to control traffic. Or, to be more civil, use ‘ clear the way’. You may not find the traffic light or traffic officials on every road. In a jiffy and without necessarily been told by the driver, you’ll see the conductor hop down from the side of the bus – to gain passage in an event of unexpected gridlock. It’s usually a collaborative effort with colleagues on duty if that does not turn awry sometimes. A mix of pidgin language: An average Lagosian can speak fluently in (British or American) English or the Nigerian-styled pidgin English. The reason for this not far-fetched even though Lagos is one of the six Yoruba’s Southwestern states in the country. The state attracts numerous tribes in Nigeria and even foreigners in spite of its vast economy. Therefore, the conductors, alongside their drivers, blend with the language style. Aside from fetching the transport fares with it, s/he will, in fact, throw banters with it even the need arises. Mathematical skill: Maybe this ought to come first. You can never outsmart a Lagos conductor. ‘Bring N150, collect N30’. How?! You may swiftly ask in awe because that arithmetic doesn’t resonate with you. Maybe because you’re fagged out after the day’s work or calculation is simply not your own soft spot. Not for a Lagos conductor! Every dime matters. Physical strength: While many cannot stand the winter or scorching sun for so long, conductors romance all kinds of weather – sun or rain. Fair, dark; lanky or ‘brief’, they are exceptional for their ruggedness. Their constant posture is to lean by the door chanting: ‘Iyana Isolo, Oshodi’; or ‘Cele, Mile 2.’ Now, you know where I crisscross every day, right? That’s it! Hustling is a daily endeavor for every conductor and for that, they all deserve respect for the sake of their mental health.