 TELECOMS giant, MTN Group said it has set aside $1.6billion to expand its network in the country. Its Group President/CEO, Mr. Rob Shuter,  spoke when MTN Board led by MTN Group Chairman, Mabisi Jonas, visited President Muhammadu Buhari at the State House, Abuja. The president urged the telco  give consumers quality services at reasonable prices. In a statement, the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, said President Buhari also lauded MTN for its projects in Nigeria, which he said had been supportive of the government’s digital inclusion programme. Buhari said Nigeria is Africa’s largest telecoms market, and MTN’s largest market. “Our hope is for operators like MTN to continue to focus on delivering quality service at reasonable prices. If we put our minds together, such win-win positions are achievable,” he said. During a visit to Communications and Digital Economy Minister, Dr Ali Pantami earlier, Shuter said the budgeted $1.6 billion will be invested in the country over the next three years. He added that Nigeria Investors’ shares in MTN are growing rapidly. Reacting to the $1.6 billion  budgeted for investment in the country, Pantami expressed delight, urging the telco to invest it wisely. He said: “I am glad to hear that you have a budget of $1.6 billion you plan to invest in Nigeria in the next three years. Please, try to get your priorities right. Look at the areas that are underserved and invest and the earlier you realised that, the better for you.” He urged the telco and others to improve the quality of services (QoS)  to satisfy their customers. He said the Federal Government is committed to providing conducive and enabling environment for all the telcos to do their business without any hindrance in any part of the country. He said: “I am happy that you also appreciated our modest efforts in addressing most of the challenges being faced by mobile telecommunications in Nigeria. I believe every county has its own peculiar challenge. “We have achieved a lot in addressing most of the challenges; issues of vandalism, Right of Ways (RoW) and several others. “We are working on strengthening the policy to ensure that telecommunications infrastructures are well protected in the country and the president has given directives to security agencies that they should provide security to critical telecommunications infrastructure in their different locations in the country.”  