A 19-year-old boy, Babatunde Sulaimon, is to celebrate the New Year at the Kirikiri Custodial Centre for allegedly masterminding the gang-rape of a 16-year-old girl. Sulaimon appeared at an Ikorodu Chief Magistrates’ Court yesterday on a two-count charge of alleged conspiracy and defilement. The defendant, whose plea was not taken, lives at Ogunde Street, Agric Ikorodu, Lagos. Chief Magistrate Mrs. F. A. Azeez ordered that the defendant be remanded at the custodial centre, while awaiting advice from the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP). Prosecuting Inspector John Iberedim had told the court that the defendant on November 30, 2019, at Ajose in Owutu, Ikorodu, conspired with five others at large to gang-rape the 16-year-old girl. He said that the victim, a sales girl, was returning home from work at 11pm when she was accosted by the defendant and five others. “They carried her into an uncompleted building and gang- raped her. “The girl was able to identify the ring leader as the person who had been disturbing her. “The defendant and his accomplices fled the area after news of their atrocities became public, but the defendant was later apprehended, while the police are still on the lookout for others.” The offences contravene sections 137 and 411 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. The chief magistrate adjourned the case till March 5. In another case, an 18-year-old boy, Sunday Okorie, was remanded at the Kirikiri Custodial Centre for alleged defilement of an eight-year-old girl by the same court. Prosecuting Inspector John Iberedim told the court that the defendant allegedly committed the offence on November 29, 2019 at 3pm at 17, Koboko Street, Majidun Ogolonto, Ikorodu, Lagos. “Okorie, whose parents and the girl’s parents are neighbours, defiled the girl in his parent’s room when nobody was around. “The morning after the incident occurred, the girl’s mother noticed that her daughter’s pant was wet with watery bloody discharge and she questioned her. “The eight-year-old opened up to her mother that when she went to play in the neighbour’s, house, the defendant had sexual intercourse with her without her consent.” The prosecutor said that the offence contravened Section 137 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. The chief magistrate ordered that the defendant be remanded at the Kirikiri Custodial Centre. She adjourned the case till February 27.