By Emmanuel Oladesu  Eight months after he left office,  Senator Abiola Ajimobi, former governor of Oyo State, is in high spirits. He is reflecting on his two terms of eight years. He had broken the second term jinx in 2015, emerging as the first governor to spend eight years in office. At 70, Ajimobi is an elder statesman. He said he is proud of his achievements and legacies. Although there are criticisms against his tenure, he said he has no regret. He also said he is ready to defend his actions as a former governor. Ajimobi said he ruled the state by convinction, adding that he left good legacies. Comparing his tenure with the those of his predecessors, he said he did better, although he paid tribute to them for their contributions. He believes that his administration would remain a model for years to come because of his remarkable achievements in security, infrastructural development, education and health. He likes to emphasise his feats in the areas of road construction and security. He noted that peace had eluded Oyo before he assumed the reins. The former governor believes that the sustainable peace and security enjoyed by the state during his tenure and beyond, were due to the initiatives of his administration. He said in Ibadan, the state capital: “I make bold to say that if peace is the only achievement people will remember this administration for, I am happy for it.” Ajimobi, who maintained he had done his best, expressed the hope that the Makinde administration would live up to the challenge of raising the bar of governance by consolidating on his giant strides. But, despite his achievements, Ajimobi has been criticised by some people. Many complain that he is not diplomatic; he is rude and too blunt. The main issue people have against him is not his convictions, but what his sharp tongue. He inherited a state characterised by violence, chaos, brigandage, mayhem, killings and arson. He left a state that is relatively peaceful through the activities of the Operation Burst a joint task force with seven zonal commands in Ibadan, the headquarters, Oyo, Iseyin, Kishi, Ogbomosho, Saki and Eruwa, the Security Trust Fund, the Oyo State Inter Religious/Inter Ethnic Committee and provision of  armoured personnel carriers (APC), patrol vehicles, communication equipment, which led to a reduction in crime rate, civil unrest and a commendation from Economic Renaissance – NBS rating  which placed the state as one of the top five Investment Friendly States in Nigeria. His administration focused on roads because the state suffered from poor network of roads, which he countered with the Transformation Flyover at Mokola, better quality and improved network of roads at Challenge, Aleshinloye, Dugbe, Magazine, Eleyele, dualisation of entry roads into six major cities totaling 35.6km; construction of 183 roads and seven bridges; about 590 km; road repairs; rehabilitation and maintenance  of about 850km, Ibadan Circular Roads; Ologun Eru,  Eruwa, Gate, Old Ife Alakia, Bashorun, Akobo; Oke Adu; Iwo Road. The security and safety of lives and property, led to reduction in crime. This also heralded an unprecedented growth in the hospitality and tourism industry, with a renaissance of the state’s night economy by 321 per cent and increase in Foreign Direct Investments (FDI). The state was ranked the fifth most peaceful state in the country by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) in 2018. The establishment of the first Security Trust Fund, the Oyo State Security Trust Fund (OYSSTF), a pioneering initiative for the promotion of Public Private Partnership on funding security, ensured efficient and effective funding of security operations and services with technology assisted high level monitoring, crime prevention, swift response, resulting in reduction of civil unrest and effectiveness of the security agencies.  Improved road safety, vehicular accessibility and enhanced commercial activities and enhanced modernisation and urbanisation programme resulting in reduction in road accidents. In a bid to improve accessibility and affordability of quality mass transportation, the Ajimobi administration provided 100 units of 63-seater mass transit buses at subsidised fares. It is noteworthy and commendable that the present administration is sustaining the momentum of the legacies left behind by Ajimobi’s administration. The former Commissioner for Information, Culture and Tourism, Toye Arulogun said: “The history of modern Oyo State cannot be written without the name of Governor Ajimobi in gold. Not just because he is the first and only governor whom the people gave a second term mandate but because he is the architect, builder and father of modern Oyo State, achieving many firsts in the course of his stewardship, characterised by intellectual politics and governance in the state. “His policies and activities birthed a new Oyo State, especially in the core governance areas of security, physical infrastructure, visionary and principle centred leadership, civil and public service reforms, education, to mention a few. “No matter what the current situation is, celebrating Governor Ajimobi at 70 years is celebrating a new Oyo State. History and posterity will give him a premium place, in spite of all. Modern day development in Oyo State, post-Ajimobi, can only build on his foundation for you cannot build a superstructure on a weak foundation.” Ajimobi is an administrator that took calculated risks to pursue his programmes. He loathed fear and intimidation. He refused to allow detractors to sway him from pursuing his ideas. Whether he is loved or not by some, his passion, insights, dedication focus, and commitment to diligent service have served as the bedrock of a legacy that cannot be eroded.