 There is crisis in Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Edo State as the January 15 congresses approaches. Some youths, under the auspices of PDP Youths for Justice, have threatened to hold parallel congresses and primaries if the processes were biased. They warned the outgoing executives, led by Chief Dan Orbih, against imposing a chair. It was gathered Senator Odion Ugbesia and Fred Okah are contenders to replace Orbih, whose tenure ends in March. The youth said they gave  the warning because the party might lose its chances to win the governorship. Coordinator Musa Kadiri accused Orbih of positioning Ugbesia to succeed him. Kadiri called on party leader Chief Lucky Igbinedion to intervene to ensure that the no zoning agreement was maintained. He said if Orbih was allowed to have his way, ‘aspirants like Kenneth Imasuangbon and Gideon Ikhine, who sacrificed a lot for the party, would be schemed out …’ Ugbesia and Imasuangbon hail from same council. He called on members to support Okah for chairman. He said: “We are sad at the reports of happenings within the Edo State chapter of …PDP as the party prepares for its congresses from January 15. “The crisis bedevilling the All Progressives Congress (APC), coupled with the poor performances of Governor Godwin Obaseki, has given the party a good chance … but…Chief Dan Orbih, is putting the party at risk. “The argument being put forward by some leaders is that aspirants in Edo Central cannot win the governorship. This is a fallacy to rig some aspirants out of the race. We are, by this briefing, putting Edo PDP leaders on notice to avert pending crisis. Uche Secondus should intervene to prevent parallel congresses in Edo. All the aspirants need a level playing field … “Edo South deserves the chairmanship as it has never held the position since 1999.” But Orbih, who reacted through the party’s Publicity Secretary, Chris Nehikhare, said the PDP had no support group with such name. He described the group and Kadiri as faceless and unknown. Nehikhare said PDP local government chairman in Edo North and South have pledged their support for Ugbesia. He said: “They are a faceless organisation and being sponsored by enemies of the party. I can tell you that in the last three or four days, party chairmen from Edo North and Edo South have pledged support for Ugbesia.”