By Dupe Ayinla-Olasunkanmi  Africa’s first woman talking-drummer Aralola Olamuyiwa has said she will mark her 45th birthday with a special occasion to survey the state of Nigeria’s creative industry. She was born on January 23, 1975, in Lagos. The artiste, who is better known as Ara, initiated the World Female Drummers Festival holding its maiden edition in Ghana. The event will bring together women drummers from across the globe to entertain and deliver heart-moving messages of global peace, love and harmony. Ara, who represents millions of Nigerian women creatives, said: “Art is of many forms. It is deep and expressive. The abstract world is the source of all that exists as reality on the temporal plane. Artistes are human channels through which the all-containing abstract realm delivers its enlightening messages to the temporal world where they are skillfully transformed into tangible forms for profit and non-profit in the right policy and institutional environment.  “Truth be told, Nigeria has wasted tons of creative Nigerians. Obviously, the wastage persists till this day as a testimony against repeated promises and declarations made by the leadership to build a befitting industry that will effectively support artistes to excel on the strength of their talent. It is worth stating that the excellence that Nigerian creators of entertainment-content and its likes are capable of producing is still trapped in the lingering absence of relevant and critical resources in their country. “Where creators are not protected to earn commensurately from their work, they are de-motivated by the unbridled theft of income due to them by pirates and other shades of intellectual property thieves. Where creative minds suffer, creativity can only achieve stunted growth; at best, setting society back as a result. Artistes are bearers of enlightening and empowering messages from the governing abstract dimensions of life. ” Ara, who has inspired many women drummers in Nigeria, has been supported by other countries, including the United States. 