African countries can bridge their $108 billion infrastructural gap by borrowing from their $1.8 trillion-rich pool of mutual funds. The President of the African Development Bank (AfDB), Dr Akinwumi Adesina, gave the advice on Tuesday while speaking to State House Correspondents after a meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari. He said the AfDB will commit more than $115 billion to the development of critical infrastructure across the continent in 2020. Adesina noted that the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA), with $3.3 trillion trade volume, is the biggest African trade investment venture. On the outlook of the bank for Year 2020, Adesina said it would support the AfCFTA to become sustainable, put enough funding into energy development and regional roads construction. On how the continent can bridge the infrastructural gap, the AfDB president said African countries should have no business going abroad to borrow money for development. He added that the needed resources are on the continent. “Today, Africa has about $68 billion to $108 billion infrastructure financing gap. At the African Development Bank, we have been working so hard to close that particular gap. When it comes to the issue of attracting capital to do that, there are three things that I will say. “First, we have to also look at home. Today in Africa, the size of the sovereign wealth fund and pension fund and insurance pool of fund (mutual funds) is about $1.8 trillion. If we can just tap a little bit of that, we will close very quickly the infrastructure gap that we are talking about. “But you see a lot of sovereign investment funds being invested in other sovereigns outside the continent. So, they become the sovereign wealth of others and then you go back and borrow back your own money. It doesn’t really make a lot of sense. “You cannot achieve development unless there is pride. You must have a pride, you must understand the resources. Domestic resources are the best way of drive that,” he said.