 THE operation of the Lagos State Consumer Protection Agency (LASCOPA) which started almost two years ago has brought a new consciousness to the average Lagosian. People now know that they cannot swallow just anything from manufacturers, service providers and retailers/sellers; they know they have a listening ear in LASCOPA. The Agency, established by the ‘Lagos State Consumer Protection Agency (LASCOPA) Law, cap C13 Laws of Lagos State, 2014,’ to complain and seek redress. With a tall mandate of ensuring consumer satisfaction, value for money, protection from hazardous and sub-standard products and promotion of consumer rights (LASCOPA went into full operation almost two years now backed by the law setting it up. In this part of the universe where almost anything goes, where manufacturers, service providers and sellers engage in unwholesome practices with only the profit motive uppermost in their minds without considering consequences of their activities on the wellbeing and health of consumers it was a very tall order indeed for the Agency. But section 26 of the LASCOPA law also empowers the Agency to prosecute offending firms and individuals through a Consumer Protection Court which commenced operation in 2019 presided over by Chief Magistrate (Mrs.) Dani Oni. The Agency through one of its key departments, Monitoring and Enforcement, has put manufacturers, service providers, retailers/sellers on their toe; they now know that it cannot be business as usual any longer, that they are being closely monitored. Other key departments through which LASCOPA carries out its activities are: consumer education, complaints and mediation, and scientific investigation research departments. According to the General Manager of LASCOPA, Mrs. Kemi Olugbode, “we have sealed up some businesses because they are engaged in the sale of products that are hazardous to life, expired products, altering of information on products etc.” About 10 shops including big retail outlets have been affected by such closure, especially in Gbagada, Surulere, within Alade market, Ijesha, Lekki Phase 1 etc., some are still being prosecuted. Members of the monitoring and enforcement team have also visited many big markets in the state including Mile 12 market, Ketu and Fruit and Vegetable market at Ojota where they interacted with the market executives, educating and advising them to desist from using hazardous chemicals to preserve their products and telling them proper manner of preserving perishable products. “We have also engaged with the big telecommunication companies, banks, power companies, almost every month we have mediation sessions with them especially the banks, where we drive home the point about relating with people and services rendered,” LASCOPA boss said. Olugbode said the Agency does a lot of monitoring and enforcement and gives notices before sealing up businesses when the owners fail to comply the rules, adding that all the agency’s action are backed by law and there is a consumer court directing every of its activities to make sure it does run afoul of the law. She also disclosed that since it started operation in 2018 it has received over 1000 complaints from consumers and with the increased awareness of the populace about its operation through its education and enlightenment programme the Agency now receives an average of 7 to 10 complaints every day mostly online through: e-mail: lascopa@lagosstate.gov.ng or lascopa@gmail.com and it has resolved about 520 complaints, even getting compensation for some consumers from business owners. With regards to consumer education, she said, “for this year, we have reached more parts of the state, we are equipped better now than in 2018, we have public address system, we do jingles on radio and television and we have the press to assist us to reach out to the public. “But because of the large population in Lagos, I am not sure we have covered much of the population, but I can say we have been able to reach quite a number of people within our means, but much more people know about us because of the jingles and other publicity especially through the media. “We also do infographics on all the Lagos state social media platforms and our own as well, to give people information that would protect them from excesses of service providers and manufacturers based on experience gathered during mediation sessions and we do three mediation every day”. Although the Agency had some teething problems at inception, which Olugbode said it is gradually overcoming, she however said, “the journey has been rough and tough, but it is certainly getting better and smoother now, I believe we are at the stage where we are about to stabilise, things are getting better. “I see better days ahead for us, we have better relationship with the security and we have back-up from the law enforcement agencies; we now have a dedicated court, a consumer court where people are being sanctioned, matters are being prosecuted, so we are moving.” For more reach out, the law permits the Agency to have offices in all the local government areas and local council development areas and the GM said Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has made funds available for that “and any moment from now you will start seeing our offices at the local councils.” As a government agency, it is funded by the state, it has a yearly budgetary allocation and Olugbode said they had a takeoff grant of N5m when it took off, “funding has not been easy, but since this administration came on board things are a little bit easier for us. “We have cases where we get the back-up of manufacturers, they support us one way or the other, assisting us here and there to carry out our functions, we also partner with some NGOs in carrying out some programmes. “We need a lot of resources, the government cannot do it alone, it cannot be tax payers money alone, any support from anywhere is highly appreciated by the Agency, after all we are all consumers,” Olugbode said. Apart from financial challenges, other area the agency is challenged, according to the GM are lack of information on the part of the populace and business owners on how to run their businesses and protect customers’ interest and rights. For year 2020, Olugbode said the Agency will start a training programme from second week of January for milk retailers in the state who currently have issues of unhygienic handling and packaging of powdered milk in the open market. Other plans for the year include: consumer rights day slated for first quarter, a food summit, engagement with banks, setting up a LASCOPA App, and continuing with other activities which arises from issues in the society, stakeholders meetings, engagements, enforcement, monitoring etc. Advising consumers, the GM said, “the agency is set up to protect and promote their rights, anytime they don’t have consumer satisfaction they are free to reach out to us, our service is free, reach us in our office at Ikeja, through dedicated lines and online,” she also advised them to check the expiry date and ‘best before’ of products before making purchases. To the retailers, she said, “be fair to consumers, because you are consumers too, it is not fair to display expired products for sale, we won’t allow such sharp practices”, and to manufacturers, “it is very unfair to produce empty economy pacts, they should be sure they package the correct grammage as displayed on products, they should be fair,” assuring that “we will continue to ensure that things are done rightly.” 