By Emeka Ugwuanyi  The Lagos State Commissioner for Energy and Mineral Resources,Olalere Odusote, has said the state administration is desirous of creating enabling environment for oil companies in the state in line with its campaign for ease of doing business. Odusote disclosed this at the inaugural Enyo Correspondents Breakfast Session organised by Enyo Retail and Supply. Odusote said the administration in Lagos was determined to promote clean energy and improve its use in Lagos. “Over 200 schools in Lagos are benefitting from solar energy and the administration is making spirited efforts to bring in more schools into the mix. We also plan to pan out the first phase of gas-powered vehicles for public transport in 2020, which was driven by the desire of the  administration to deepen the use of gas by fixing infrastructure in the state. “This sector is of outmost importance and its improvement should be a collaborative effort between the government, private sector and the end users.” The forum, which held in Lagos is part of Enyo’s initiative to upskill stakeholders to drive innovative solutions needed in the downstream sector to attain its full potential in Nigeria. The forum brought together energy correspondents, dealers and experts from finance, logistics and the oil and gas sector and featured panel discussion and paper presentations. The speakers included Chief Executive Officer, ENYO Retail and Supply Limited, Abayomi Awobokun; Chief Executive Officer, Transport Service Limited, Deji Wright and Energy Finance Specialist, Rolake Akinkugbe-Filani. In his welcome address, Chairman, ENYO Retail and Supply Limited, Tunde Folawiyo, said: “This year’s forum was carefully designed to provide insightful and constructive ideas and solutions towards navigating the country’s downstream sector. The oil and gas sector is of ultimate importance to the economic growth of the country and we are excited to be contributing to the growth and development of the sector.” Chief Executive Officer, ENYO Retail and Supply Limited, Abayomi Awobokun, said: “The oil and gas sector is one of the most important sectors in Nigeria with its own peculiarities.  Thus, proper collaborations are extremely important and are part of our responsibility as stakeholders to educate citizens with solutions that would drive the sector forward. Innovation is part of the essentials for this growth, and the technologies being created can lead to a number of possibilities within the sector all of which we believe will ultimately improve our economy. The country’s energy sector requires innovation, technical changes and policy dialogues like this to promote operational and economic efficiencies. This event is ENYO’s way of being a part of the conversation towards a positive outlook in the sector, and we hope by educating the voices of our industry, the public becomes educated, too.” The theme of the panel discussion was “Navigating Nigeria’s Downstream.” It provided innovative ideas around alternative, cleaner and sustainable energy to improve downstream business operations. The second session focused on “Outlook of Logistics in Nigeria’s Downstream” presented by the Chief Executive Officer, Transport Service Limited, Deji Wright, shared insights on ways policies concerning logistics are necessary for the growth of the sector and how they can be improved. The presentation by Rolake Akinkugbe-Filani was entitled “Financing in Nigeria’s Downstream Sector” shed light on the need to intensify investments in the telecoms industry to drive economic growth. The event reiterated Enyo’s commitment to adding value to its immediate communities. 