 THE Lagos State Government has inaugurated additional 10 rescue boats to boost rescue operations and protect the lives of citizens of the state. The Director-General, Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA), Olufemi Oke-Osanyintolu, stated this at the inauguration of the boats in Lagos yesterday. According to him, for Lagos citizens to enjoy the dividends of democracy, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has promised safety of lives and properties in the state. “You will realise that three quarters of Lagos State is made of water bodies, although we have efficient Waterways Authority but today we are inaugurating our marine rescue units. “Our Shore base in Lekki will be the Headquarters of the Marine Rescue Unit of LASEMA and we are operating from four jetties which include Lekki, Ikorodu, Ilaje-Bariga and Ijegun-Egba. “We have 26 jetties in Lagos State and five terminals, over 100 operators and out of the operators 90 per cent are private, while the remaining 10 per cent terminals are government owned. “Today the daily movement of passengers on Waterways is about 70,000 daily, while monthly is about 1.5 million. 15 of our 57 local governments are accessed through the waterways,” Oke-Osanyintolu said. He said that the governor was optimistic of the safety of lives and properties on its waterways, adding that he had purchased sophisticated equipment like ambulance boats, rescue boats, drones and others to ensure that 20 million lives of the citizens remain safe. Oke-Osanyintolu said Governor Sanwo-Olu wants to ensure safety on waterways in preparedness of the establishment of petrol-chemicals along the Lekki corridor. He said that LASEMA would also collaborate with other key stakeholders, insisting the agency will expand its fleet anytime there was rise in emergencies. “We have more than 5,000 drones on ground in the state connected to our Command Control Centre with CCTV equipment and mobile CCTV equipment. “We are ready, we are well prepared, we will ensure that safety on our land will be our priority, safety on the waterways and air will also be our priority. “We will key in into the Agenda of the Governor who promised that citizens of Lagos will be safe wherever they reside,” Oke-Osanyintolu said. 