Most times, we are caught up in the dilemma of choosing what insurance policy to secure. With a number of insurance policy types like, Travel Insurance, Auto Insurance; and many more, choosing what’s relevant and what to ditch, may prove cumbersome and tedious. In this post, I will not outrightly be telling you what insurance policy to choose between life and health. I will simply provide insights into their properties and components, forming a backdrop to complement your decision as a prospective policyholder. I might strike a chord if I mentioned that one form of insurance policy should not necessarily be chosen over another. Both death and illness are uncertainties that should be covered. Neither of them bears an announcement letter, indicating its date of arrival and what not. The steering principle has always existed – To painstakingly weigh one’s options when considering an insurance policy. There are a number of factors to consider: For instance, you should consider the number of dependents or your financial capabilities. In the long run, you would be responsible for determining the most consequential insurance policy as it resonates with your need(s) and sensibilities. This could also appeal to those who are looking to retire. If you’re considering choosing a life insurance policy, you should note that it serves a different purpose from the health insurance policy. In the case of a life insurance policy, the beneficiary nominated by the policyholder is compensated in cases of a demise. Who should secure this policy? If you have people depending on you, life insurance policy looks like what you should secure. As a young adult, it’s possible you’re the breadwinner of the family; responsibilities aren’t just for the old. This covers medical expenses incurred by the policyholder. Medical bills including prescription fees, counselling fees and the likes are also accounted for. If you’re considering securing a health insurance policy, one of its goals is to ensure that people can afford their medical expenses without compromising on good health. Other than this, there are a number of reasons why you should consider health insurance. Young persons are usually associated with this kind of health policy because it is short-termed. Moreover, if you do not have kids, securing the life insurance policy may not be needful, if you are being cost-conscious. This is, however, not a getaway to securing both policies if need be. If you’re looking to secure an insurance policy as a millennial, you should check out these bespoke tips here. Both policies are inevitable. it’s not extraneous to secure both the health insurance and life insurance policy. As a matter of fact, we highly recommend it because uncertainties are associated with both illnesses and death. There’s a saying that, “costs are like fingernails; you should cut them accordingly”. What implication does this have for you as a policyholder? It is possible to secure both life and health insurance policies without necessarily breaking the bank.