 A FORMER Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Patrick Seubo Koshoni, is dead. A statement by Naval spokesman Commodore Suleman Dahun said the former Chief of Naval Staff died after a brief illness. He was 77. The statement reads: “The Naval headquarters wishes to announce with a heavy heart the demise of a former Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Patrick Seubo Koshoni (retd.). “The senior officer died on January 25, 2020 after a brief illness. Born in Lagos on April 11, 1943, Vice Admiral Koshoni (retd.) joined the Nigerian Navy on the June 11, 1962 after a secondary school education at St. Finbarr’s College, Akoka, Lagos. That same year, he started the naval cadetship training at the National Defence Training Academy in India and was commissioned Sub-Lieutenant on July 13, 1964.” It added: “Admiral Koshoni (retd.) attended many naval, management and leadership courses and headed many naval and military appointments, committees and task forces. “He served the nation meritoriously as the Flag Officer Commanding (FOC) Western Naval Command and as Honourable Ministers of Health, Transport and Aviation as well as Labour and Productivity. He was a member of the Supreme Military and Federal Executive Councils from January 1984 to August 1985. “During his tenure as the Chief of Naval Staff, he led initiatives for the articulation of Nigeria’s foremost maritime strategy; the Nigerian Navy Trident Strategy and helped to institutionalise the Presidential Fleet Review, Manpower Rationalisation for the Service and the Chief of Naval Staff’s Annual Conference, which has continued to serve as a veritable platform for strategic engagement and policy review. “On retirement from service, the indefatigable Admiral also served as the Chairman National Internal Security Organisation (defunct National Guard). “He is survived by his wife, Mrs Margaret Aderoju Koshoni, children and several grandchildren. “Necessary arrangements for his burial are being concluded in liaison with his family and a firm programme will be communicated in due course.”