By Osagie Otabor, Bénin Four governorship aspirants of the All Progressives Congress(APC) in Edo State have blamed crisis rocking the party on Governor Godwin Obaseki deliberate alienation of party leaders and members from the government they worked hard to install in 2016. The aspirants, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, Engr. Chris Ogiemwonyi, Dr. Pius Odub and Major General Charles Airhiavbere, spoke at a joint press briefing in Bénin City. Speaking on behalf of other aspirant, Dr. Odubu said they were very concerned about the developments in the state under Governor Obaseki. Odubu stated that the inability of the House of Assembly members elected on the platform of the APC to perform the responsibility of lawmaking was unprecedented and does not represent the progressive character of the Edo People. He noted that the orgy of politically motivated violence across the State targeted at members of Edo APC who dared hold opposing views from Obaseki was unacceptable in a democratic setting. Odubu said they would not sit back and allow Edo State slide into abyss even as he welcomed the Senator Ahmed Lawan’s reconciliation Committee for the party. Odubu said they were prepared with their memoranda for presentation to the committee and urged every genuine stakeholder of the party to cooperate with the committee. “We collectively desire a party that is stable, virile and viable for us to realize our individual and collective aspirations so as to provide effective, efficient and productive leadership for our dear state. “We also believe and quite rightly too, that the attempt to close the political space and shut the doors against potential contestants for the office of the Governor of Edo State by the incumbent governor is antithetical to the established norms of democracy. We must all be allowed to subject ourselves to the democratic process without let or hindrance. “We maintain our unalloyed support and confidence in the leadership of our party in Edo State headed by Col. Dr. David Imuse (Rtd) and at the National level under Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. “On our part, we are committed to ensuring full compliance with the party directives as we go into the elections and urge our brother Governor Obaseki that in a multi-party democracy, everyone no matter how highly placed must be subject to party laws and rules. Therein lies the respect, order and decency in the interrelationship between government and the people.” But in his reaction, chairman of Edo State chapter of the APC loyal to Obaseki, Barr. Anselm Ojezua, said the four governorship aspirants were members of the proscribed Edo Peoples Movement whose agitations are fueled by greed and avarice. Ojezua said they were on political life support adding that they do not understand the concept of party supremacy. He stated that their action taken in realisation of the fact that all attempts they have made in conspiracy with Comrade Adams Oshiomhole to destabilise the government in Edo State and create political distraction have failed. According to him: “These dissidents, out of their greed and in reaction to the refusal of Governor Obaseki to share the state’s patrimony in satisfaction of their avarice, formed the Edo Peoples Movement (EPM) and began their agitation against the government, which have all failed. “Their latest resort is this press conference aimed at extricating themselves from the consequences of the crisis, which they caused. One of the actors, Gen. Charles Airhiavbere (Rtd), is currently suspended from the party in his local government area for anti-party activities, which resulted from his decision to work against President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC National Assembly candidates in the last general elections. “As for Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, he is simply a mercenary recruited by Comrade Adams Oshiomhole to accentuate the political tension in the APC and Edo State, even though he is still on his long walk towards becoming a member of the party; his membership is still in abeyance. “The supremacy of the party is embedded in the rules contained in the constitution of the party, and not rested on any party officer, no matter how highly place. Everyone who is a member of the party must bow to the party’s constitution. “Bowing to the whims and caprices of any individual no matter how highly placed when such a person is acting in violation of the constitution of the party does not amount to upholding party supremacy. “Party supremacy does not rest in Abuja alone, but must be respected at every level of the party, from the ward, local government area, state and national levels. The national officers of the party, no matter how highly placed, must subject themselves to the supremacy of the party at these levels.”