By Muyiwa Lucas  APM Terminals, Apapa Managing Director Mr. Martin Jacobs has said the terminal operates a truck safety programme that ensures that designated protected areas are provided for drivers outside their truck cabs, as well as safety instructions specific to the facility’s layout and traffic flow. This is in addition to meeting international security requirements outlined by the ISPS Code and APM Terminals’global safety requirements. Jacobs spoke on the heels of the terminal operator’s emergence as the Most Compliant International Ships and Ports Facility Security Code (ISPS Code) Onshore Facility in Nigeria by the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA). The award was presented to APM Terminals at the NIMASA Corporate Dinner and Merit Awards chaired by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr. Boss Mustapha, in Lagos. Thanking NIMASA for the award, the managing director further assured that APM Terminals, Apapa remains committed to the safety and security at its facility. He also said operator uses the most advanced crane simulator in West Africa for the training of its crane operators to ensure safe use of equipment at the terminal.  The ISPS Code is a comprehensive set of measures instituted by the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) to enhance the security of ships and port facilities. It was developed in response to the perceived threats to ships and port facilities in the wake of the 9/11 attacks in the United States. According to NIMASA’s independent assessment and screening panel, APM Terminals “maintained the highest compliance with the implementation of maritime security protocols in its onshore facilities, and maintains adequate access control and port facility security assessment and plans on a consistent basis in 2019 in line with the ISPS Code”. The award was presented by Niger State Governor, Alhaji Abubakar Bello, to APM Terminals, Apapa. It was received by the firm’s Security Manager, Mr. Olatunbosun Ayodele. 