Damisi Ojo, Akure  Ondo State Governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu has signed the 2020 appropriation bill into law. Education has the largest percentage of the budget provision, followed by infrastructure. The governor said their 2020 budget christened ‘Budget of Growth’, passed by the State House of Assembly, provides for aggregate expenditures of N187,858,525,273.00. He said the amount is divided into N10.508 b, representing 5.6% for Debt Servicing, N14,180 billion representing 7.6 percent as Statutory Transfers to Ondo State Oil Producing Area Development Commission (OSOPADEC), Ondo State Internal Revenue Service (ODIRS) and 10 percent share of Independent Revenue to Joint Account and Allocation Committee (JAAC) of Local Governments in the State. According to the Governor, the sums of N82.700b 8 and N80.470 billion, representing 44.1 percent and42.7 per cent are for Recurrent Expenditure and Capital Development respectively. Akeredolu explained that the policy directions of the budget are largely the products of the inputs garnered during Town Hall meetings with various stakeholders across the State and the 5-point development agenda (the Blueprint to Progress) of his administration. The governor, who identified unavailability and inadequacy of required funds as one of the key challenges to budget implementation, said his administration has designed many ingenious and innocuous ways of bringing in more prospective payers into the tax net. He said: ”One of the key challenges to budget implementation is unavailability and inadequacy of required funds. This is as a result of the recurring dwindling Ondo State’s share of the Federation Account. “This is occasioned by a fall in oil revenue which incidentally, and regrettably too, provides over 80 percent of the country’s revenue receipts. “The Independent Revenue, even though has increased substantially since the inception of our administration, has not grown to the level of delivering the State from depending on Federal Transfers.” The Governor called on the good people of the State, both in the public and private sectors, Donor Partners, Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs), Civil Society Organisations (CSOs), Community Based Organisations (CBOs) and others to join hands with the Government in the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of this budget in order to achieve the desired economic growth that would engender human capital development and emancipation of the people. Akeredolu thanked members of the state House of Assembly, led by the Speaker, Bamidele Oloyelogun for the detailed scrutiny and passage of the budget in record time.