The Managing Director, Unitop International Limited, Ahmed Mazloum, has challenged youths to leverage on technological advancement to be better candidates for any positions they long for. He noted that technology dictates the world, especially artificial intelligence that is almost taking over. According to him, skilling up ahead any change would engender better placement. Mazloum spoke at a media parley, marking his 12th anniversary as the Managing Director of Unitop International Limited in Lagos. “My advice would go to the youths of this country. Yes, they are very energetic, industrious and aspiring. But, there is need to adjust as life changes in order for one not to become obsolete. “The world is talking about technology and its entire components. Technology is taking over all businesses, transactions, and all other forms of endeavors. “Nigerian youths should not be left out in this change that technology is effecting. The world is also talking about Artificial Intelligence. So, the question is how are the youths getting prepared for this future that lies ahead of them. “It is imperative for Nigerian youths to get themselves skilled up in IT certification programmes, where trainings are top- notch. “This is also important because it gives an employee leeway over others when the employee is IT-inclined regardless of your field of endeavour,” he noted. He also urged leaders to serve selflessly to drive the nation to its desired end. Ahmed noted that this was the approach of leadership of developed countries resulting in the monumental developments in the states. “Leadership, especially transformational Leadership, is what has been driving so many advanced nations in the world because they look at the betterment of the populace first. “Transformational leadership requires selfless goals and this is what I would indulge all Nigerian leaders be it in business, politics and other spheres that requires organisation. “Of course, to be selfless takes a lot from you but there is always a light at the end of the tunnel” Ahmed said. He is a graduate of Institute Techniques Amiliem, Lebanon where he obtained Basic and higher diploma in Mechanical Engineering. He was born to the family of Yusuf Mazloum, a businessman and Hayat Kamal on the 16th of July 1983. He spent his early days in Kano from 1983 to 1987. He later moved to Warri in 1987 and forged ahead to Lebanon for the first time in 1994 until his return back to Nigeria in 1996 where he has lived till date. He started his career in 1999 with AS Enterprises, Beirut, Lebanon and a mechanical fabrication company as a mechanical supervisor. As at 2006, he was appointed Executive Director of Unitop Catering Services Limited, in 2009, his profound and innate experience as a Managing Director necessitated his appointment as the Executive Director of Bobcat Construction Services Limited. Ahmed, who is a lover of music, movies and other outdoor activities, has received many awards and recognition for his immense contribution to the growth of the companies also his host communities. Mazloum is a co-producer on the upcoming movie titled “bad comments” which features Nollywood stars and celebrities such as Jim Iyke, Ini Edo, Timaya, Patience Ozokwor, Sharon Ooja, Young John, Desmond Elliot, Ruggedman, Daddy Freeze and a host of others.