By David Adenuga Bauchi  The Police Command in Bauchi state has arrested a man, Solomon Peter, who allegedly stabbed his girlfriend, Patience Zakari to death for flirting with another man at a local pub. The murder suspect perpetrated the dastardly act on Friday at a lodge named Destiny Connection, which is located in the Gwallameji area of Bauchi metropolis before fleeing the scene of the incident. The Police Public Relation Officer,P.P.R.O. of the command , DSP, Kamal Abubakar disclosed the arrest of Solomon in a telephone interview with our correspondent in Bauchi, the state capital. According to him, he was arrested on Sunday evening following a tip-off. The PPRO, while giving the police account of the alleged murder, said Solomon caught Patience flirting with another man at the local pub, which resulted into a heated argument between the duo when they got home. Although, DSP Abubakar said he could not ascertain who first stabbed who but he explained that the duo after the heated argument engaged in a violent fight at the victim ‘s residence on Saturday morning which led to the stabbing. He said Patience was taken to a clinic at Yelwa before she was discharged immediately after being treated. Abubakar added that the owners of the clinic where she was taken to were also arrested for failing to report the incident after the treatment. He said further that unknown to the victim and staff of the clinic who treated her the injury her boyfriend inflicted on her was a very fatal one. When she got home, she had to be taken back to the clinic with the help of a Good Samaritan after suffering from severe pains and bleeding . He said she later gave up the ghost at the same clinic where she was admitted after she was unconscious for hours. Our correspondent , who visited the residence of the deceased on Sunday evening, however gathered that Solomon and Patience have been co- habiting for more than a year. A neighbour at the deceased residence, who spoke with the Nation in confidence, said: ” We were arrested because of this matter and the police ask us to give account of what we know about the incident. “I wasn’t at around when it occurred but i visited her at the clinic where she was admitted. I thought she was sleeping when i saw her not knowing she was already unconscious, she and her boyfriend have been staying together for more than a year now” ”Upon getting to the station we were not released until the landlord signed an undertaken on our behalf and took our identity cards away from us despite writing a statement before we were later released” The neighbour said further that Joseph lived a stone throw from his girlfriend before he later moved in with her.