When HRM Oba Idowu Abiodun Oniru went to rest with his ancestors on September 23 2019, the highly revered Oniru stool became automatically vacant. In a search of who paddles the boat of Iru Land as the Oniru of Iru, the Abisogun ruling house, after several consultation and deliberations, declared cosmopolitan super Cop, Prince Hakeem Ajasa as the Oniru Elect. After Ajasa’s selection, several eyeballs were raised and tongue wagged but to the chagrin of naysayers, Ajasa was given vote-of-confidence by members of the Abisogun ruling house. The two warring ruling families jostling to occupy the stool signed a Peace Accord at the Police Headquarters. Elders of Abisogun family declared this to reporters on December 26. Cornelius Kashimawo Bello, an elder in the Abisogun ruling family (Omisade Branch) told newsmen: “To uphold peace and harmony, Mr Hakeem Oriyomi Ajasa and Aremo Adesegun Oniru, two days ago, signed the Peace Accord, at the Police Headquarters in Lagos to ensure that peace reigns in Iru Kingdom and to avoid break down of law and order.” Bello urged Lagosians, most especially sons and daughters of Iruland and members of the public, irrespective of their Ruling House, to remain calm and be law-abiding citizens without taking laws into their hands. “We are confident that the state authority will not be biased in their judgment, knowing fully well that the law is greater than any individual,” he further added. The press briefing was well attended by elders of the Abisogun family, including Prince Tajudeen Oniru, Prince Wasiu Ogunbambi, Prince Saliu Agboola Salau, Chief Salawu Isa Gbenga; Baale Igboshere, and Prince Muideen Adebiyi. The family reiterated support for the selection of Prince Hakeem Oriyomi Ajasa, whom they explained is the family’s choice according to the declaration made under the Customary Law Regulation Selection to the Oniru Chieftaincy of Lagos of September 14, 1993, approved by the then Executive Governor of Lagos State, Sir Michael Agbolade Otedola. The elders explained that there are only three recognised Ruling Houses entitled to the Oniru throne: Abisogun, Akiogun and Ogunyemi Ruling Houses. Bello further revealed that the declaration clearly states the number of Ruling Houses, the approved rotation and procedure to be followed in the nomination of the candidates by the Local Government Authority. “The 13th Oba of Oniru, His Royal Highness, Oba Yesufu Abiodun who reigned from 1934 to 1984 was from the Akiogun Ruling House and upon his demise, it was the turn of the Ogunyemi Ruling House to ascend to the throne of Oba of Oniru. “However, the Ogunyemi Ruling House, who was next in line to produce the candidate to the stool of Oba of Oniru declined and conceded their right to the Akiogun family thereby paving the way for the immediate past Oniru, HRH Oba Idowu Oniru, who was the 14th Oba of Oniru Kingdom. “So, by every standard, the Akiogun family, which has now reigned for a total of 75 years, was only fortunate to have presented the immediate past Oniru. “Going by the existing structured rotation, the Abisogun Ruling House is the next in line to nominate and select a candidate to ascend the throne as the 15th Oba of Iru Land,” he stated. The family said it has written letters to appropriate government parastatals to upholding and recognise their unanimous choice Ajasa as the Oniru elect.