President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration has got favourable reviews from different parts of the world as the government with the most visible tendencies to build Africa’s strongest economy. A Middle Eastern newspaper, Qatari’s Amwal Business News website, in an article, titled: During The ‘Buhari’ Era…Will Nigeria Become the Strongest Economy in Africa cited some of the administration’s economic, social and political reforms as targeted at building a formidable national economy. A statement Monday night in Abuja by the Senior Special Assistant (SSA) to the President on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, quoted the media review as alluding to the administration’s reduction or outright removal of excesses in national spending. “President Buhari, as Head of State, began to rebuild the country’s social, political and economic systems, along with the reality of austerity economic conditions. Reconstruction included the removal or reduction of excesses in national spending, total elimination of corruption resulting from the country’s social ethics, or shift from primarily employing the public sector to self-employment,” Amwal, a Qatari business news website, said. In an article, titled: During The ‘Buhari’ Era… Will Nigeria Become the Strongest Economy in Africa? the media outfit said the President’s “integrity and discipline, and his fame for strict measures against political corruption within the Armed Forces and civil institutions,” will fuel the effort to reverse the “oil curse”, which had pervaded the continent since 1958. According to the review, President Buhari has worked to diversify the tributaries of the Nigerian economy, attracted foreign investment, reallocated resources, developed the structure of exports and imports by expanding manufacturing operations and exporting manufactured products, instead of continuing to export cheap materials. By rejecting the proposal of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), which suggested devaluation of the naira by 60 per cent, the President, the review said, took the right decision to stimulate and buoy the economy, including encouraging import substitution with local materials. “Today, Nigeria has a good economic situation. In July 2018, the IMF issued a list of the strongest African economies, in which Nigeria ranked first with a total of $376.3 billion of oil production annually, ahead of Saudi Arabia, whose oil production stands at the index of $349.3 billion dollars,” Amwal added. The review also considered Nigeria’s 1.93 per cent Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth in 2018, and a 2.28 per cent growth in the fourth quarter of 2019. In another article, titled: President Buhari…The Link Between Nigeria and the World, a Bahrain-based business news website, Al Watan Al Arabi, said: “Within 20 months as Head of State in the first terms, about 500 politicians, government officials and businessmen were under interrogation for corruption. The detainees were released after government sums were collected back and they agreed to meet Nigerian government’s terms.” The news sites said the Nigerian President had maintained a balanced foreign policy, especially as he wanted to win the support of the United States of America (U.S.A) and the West in general through his objective of defeating Boko Haram insurgents.