The global Institution of Occupational Safety and Health (IOSH) is partnering with the Federal Government as well as Lagos State Safety Commission in Nigeria to run its first conference in West Africa. The event launches a range of training opportunities in West Africa, including the NCFE IOSH Level 3 Certificate in Safety and Health for Business as well as marking the launch of IOSH’s No Time Lose campaign tackling occupational cancer. Shaping the Future of Occupational Safety and Health in Africa is a free day-long event so popular that it is now fully booked. This milestone for developing safer, healthier workplaces in Africa will happen on the 22 January at the Lagos Oriental Hotel, Victoria Island IOSH,the world’s only chartered body for safety and health, and leading membership organisation for safety and health professionals, helps workers around the worldto create workplaces that are safer, healthier and more sustainable.It is privileged to be partnering with the Federal Government of Nigeria and the Lagos State Safety Commission to support training and building competencies that enhance safety and health in Nigeria. This collaborative work is designed to address the negative social and economic impacts of poor safety and health at work. For example, as a proportion of GDP, the average cost of work-related injuries and ill-health in Nigeria is 4.38% That’s higher than the international average, 3.94%. Speaking at this event are high-level representatives of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, IOSH Chief Executive Bev Messinger, IOSH Vice-President Kayode Fowode, IOSH West Africa Consultant Funmi Adegbola, the Director-General of Lagos State Safety Commission, Mr LanreMojola, as well as the Nigerian Insurers Association and Chartered Institute of Personnel Management of Nigeria. All registered delegates who attend will benefit from presentationsby key business leaders, with workshops as well as panel discussions designed to build safety and health competencies and capabilities in Nigeria and beyond. To celebrate the launch of a major qualification, the NCFE IOSH Level 3 Certificate in Safety and Health for Business, in West Africa, IOSH Chief Executive Bev Messinger said: “We are delighted to be building on the important memorandum of collaboration we signed in 2019 with the Lagos State Safety Commission to support the development of strong workplace safety cultures promoted by businesses and government agencies. “This innovative event promises great opportunities to network with peers, share knowledge and ideas and enable Nigeria’s health and safety professionals to receive essential career advice and insights into making significant professional development progress.” In Africa, cancer caused by work claims the lives of an estimated 46,494 people a year. Globally, at least 742,000 lives are lost to work-related cancer annually. The No Time to Lose campaign launch in Nigeria will focus on two main occupational cancer challenges in West Africa, asbestos and diesel engine exhaust emissions, giving practical ways businesses can tackle these and keep workers safe and healthy. No Time to Lose is not only a tool for education but is a flagship of research and advocacy. By attending the event, business leaders will find out how they can support the prevention of occupational cancer through creating a pledge with No Time to Lose. IOSH Vice-President Kayode Fowode, who will present the campaign, said: “We are pleased to hear that Nigerian organisations the Environment and Safety Management Institute and Gokada Rides Limited have already signed-up as supporters. We look forward to receiving backing from many more organisations in Africa for our No Time to Lose campaign.”