Our Reporter  The International Air Transport Association (IATA) has released data for global air freight markets showing that demand, measured in freight tonne kilometres (FTKs), decreased by 1.1 per cent  in November, last year, compared to the same period in 2018. Though African freight carriers posted the fastest growth of any region, this marks the 13th consecutive month of year-on-year declines in freight volumes. Despite the decline in demand, November’s performance was the best in eight months, with the slowest year-on-year rate of contraction recorded since March, last year. In part, November’s outcome reflects the growing importance of large e-commerce events such as Singles Day in Asia and Black Friday. While international e-commerce continues to grow, overall air cargo demand continues to face headwinds from the effects of the trade war between the US and China, the deterioration in world trade, and a broad-based slowing in global economic growth. “Demand for air cargo in November was down 1.1 per cent  compared to the previous year. That’s better than the 3.5 per cent  decline posted in October. But it is a big disappointment considering that the fourth quarter is usually air cargo’s peak season. Looking forward, signs of a thawing in US-China trade tensions are good news. But trading conditions at present remain very challenging,”said Alexandre de Juniac, IATA’s Director-General/Chief Executive Officer. Freight capacity, measured in available freight tonne kilometres (AFTKs), rose by 2.9 per cent  year-on-year in November 2019. Capacity growth has now outstripped demand growth for 19 consecutive months. African carriers posted the fastest growth of any region in November 2019, with an increase in demand of 19.8 per cent  compared to the same period a year earlier. Strong trade and investment links with Asia contributed to the positive performance. Capacity grew 13.7 per cent  year-on-year. Airlines in Asia-Pacific, Latin America and the Middle East suffered sharp declines in year-on-year growth in total air freight volumes in November 2019, while North American carriers experienced a more moderate decline. Europe and Africa were the only regions to record growth in air freight demand compared to November 2018. Middle Eastern airlines’ freight volumes decreased 3.0 per cent  in November 2019 compared to the year-ago period – a significant improvement over the 5.7 per cent  decrease in October. Capacity increased by 2.6 per cent.  Against a backdrop of operational and geopolitical challenges facing some of the region’s key airlines, seasonally-adjusted freight volumes in the region have continued a modest upwards trend, which is a positive development for the region’s carriers. However, escalating geopolitical tensions threaten the regions’ carriers in the period ahead. Asia-Pacific airlines saw demand for air freight contract by 3.7 per cent  in November 2019, compared to the year-earlier period. This was the sharpest drop in freight demand of any region for the month. Capacity increased by 1.8 per cent . The US-China trade war has significantly affected the region, with demand on the large Asia-North America market down 6.5 per cent  year-on-year in October . However, the thawing of US-China trade relations and robust economic growth in key regional economies are positive developments. North American airlines saw demand decrease by 1.1 per cent  in November 2019, compared to the same period a year earlier. Capacity increased by 3.3 per cent . Slower growth in the US economy and trade tensions with China have affected demand. However, positive progress in trade negotiations between both countries highlighted by the ‘phase one’ deal is a positive development. European airlines posted a 2.6 per cent  increase in freight demand in November 2019 compared to the same period a year earlier. Better than expected economic activity in the third quarter in some of the region’s large economies helped support demand. Capacity increased by 4.0 per cent  year-on-year. Latin American airlines experienced a decrease in freight demand in November 2019 of 3.4 per cent  compared to November 2018. Various social and economic headwinds in the region’s key economies have impacted the region’s air cargo performance. Capacity decreased by 2.3 per cent  year-on-year.