By Damian Duruiheoma, Owerri At least one person was reported and many others wounded in Imo State during a scuffle between the suspended local government officials and the interim management committee members of the councils on Monday. The incident, which happened in Isu LGA headquarters, Umundugba, saw one Ahamefule Maduabuchi, a suspended supervisor from umundugba in lsu LGA killed in the scuffle between the two contending forces. The spokesman of the state police command, Orlando Ikeoku said that the incident that led the death is still sketchy. In other council areas, some suspended chairmen, councillors and their supporters, who are members of the faction of ex- Governor Rochas Okorocha All progressives Congress(APC) invaded various local government Secretariats across the state to forcefully take over the councils. But chairmen of the Interim Management Councils repelled the invading sacked APC chairmen, Councilors and hundreds of supporters from the council Secretariat. The suspended faction of Okorocha’s APC chairmen and Councilors had relied on the Supreme Court judgment delivered in the suit between the Ekiti state Governor and the Council chairmen. In Owerri Municipal council, it was reliably gathered that the suspended Chairman, Nze Joe Agor and the Councillors, had allegedly mobilised hundred of thug to invade the council Secretariat to forcefully take over the offices. The former chairman had also barricaded the entrance to the council before he and his supporters were dislodged by security agencies from the council after over 30 minutes of scuffle between the invading APC members and supporters of the TC chairman, Ebere Chukwuemeka and members of the People’s Democratic Party(PDP). In Aboh Mbaise council, the former chairman, Prince Chidi Nwaturuocha, was beaten to stupor by youths and supporters of the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP). It was gathered that Prince Nwaturuocha and his supporters had broken into the office of the Aboh Mbaise council chairman as early as 6am where he had sat and took pictures of himself and posted to his face book accounts. However, he was beaten to stupor by supporters and youths of the PDP. Also, one of the invading councillors, Mr. Jasper Nwachukwu, was also said to have been wounded when a police officer allegedly used the butt of his gun on him. In Owerri West council area, it was gathered that the Transition committee chairman, Innocent Ekenma and his committee members, were beaten and chased out of the office by the rampaging protesters. But, Ekenma told our correspondent that the APC suspended chairmen and their supporters were stopped two hundred metres away from the secretariat before they could even gain access into the council. “We resisted them; they did not even progress beyond the market square, everywhere is calm now and I am in charge whoever told you that they beat us is telling lies,” Ekenma said. Similar situation also played out in Njaba council area where it was learnt that the interim Chairman, Obodoshaa Agwubuo ran away from the council when the suspended officials came. He however posted pictures of himself and that of his committee members in his office, insisting that he was still in in charge. The situation was similar in Owerri north council, the incumbent chairman, Solomon Onwuegbuchulam also prevented the APC suspended chairman and councillors with over five hundred supporters from coming close to the gate of the council. Orlu, Nwangele, Orsu, Ehime Mbano, Isiala Mbano, Ahiazu Mbaise, Oru east , Oru west and Ohaji/Egbema and Ngor Okpala recorded no such situation. However, the police spokesman, Orlando Ikokwu said the police were on ground to avert an impending breach of the peace in the state. He also claimed that the APC chairmen, who were coming for reinstatement could not produce a valid Supreme Court judgement they claimed vested on them to occupy their former positions. The police spokesman noted that the suspended chairmen were relying on Ekiti State judgement, which according to him should never be used as yardstick. Ikokwu said: “We were there to ensure security of lives and properties, the ousted council chairmen said they have the Supreme Court judgment, to the best of the knowledge of the command, there is no Supreme Court judgement as such. “The norm or the ethics is the bailiff would have to serve you with a court order and they don’t have it. However, the judgement that they are referring to is that of Ekiti State, there is no way you can import another judgement from another state even though they are similar so there is no order directing them to takeover.”