  Lagos Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Sunday assured that the Oshodi-Abule Egba BRT corridor would be ready for use by end of May. Sanwo-Olu stated this after he inspected the BRT corridor along the axis. The governor told residents within the axis to desist from throwing dirt into the drainage. Addressing journalists after the inspection, Sanwo-Olu said the 13.68 kilometers of road  is about 70 percent completed and it has 14 stations. The 14 stations has five bilateral stations facing both sides and 9 median stations. He attributed the delay in some parts of the project along the corridor to  residents, who throw waste into the drainage system. He advised residents to desist from this as perpetrators would  face the wrath of the law. “The situation with drainage here is human-induced because of the lifestyle of our people. I am aware that this whole drainage was cleared couple of days ago and we can all see the amount of rubbish that are here now”. On the BRT buses for the corridor, the Governor said: ” We are hoping to start with about a minimum of 200 buses, once we come and we see the scaling up, the BRT can move up to 300 and 350 buses, based on the traffic that we see and the utilization of the corridor. “Once this is completed, there is likelihood that we do a phase 2 of the project which will take us from here into Ogun State, where we have old toll plaza. “We want to reduce the traffic from the whole neighborhood in Ogun State to Oshodi. Before the end May, we should complete the entire Infrastructure along this road.” He maintained that his government has continued to build on the infrastructural renewal projects which was started by the last administration. According to Sanwo-Olu: “In the last seven months we came in, work has not stopped on this corridor. In terms of mathematics, I cannot say it was at a particular percentage, but what I remember is that when I came here last  it’s  not what they look like. “Essentially, we are pushing the contractors to ensure that all of infrastructure that is required to put this to use are achieved. “The contractors has not been denied finances and we are going to ensure we work with them. We are going  to ensure that the commissioning date is sacrosanct, we will commission it on the date we have set out for ourselves” Sanwo-Olu emphasised that the phase 1 project will solve significantly the transportation and traffic problems on the entire corridor. He warned motorists and residents of the state to desist from indiscriminate driving and ensure a cleaner environment. 