By Olaitan Ganiu  No fewer than 800 residents of Olateju area of Mushin, Lagos State, have received free medical services offered by the Bunmi and Ajibola Healthcare Foundation, a Non-Governmental Organistion (NGO), in collaboration with Help Diagnostics and Checkup Services. The exercise, which held at Shokunbi Nursery and Primary School, had a large turnout. Participants were screened and treated on malaria, hypertension, diabetes, HIV, Hepatitis B and received counseling on healthy lifestyle. Chairman of the foundation, Pastor Ajibola Olulola, said the objective of the NGO to address medical conditions in high blood pressure, diabetes and other illness, which he said are common in the area. According to him, the NGO embarked on the free exercise to demonstrate its commitment to the wellness of Nigerians, eradicate poverty and contribute to the government’s efforts in providing healthcare for citizens. “As a pastor, I discovered that many people are dying because they lack fund to visit hospitals to treat their illnesses when they are sick. Many of them lack money to buy medicine prescribed by doctors. Sometime, they come to me seeking for prayer and assistance, but the truth is that God answers prayer. But when you need to treat yourself, you go to the hospital,” he advised. Olulola, who was excited over the turnout , said he chose the area due to lifestyle of people living there. He revealed that after understudying the area, his team noticed that poverty is a major cause of accessing health, stating that his organisation was ready to bridge the gap. “What we do basically is to offer free screening, drugs and awareness and counselling. Many people opt for traditional medicines because they lack fund to go to healthcare centre.  This could cause kidney problems. We are targeting about 2,000 people because a lot of patients are down with malaria. So, after diagnosing them, we give them drugs, treat, advise and also assist them financially. The goal is to take outreach to different states across the nation in collaboration with our partner.” Project Coordinator, Olabisi Olubunmi Fabulola, a nurse, noted that poverty and ignorance lead to untimely death. “Poverty, ignorance and wrong way of seeking medical assistance are what many people are lacking. Many Nigerians do not know that misinformation can lead to their death. My 33 years’ experience is one of the things that trigger this foundation. Also, a lot of people do not have access to medical care because of its finances and ignorance.” Consultant pathologist/CEO, HELP, Dr. Wale Ajala, said the collaboration between the two parties is to reach out to more people and a strategic way of giving back to society. On the assessment of screening, Ajala noted that the stress in the society and feeding habits contribute to hypertension. “Hypertension is so much higher and it is increasing daily, even among younger ones in the community. So, we are here to test, give drugs and also give them lifestyle modification advice,” he said.