Our Reporter  Ifa, otherwise known as Orunmila, is the Yoruba god of wisdom (divination). He is one of the principal deities of the Yoruba people and it is believed to be one of the great ministers Olodumare (the Almighty God) sent from heaven to earth to perform some specific functions. He transmits and interprets the wishes of Olodumare, who was believed to have created other deities and prescribes the sacrifices that Esu, the messenger of god must bring to him. Ifa (Orunmila) knowledge covers everything pertaining to man and other things created by God Almighty. Orunmila is believed to have a complete knowledge and understanding about all matters both on earth and heaven. His knowledge covers the whole range of time and space. He is informed about the past, present and future. That is the reason they named him Akerefinn Sogbon (The small one with a mind full of wisdom) as his praise name. Ifa (Orunmila) is not approached directly but through some priests called Babalawo (diviner or priest or father of secret). Divination is not the only form of divination in Yoruba land. There are other forms, though not as important as Ifa. It is only the initiated that knows the secret.  Historical background  There are myths about the coming of Orunmila to the earth. It is believed that Orunmila came with other deities, such as Obatala and Esu Ogun.  Each was charged with specific functions. For example, Ogun was dealing with war, iron-related matters while Ifa was charged with  using his wisdom and knowledge to put the earth in order. Orunmila, lived, according to the myth at Ife, in a quarter known as (Oke Igeti). That is why he is known as “Okunrin Kukuru Oke Igeti” (The short man of Oke Igeti). However, it was at Ado (Ekiti) that Orunmila spent greater part of his later life, having lived in different parts of Yorubaland. According to myths/legend, Orunmila, while on earth first lacked children but later had eight male children. It is said that it was an insult from one of his children which led to the return of Orunmila to heaven. The earth turned to great confusion, misery, want and anxiety was the order of the day. Rain refused to fall; pregnant women could not give birth etc. The people on earth persuaded his children to go to heaven to beg their father to return to earth. When his children reached heaven, they found their father at the Foot of Ope agunkn eyi to yasi  buka merindin logun ( meaning: the much-climbed palm tree which has 16 separate nuts like groves on its top). The children begged Orunmila to return to the earth, but he refused instead of returning, he gave his children 16 palm nuts which are today the famous Ikin or sacred palm nuts of divination of Ifa. It is with these palm nuts and other sacred objects that Ifa priest used to find out the will of Orunmila.  Ifa divinatory and literary corpus  There is a profound body of materials known as Ifa literary and divination corpus. The corpus falls into two board divinations. The first part is the “Odu”, which has 256 numbers, divided into two parts. The first part has  16 “Odu”  or Principal 16. These are known as the best part of Literary Corpus while the other has 240 “Odu” known as “Omo Odu”  that contains the rare parts of Literary Corpus. The other divination of the Ifa Corpus is the Ese. Ese is a literary material in praise and poetry and indeed one can speak of Ese as poems. Each Odu contains an unlimited numbers of Ese, which every Ifa priest must learn. Some are very long and can be chanted for several hours while others are short that can be chanted for a minute or two. Divination Ifa is a divination based on 16 basic and 240 derivative figures (Odu) obtained either by the manipulation of 16 palm nuts or by the toss of a chain (Opele) of eight half seed shells. While in the act of divining, an Ifa priest will grasp the 16 palm nuts in his right hand leaving one or two in the left hand. If two nuts remain, a single mark is made. When the procedure is repeated four times, it will give one of the 16 Odu while the eight repeated time gives a pair or combination of the 256 Odu figure.  Alternatively, one of the 256 figures can be obtained by a cast of the divining chain head and tail odds an even (1 and 2). The chain is held in the middle so that four half seed shell can fall in line on each side in a concave inner surface upwards, which is equivalent to a single mark or with the surface downwards to a double mark on the tray.  Apparatus of Ifa divination  The Babalawo constitutes a focal point in divination. He helps his clients deal with a wide range of personal and impersonal forces in which the Yoruba believe certain sacred instruments are used by Ifa priest with which they believe they can find out the will of Orumila. These are: “The Palm Nuts (Ikin): These are most important objects employed in Ifa divination. There are 16  of them. These are manipulated in divining to give the figures to be used for a particular client. “The Divining Chain (Opele Ifa) The divining chain is said to talk more than the palm nuts’, but regarded as an inferior instrument to the palm nuts. Nevertheless, it is more commonly used in divination. The reason for this is that the divining chain arrives at the same interpretation through the same set of figure and verse more rapidly, and answers more questions than the use of palm nuts. The divining chain is about three feet long and usually consists of eight halves of seed shells or pod and has a middle section by which it is held. Various objects such as beads, cowries, shells, coins and rings etc. are usually attached to the down of the pods at either ends of the chain.  The Divining bag (Apo Ifa) The divining chain is kept in this bag. It is made of locally woven cloth or leather and it is decorated with cowry shells. The chain is often cast on this bag when divining which is laid out on the mat on which the diviner is seated.  The Divination tray When divining with palm nuts, the figures of IFA are marked in powder on the divining tray and when the divining chain is used, the tray is often employed in the course of making sacrifice or the medicines which are prescribed. It is flat and usually circular in shape though it may be rectangular. The outer edge is slightly raised and has curved design or representation of human and animal forms and objects. The raised edge of the tray has at least one stylised face identified as the face of Eshu the messenger of Ifa.  The divining powder (Iyeposun) While divining, the figures of Ifa are marked on the tray in a powder which is scattered on its surface. It is usually dust made by termites from the Irosun Tree.  Divining vessels plates, cups and bowls These serve as containers for the palm nuts. The simplest of which is the pottery plate called AWO Ifa. The carved wooden divining cups, Agere Ifa  is another well-known equipment of Ifa diviner and has been illustrated because of its aesthetic qualities. They are decorated with various birds, animals or fish with human beings engaged in rituals and other activities. The decorative element has become so elaborate  Divination bell (Iro Ifa) The diviner is said to attract the attention of Ifa by tapping the bell against tray. The bell is about eight metres in length and carved with Ivory or cast in brass.  Importance of Ifa The worship of Ifa is occupying a central place in Yoruba’s religious and mystical beliefs. The Yoruba believe in Ifa divination for divine guidance and advice. Most Yoruba men and women have visited Ifa priest for divination. They rely on Ifa to tell them how to solve many of their day to day problems. In traditional Yoruba society, before any  man does any important thing, he will consult Ifa. Such matters may include inquiries about the life of a new child, marriage, journey, building a new house or moving from one place to another. In conclusion, Ifa constitutes a focal point in Yoruba traditional religion. The Ifa priest channels sacrifices, recommend sacrifices to the dead or means of dealing with witches, preparing protective and retaliating medicine, helping his client to face a myriad of problems that is beyond human existence. Civilisation and modernisation has not changed the way traditional Yoruba societies view Ifa. It still remains one of the most revered deities in Yoruba traditional religion and is honoured in Nigeria, Republic of Benin, Togo and as far as Cuba and Brazil among descendants of Yoruba slaves in these countries. 