In this piece, Ehi Braimah urges the All Progressives Congress (APC) National chairman Comrade Adams Oshiomhole to sheathe his swords and work for reconciliation and peace in the troubled chapter.  About seven months ago, I wrote an article on the political crisis in the Edo State chapter of the All Progressive Congress (APC), which has become intractable and deeply troubling. Why is it so difficult to resolve this matter? The point I made then was that as friends and brothers, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole who is the National Chairman of APC and former governor of Edo State for two terms of eight years under the APC banner and Governor Godwin Obaseki should sit down and iron out their differences. Unfortunately, this has not happened because, as it normally plays out, there are two groups that   are   loyal   to   their   respective   political   gladiators   with   each   group   threatening   fire   and brimstone. The hot topic on everyone’s lip is the political crisis in Edo State APC – whether it is on radio or television discussion programmes, newspaper opinions/editorials or social media or beer parlour and pepper soup joints, the story is trending rapidly. I’m confronted almost on a daily basis by concerned friends and colleagues with the question: what is going on in your state? This is a euphemism for the sad political situation in Edo State between the APC National Chairman and Governor Obaseki that has turned into a long running soap opera. Why did they throw their fellowship out of the window? Why did they drop the ball? Personally, I’m unhappy at the turn of events between Comrade Oshiomhole and Governor Obaseki – it is now politics of bitterness, hatred and acrimony between two friends and associates. It did not have to end this way. How do we comprehend a situation where the National Chairman of APC is from Edo State; Governor Obaseki is the only serving APC governor in the South-South and South East regions and that the 24 members of the State House of Assembly are all from APC. And yet, we are having a crisis of this magnitude! The 24 members in the House are not united – 14 members loyal to Comrade Oshiomhole are exiled in Abuja and the remaining 10 are in Benin running the show. This ugly situation is not a good advertisement for Edo people because that is not who we are. But, in politics, anything can happen! I also got the chance to weigh in on this matter again during the ‘Morning Show’ on Arise News, a live television programme, on November 5 with Kassim Afegbua who was a former media adviser to Comrade Oshiomhole when he was the governor of Edo State. I re-stated the need for  peace to reign because the crisis was giving Edo State a bad image both at home and abroad. We are peace loving and law abiding people – we respect our elders and those in authority. I made the point too that Comrade Oshiomhole should allow Godwin Obaseki serve the people of Edo State without let or hindrance. I also appealed to Governor Obaseki to build consensus within the party and engage all the key stakeholders who supported him to win the election in Edo State for a win-win partnership. I added that even husbands and wives have their misunderstandings and disagreements but they should also have the presence of mind to reconcile. There have been attempts at making peace by well-meaning Nigerians but the efforts have not yielded any   fruitful   results.   Instead,   both  sides   are   digging in  and   Edo   people   are  worried. Whatever agreement that both parties had has obviously evaporated. It is now evident that the politics of 2020 and the fight for relevance by Comrade Oshiomhole is a major cause of the political crisis. Comrade Oshiomhole denies being a godfather in Edo politics, but nothing could be further from the truth. His body language and overbearing attitude have betrayed his mission and his strong arm tactics to ‘capture’ Edo State at all cost in 2020 by using EPM is already on full display. This explains why the crisis is now going to be a fight to the finish because, from all indications, the battle line has been drawn by both sides – the fight is getting messier and messier by the day. The Edo State gubernatorial election is due in 2020 and Governor Obaseki who will be completing his first full term by November 2020 says he deserves a second term ticket because of his record of performance. But Comrade Oshiomhole and his foot soldiers in Edo People’s Movement (EPM) – a pressure group and faction within the party – are not in agreement and they are determined to wrest the second term ticket from Governor Obaseki and possibly hand it over to Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu who re-joined APC recently. Previously, Ize-Iyamu, a very influential politician, bridge-builder and activist in Edo State, was in APC and then crossed over to the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). Now, he’s back to APC at   the   instance   of   EPM   and   Comrade   Oshiomhole   as   the   main   challenger,   as   it   is   being speculated, to Governor Obaseki during the APC primaries. If this matter is not quickly resolved, I foresee political violence from two parallel primaries that would in Edo State and the avoidable litigations will follow. I can understand why Edo people, especially the leaders of thought and professional   group,   are   not   speaking   up   on   this   matter   even   if   they   are   outraged   by   the egregious   behaviour   that is on display   by   the  political class. In one   moment, you will  find politicians fighting and tearing themselves apart and the next time, they are friends again – you can never be sure where they stand and this is why most stakeholders prefer to sit on the fence and speak behind the curtains. The law of self-preservation, as I have found out, is the primary motivation of politicians. Only very few members of the political class care about principles and the common good. Why is Comrade Oshiomhole, the National Chairman of APC, unable to put his house in order? What does he really want from Governor Obaseki?  Instead of managing the crisis in his party in Edo   State   where   he   was   a  governor,   Comrade   Oshiomhole   is   stoking   the   fire   and creating a crisis that is likely to consume the party in the state. In my Arise News interview, I advised Comrade Oshiomhole to play the role of statesman and leader by bringing everyone to the table and settle their differences. In such a scenario, there should be no winners and losers and the spirit of reconciliation should motivate all to finding a lasting solution to the crisis. But, Comrade Oshiomhole would have none of that because he’s a key factor in the contrived crisis and he wants to eat his cake and have it. I’m actually surprised that Comrade Oshiomhole cannot see the hand writing on the wall in plain sight. Should Edo State be reduced to a theatre of political war and bloodshed for personal ambition? I think he should at this time sit back, take a deep breath and reflect on how he became governor of Edo State because it appears he has forgotten. If he can call to mind the events in very recent memory, this needless dog fight – now famously known  as Abuja versus Benin fight — where he is  clearly the aggressor  would be unnecessary. However, if he has forgotten, my sources tell me that Governor Obaseki, Chief Lucky Igbinedion, former governor of Edo State under the banner of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP); Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, Captain Hosa Okunbor and Chief Tom Ikimi – prominent Edo indigenes — will remind him. My view is that Comrade Oshiomhole would be caught on the back foot in the current political face-off if he does not toe the path of genuine reconciliation. Firstly, he has exaggerated his sense of importance and influence within the party — he is using his might as APC National Chairman to cause confusion in his home state instead of voting for peace. Secondly, Governor Obaseki declared again that the APC National Chairman remains suspended from the party in Edo State in a show of power just as Comrade Oshiomhole’s faction says Governor Obaseki has also been suspended from the party. Thirdly, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) says only National Party Chairmen can submit candidates’ names but the State Chapter of the party, according to the APC constitution, shall conduct the primaries – and you know what that means! Fourthly, the Deputy Governor, Comrade Philip Shaibu, who used to be Comrade Oshiomhole’s die hard loyalist and foot soldier, is now with Governor Obaseki; 