A former African Player of the Year Emmanuel Amuneke has  tipped Mbwana  Ally Samatta  to succeed after the Tanzania national team captain completed his transfer from  Belgian side Genk to Aston Villa in the English Premier  League on Monday. Samatta was  influential  when Amuneke piloted the Taifa Stars of Tanzania   to the  Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON)  at Egypt 2019  after their  long absence  on the continental  stage since their debut  at the 1980 edition  held in Nigeria. Speaking on the former to TP Mazembe  striker’s move to England, Amuneke described Samatta as a good buy for Aston Villa , adding the 27-year-old forward has what it takes to succeed  with the Lions ‘ because he’s a ‘lion-hearted player’. “ I’m very happy that Ally Samatta has finally moved to England  and his transfer to Aston Villa is well deserved,” the former Barcelona winger said in an interview with NationSport. “ He’s a  very good and technical player . “ I used to tell  him  that  he  deserves to play in one of the big leagues in Europe because he’s that gifted; I’m happy that  he has find a place with Aston Villa.” Amuneke  further said  Samatta  is well grounded  and would succeed in England despite being the  first Tanzanian player to join a Premier League side: “ Of course, the EPL is a bigger stage  than the Belgian league  but Samatta  has been very consistent  in the last few years and I have no doubt  that he would adapt  to succeed in England.” Voted 2015 African based Player of the Year, he signed a four-and-a-half-year contract with KRC Genk in  January 2016 after his goals helped TP Mazembe to be crowned  winners of the2015 the CAF Champions League. Last year, Samatta  was top scorer  in the Belgian First Division A  as Genk finished the season as league winners and was rewarded in May 2019 with the Ebony Shoe award as the best African or African origin player in the Belgian Pro League. Meanwhile,  Nigerian-born  Aston Villa’s legend, Gabriel  Agbonlanhor has reportedly  said he was looking forward to watching new signing Samatta at Aston Villa following his permanent switch. “Now we’re looking forward to watching you Samatta, welcome to Villa,” Agbonlanhor who is Aston Villa’s all-time top scorer in the EPL with  74 goals in 322 matches wrote on Instagram.