 BY now, half of Nigeria knows President Muhammadu Buhari has a bright daughter, Hanan, who’s so passionate about photography, she earned a First Class degree in it from a British university. But it isn’t her creativity that thrust her in the headlines at the weekend. The young woman was reportedly on a study tour of the Bauchi Emirate last Thursday as part of the requirements for a Master’s degree programme. Another version says she was invited to the cultural event by the emir and indulged her passion while there. Her presence in Bauchi was not the issue. Rather it was her choice of transportation that got Twitter atwitter. She was ferried there on her father’s presidential jet. Some of the images that have emerged showed her being received like some visiting government functionary. As a storm of controversy broke over the propriety of her use of the aircraft, presidential spin doctors scrambled – releasing a defence that suggested that the row was needless as she had a right to use the plane. I admit that convention and common sense means that the First Family would travel on the aircraft assigned to the president from time to time without issue. After all, no one makes waves over the fact that the head of state’s family lives with him in his official accommodation. Some have rushed to Hanan’s defence by dredging up past instances of abuse of the presidential jet. How pathetic! That is like arguing that because wrongdoing was perpetrated by certain persons in the past, we should just and grin bear it today. Times change: what was glossed over five years ago, may necessarily be accepted by people today. First Lady Aisha Buhari didn’t help matters by tweeting a video of her daughter in the jet, the day after the storm broke. Although her aide later issued a statement denying that the post was her way of thumbing her nose at critics that was the way her action came across. This controversy isn’t just about the right of the First Family to enjoy the perks of office accruing to their father. Even where you have a right to such facilities, you could rub people the wrong way in the manner you use them. Every United States president is entitled to use the famous Air Force One aircraft in their coming and going. But on May 13, 1993, Bill Clinton found himself in hot water after he ordered a haircut while the plane was parked at Los Angeles International Airport. There was anger that air traffic was slightly affected while two runways were shut down for an hour on account of the president’s jet idling on the tarmac. Aside inconvenience to travellers, people were incensed at the cost to taxpayers of Clinton enjoying a leisurely beauty routine while burning expensive aviation fuel. The media quickly dubbed it ‘the most expensive haircut ever.’ One of the issues that has cropped in the Hanan Buhari controversy is whether there is a law preventing a member of the First Family from using any of the vessels in the presidential air fleet. Frankly, there is no such law. All we have is tradition that accommodates the most senior officers of state like the Vice President, President of the Senate, Speaker of the House of Representatives and any other person the president permits in the privileged circle of those allowed access. But this is not just about legality; it is about morality and boundaries. The fact that a jet is involved doesn’t change the principle. Would it be right for the son of a state governor to go nightclubbing in his father’s official car – carrying the insignia of his office – just because of familial ties? The president was elected. His wife and children were not part of the ticket. They are part of the package that comes with the office holder, but who also have to learn to keep a decent distance when official business comes up. It is for this reason some of the most unpopular First Ladies became so because they didn’t know their boundary. Rosalyn, wife of former President Jimmy Carter, used to sit in on the cabinet – something that people resented. Hillary Clinton was similarly despised during her husband’s first term because of her constant intrusion into official business. No one has said so far that Hanan went to Bauchi to represent her father or mother. It is clear she went there for her private engagement. Was it proper for the state to fund the trip? Presidential spokesman, Garba Shehu, has explained that she obtained necessary approvals for use of the aircraft from relevant officials. That is beside the point. Was it appropriate for her to use the plane when she was not on an official assignment? We have had instances in the past where such boundaries were not respected and it never looked right. Ibrahim Abacha, a dashing lawyer and businessman was just 28, when he commandeered a presidential jet for a frolic with a posse of pals. On that fateful day of 17th of January, 1996, he and 14 others were just minutes to landing at the Aminu Kano International Airport, when the aircraft crashed and exploded. Ibrahim wasn’t a general, neither was he a member of the ruling military council headed by his father, Sani Abacha. But he had enough pull as the first child of the dictator to order a presidential jet for pleasure. There was no law preventing him from doing so, but that didn’t make it right. We can see that the lacuna that exists creates room for abuse as people would always be elastic in their interpretation of what they are permitted them to do in the absence of statutory restraints. It doesn’t have to stay this way. The absence of a law is actually opportunity for the National Assembly to draw up guidelines that properly direct the use of these state assets. So, while Hanan may not have broken any laws by flying to Bauchi on her dad’s presidential jet, the optics just don’t look right for her father who is ordinarily known not to stand for excess and is an apostle of austerity. 