The outbreak and spread of Corona Virus in Far East Asia is creating distortions in global air travel, forcing airlines and airport authorities to escalate emergency management procedures at points of entry. Nigeria is not left out of the move, with a raft of measures unveiled by regulators for air crew, air navigation services providers, passengers and other airport users to detect and curtail possible spread of the deadly virus, KELVIN OSA OKUNBOR reports.  CoronaVirus is dealing a deadly blow on global air travel. Since January 7, 2020 when the first case of the deadly virus broke out in the Central City of Wuhan, Hubei Province in China, its devastating effects have been felt in Japan, Thailand, South Korea and the United States with many people already killed and over 300 reportedly infected. Besides the harvests of death already recorded as effects of Corona Virus, the pandemic is creating huge distortions in global air travel as airlines have started canceling flights to some parts of the world to curtail the spread of the virus. Global bodies including World Health Organisation (WHO), International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) and others have escalated containment measures to avert possible spread of the virus and its debilitating effects on global air travel. At least 25 people are dead in China and more than 800 infected as the Wuhan coronavirus continues to spread throughout Asia and across the world. To underscore the effects of the virus, three Chinese cities – Wuhan, Huanggang, and Ezhou are under lockdown. The cities are also under travel restrictions. Affected areas include Wuhan, the city of 11 million people where the outbreak began. As a consequence, many countries including Nigeria,  US, UK and Australia have commenced precautionary measures, such as health screenings at airports. This is just as the WHO  said  the virus  does not constitute “a public health emergency of international concern. Global airports  have ramped up their screening processes. International travelers arriving in some International Airport have signage on electronic arrival screens informing them of a multi-layered government response.” Steps by FAAN As part of efforts by government to step up containment measures,     Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) has  urged  passengers and other airport users to comply with all quarantine procedures at the nation’s airports. FAAN said the new move became necessary to prevent the spread of such communicable disease into the country. In a statement its General Manager,  Public Affairs,  Mrs Henrietta Yakubu, said the authority had already taken proactive steps by ensuring that  equipment and personnel used in combating the deadly ebola virus in 2014 were still   in place at airports. She said FAAN had  always had thermal scanners in her airports that monitors the  temperature of passengers as well as  capture their pictures. She said: ”When passengers walk pass the scanner, it registers their temperature and If too high, they are pulled aside for observation.” Mrs Yakubu said: ”The Authority, in collaboration with the Federal Ministry of Health, have  confirmed the adequacy of the facilities at the nation’s airports to prevent the importation of the virus through the airports. “Passengers are, therefore, advised to submit themselves for routine quarantine checks  whenever they are asked to. ”  Regulator’s alert In a move to curtal the spread of the virus,  Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has put airlines operating into and out of Nigeria,  Air Navigation Service Providers (ANSP) and Aerodrome Operators on alert. Its spokesman, Sam Adurogboye, said the regulator took the steps to inform  aviation stakeholders on the effects of the out break of the virus. Adurogboye listed the clinical signs and symptoms of the virus are mainly fever and difficulty in breathing, coughing and sneezing. In a letter dated January 23,  this year and signed by the Acting Director General of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Capt. Sidi Abdullahi  called for a high level of vigilance by airlines, especially those operating international and regional flights all designated point of entries (POEs) and travelling public. In the letter sent to  airlines operators, the NCAA said they are required to take a raft of measures. According to Captain Abdullahi  Pilots in Command (PIC) of aircraft are to report to the Air Traffic Control (ATC) any suspected cases of communicable disease onboard an aircraft in line with Nigerian Civil Aviation Regulations (NCAR). He said: ” In case of a suspected case of communicable disease on board an aircraft, the aircrew are to fill the aircraft General Declaration  in line with NCAR  and Annex 8 of International Health Regulations (IHR 2005). “Completed aircraft General Declaration are to be submitted to the Port Health Services (PHS) on arrival at the designated point of entry.  “Sick passengers on board an aircraft are to be required by the crew to fill a Passenger Locator form in line with NCAR. “The completed Passenger Locator Forms are to be submitted to Port Health Services (PHS) on arrival at the designated point of entry. “Airlines are to have onboard the appropriate number of First Aid Kits, Universal Precaution kits and Emergency Medical kits according to the provisions of NCAR.” The NCAA has mandated Airlines  to update the knowledge of their crew members in the handling of communicable disease on board an aircraft. Captain Abdullahi: ”Cabin crew should follow the operational procedures recommended by the International Air Transport Association (IATA) and their airlines’ Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) in handling possible cases of communicable diseases on board an aircraft. “They are to ensure that passengers with symptoms of acute respiratory infection exercises cough etiquette maintain distance, cover coughs and sneezes with disposable tissues and wash hands thoroughly “Passengers should be encouraged by the crew to self-report if they feel ill. “Airlines are to contact Port Health Services for clearance before importing human remains into the country. “Designated Points of Entries are to ensure stakeholders collaboration in the handling of a suspected case of communicable disease in line with their respective Public Health Emergency Contingency Plans (PHECPs). “Routine measures, train staff, provide appropriate space, stockpiling of adequate equipment including Personal Protective Equipment should be in place at Points of Entries for assessing and managing ill travellers detected before travel, on board aircraft and on arrival. “Procedures and means are in place for communicating information on ill travellers between aircraft and point of entries as well as between POEs and National Health Authorities. “Safe transportation of symptomatic passengers to hospitals or designated facilities for clinical assessment and treatment is organised. Airlines and POEs are to report to the Authority in writing any suspected case of communicable disease observed in flight or at any Point of Entry (POE) – International Airport. “The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), therefore, expects strict compliance to the Standard and Recommended Practices (SARPs) as enumerated above. However, failure to adhere to these guidelines will be viewed seriously by the Authority.” Speaking on ways to manage spread of the virus, FAAN’s Regional Manager, South West, Mrs Victoria Shin Aba said steps were being taking to checkmate its possible infiltration into the country through passengers at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos. Shin-Aba said a breakdown of activities was meant to control the Coronavirus if detected at the Port of Entry at the MMIA, adding that the primary screening was ongoing. She advised passengers and airport users to comply with quarantine procedures and submit themselves for routine quarantine checks whenever they were asked to do so at the nation’s airports. The FAAN official explained that the airport authority, along with health personnel, were monitoring the temperature of arriving passengers and also carrying out enhanced visual observation for obvious signs of communicable disease. She said: “Passenger with any of the following fever such as temperature above or equal to 38 degrees Celsius, jaundice, skin rash, persistent diarrhoea and persistent cough would be referred to secondary screening. “Others are difficulty in breathing, complains of headache, neck stiffness, decreased consciousness, lethargy, unexplained bleeding, as well as persistent vomiting.” Shin-Aba said passengers would be referred to secondary screening, where the secondary screening form was used. She noted if there was an obvious public health threat, the passenger would be transferred to the designated hospital (Lagos State Mainland Hospital) following appropriate protocols (SOP) for further evaluation. Shin-Aba said collaboration and observance of basic infection prevention and control measures by stakeholders was important and being strengthened. Commenting, a medical official at the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority, Dr. Wilfred Haggai, explained that the areas for enhanced surveillance included the Point of Entry on board the aircraft and the Passenger Handling Service on the arrival queue. Haggai added that others were within the terminal building and within 400 metres radius of the POE and outside the POE. He said at the state and local government levels, health facilities must be informed to always take travel history of patients and the state must do a lot of work with the health facilities.