By Adeyinka Akintunde On Tuesday, January 21 2020, there were protest and rallies in various parts of the South-Western states of Nigeria with people calling for endorsement of the Western INigeria Security Network (WNSN) codenamed “Operation Amotekun” by the Federal Government. The Minister of Justice and Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami had described the security outfit, created by the six governors of the Western States in Nigeria, as “Illegal”. For him: “No state government whether single or in a group has the legal right and competence to establish any form of organisation or agency for the defence of Nigeria or any of its constituent party,”
A closer look however shows that there are benefits of the security outfit, including: * It will bring security closer to the people The police is doing their bit but with the way things stand now, the police cannot do everything. Crime, kidnapping and banditry are on the increase, and “Operation Amotekun” is another option in combating these social menace, especially in South-West Nigeria * It serves as a means of job creation For the unemployed, who could not make it to the Nigerian police or army, joining the “Operation Amotekun” could serve as an option. If recognised by the federal government, every member of the force will take something home at the end of every month, and that would in a way eradicate poverty *Allows natives to fight crime easily
Unlike the police where it is possible for a Yoruba man to be posted to the North, and it will take time before he adjusts to his new society, Operation Amotekun is meant primarily for the Yoruba people, living and working in Yoruba land. A local Yoruba man is not lost in his language, and can easily detect if crime is about to be committed in his area, and he arrests the situation * Enhances community policing
Ordinarily, the generally accepted police to civilian ratio is 1:450 or approximately 225 police officers for every 100,000 people. But this is fast becoming unrealistic in Nigeria today, as the Nigerian population is fast increasing, and the police force is reducing Operation Amotekun can fill in for citizens of South West Nigeria * It promotes self-defence The Nigerian constitution allows for right to life. It means that everyone has a right to live. If a person is attacked, he/she has the right to defend himself from external attack. Amotekun stands as self-defence for the Yoruba race. It is not a means to break away from the country as explained in Politics Today on Channels Television by Prof. Banji Akintoye, the Leader of the Yoruba World Congress, it is just a means to protect the Yoruba race, the people of the South-West, from any unforeseen, external attack