 THE Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) in Ilorin, Kwara State, on Tuesday received Gloria Taiye, a Nigerian girl who travelled to Lebanon for greener pasture, but later sought assistance to be repatriated. NSCDC Commandant Bello Ale, while receiving Gloria, told reporters in Ilorin that the victim was dubiously separated from her family to Lebanon. “Gloria was dubiously separated from her family by some country nationals in collaboration with Nigerians, where she found herself in a foreign land as a victim of human trafficking.” Ale said that with the combined effort of the command, good Nigerians as well as a non- governmental organisation (NGO), Gloria was successfully brought back to Nigeria. The commandant said that they got to know about the incident through the viral video of the victim, seeking assistance to return to Nigeria from Lebanon. “The video that went viral showed how the victim was being kept in captivity, which assisted us in getting the location, and led to the first suspect, the Lebanese, and later to the second suspect, a Nigerian that solicits for her. “The contact of Gloria family made us get to the third suspect, the pastor that stood as a guarantor for her, before travelling abroad. “The process is a continuous process, because it is a big syndicate, but we intend to hand over the case to the Anti- human Trafficking Agency,” he said. Ale said human trafficking had become a serious menace in the society, adding that many girls were taken to Lebanon for trafficking. “The second victim, whose video went more viral than that of Gloria’s, is expected to return to Ilorin this week, as the NGO paid for the return of both victims,” he said. The National President of Eruku Progressive Union, Mr. Shola Daniel, said that they reported the case to NSCDC immediately after seeing the video of Gloria seeking assistance. “Civil Defence tried a lot in ensuring that Gloria returns home safely. They did so well till they got to the root of the issue,” Daniel said. He said that the founder of Pheminick Life Care Support, an NGO, Mr. Toyin Aborishade, also tried a lot for Gloria’s return, by paying all the necessary money for the victim’s return. Daniel, however, called on parents to encourage their children to be hard working, rather than seeking greener pasture in foreign lands. 