Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong and the Mishkaham Mwaghavul of Mwaghavul tribe in Mangu Local Government Area of the state, Chief Nelson Bakfur, have condemned the attack by gunmen on Kulben village, Mangu Local Government Area, where innocent lives were lost. Lalong, in a statement issued in Jos by his Director of Press and Public Affairs, Dr. Makut Macham, vowed to bring the perpetrators to justice. He described the attack as an attempt to distort the peace that was currently being enjoyed in the state. While commiserating with victims and families of those killed, the governor warned that his administration would not allow any group or individuals to return the state to its dark days of insecurity through their evil acts. He said: “We have toiled to ensure that peace returns to Plateau and we will not allow anyone to make nonsense of our efforts. “We are determined to deal decisively and firmly with anybody found culpable in attacking or inciting people to carry out attacks against one another.” He commended security agencies for arresting seven suspects connected with the killings and restoring normalcy to the area. Lalong said that thorough investigations would be carried on the incident while assuring the public that perpetrators would face the full wrath of the law. He appealed for calm and advised against reprisals as government was addressing the situation, adding that those injured were responding to treatment at the general hospital in Mangu. The paramount ruler of the area, Chief Bakfur, also condemned the killing of 12 of his subjects by the gunmen in Kumbun district in the area. He made the condemnation in an interview with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Mangu on Thursday. He described the killings as “tragic” and “very unnecessary” given the peace being enjoyed not only in Mangu Local Government Area but also in the entire Plateau. Chief Bakfur thanked Gov. Simon Lalong for his show of concern by visiting him to condole with him and the people of Mangu as well as visiting the Kulben village in Kumbun district to see things for himself. He called on the authorities to intensify efforts at tracking and arresting the perpetrators of the attack and killings to face the full wrath of the law.