 Residents of Zone One Gemade Estate have been assured of plans to improve the quality of life for residents of the community, making it that of international standards. This came from Mr. Olawale Odufejo, the Chairman (Zone One), Gemade Estate resident association, at the stakeholders’ appreciation ceremony held on Sunday in Lagos. According to Odufejo, there are arrangements in fixing and upgrading the roads in the estate, and fixing CCTV cameras, in specific areas, to record activities happening day and night. The chairman, speaking to The Nation, said that whatever is raised from the appreciation ceremony will be used in tackling pending issues, and solving problems of other houses in the estate. “I see Gemade estate going to the next level. We are actually trying to fix and upgrade our roads, provide CCTV camera, so that day and night, activities in the estate will be captured. We want to make it of international standard”, Odufejo said Speaking on challenges faced in the estate, the chairman lamented that they have been providing basic social amenities for themselves. “Last December, we procured a transformer by ourselves, voluntarily, to the tune of 3.1 million naira. The IKDC, who was supposed to install this for us said we had to wait for about eight months before it is done, and so we raised another two million naira amongst ourselves to install the transformer, because we did not want suffer darkness, which would make us buy petrol for our generators every day, or go through the trauma of two days on, one day off from the PHCN.” he said” For Mr. Sola Alabi, the Chairman, Gemade Estate Resident Association (GERA), the appreciation award is an initiative meant to celebrate those that have helped the estate thus far, and to raise more funds in improving the community. “We have always encouraged the Zonal Chairman to bring programmes to raise funds for the estate, especially since we do not have any assistance from the government.” Reaffirming the words of the Zone One Chairman, Alabi said “Everybody is a local government on his/her own. You provide electricity, security, water, diesel and other social amenities for yourself. “It is unfair on residents, but we just have to live up to our responsibilities. We do not toy with provision of infrastructure and security, because it is important to keep where you raise your family and children safe. Speaking on the co-operations of residents of the estate, he said “Unlike before, the participation level is higher now. People are more co-operative, we get contributions from compulsory levies, and so we can forge ahead” Residents like Engr. Segun Olaye, the MD/CEO Ayoola Foods, Alh. Mustapha Adeogun, the MD, Mao Oil, Engr. Rasaq Ogundimu, Chief Kehinde Olofinikan, Mr and Mrs Ndubisi Nnaji (MD/CEO Neobet), anda host of others received awards, with the chairman, Mr. Olawale Odufejo saying in his opening remarks “you have contributed in one way or the other in elevating Gemade Estate in the past two decades, making it a place of envy to other estates. We cannot thank you enough, only God can, but we appreciate you in our little way.”