REDTV, the lifestyle platform powered by the United Bank for Africa (UBA), has launched its new series titled, Assistant Madams. According to its creators, The Men’s Club, REDTV has been providing opportunities for youths in the creative industry in Africa. The crème de la crème of the entertainment industry gathered at Ebony Life Place,  Lagos to watch the premiere of Assistant madams. The story revolves around the life of three aspiring female Lagos socialites and their journey to ‘big girl’ status. REDTV Executive Producer, Bola Atta, said: ”REDTV was birthed by the United Bank for Africa, to support the creative industry in Nigeria and also across the African Continent. For about four years, we have been creating employment through entertainment. The potential revenue that can be generated in this industry is often under estimated and it is only in recent times that more people have had the courage to leave traditional professions and embrace the creatives. We want to encourage talented and creative professionals to pursue their dreams and to confidently feel that they are contributing to economic growth. ‘’The vision of UBA is to support entrepreneurship across Africa and through REDTV, the bank is connecting African talent to the world. REDTV will continue to harness these talents and to provide opportunities for those who wish to pursue careers in the creative industry.’’ Co-producers/directors, Tola Odunsi and Akins Akinkugbe, expressed their delight at the reception which the new series is receiving. They said: ’’We are pleased to partner UBA and REDTV to create top quality content and jobs. Assistant madams alone employed over 120 people during the filming of the series and this is significant.’’ At the event were Chris Ubosi, Mo Abudu, veteran photographer Kelechi Amadi Obi, Sola Sobowole, Patrick Doyle, Noble Igwe, Juliet Ibrahim, Toke Makinwa, Uru Eke, Obi Asika, Koye Sowemimo, Debola Williams, Sharon Ooja, Bollylomo,  Funke Babs Kufreji, Obi Asika, Bisola Aiyeola, Osas Ighodaro, Tana Adelana, Sophie Alakija, Taymesan Emmanuel, Ayo Ayoola, Efa Iwara, among others.