By Adekunle Yusuf  A consultant nephrologist at the Lagos State University  College of Medicine, Prof Olugbenga Awobusuyi,  has lamented that many patients suffering kidney disease die because of failure to raise fund for dialysis and transplant. This is unacceptable in a country with many kind-hearted and public spirited individuals, he said at a fundraiser organised by St. Remmy Foundation Kidney Care Trust Fund. Awobusuyi noted that high-income countries spend more than about three per cent of their yearly health-care budget on the treatment of end-stage kidney disease. He said: “Premature deaths can leave families of these patients with significant economic loss from incurred medical expenditures, and the loss of a contributing household member. The costs of managing diseases to individuals, families, and communities are also high. Treating end-stage renal disease with dialysis or transplantation often leads to catastrophic spending, which robs wage earners of the ability to provide for their families.  “Leaving the kidney disease patients and their families alone will not produce the gains in their health status and improvement in health care delivery for managing kidney failure that we all want to see. Hence, there is a need for joint intervention to reduce the menace of this killer disease,” Awobusuyi said, urging stakeholders in the sector to develop strategic approaches that would generate funds for the care of patients with the disease. The Coordinator of the Foundation, Mr Obetta Remigius, said  kidney diseases have become worrisome to humanity as global records show that one in every 10 persons has a form of kidney disease. Remigius said the socio-economic consequences of kidney-related disease are unimaginable, as there is the need for drastic and collaborative actions to curtail the disease. “Substantial action should be taken by each state to reduce poverty, increase equity, improve nutrition, advance education, and develop health services and human resources. It is of the essence to know that this project is all about humanity, which we are part of and sequel to this, I humbly request that we make whatever contributions we can towards this effort of saving lives,” he said.