 Asiwaju Bola Tinubu may have doused the controversy unleashed on the nation by the birth of Amotekun. He spoke out on Wednesday like a federalist, a statesman and a father-figure that he is. Dialogue is the answer, he told Southwest  governors and Federal Attorney-General, whose disagreement over Amotekun  generated national and regional emotions and raised questions on the fragility of Nigeria’s  federalism. Like  a true truce broker, he  neither took sides in the clearly controversial  issue nor compounded the already tensed situation. The All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader carefully chose his words, avoiding inflammatory statement and making invaluable suggestions. He was tactful. Yet, he was truthful and logical. Tinubu displayed sound reasoning, understanding and judgment, the three attributes of an intelligent leader. The party stalwart also exhibited patriotism. He never betrayed his region, which feels  hurt by the Attorney-General’s systematic ban. Also, he reiterated his loyalty to the nation-state without a sense of conflict. His goal, unlike many noise makers, was problem-solving. Two groups of people actually mounted pressure on him to speak out. On one hand were those who believed genuinely that the country can benefit from his wisdom and wealth of experience. On the other were seasoned detractors who wanted him to make an unguarded statement that would elicit condemnation and mockery. Instructively, the actions of the two groups   suggested that Tinubu is relevant; he is a big issue in the polity. Also, at the regional level, the consensus is that he has become the most outstanding leader in post-Obafemi Awolowo or post-Bola Ige era. Reminiscent of the seventies, when the census controversy was raging, and the indomitable   Awolowo spoke, Tinubu has now spoken, but in a way that would foster reconciliation and peace. Awo had said: “I reject the (1973)census.” On that note, the figures became useless. Yesterday, Tinubu said dialogue will lead to peace. It is up to the two sides in the conflict to heed the counsel in regional and national interests. The Jagaban Borgu, who was locked in sober reflection, clearly avoided the danger of talking without thinking. This could pale into false articulation without substance. Experience has shown that hasty response could be counter-productive. It could inflame passion. Also, Tinubu’s admonition that certain sensitive matters cannot be resolved on the pages of newspapers underscored his power of political diplomacy. Generally, his approach or style demarcated between showmanship and statesmanship. If regional leaders across board can patiently embark on the dialogue route to the resolution of fundamental question, the result would be  peaceful resolution and mutual peaceful coexistence. Unlike his hypocritical armchair critics, Tinubu said he had been in contact with the Amotekun arrowhead-governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, on the prospects of amicable resolution without hurting Nigeria’s unity.. Despite his precarious situation, Tinubu spoke the truth to power. His courage, boldness and bravery should be saluted. He declared that the Southwest regional security outfit is not a risk to the Federal Republic. He had words of advice to emergency activists from the two extremes. Those  fanning the embers of disunity under the guise of pro-Amotekun crusade are immature and unscrupulous curators. They should desist. Those uncritically insinuating that the Federal Government had commenced a curious war against the region were liars of jackal; subjective and merely political and playing to the gallery. They should halt the falsehood. Dissecting the controversy, the former Lagos governor hit the nail on the head. The conflict is premised on the tension between the region’s search for solution to kidnapping and the valid push for the supremacy of the Constitution. Judging by the very nature of federalism in a diverse country that is an amalgam of incompatible social formations, occasional disagreements, which may create transient stress for the system, are inevitable. That is why the debate on the future of federalism, particularly the division of powers between the central government and the component units that are coordinate with it, is a continuum. To Tinubu, Southwest governors who rose to the occasion by floating Amotekun to protect their people from banditry took a step in the right direction. No governor can preside over dead people. As governor of Lagos, he recalled that similar challenges motivated him to set up the Neighbourhood Watch. In fact, Amotekun was just beginning to catch up with the Lagos initiative, although it is broader and embracing six states. Tinubu’s clarification that the regional outfit does not insult the Constitution is a message of assurance to the Attorney-General that the six governors were not floating a parallel police. Read Also: Three issues come up here: one, although Amotekun is not a separate police, the inadequacy of the police run by the distant Federal Government has created a gap. State, grassroots, community policing is the answer; an option that can be explored. Two, the special security challenge expected to be tackled by Amotekun requires the use of intelligence gathering, which only locals or native participants, who know the geography and sociology of the environment, are more competent to handle. Three, inter-governmental relations, that is, Federal Government/Southwest states agreement can favour a sort of cooperation between the police and Amotekun in security operations in a manner similar to the synergy between Army/civilian JTF parley. It should be noted that Tinubu acknowledged that Amotekun can be recast as a “low-key” and non-lousy network while other grey areas can be ironed out with the number one Legal Officer of the federation. Tinubu maintained that Abubakar Malami is entitled to defend the Constitution in national interest. Yet, he corrected the  erroneous impression by the Attorney-General that Amotekun was proposed as a “defense agency.” To him, Malami erred in that regard. He ‘chided’ the governor for not carrying the Justice minister along. But, he also said Malami could have also contacted them for private discussions that would have underscored a cooperative process. If Mohammed does not go to the mountain, perhaps,  the mountain can move closer to Mohammed. After all, five of the six governors and Malami are APC chieftains and loyalists of President Muhammadu Buhari. Tinubu is a critic. But, he is also a solution facilitator. Is the conflict beyond solution? The national leader said NO. Some people have suggested litigation. Its outcome cannot be predicted. The option may create a sort of disharmony in the ruling party. After litigation, the thorny reconciliation path may not herald full brotherhood. The first step to truce, in Tinubu’s view, is the closure of communication gap between the six governors who meant well for their states and the Attorney-General, who is not their enemy. It should be noted that the Attorney-General may not have acted unilaterally. The two sides,  Tinubu emphasised, can reach amity in an atmosphere of democracy.