The Presidency has described the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) as the single biggest obstacle to good governance in Nigeria. In a statement issued by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, the Presidency advised the PDP to take another look at itself, ponder on why the Nigerian electorate has twice rejected it. The Presidency was reacting to recent comments by the PDP, suggesting that President Buhari and the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) are not in good terms. However, reacting to the comment by the PDP, the Presidency, in its statement, noted that the main opposition party had lost focus and is now concerning itself with issues that were not in its place to contemplate about. It advised the party to rather concern itself with its own issues and think of how to rebuild its image, which had allegedly broken down “As the People’s Democratic Party, the country’s main opposition party grapples with deeply troubling questions about its terminal decline and future in national politics, Nigerians must be surprised reading a statement issued by them,  assuming the role of Spokesmen for President Muhammadu Buhari. “What business do they have talking about alleged love lost between President Buhari and the APC? What do they know? Who sent them? “Today, the PDP represents the single biggest obstacle to good governance and change that the country needs and the people are yearning for. “Both self-respect and sound political judgement demand that the Party takes an introspective look at itself after two successive defeats in national elections, asking what went wrong and how to fix its battered image. “They need to go back to the people, in towns and villages, to know what the people want and what the country needs. Instead of doing that, they are taking roles for themselves that are not mandated by law, morality or political gamesmanship. “What business do they have issuing a statement on the love or the lack of it between the President and his party? This is not why they lost elections. The party needs a reboot that aligns with current national mood and aspirations, to focus on their grim future after two successive defeats. It is the issue they need to focus on if they are to be taken as a serious opposition party again. “A tough task awaits anyone leading a party with nothing to offer to contemporary Nigerians but corruption, misgovernance and division. “As for the APC, the geographical expansion of the party is nothing short of a testimony to the rosy future that lies ahead. The party has come to stay, and the President and the country will ensure that this is achieved”, the statement said.