By Collins Nweze  Sterling Bank Plc has announced emergence of Omotola Osikoya as the 2019 Champion of Jollof Master national culinary competition. Benjamin Oni and Hauwa Onifade were first and second runners up of the competition which heralded the seventh edition of #EatDrinkFestival held December 28 and 29 at the Sterling Arena in Marina. Osikoya, who won the coveted N1,000,000 prize and also earned the national Jollof Master bragging rights, delivered across three major evaluation criteria – execution, appearance and taste – during the final cookout. Oni and Onifade won two hundred thousand Naira and one hundred thousand Naira cash prizes respectively. Announcing the winners, Group Head, Agriculture Finance and Export of the bank, Mrs. Bukola Awosanya said “We are excited to institutionalise and curate the popular but largely informal Jollof conversations into a national culinary competition. Jollof rice unites Nigerians, irrespective of tribe, age and religion, online and offline. Beyond the usual social media banter, we provided a platform for talented Nigerians to create and serve amazing Jollof meals to thousands at the #EatDrinkFestival as part of our commitment to food security and the agriculture sector.  The Jollof Master competition was a major highlight of the #EatDrinkFestival this December. The last edition of the popular food and drink festival which is in its seventh year attracted about 5,000 guests, excluding children, and about 80 vendors from the Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (SMEs) segment. Awosanya said guests at the festival were spoiled for choice on what to eat and drink from a broad selection of the city’s best food vendors in the SME category. The festival also featured masterclasses, games and performances by notable artists. Guests had the opportunity to experience delicious foods and drinks from local culinary talents such as: Fregz a Porter, Sooyah Bistro, Korede spaghetti, Dooney’s Kitchen, Bubbletii, Segi’s Zobo, A.J’s Gourmet, Corporate Jollof, Hans & Rene, Heels in the kitchen, Igbadun brewing Co, Limehouse, Quacktails, Hol Brew, Jaka’s grill, Kewa’s kitchen. Others include Torte Sugarflakes, Sawari cocktails, Slush Queen, Sophisticated Wobia, Summer’s Bloom cake studio, Yellow Bunny, Yoede Fritters Vector, Crispy and Grill, 19.8 drinks, Anasbari, Adun-By-Abby, Beyond Fab Smoothies, Big Fish cocktails, Bubbletii, Ette’s Barbecue and cocktail, Bariety Club, Bunfire, Pink Panther, Cocktail Ville and Chops and more.   