TOBA AGBOOLA reports  Skool Media Nigeria Limited has appointed Mr. Sola Oluwadare as Head, Corporate Communications (E-Learning and Content Development). Skool Media is an education tech-infrastructure company determined to redefine teaching-learning processes and experiences in schools, homes, and communities using technology and innovation to improve the quality of education at all levels for both the old and young. A statement from the company stated that Oluwadare holds B.Sc. and M.Sc. degrees in Economics from the University of Ado Ekiti and Nigeria’s Premier University; University of Ibadan. He has over 15 years post-graduation experience in journalism, media relations, corporate communications, public policy advocacy, trade promotion and marketing communications. During this period, he worked with Shehu Shagari College of Education, Sokoto (as NYSC corps member), African Newspapers of Nigeria- publishers of Tribune titles – as Head of Commerce and Industry Beat and Communications Manager of the African Institute for Applied Economics (now African Heritage Institution).  Before joining Skool Media Nigeria Limited, he was the Trade Promotion Manager at the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) where he supervised Africa’s biggest Fair- the annual Lagos International Trade Fair and other trade promotion events for several years. He led the marketing communication team of the Chamber that drove the complete automation process of the annual trade fair, implemented innovative ideas of the Fair and transformed the customer experience in line with international best practice. He has attended several trainings and conferences in several African countries and Asia. As the Head of Corporate Communications, Oluwadare will be bringing on board his diverse experiences in boardroom management to reinvigorate the corporate communications and structural transformation of Skool Media to boost its global relevance. A thorough bred professional, he is a member of the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations (NIPR) and Nigerian Institute of Management (NIM), among others.