Sanni Onogu, Abuja  President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday urged the Senate to confirm the appointment of Dr. Kingsley Isitua Obiora, as the Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). The President also asked the upper chamber to approve the appointments of Professor Adeola Akande as the Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) and Captain Musa Shuaibu Nuhu as the Director-General of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA). Also for confirmation by the Senate is Mr. Uche Onwude, as member of the Board of the NCC. Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, read the letters of request from the President at plenary. President Buhari, in a letter requesting the confirmation of Obiora as Deputy Governor of the CBN, said: “In accordance with the provisions of Section 8(1)(2) of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) (Establishment) Act 2007, I have the pleasure to present Dr. Kingsley Isitua Obiora for confirmation as Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria.” In a separate letter seeking the confirmation of the NCC nominees, Buhari said: “In accordance with the provision of Section 8(1) of the Nigerian Communications Act, 2003, I write to forward, for confirmation by the Senate, the under-listed two names of nominees as Chairman and member of the Governing Board of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC).” The nominees are Professor Adeolu Akande (South West) as Chairman, and Mr. Uche Onwude (South East) as member of the NCC Board. The request for the confirmation of Captain Nuhu as the NCAA Chief was contained in another letter dated January 7, 2020 and read on the floor during plenary. The letter reads in part: “Pursuant to Section 8, Part IV of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (Establishment) Act, I hereby write to request for confirmation by the Senate, the appointment of Captain Musa Shuaibu Nuhu as the Director-General of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority. “Captain Musa Shuaibu Nuhu is a reputable airline Pilot and Aviation Safety Expert with well over 30 years of cognate working experience in the Aviation Industry. A copy of his curriculum vitae is attached herewith. “In view of the strategic importance of the NCAA as the regulator of the Civil Aviation Industry. I wish to request for the expeditious consideration and confirmation of Captain Musa Shuaibu Nuhu as the substantive Director-General of NCAA.”