 It’s that time of the year when those who claim they can see tomorrow say things about tomorrow. One of them is Reverend Father Ejike Mbaka, the Spiritual Director of Adoration Ministry, Enugu, who made a puzzling prophecy during the 2019 Passover service at the Enugu Adoration Ground. Mbaka was quoted as saying: “In spite of all that will happen this 2020, there is hope. In Imo State, there is hope. Imo people have suffered (but) God is raising a new hope that would be an agent of salvation for them.” The priest shed light on his prophecy, and spoke of someone “coming with a new flag,” and “a new leadership that will break barriers,” and “a new government in Imo.”  For clarity’s sake, he declared: “I bless Hope Uzodinma, and empower him to spiritually take over.” But the reality is that Imo State Governor Emeka Ihedioha’s victory at the Court of Appeal on November 19, 2019, reinforced his victory at the Imo Governorship Election Tribunal on September 20, 2019. According to Prof Francis Otonta, the returning officer of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) who announced the result of the Imo governorship election on March 12, 2019, Ihedioha of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), a former deputy speaker of the Federal House of Representatives, won in 11 of the 27 local government areas (LGAs), polling a total of 273,404 votes to defeat Uche Nwosu of the Action Alliance (AA) who won in 10 LGAs and scored 190,364 votes. Ifeanyi Araraume of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), a former senator, had 114,676 votes and won in four LGAs. Fourth was Hope Uzodinma of the All Progressives Congress (APC), a former senator, who polled 96,458 votes and won in two LGAs. The three losers had challenged the election result at the tribunal where they lost again before losing yet again at the Court of Appeal. Ultimately, the Supreme Court is expected to give a final judgement on the matter.  But the judgements of the tribunal and the Appeal Court reflect the strength of Ihedioha’s case as well as the weakness of the appellants’ case. Interestingly, Mbaka said he didn’t know how Uzodinma would become governor of the state, but he added that “no prophecy has ever been declared on this prayer ground without coming to pass.” It remains to be seen how this particular prophecy would come to pass. The way things stand, it may well be that the seer was seeing things.