Since the beginning of this year, life has not been the same for residents of Jos, the Plateau State capital, and Kano, the Kano State capital. No thanks to severe cold weather, which has affected businesses and how the people go about their daily activities, write KOLADE ADEYEMI and YUSUF AMINU IDEGU. Jos has always been cold. But the cold it has been experiencing in the last few days is different from what many residents are used to. It is like living in Europe in Africa. It was reported that the temperature came down as low as -7 degree Celsius on a particular day. There are times it goes up to 11 degrees Celsius in the evening but rises to about 19 degrees in the afternoon. Residents say the weather condition is disrupting their routine activities. The atmosphere of Jos, the Plateau State capital, changed drastically on new year’s evening with the eruption of harsh cold weather. Many residents found it difficult to come out of their room to avoid the impact of the cold weather. The cold weather began on a light scale from last week of November and has remained light. But the type of cold that erupted last Wednesday evening tripled the prevailing one experienced within the last one month. Many residents now spend long hours indoors. Mr John Emeka, a student, said it was difficult for him getting out of bed and preparing for his outings. “As you can see, I am wearing a sweater and a very thick jacket and also tying a scarf on my head, hand gloves and socks to keep myself warm, having stayed indoors for many hours, ‘’ Emeka said. Mrs Annette Akpan said she resorted to wearing “cold breakers” to shield herself from the adverse weather and advised fellow residents to do likewise so as not to break down. A security guard, Baba Madaki, however, said: “This is not the normal Jos cold. The normal Jos cold temperature has reduced considerably. In the early 80s, there would have been deaths since the New Year. There used to be periods when time to resume office or school was reviewed to 9am due to the harshness of the cold, so the one we are currently witnessing is so mild.” Mrs Ngozi Peters, a trader at Terminus market, said the inclement weather had compelled her to open her shop late in the morning. “This cold is too severe and that is why I stay indoors for many hours before setting out to the market; my health first before any other thing,” Peters said. The cold weather had pushed prices of second-hand sweaters and jackets with the materials selling for between N2000 and N2500, as against N500 and N600. Musa Adamu, a dealer in second-hand sweaters, blamed the price increase on the high demand for the wears because of the cold. Like Jos, like Kano The ancient city of Kano on New Year Day also witnessed severe and chilly weather that left many with no other choice but to remain indoors. For one week running, the weather condition in the state has forced many to adopt to unusual dress code, to save themselves from the devastating cold and hazy weather, occasioned by the harmattan. The temperature of the ancient commercial city dropped as low as 7 degrees Celsius, closely equivalent to that of London. The cold weather affected commercial and social activities. Unlike previous festive periods, recreation centres, restaurants, nite clubs and eateries recorded low patronage, as many residents elected to stay indoors. More so, it was observed that people hardly take their baths during the severe cold weather, as many complained that even boiled water easily gets cold. They prefer washing their hands, arms and legs with hot water, all in a bid to avoid the cold. Children are scarcely seen playing in the streets as their parents make sure that they are always indoors, fully kitted with many clothes, including cardigan, jacket, head-warmer and nose-mask, to prevent cold and dusty haze from penetrating their system. Hospitals and chemist stores are, however, smiling to the banks for high patronage as almost every household is caught up with common diseases associated with harmattan, including catarrh, running nose, fever, coughing and general body weakness. The price of dust-mask has increased geometrically in the state, following an intense cold. A pack of 50 dust-masks that cost between N450 and N500 before the harmattan is now sold at between N600 and N700. Most of the mask sellers increased the price of the product due to the harmattan, as people now troop to Igbo Road Market and Sabon Gari Market to purchase the commodity. One of the mask hawkers at Igbo Road Market, Abubakar Sani, said men and women buy and use the commodity. He added that “business is moving smoothly: in a day, I sell between three and four packs of the mask, as well as other items such as hand gloves. A few months ago, a piece of the mask was sold at N20 but it now cost N40.” Another seller, Salisu Ahmed, said people patronise him daily and the prices vary. A housewife, Hajia Zainab Ibrahim, who was seen wearing the mask, said she used it to protect herself from dust because she had asthma. Another person wearing the mask, Malam Isa Bala, said the weather condition was harsh and the dust was overwhelming, “so I have to protect myself.” More so, severe hazes and cloud weather have left hundreds of passengers stranded at the Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport (MAKIA) in Kano State. Consequently, airline operators were compelled to cancel scheduled domestic and international flights for Sunday following the harmattan hazes. The Nation learnt that besides, Azman Air, Max Air, as well as other international flights could not land at the airport due to the unfriendly weather at the airport. What the experts say A Senior Registrar, Pulmonology Unit, Jos University Teaching Hospital(JUTH), Dr Chung- Gyang Shedrack, has advised sickle cell patients to keep themselves warm during the harmattan cold. Shedrack, in an interview with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Jos yesterday, also alerted the residents on a likely increase in skin infections during the inclement weather. Dr Shedrack said patients who suffered from sickle cell and were anaemic were likely to experience worsening of their condition during the unfriendly weather. He said: “Sickle cell patients are prone to crisis in this period of cold; they will have to stay very warm, take a lot of fluid, go for medical checks with their doctor and take medications adequately so that they do not have to worsen of the crisis.” Shedrack advised the public to avoid dusty environment and also take lozenges such as strepsils, tom tom and menthol to suppress coughs, lubricate and soothe irritated tissues of the throat. He said there was worsening or an increase in prevalence in skin infections, advising that there was a need to take lots of water to protect the skin. The physician added that cold had harmful effects on the body, especially the respiratory system which led to ailments such as cough, asthma, upper airways infections from viruses, bacteria such as coryza, which is the common cold. Shedrack said: “We can have a provocation of asthma, hypersensitivity of the airwaves too, which is close to asthma, the cardiovascular system can also have some form of arrhythmia which is an abnormal beating of the heart, you can have a slowing of the heart, nose and ear infections.” Protect your wards against cold-related diseases The Director of Womanhood School of Health Science, Kaduna, Nurudden Bello, wants parents to protect their wards to avert contracting cold-related illnesses. Bello urged parents to help keep their children and the elderly warm to protect them against the effect of the season. He also advised commercial motorcyclists, popularly known as Okada riders, to use mask and eye-glasses to avoid the harsh weather condition. Bello said: “Extreme cold weather can lead to serious health issues to the elderly, such as hypothermia, while kids can also be affected with cold-related diseases if exposed to the harsh weather. He said exposing children to extreme cold could lead to low body temperature, hypothermia, frostbite and even death while exercising in the cold weather by the aged could result in heart attacks and stroke. “Some adults can lose body heat fast, even faster than when they were young, and ageing comes with changes in the body system that may make it harder for elderly persons who exposes themselves to extremely cold weather,” Bello said. He attributed the extremely harsh weather in some parts of the country to climate change, desertification, deforestation and environmental degradation. “One of the reasons why northern Nigeria and some parts of Africa are facing this kind of harsh weather is as a result of climate change, desertification and environmental degradation,” Bello said. He advised the authorities to sensitise the public about cold-related diseases and respiratory infections, such as conjunctivitis, common cold, asthma, cough, catarrh and tonsillitis, pneumonia, sickle cell crisis, eye problems, bronchitis and dry skin, among other illnesses. He advised the elderly persons to wear warm clothes, hand gloves and socks as well as glasses to protect their eyes. “They should also use jelly for their lips, skin, necks, and faces, and drink plenty water to prevent dehydration,” the expert said. Bello called on NEMA, SEMA and other environmental-related NGOs/CSOs to create more awareness on the dangers of bush burning, especially during harmattan.