The ancient City of Badagry will host 252 eco-friendly housing units in a joint venture agreement between Lagos Government and Echostone Development Nigeria. The Commissioner for Housing, Moruf Akinderu-Fatai while on a tour of the first green and eco-friendly housing estate on Thursday said it will be delivered before March, 2020. He said the houses are designed to utilise less energy for cooling and heating thereby ensuring the sustainability of the environment. He said: “lnterested subscribers can pay the sum of N900,000.00 and move in while making a monthly payment of N50,000.00 through an in built mortgage system for between 10 – 20 years to complete the full payment of N9 million for a 2 bedroom. It is a green environment with each of the building with three green plants with a modern sewage plant.” He said the innovative technology and eco-friendly designs used will soon be deployed to the construction of multi-level structures in the urban areas of the state such as Ayobo and lmota in Ikorodu. He said it took three weeks to complete four sets of 2 bedroom flats in the estate, adding that it showed the commitment of the current administration in delivering affordable  housing. Commending the technology deployed by the Developer, Permanent Secretary in the ministry, Wasiu Akewusola said more housing estates will benefit from the scheme. He said the location of the estate makes it idea for quality living being near to the Lagoon in a green and serene environment. He called on Lagosians to take advantage of the quality of construction, cost and the availability of mortgage and be part of the defining moment. He said the houses are 90 per cent completed and would be ready shortly. Earlier, Managing Director, Echostone Development Nigeria, Sammy Adigun said the firm took advantage of the history of the town and available infrastructure to come up with the novel project. He said Badagry is the future of Lagos, adding that when the express way is completed the travel time from the airport will drastically reduce. Urging people to buy now and pay later, he said: “What prospective subscribers need to do is  just to indicate interest by depositing only N900,000.00 and paying the rest through a mortgage system.  In five years, the value of the houses would double while in 10 years the savings from electricity and water would buy the house all over again.”