The Director-General of the National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC), Olusegun Runsewe, appears set to pay a huge price for what has become the pastime of government officials. He has been committed to prison for disobedience of an order of a high court in Maitama, in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. Unless he is able to gain a reprieve from the Court of Appeal, Justice Jude Okeke, has ordered the Inspector- General of Police (IGP), to apprehend Mr Runsewe and hand him over to the Nigerian Correctional Service, Kuje, until he purges himself of the contempt. Regrettably, the disobedience of court orders is rampant amongst officials of the Federal Government; and we consider such behaviour an aberration in a constitutional democracy, like ours. Perhaps, Mr Runsewe is borrowing the habit of his employers, who pick and choose which court order to obey. There are a litany of such disobedience of court orders at the highest level of government, including the now notorious cases of the detention of the leader of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria, Mallam El Zakzaky, and the former National Security Adviser, Col Sambo Dasuki (retd). Even in the present case there appears a design by the Federal Government to ignore the order of the high court judge directing that Mr Runsewe be arrested, as he is seen moving around freely. We are therefore surprised that the IGP has not taken steps to obey the order of the court, or does he prefer that contempt proceedings be initiated against him, just like Mr Runsewe? After all, the order of court is meant to be obeyed, regardless of the standing of the person concerned. Perhaps, it is important to say clearly that we have no interest in getting Mr Runsewe committed to jail, but we are worried by the flagrant disobedience of orders of court by government officials; and if one of them can be made a scapegoat, so be it. According to a report, Mr Runsewe, as the DG of NCAC, was ordered to maintain the status quo in a suit filed by one Ummakalif Ltd, against the sealing of the Arts and Crafts Village in Abuja. The suit was instituted against the Director-General of NCAC, the FCT Minister, the Federal Capital Development Authority, and the Minister of Culture and Tourism. The plaintiff claimed that the authorities violated a contractual agreement. The report noted that on March 6, 2018, Justice Salisu Umar, who was handling the case, reprimanded the NCAC for sealing the village in violation of an order of the court, and yet no restitution was made. The matter was subsequently assigned to Justice Okeke, after Justice Umar was elevated to the Court of Appeal. The claimant therefore filed an application for the committal of Mr Runsewe to prison for contempt, on June 21, 2019, for violating an order of the court made on December 15, 2017. Considering that the order was made against Mr Runsewe in his capacity as DG, NCAC, we wonder why he found it hard to obey it. After all, the commission he represents is a creation of the law, and if the courts clearly entrusted by the constitution to determine the rights of citizens make any pronouncement, what is the logic in disobeying the court? Except Mr Runsewe sees himself as superior to the high court, and by extension the constitution, he ought to immediately obey the court order. The claim that he was acting in the best interest of the country is preposterous; as the best interest of the country is represented by the rule of law; not of man, no matter how well intentioned.