 THE Federal Government will engage more qualified teachers to increase teachers-pupils ratio in schools, President Muhammadu Buhari has said. President Buhari broke the news yesterday when he hosted the leadership of the Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT), led by its National President Nasir Idris, at the State House in Abuja. A statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, quoted the President as saying the move would increase the teachers-to-pupils ratio in Nigerian schools. President Buhari noted that the effort to reduce the gap had begun with the engagement of qualified graduates for the N-Power scheme. He pleaded with the NUT to encourage its members to support the N-Power Teach Volunteer Scheme and other programmes of his administration. “We have created a dedicated platform under the National Social Investment Programme, called N-Power Teach, which engages qualified graduates to man the gaps of basic education delivery in Nigeria. “These N-Power Teach Volunteers are deployed as teacher assistants in primary schools across Nigeria to support existing teachers. “The aim of this, and many other government programmes, is to increase the teacher-student ratio at the primary school level, thereby enhancing the quality of pupils moving to secondary schools. “I want to take this opportunity to ask all members of NUT to support these programmes and encourage as many qualified and willing graduates to enrol in the teaching profession,” the President said. Describing the teaching as one of the noblest of professions, President Buhari told the delegation that “it shapes the character, calibre and future of individuals and nations. You and I were all taught by teachers who moulded our persons and influenced our future. No price is too high for good rewards”. The President also paid tributes to teachers, saying they have been at the forefront of moulding young minds to be innovative and inventive. “Today, we live in a dynamic world where science and technology drives innovations that virtually touch every aspect of our lives. “The foundations of today’s changes can be attributed to teachers who, decades ago, in one way or another, shaped the minds of young men and women who eventually grew to become global innovators and inventors from whose works we are benefiting today. “Nigerians, at home and abroad, are part of this global breed of impactful change agents. “Almost everyday, Nigerians are inventing new products or improving existing ones. It is, therefore, our collective duty to continue to encourage and cultivate these minds by increasing resources available for research and development and improving work environment,” he said. Idris hailed Buhari administration’s numerous ground-breaking strides in the Education sector. He said teachers in the nation’s primary and post-primary schools identify with the giant strides of the administration. These, he said, include the “gigantic gains in the anti-corruption crusade, technical defeat of Boko Haram terrorists in the Northeast, restoration of teaching and learning in the schools of the Northeast, which were affected by insurgency and securing the release of Dapchi schoolgirls abducted by Boko Haram insurgents.”