For over seven years, hostel racketeering has prevailed at the University of Benin. Shylock students made a habit of exploiting their colleagues by applying for hostel space and paying the official rate, only to resell same to anxious hostel seekers, demanding cut-throat charges. Now, a new leadership which took off in December, has slammed the door against that. Management has warned perpetrators to quit or  face the music. IFUNNANYA OSAKWE a 200-Level MASS COMMUNICATION student of UNIBEN reports.  It came as a big relief. Many unlucky students of the University of Benin (UNIBEN), especially the newly admitted students popularly known as ‘jambites’ who preferred the school’s hostels, but are unlucky to get one are being subjected to various  rackets by fellow students who sublet their spaces albeit at higher rate. That has now become history! With a new leadership on board, any student found subletting space his or her hostel would henceforth be sanctioned. The news, however, comes as a soothing balm to many desperate hostel seekers who, ahead of the announcement, had fallen victims to fellow students who have turned themselves to ‘bigger landlords’ overnight. The ban was due to the shocking discovery by the institution leadership that students whom these spaces were allocated were subletting them at a much higher rate. Findings by CAMPUSLIFE revealed that at the main campus, UNIBEN has six hostels for students from across all faculties, while the seventh is exclusively for students of Medicine. There are also four other hostels located at the Ekenwan campus of the institution with two housing females, one for males and the last for postgraduate students. The hostel racket has prevailed across the 11 hostels over the last seven years. Though official rent is put at N18,000 per session, many unscrupulous students sublet their space to interested colleagues  for as much as N30,000 and N50,000 or even more, CAMPUSLIFE further learned. Last week, management, in an official statement, stated categorically that subletting of hostels has been outlawed. “It has come to the attention of the management of the University of Benin that hostel spaces are being sold by different categories of people,” UNIBEN Public Relations Officer (PRO) Dr Benedicta Ehanire had posted on the institution’s website. The statement continued: “The action, viewed by the management as racketeering, has been strongly condemned. “It must be emphasised that the sales of hostel spaces remain outlawed while perpetrators, whether the sellers, middlemen or buyers will face sanction. “Furthermore, students who have been allotted hostel space, officially, but are no longer interested, should inform the Student Affairs Division for retrieval.” As it is the tradition, a student is entitled to a hostel space once he or she has paid the tuition and N1000.00 non-refundable accommodation application fee on the university’s portal. Allocation, which lasts for a session, is done on first come first serve basis as students pay the N18,000.00 online. Once available spaces are fully booked, the university closes the portal. Efforts to reach the hostel Co ordinator or School Executive Council proved futile as no election has  been conducted to usher new coordinatos in to office. Victims recount ordeal A victim, Ugochi Ike, recalled how she sheepishly coughed out N50,000 for a hostel space following her desperation. “I applied for school hostel and I was told that there was no more vacancy. Then I accidentally stumbled on a WhatsApp group where hostel spaces were being sold. “I was surprised because of the understanding I had initially that there was no longer space. I called the person and was told to pay N50,00 for the hostel space. I had to pay because I was practically homeless in the school,” said the 100-Level Political Science undergraduate. “I’m so glad that the school management is now aware or this racketeering,” Ike added. “I paid N40,000 for hostel space. I never knew that it was not the actual rate because the perpetrators have been posting sale of hostel spaces on so many UNIBEN group chats,” said another victim Martin Oladipo, a 100-Level Fine Arts undergraduate. He continued:  “It was so disheartening when my course mate in the Department of Computer Science told me that he paid N18,000 for hostel space. I was so sad because I would have used the money they extorted from me to do something useful.” A third year Mechanical Laboratory undergraduate Osamwen Solomon, also likened the act as corrupt. “It is annoying and disheartening that some faceless students buy hostel space with the intention of subletting it at a higher rate while they have already secured an apartment at either Ekosodin, BDPA or Sasogie (private hostel residents). “Many of these new students will prefer staying around campus because of the proximity to class and to observe the environment for one year. Also those with financial difficulties will prefer hostel as an option. It is sad that some students have turned this into their selfish business venture where they invest and get double,” said Osamwen. Obuetor Wisdom Utiwoma, a 200-Level Political Science undergraduate, who lauded institution leadrship, canvassedth legal backing for the policy. “It’s (directive) a very good effort on the part of the school management part. “The VC has been showing us with her policies that she is a honest and trustworthy person. “She has brought a lot of changes in the school, starting from the banning of cow grazing in the campus, renovating of hostels, availability of power and some other things, “said Utiwoma. Jane Obaje, bemoaned the man inhumanity to man culture of perpetrators. A student of Computer Science and a victim,  Obaje expressed  her disappointment  that a student will cause pain to others all in a bid to make money. “What those students are doing is very bad. I was a victim of this illegal selling of hostel spaces. The space was sold to me at N60,000.  “I couldn’t believe my fellow student will dupe me, and in the most sensless manner; yet these same students will go about complaining that the system is corrupt but they are more corrupt. “I wonder how our future will be like with our youths going into illegal business at this level. The school management should make very strong sanctions to stop this racketeering,” Obaje added. Henry Noble, a 200-Level Mass Communication student, applauded the management for the directive. He said: “It’s a wise move. Students should stop extorting money from their fellow students in the name of selling hostel space to them. That’s greed and avarice. How can you buy hostel space for N18,000 and resell it N40,000? “There should also be some form of programme to enlighten the students, especially the new ones on the illegality of subletting hostel spaces”, said Noble. Similarly, Clare Oguokeme from the same department, shared her ugly experience as a victim. “I had to buy hostel space from an individual who said that she has rented a house off campus. Though the charge was reasonable; yet it still does not make it right. “I hope these perpetrators will understand that everything is not about making money especially at the expense of others,” said Oguokeme. Steven Arinze, a 100-Level student in the Department of Sociology and Anthropology, implored management to deploy some of its officials for enforcement. “It is not only about banning of the subletting of hostel spaces. They (management) should also make sure that they (perpetrators) adhere to this law either by putting officers in place to monitor the activities of hostel application,” said Arinze. “They should also make a form of identification card with picture of the person the hostel space was allotted to.” Dumkene Moses, a 100-Level student of the Department of Theatre Arts who once fell prey to the hotel tricksters, said the only way the management could curb the problem is by emulating the model by University of Ibadan. “In the University of Ibadan, every student in the hostel has an identity card. Before you go inside the hostel, you must show it to the hostel security officials at the hostel door. “If University of Benin adopts this system, it will definitely put an end to this subletting of hostel spaces”, Dumkene Moses said. This illegal selling of hostel space must be stopped. It is making the life of students especially we, the new students, difficult. “My parents had to borrow the N40,000 I used to buy hostel space, because these same people have bought the hostel spaces just to sell it at a higher rate”, said Samuel Okeke, a student of Mechanical Engineering. A 100-Level Optometry undegraduate Mike Osubor, pitched his tent with Dumkene. Osubor lamented over the trend, describing it as an act of wickedness. Said Osubor: ”For a long time now, I have been applying for hostel space but it has always been futile because students who are into subletting hostel spaces will have taken the spaces. “The official rate for hostel space is N18,000; but these perpetrators sell it from N40,000 and above. This is a wicked act. They are making it difficult for students like us from poor home to get accommodation in UNIBEN. “The school management should make an Identity card for each student that pays for hostel space. Then, security officials should be appointed to check the Identity cards of anyone going into the hostel. “I believe these will curb the subletting of hostel spaces.”