Traders in the newly constructed Kubwa ultra-modern market have relocated to the roadsides over what they described as exorbitant prices being demanded by the authorities for the sale and rent of units of the shops. FRANCA OCHIGBO reports  The much-awaited kubwa market shopping complex is finally completed and it is expected that traders will start paying and moving in. However, the traders are shunning the shops as a result of high price tags on rents and sale per unit of the shops. The old market, which used to be a crowded and unplanned mass, was demolished some four years ago. And while construction work was on the new one was ongoing, the traders, who were then sold by the roadsides and the ones selling close to the old market site, were encouraged to start paying on instalments. They were assured that those that made down payments would own the shops after the complex. It was an open-ended arrangement as the authorities did not name any rent or sale price for each of the shop units at the time. A few of the traders complied and made payments on instalments as work progressed. Now that the market is completed, only a few can afford the N1,000,000 outright sale price and the N300,000 annual rent per unit being demanded by the authorities. In keeping to the agreement, a few of the traders who made down payment in instalments to the tune of N1,000,000 had been given the shops. However, a majority of them can neither afford the N1,000,000 sale price nor the N300,000 per annum rent. A cosmetic seller, Nura Abdullahi, complained to our correspondent during her visit, that owing to the prevailing poor business environment, most of the traders cannot afford the rent, not to talk of the sale price. Mrs. Ngozi Chukwuka who sells sewing materials is among the few that paid up the N1,000,000 sale price by instalments. When asked how she is coping, she smiled and shrugged her shoulders. “My sister this is what we are paying. You can see that many of the shops are empty. A lot of people cannot afford the price. In my case, I started paying when the market was under construction, so by the time they finished I completed the payment and moved in”, Mrs Chukwuka said. Mallam Abdullahi Wada, a foodstuff seller said he rented the shop for N300,000, stressing, however, that so far, profit from sales can hardly offset the rent. It’s Wada’s first rent and he is hopeful that with time, he would be able to recoup his investment on the rent. He revealed that total sales per day his new shop have not been different from what he used to realise while still selling by the roadside previously. Most of the traders who can neither afford the rent or sale price have continued to operate in the open space around the market. Each of them pays N300 per month per slot wide enough to accommodate their wares. H&I Construction Limited, the property developers that built the market complex, however, denied the traders claims that the shops sell for N1,000,000 each.  A representative of the firm, Ahmad Mahmud, said that shops in Kubwa normally sell for about N300,000 and that rent can be as low as N50, 000 per annum. In a chat with our correspondent, Mahmud said there are smaller slots in the open space, measuring five square metres that sell for N500,000 per space/slot. He revealed that the slots are demarcated and they are given to whoever paid the specified sum for keeps. Mahmud further stated, “We are property developers so we are not used to rental business. We only sell to people who are interested in buying. When you buy, either the shop or space/slot, it becomes yours. We can only advise the owners of the complex or shops to reduce price, either for the sale or rental. But we are not in the business of renting the shops out. The company representative, however, said most of the traders still prefer selling by the roadsides although a good number of then have shops inside the market complex. “They prefer selling on the roadsides so they can be ahead of their colleagues in the market. Some of them go as far as blocking fellow traders from displaying their goods as the competition out there is keen. “When we started building, the people that were in the market before the demolition were the first to be allowed to pay. The arrangement was that as soon as the building was completed, they will be the first to take their shops before outsiders could start buying.” The incursion of the traders into the roads have thrown up several challenges for motorists, commuters and shoppers using the market. Human and vehicular congestion has been causing traffic snares around the market areas. Attempts made by the authorities to address the traffic situation had been defied by the traders. The nuisance has spilt to other roads around the entire market area. “We had to draw the attention of ministerial task force, the area council and the developers to force the traders into the market. It was not a small fight for them to come and start using the market as many of them resisted the move. As we push, they push back against the police, area council officials and our security men. “As for their re-organisation inside the market, we had to form unions among the traders. For each product being sold, there is a union chairman. That way, we believe we can curtail their being scattered around. All the people that bought shops when the building started have all been given their shops. As soon as you complete your payment you are given your shop”, the representative of the developers said.