 Our country has come a long way from the pre-colonial days and post- colonial independence era when we briefly had democratic government truncated by years of military regime and the eventual return to democratic era. For those of us who practiced journalism under the military, we know the difference between being a journalist when we had military regimes and now that we have a civilian administration. When I tell some young journalists that three national newspapers, one of which I used to work for, were shut down for a year, they find it difficult to imagine such situation. When I talk of journalists being jailed and held in detention for years, they wonder how we survived the era. I had the unpleasant experience of being in police cell for a week. Having collaborated with other pro-democracy groups to ensure the exit of the military, the media undoubtedly have a major task in ensuring the survival and building of a virile democracy in our country. We know what we experienced as a profession under the military and what the country went through that we are yet to recover from even now and will do anything to ensure that era remains in the past forever. So crucial are the roles of the media in building democracy that without a free and unshackled media, democracy cannot thrive; just as without democracy, the media will not be able to perform not only the roles of informing, educating and entertaining the public, but holding the government accountable to the people as provided for in our constitution. If democracy is indeed the government of the people, for the people and by the people, it is incumbent on the media to ensure that the democratic principles are upheld in various aspects of the overall governance of the country. After twenty years of the return of civilian administration, we cannot afford to remain at the nascent level where Nigerians are not able to fully enjoy the dividends of democracy. The situation where once in a while some Nigerians, due to the situation in the country, feel nostalgic about the military era is not good enough. If our democracy is to endure and become firmly rooted to ensure good governance, free and fair elections and much more, the media must not fail in its role of being the watchdog. We cannot afford to allow politicians to mess up the country and tempt the military to ever think of making a comeback like we have had in some countries. Notwithstanding the strides accomplished by the government in Ghana, there was a reported coup attempt that was crushed immediately. It would have been sad if the soldiers succeeded and who knows who may be getting ideas from such attempt. For our media to effectively play their roles in building a virile democracy, we must all have a clear understanding of our roles and live up to the expectations of the framers of the constitution who provided that we should be the guardian angel of democracy. Journalists must be well versed in the provisions of the Constitution and other legal provisions to know what to demand from political office holders and appointees. When democracy is being violated in anyway, including the disregard for the independence of all arms of government and other infractions, the media must insist on due process being followed. What is apparent in some instances is that some journalists don’t know enough of the limits of the powers of government officials and appointees so they are not held as accountable as they should. We allow them to get away with poor performance when we don’t hold them accountable to the high demands of their offices. Some of our reporting are so patronising that elected officials don’t think they are accountable to the electorate who should decide the right persons for any political post.