Our Reporter  Worried about disunity in Nigeria, Nollywood actor and producer Andy Chukwu has produced a documentary to show that more Nigerians still live in peace and harmony with one another. The documentary: National Peace and Unity, was produced under the auspices of the Ambassadors of Voice of Change Initiative Nigeria (AVCIN), a not-for-profit organisation. It showed everyday people living in places other than their states of origin. The documentary was shot between August and October in Kano, Enugu, Bauchi, Calabar, Abuja and Lagos. At a news conference in Lagos to unveil the first in the series, Chukwu, national vice president of AVCIN, which was established in 2017, said the project was aimed at changing attitudes and reorientation. “For us, the aim is to ensure that Nigerians live freely, peacefully and united wherever they chose to reside within the country. We collaborate with strategic partners, groups and importantly, relevant government agencies, NGOs, civil society, faith-based and security organisations to ensure that people get our message of peace and unity. “It is common knowledge that tribe, ethnicity and religion have divided us more than they should have united us. Oftentimes, the songs of war, violence and separation are so deafening that one wonders if Nigeria will ever remain one united nation. There is fear too that Nigerians hardly co-exist or habit peacefully. “There is also concern that Nigerians do not live in places other than their states of origin. AVCIN undertook the national peace project to show peaceful co-existence among Nigerians across cities and towns.  Yes, there may be pockets of problems as typical of humans, but the issues are usually exaggerated.” According to Chukwu, the differences among Nigerians are over-amplified. “Some people don’t know that there are mosques in Southeast. A lot people don’t know there are still churches in Kano and even in Maiduguri. “If you look at that scenario, you begin to wonder what is this religious crises all about? “We are not saying that there are no problems but sometimes, it’s over-exaggerated.” In attendance at the event were Ejike Asiegbu, Chidi Nwokeobia, Emeka Enyiocha, Charles Inojie, Okoro Nwachukwu, Peter Oboyi, Chief Evelyn Okere, and Ifeoma Okeke. Speaking on the essence of the documentary, Nwokeobia said every Nigerian should make the country great. “What we see on social media is entirely different from what this documentary is preaching,” he said. “We should forget the nonsense that politicians are selling to us that we are divided. We are not divided. We can work together and create a better society for everybody.” 