By Okorie Uguru  The newly redeployed Lagos State Commissioner for Tourism, Arts and Culture, Mrs. Uzamat Akinbile-Yussuf, has said she would bring her wealth of experience to bear on her quest to harness the tourism and entertainment potential of the state. Akinbile-Yussuf ,who served as Commissioner for Youth and Social Development, as well as Wealth Creation and Employment under the immediate past administration in the state, was initially appointed Commissioner for Home Affairs under the incumbent administration of Babajide Sanwo-Olu before her redeployment to the Ministry of Tourism, Arts and Culture. The commissioner, while addressing staff of the ministry on resuming duty,  said that her legacies in her previous places of assignments are evident and speak volume to her result-oriented nature. While acknowledging  that the cooperation she enjoyed in the previous ministries where she served made her excelled, Akinbile-Yussuf enjoined the officials of the Ministry of Tourism to be innovative and come up with ideas that would complement her vision for the ministry in line with the policy framework of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s drive for entertainment and tourism as enunciated in his T.H.E.M.E.S agenda.  In her words, “I believe that ideas rule the world; I believe in good ideas that can promote government and promote the ministry. There is always something new that we can tell the world about Lagos tourism on a daily basis and as such we must be determined to sell Lagos State to the outside world with the aim of improving our local economy.” She harped on the need for a cordial and good working relationship among the staff, stressing that the success of any of the departments should be collectively celebrated as a joint effort made possible through mutual effort. “Don’t indulge in excuses, but be result-driven in your respective duties,” the commissioner added. She reiterated her desire to maintain a target of eighty per cent budgetary performance of resources allocated to the ministry for the year and ensure that funds are judiciously used for the intended purposes to better a lot of residents of the state.