By Adesoji Adeniyi, Osogbo An ace hipop musician, David Adeleke aka Davido, and daughter of the billionaire Femi Otedola, Miss Florence Ifeoluwa Oyedola known as DJ Cuppy, were among 100 Nigerian youths that won this year Royal Young Leadership Awards The awards programme organised by the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, in conjunction with the Royal African Young Leadership Forum, was held at the Oduduwa Hall of the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ife. Others in the award list include the Speaker of the Oyo State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Debo Ogundoyin, grandson of the late sage Chief Obafemi Awolowo, Mr. Seyi Awolowo, grandson of the First Republic President, Alhaji Sheu Shagari, Mr. Bala Bello Shagari, the Chief Whip of the Osun State House of Assembly, Hon. Olatunde Olatunji, Oyo State Commissioner for Youths and Sports, Hon. Oluwaseun Fakorede, Barr. Chima Obieze, Enugu State House of Assembly and son in law to former President Goodluck Jonathan, Prince God’swill Edward, among others. The recipients of the award were picked based on their acbievements in their various field of specialisations. The recipients were also installed as King’s Ambassadors, who would be representing other millions of youths that are recording amazing successes in their various villages, community and urban areas. Speaking, the Ooni of Ife said the reality of Africa’s rapid population expansion is expected to reach 2.8 billion by the year 2060. He stressed that with the world Bank statistics, with 65%of these counted as youths are energetic and innovative driven demography. The Ooni, who spoke on the theme “Africa of the The Future: Unleashing The Assets of its Narratives,” said the demography is building multipurpose vehicle and economic applications system that will aid new milestones of individuals economics successes . Ooni stressed that already Africa is reaping a tremendous tremendous demographic dividend from this millennium generations with exciting and fascinating growth which is altering the continent socio-economic development. He noted that with the incredible and remarkable youths population that are gaining new knowledge, modern skills acquisitions, technology agility, dexterity and adroitness, the continent is assured. The Ooni of Ife further noted that Africa is already regarded as the next economics frontier in the globalization. He argued that the eagles eyes of the global community would continues to see a continent that is rich both in human and natural resources. The monarch stressed that sheer size, young population explosion, innovation development, sophisticated creative culture and the continent diversity distinctiveness are true potential that are attracting global attention into the continent. In his own remarks at the occasion, the Minister of Youths and Sport Development, Mr. Sunday Dare, said the future of the country are the youths. He contended that any nation that dreams of even development must make use of its youths tremendously. The minister also stressed that if any government refuses to invest on its youths such a government would witness a retrogresives development. However, he submitted that as for the present government in the country it’s focusing on a youth’s agenda program to add value to thier live and at the same time make them more productive in the society. The minister equally noted that 1.5 million of the nation youths are targeted to be employed in a designed program by the federal government. He also remarked that the government would continue to partner with the Royal Africa Young leadership forum for even development.