By Uja Emmanuel, Makurdi; Rasaq Ibrahim, Ado-Ekiti; Damisi Ojo, Akure and Adamu Suleiman, Sokoto Minister of Police Affairs, Alhaji Muhammadu Dinyadi, has said that Southwest governors must have good intentions in establishing Operation Amotekun. He emphasised that the police remain constitutionally empowered to maintain civil law and order. Dinyadi said: “I suppose the intention of the governors in the region is a good one. “But, if what people are saying and reading different meanings to it is true, then it is not legally right.” Dingyadi, who spoke with reporters in Sokoto, added: “If it’s not illegal, we will synergise and see how to manage the structure in the best way for the security and safety of Nigerians.” He, however, urged states to support the police. “Governors should support the police,” he said, stressing that security requires the collective effort of the three tiers of government. The minister disagreed with those “portraying Amotekun as a regional security outfit,” saying: “I believe it is part of the Southwest governors’ contribution to securing the country.” The President-General of Mzough-U-Tiv (MUT), a Tiv socio-cultural organisation, Chief Edward Ujege, urged the Federal Government to swallow its pride over Amotekun and admit that there is indeed insecurity in the country According to him, Amotekun is a clear signal that there is a need for restructuring. The Tiv leader said Nigeria, with over 200 million people, cannot be policed from Abuja alone. “Even in America, you have the Federal, state and local police, so the same thing can be done in Nigeria and their roles defined,” he said. A socio-development and pressure group, Ajoro Ekiti, yesterday called for the immediate resignation of the Attorney-General of the Federation, Mr Abubakar Malami (SAN), over his declaration of Operation Amotekun as illegal. The group, in a statement by its convener Mr Dare Ariyo-Atoye, said Malami should vacate his office over his divisive tendencies and inflammatory actions. “We make bold to say it is dangerous and insidious for the federation to have as the Attorney-General, a man whose actions and conducts have become a threat to Section 14 (b) of the 1999 Constitution, which says that the security and welfare of the people shall be the primary purpose of government. “It is highly disingenuous and very risky to continue to have as the Chief Law Officer of Nigeria, a man whose popular mantra of ‘national security is above the court and law,’ was only contrived to serve a sinister interest, and not really to protect the lives and properties of Nigerians. “It constitutes a severe threat to the peace and stability of Nigeria to have as the Minister of Justice, a lawyer who has made himself an impediment to efforts to find additional and complementary solutions to the unabated barbaric killings undermining every part of the country, including the Southwest.