 AFTER all the bluster and bytes, the leopard has not only been allowed to growl in peace. It can now bite and burp. Finally, fura and amala had a handshake. It happened in a posh setting in Abuja, although a mama put or buka may have given it a more grassroots ambience. Especially now that both words have finagled their ways to the Oxford English Dictionary. The next word to make it to that august book is amotekun. The Yoruba will soon lose the word to the imperial greed of the English language. It has traveled many semiotic miles. It is now verb, noun as well as adjective, and its meaning can be nuanced, subtle and overt. It can evoke humour, omen and fear. Already it threatens and promises electoral fortunes. So, why do some people say amotekun has lost some of its potency? It is because they want psychological relief for men like the attorney general. The Southwest governors say that they agree for laws in the states to give it a legal backing.  That is the diplomatic tack some are taking on the matter. It is not right to say that because amotekun is not written in the law book, it is therefore illegal. That point invokes two views of law that complement, rather than oppose, each other. One is from Apostle Paul that says, “Where there is no law, there is no transgression.” The other is from the philosopher John Locke, who asserted that, “Where there is no law, there is no freedom.” The first applies to amotekun in the sense that it works within the ambit of existing law, if it is not specific. Hence, I gave the example of the vigilante and the mai guard last week. The infrastructure of security in the land is vast, and allows others to help it. The law cannot say everything, so it assumes many things. What is important is not what it says but what it expects the society to understand. That is the spirit of the law. If what we have is amotekun, it is like neighborhood watch writ large for a region. If we say, it is not legal, we can also say some attorneys general should prosecute me for interfering with the law for employing security for myself. We, in fact, should ask attorneys-general across the country to prosecute themselves – if it is technically permitted – for providing private security. There is no law that recognises specifically mai guards. We can take it a notch further to prosecute streets and closes for installing vigilantes. But no one acts against that in law because we know it is not illegal. Vigilantes are not illegal. They are not just codified in law. That is what was wrong with the letter of the attorney general of the federation, Abubakar Malami. He said he was misunderstood. He probably used the wrong language. To say something is not illegal is not the same thing as saying it is not specified in law. If he was misunderstood, he should have left that part in the press release that threatened the amotekunites from executing their dreams. He should have couched the press release like a counsel rather than a prosecutor. He would not have bristled like a foe but a man for us. It is clear that when he says he was misunderstood, it meant he did not want confrontation. That is the root of the matter. Amotekun was not a child of rebellion, but of peace. It was birthed to protect a region from marauders described by Prophet Nehemiah as those who have “no heritage, no rights, no memorials,” in the Southwest. But the controversy all started from a place of mutual distrust. It had nothing to do with whether amotekun was in or outside the law. It all smoked out of suspicion. It is because no one suspects an individual can ruffle the polity with a mai guard that it has not generated a legal rough air. Some say it is because of Nnamdi Kanu, the ethnic entrepreneur, who fled. They don’t want it in the Southwest. So, what the states are trying to do is not really to legalise amotekun. They are trying to regularise it by codifying it. That is what Malami probably means by asking to legalise it. The proper word is to regularise. That is even a superior diplomatic tack. It is in that light that we can embrace Locke’s dictum that, “Where there is no law, there is no freedom.” That was the point of compromise. It meant that it could now be placed in the ambit of the law. Amotekun is now free to operate. It is therefore more of a political move than a legal one. It is the law of liberty turning into the liberty of law. Philosophers of law would call it natural law as a source of institutionlised law. It is in homage to the liberty of law during the American Revolution that Benjamin Franklin cried that “Those who would give up essential liberty, to purchase temporary safety, deserve neither liberty nor safety.” What happened last week with the fura and amala summit – chaired by Vice President  Yemi Osinbajo – was perhaps one of the high points of this republic. It explains how close a country can come close to collapse and how a few good men can save or wreck it. Much kudos goes to Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s intervention that transformed the atmosphere to concord from rancour. It was barely 48 hours after his statement that Amotekun became a humorous beast. I spoke with one of Nigeria’s wise men who noted that it was the time for statecraft. Barely a day after that, we saw Tinubu’s press statement with its tone of conciliation. He did not yield to hawks or doves, but advanced commonsense. It was an act of courage. More importantly, an act of vision. As Solomon said, “where there is no vision, the people perish.” Now, the result is that the leopard did not change its spots. It moved its spot – to a summit of fura and amala.   THE soldier can now sulk in quiet. Jeremiah Useni, the former military governor who failed to superintend in civilian toga, finally licked the dust last week in the Supreme Court. The man wanted to govern Plateau State, but his people rejected. He went to court to fight not on the basis of popularity but nomenclature. He said Governor Simon Lalong had no right to bear the name he bore as a child because he adopted the name of his uncle with whom he lived as a child in primary school. Useni wanted to subvert culture in the courts. The same way he was trying to plant the seed of discord in Plateau Christendom. The practice has been to pair the positions of governor and deputy governor between the two dominant sects, Catholic and the Church of Christ in Nations – COCIN. Useni, a COCIN, drafted another COCIN as deputy. The people voted for harmony. In a parody of the governor’s name, the people said, so long. The Supreme Court echoed it. Governor Lalong has said contesting with the hoary general was like battling an uncle. But the old soldier would not relent until he fell. Now, he can be silent and fade away like most old soldiers. No jeremiad, though, for the general.  