 Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has declared the intention of his administration to continue to review strategies and policies geared towards delivering his electoral promises based on the T.H.EM.E.S agenda. The governor spoke yesterday at the opening ceremony of a three-day Technical Conference on e-Health with the theme: “Lagos State Smart Health Information Platform (SHIP)”. The event was held on Victoria Island, Lagos. Sanwo-Olu, represented by the Deputy Governor, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, noted that the conference was geared towards developing a sustainable Smart Health Information Platform by connecting and strengthening linkages between primary, secondary and tertiary facilities so as to deliver “better, faster and smarter health care.” He said in line with the T.H.EM.E.S agenda, the conference underscores the importance of the health sector and its critical role in securing the economic and general well-being of residents. Speaking further, the governor remarked that though current technological developments are essentially limited to developed countries, e-health is a global issue. He said he is elated at the prospect of the conference providing workable strategies and solutions to identify challenges to the establishment of a smart health information platform for the state health sector. Governor Sanwo-Olu said: “To my mind, establishing a Health Information Platform will impact positively on various aspects our state’s health system such as Human Resources Health, Healthcare Financing through our Universal Coverage Initiative; Lagos State Health Scheme, Biosecurity and Biosafety, provide employment creation opportunities while opening doors to international collaborations and partnerships towards improving the state of our health service delivery.” He said the development of 3,000km fiber optic network would enable public institutions (schools, hospitals, offices etc.) to have direct linkages to the Internet as part of strategies to make Lagos a Smart City. While describing data as the new currency and key in planning, the governor called on all residents to register with the State Residents Registration Agency (LASRRA) in order to assist the government to have data, which will assist the government in the provision of its people-oriented programmes. He said there is ongoing discussion with the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) to utilise the infrastructure of the Lagos State Residents Registration Agency for data capture by residents of Lagos State.