With strong growth spurred on by rising investments and exports, the agriculture sector is expected to be one of the key propellants of national economic growth this year. However, businesses are awaiting new incentives. DANIEL ESSIET writes.  Despite numerous risks, the agriculture sector is expected to reap bigger fruits this year with more investments implemented, making it one of the key drivers of economic growth. The sector has received a major boost over the past two years, thanks to a strong focus by policymakers on food and jobs. To collaborate this, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) projects that Nigeria’s real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) will rise by 2.1 per cent last year to  2.5 per cent by this year. The African Development Bank (AfDB) Group also predicts that the nation’s real gross domestic product (GDP) will grow by 2.4 per cent this year as implementation of the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan gains pace. One sector that will contribute to it is the expected surge in agriculture activities. Experts believe Nigeria has rich natural conditions to host a variety of valuable crops and agriculture will remain a critical sector for the economy.They anticipate agriculture would expand due to growth in rice production and other agricultural activities. For instance, analysts expect Nigeria to produce more tonnes of rice next year through the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN’s) Anchor Borrowers Programme. Output will rise in fruits, vegetables, cereals, cashew, cocoa as well as livestock, which are critical elements for domestic consumption and exports. This would hinge, however on the government’s ability to maintain a thriving business environment, driving growth and facilitating an impressiveeconomic diversification. Key investments in new processing facilities are expected to continue driving the sector’s expansion. The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) Director-General, Dr Muda Yusuf, noted: “The monetary value of agriculture output has been on the upward trajectory, rising 40 per cent quarter-on-quarter to N5.41 trillion between July and September from N3.86 trillion between April and June, compared with N3.60 trillion in the first quarter. “The CBN, like it did in 2019, will maintain status quo by not relenting in supporting the sector with much-needed funds in ensuring that the wide gap between local demand for food and supply is bridged.” On the performance of the sector, the DG projected improved credit flow to agriculture on the back of proposed increase in deposit money banks’loans to deposit ratio to 70 per cent. Yusuf expressed the view that prolonging closure of the land borders would further add impetus to agricultural output this year. The President, Federation of Agricultural Commodities Association of Nigeria (FACAN), Dr Victor Iyama, said agriculture will remain one of the most important sectors for business and economic growth. He however, added that value-added food manufacturing is also important to penetrating high potential markets, where a lack of infrastructure and inefficient logistics can create delays that cause a significant proportion of fresh produce to spoil. He called for investment in logistics and grading centres, adding that initiatives of this kind would also help to reduce wasted produce, levels of which can be as high as 40 to 50 per cent due to the lack of supply chains linking the field to the consumer. For small growers, he said infrastructural support is critical because they lack the capacity to pack and grade their produce in line with market requirements. According to him, improving production capacity will also allow them to create more opportunities to increase income for local farmers and meet the requirements of high-value export markets. He said the establishment of clearer quality standards would help to drive exports to new markets. Iyama said the association is trying to improve the value of the nation’s agro exports by applying safe and sustainable agricultural practices and improving production facilities.  Private sector’s response The Managing Director, Farmcrowdy, Kenneth Obiajulu, said agriculture is the solution that can feed a growing Nigeria and that innovation is the key. Obiajulu said food aggregation, processing, and distribution facilities and infrastructure are critical aspects of building a consistent supply of local foods. He said Farmcrowdy will support local farmers, producers, by allowing them to access larger and more diverse markets than they could as individual producers. This in turn improves access to fresh, healthy food for a wide range of consumers. He said his organisation is supporting projects that will make a difference for farmers economically. He said the projects would help farmers export more and secure some market access for a lot of products. The Country Manager, OCP Africa, Caleb Usoh, said supporting agriculture with focus on enhanced private sector investment and key value chains will ensure economic diversification and boost food security. He said OCP Africa will support Nigeria with fertiliser plants. He said sustainably increasing food production will be possible only with a balanced and rational use of fertiliser, saying this will ensure a decrease in imports of NPK fertiliser, which combine three macronutrients: Nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium. Through the plants, he said OCP Africa has set ambitious goals to reach more farmers. In addition to training local farmers in advanced, modern agricultural techniques to rev-up yearly output, OCP Africa has initiated several other programmes that have massively upgraded the scales in terms of sustainable agriculture policy and food security. To work with farmers to contribute to unlocking Africa’s vast agricultural potential, he stated that the company launched its ‘Agribooster Offer’ aimed at boosting food production in the country. The ‘Agribooster Offer’s initiative for food crops provides farmers with support for every aspect of the agricultural value chain. Through this, OCP Africa connects farmers to financing and insurance, working with local extension agents to train them on proper fertiliser use, collaborating with other providers to ensure they have the right fertiliser and other input.  He said OCP Africa believes on empowerment of farmers and will directly towards increasing prosperity and helping Nigeria tackle its worsening challenge of poverty.  Foreign firms to be involved The private sector, including domestic and foreign companies, has helped to change the economic structure. Along with local private enterprises, many foreign firms will be entering the agricultural sector. Over the past few years, many foreign companies have entered the Nigerian market to engage in agricultural investment projects, investment is largely focused on producing and processing animal feeds, and farm produce. Their investments in high technologies and production scale will help the agriculture participate in the global value chain. Some other foreign companies have also inked import deals with local businesses. Factors such as a large domestic market and strong development of the export market thanks to free trade agreements, as well as the encouragement of the government will encourage and promote enterprises to invest in agriculture effectively, safely, and sustainably.  High-tech agric devt Some areas are going to emerge as a new hub for high-tech agriculture. In few areas of the Southwest, there are efforts to boost agri tourism development, growing high-tech agricultural products, helping it to attract many domestic and foreign investors. Several high-tech agricultural projects have been granted investment decisions for implementation.  Farmers expected to export more agric products Iyama said there were efforts to boost agricultural exports from the country to other parts of the world. Notwithstanding, agro exports are expected to face difficulties this year, as there will be increased competition in the global market. The challenges include a forecast reduction in world economic growth this year, while many countries would focus on agricultural development. Therefore, Nigeria’s exports of agricultural products might face fierce competition. Large importers, such as the US, EU, China, Japan and South Korea, have promoted the protection of agricultural products by setting standards on quality and food hygiene and safety, while requiring traceability. The trade war between the US and China will also affect the export of Nigeria’s agricultural products.  Challenges On the aggregate, experts said foreign direct investment (FDI) inflows into agriculture are still small in terms of project size and proportion of investment capital compared to the total FDI of the country. Risks remain significant. Domestically, slower progress in strengthening logistics infrastructure have undermined growth prospect, creating large sector liabilities. External risks include escalating trade protectionism. Yusuf’s concern is that the cost of doing business is very high.  He attributed it to poor infrastructure, multiplicity of levies, excessive regulations, among others. Notwithstanding, the government’s goals for the sector, experts said production will be threatened by growing pressures, including a fast-growing population and the effects of climate change. Like last year, increasing insecurity caused insurgent activities meant some agricultural enterprises had to hire security, increasing costs and taking the focus away from improving production techniques. The sector also remains split between small scale farmers with artisanal growing methods, and large-scale production using modern techniques and consolidated expanses of land. Bridging these two sides of the industry will require better integration. In recent months, weather-related disasters linked to climate change have contributed to the rise in food insecurity. Flooding in some parts of the country has disrupted the volume of agricultural production, exposing farmers to high vulnerability and causing fatalities. Another issue is the high rates of urbanisation that has reduced the amount of arable land available for farming. Across the country, the economy has witnessed a substantial spike in property development into land traditionally used for farming. Foreign investors still see a gloomy outlook towards the investment environment in the country as various reports indicate fears about unclear economic conditions.  Improving infrastructure No fewer than 10 million smallholder farmers produce 70 per cent of the food consumed in the country. There is a need to ensure that these farmers are equipped with the appropriate technologies, knowledge, and skills to meet the increasing l demand for sustainable food. For watchers, the nation’s economic productivity is still low mainly due to small scale agricultural production. At present, the power supply-demand gap is hampering food production and sustainable economic growth.They observed that infrastructure deficiencies and an emerging skills mismatch driven by underlying structural bottlenecks are impacting on the quality of its human capital, productivity and innovation capacity. Stakeholders advocate actions and policy reforms aimed at addressing bottlenecks in energy, transport and water infrastructure. This, they believe, will support the sector to attract higher value-added investments, enhance the domestic private sector’s capacity to penetrate the regional market and improve public service delivery. Stakeholders believe the nation’s ambitious agenda to transform into a high income country requires a new growth model that relies on enhancing productivity and innovation. Iyama believes digital solutions can address some of the key challenges faced by farmers, from creating safer farm produce to boosting exports and improving farmers’ living standards. ‘’We encourage partners to join our efforts in applying high-technology and smart agriculture for our farmers,” he said.