SUBARU has revealed an unnamed concept Sport Utility Vehicle (SUV), which could be based on the brand’s forthcoming all-electric underpinnings Subaru previewed the design of the electric rival for the Volkswagen T-Roc and SEAT Ateca. Technical specifications on the prototype are yet to be confirmed but, given its size, we expect this is the first vehicle based on Toyota and Subaru’s forthcoming, jointly developed all-electric platform. Toyota and Subaru recently announced an agreement which will see the pair jointly develop a dedicated all-electric platform for larger vehicles. The new EV platform will reach the United Kingdom and European markets in the early 2020s, underpinning a new C-segment SUV which will also be designed and built collaboratively by the two brands. Details on the new platform remain sparse, but Toyota and Subaru have claimed it will play to both brand’s strengths. As such, the pair’s new C-segment SUV will combine Toyota’s experience with electric technology with Subaru’s four-wheel-drive expertise. The platform will also underpin a range of larger vehicles, including a D-segment saloon and SUV. Subaru and Toyota’s official render offers an indication of their new platform’s construction. It will feature an electric motor on the front axle and a low-mounted battery pack, presumably to benefit the car’s weight distribution and packaging. The styling of this new Subaru concept also matches the silhouette of the brands’ design sketch. The new electric platform will help Subaru achieve its long-term emissions goals. By 2030, the Japanese manufacturer is aiming for all-electric or hybrid-electric vehicles to account for at least 40 percent of its global sales figures. By 2050, Subaru hopes to reduce the average CO2 emissions of its new vehicles by 90 percent, when compared to 2010. The pair have also announced their wider electrification strategy which, due to the differing amounts of environmental legislation and infrastructure support for each country, will vary according to the region. Toyota says it will provide a “horses for courses” approach to electrification, aiming to offer the right products for the right markets, at the right time. As such, Toyota and Subaru will likely roll out its new electric platform in Japan, China and Europe first, where the electric market is strong and the supporting infrastructure is rapidly developing. Toyota is also keen to stress that hybrid powertrains will still form a key part of their electrification strategy and that it continues to research hydrogen technology.