A total of 29 Nigerian words and expressions have been included in the latest January 2020 updates of Oxford English Dictionary. Some of the words included are ‘Ember Month’, ‘Danfo’, ‘Non-indigene’, ‘Guber’, ‘Tokunbo’, ‘MamaPut’, ‘Kannywood ‘Next Tomorrow’, among others Here is a full list agric, adj. and n.: “Of, relating to, or used in agriculture; = agricultural adj. Now chiefly West African.” barbing salon, n.: “A barber’s shop.” buka, n.: “A roadside restaurant or street stall with a seating area, selling cooked food at low prices. Cf. bukateria n., mama put n. Frequently as a modifier…” bukateria, n.: “A roadside restaurant or street stall with a seating area, selling cooked food at low prices. Cf. buka n., mama put n.” chop, v.6, Additions: “transitive. Ghanaian English and Nigerian English. To acquire (money) quickly and easily. Frequently in negative sense: to misappropriate, extort, or…” chop-chop, n.2: “Bribery and corruption in public life; misappropriation or embezzlement of funds. Also as a modifier.” danfo, n.: “A yellow minibus that carries passengers for a fare as part of an informal transport system in Lagos, the largest city in Nigeria. Also as a…” to eat money, in eat, v., Additions: “Now chiefly Nigerian English and East African. to eat money: to acquire money dishonestly; to misappropriate, extort, or embezzle funds. Cf. chop v.6…” ember months, n.: “The final four months of the calendar year (September to December), esp. considered together as a period of heightened or intense activity.” flag-off, n.: “The moment at which a race, esp. a motor race, is flagged off (see flag v.4 additions a); the start of a race. Now chiefly Indian English and…” flag, v.4, Additions: “to flag off. transitive (usually in passive). To direct (a driver) to start a motor race, esp. one in which the competitors start at intervals, by…”
flag, v.4, Additions: “to flag off. transitive. Indian English and Nigerian English. In extended use: to start (an event or undertaking).” gist, n.3, Additions: “Nigerian English. Idle chat, gossip. Also: an instance of this, a rumour or piece of gossip.” gist, v.2: “transitive. To reduce (a text, document, etc.) to its essence or gist; to condense, summarize, or précis.” guber, adj.: “Of or relating to a governor or governorship; = gubernatorial adj.” Kannywood, n.: “The Nigerian Hausa-language film industry, based in Kano; Kano regarded as the centre of this industry. Cf. Nollywood n.” K-leg, n.: “In singular and plural. A condition in which one or both of a person’s knees are turned inwards, resulting in a noticeable gap between the feet when…” mama put, n.: “A street vendor, typically a woman, selling cooked food at low prices from a handcart or stall. Also: a street stall or roadside restaurant run by…” next tomorrow, n. and adv.: “The day after tomorrow.” non-indigene, adj. and n.: “Not native. In later use chiefly West African: belonging to an ethnic group considered not to be indigenous to a particular area.” okada, n.: “In Nigeria: a motorcycle which passengers can use as a taxi service.” to put to bed in put, v.: “West African. to put to bed: to give birth. Also: to give birth to (a child).” qualitative, adj., sense 3: “West African. Of high quality; excellent.” to rub minds in rub, v.1: “to rub minds (together): (of two or more people) to consider a matter jointly; to consult and work together; to confer. Similarly to rub our (also…” sef, adv.: “Used for emphasis after a statement or rhetorical question, often expressing irritation or impatience.” send-forth, n.: “A celebration or event to mark a person’s departure; a send-off. Frequently as a modifier, as send-forth ceremony, send-forth party, etc.” severally, adv., Additions: “East African and West African. On several occasions; repeatedly.” tokunbo, adj.: “Denoting an imported second-hand product, esp. a car.”
zone, v. zoning, n., Additions: “Nigerian English. The system or practice of allocating nominations for certain political offices to candidates from particular regions, as part of an…”