By Robert Egbe  The Federal High Court in Lagos on Wednesday adjourned till March 12 the trial of the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of 606 Autos Ltd, Sarumi Babafemi, who is facing a N207million money laundering charge. Justice Chukwujeku Aneke fixed the date following the absence of the first prosecution witness for the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Babafemi, popularly known as ‘606’ is suspected by the EFCC of being an agent to some of the 77 Nigerians indicted for cybercrime in the United States following a Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) operation. The EFCC accused the defendant and his firms, 606 Autos Ltd; 606 Music Ltd; and Splash Off Entertainment Ltd of laundering N207.1m between 2013 and 2018. They pleaded not guilty to the five-count charge of money laundering and Babafemi was granted bail last November 11. At the resumption of proceedings on Wednesday, EFCC counsel Ayanfe Olufemi told the judge that his witness, who was being expected from Sokoto, was unavailable. Ayanfe applied for a short adjournment and also prayed the court to vacate tomorrow’s date, fixed for continuation of trial. Babafemi’s counsel Dr. Muiz Banire (SAN) did not oppose him, but prayed the court to require the prosecution to make an undertaking that his witness would be in court at the next adjourned date. Following an agreement of the parties, Justice Aikawa adjourned till March 12. According to the charge, the defendant allegedly laundered the N207.1m in several tranches.
The EFCC claimed that Babafemi transferred N37.6m to one Omojadesola Allison; N93m to one Olanrewaju Oriyomi; N1.5m to one Abiola Ayorinde, alias ABK; N25m to one Bartholomew Ezeudoka; and N50m to one Amobi Uchenna. The Commission said 6O6 “ought to have reasonably known that such funds form part of an unlawful act, to wit: obtaining money by false pretence.” According to the commission, Babafemi and his firms acted contrary to Section 15(2)(b) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act 2011 (as amended) and were liable to be punished under Section 15(3) of the same Act.