Agbo Agbo  Obviously concerned about the rise of authoritarianism globally, George Soros, the global financier and philanthropist, has announced the creation of new global university network to foster critical thinking and open inquiry and better prepare students for current and future challenges “amid the current resurgence of authoritarianism.” He is walking his talk with US$1 billion in funding to boost the initiative and has asked other philanthropists to contribute as well. The fund will be managed by the Open Society University Network (OSUN), which will operate globally as a network of higher education, research and cultural institutions. The network will integrate teaching and research across universities worldwide and will offer simultaneously taught network courses and joint degree programmes and regularly bring students and faculty from different countries together with in-person and online discussions. A statement on OSUN’s website says it aims to “counteract intellectual monocultures and polarisation by uniting institutions around the world in collaborative research projects and by encouraging students to examine issues from different perspectives and through reasoned arguments.” It therefore seeks to reach the students who need it the most and to “promote the values of open society – including free expression and diversity of beliefs.” OSUN is being co-founded and run by two institutions, Central European University, which recently relocated from Budapest to Vienna, and Bard College, New York, with the support of the Open Society Foundations (OSF). A dozen universities will be participating in its first phase projects. Ashesi University, Ghana and Rift Valley Institute, Kenya made the pick in varsity and research institutions involved from Africa. Announcing the initiative at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, Soros, who has given more than US$32 billion over the past 30 years to education and social justice causes, said he considers the Open Society University Network to be “the most important and enduring project of my life” and he wanted to see it implemented “while I am still around.” He added: “I believe our best hope lies in access to an education that reinforces the autonomy of the individual by cultivating critical thinking and emphasising academic freedom.” OSUN says it will seek to promote rigorous education and reach institutions in need of international partners, as well as neglected populations, such as refugees, incarcerated people, the Roma and other displaced groups. For someone who has written extensively on dearth of critical thinking in out tertiary institutions, this is a welcome development which I encourage our lecturers and undergraduates to embrace and follow closely. The university is supposed to be the engine room of all shades of ideas and innovation, and not a place where some may be jittery to critically explore the concept of witchcraft, for instance. Such exploration starts when we are imbued with critical thinking skills. Critical thinkers are the voices of reason in times of mass hysteria or panic which is why Soros is so convinced to part with a whopping $1 billion to encourage it. As Franklin D. Roosevelt said, “We have nothing to fear but fear itself.” The critical thinker usually has the comprehensive skills to consider all possible options toward solving a problem. He often remains calm and knows when he is right. Critical thinkers are less likely to fall for scams or tricks because they approach everything with a healthy amount of scepticism. Those who lack critical thinking skills often assume that everything they hear is true, regardless of the source. Socrates, it was who set the agenda for the tradition of critical thinking. Simply put, it is to reflectively question common beliefs and explanations, carefully distinguishing those beliefs that are reasonable and logical from those which – however appealing they may be to our native egocentrism, however much they serve our vested interests, however comfortable or comforting they may be – lack adequate evidence or rational foundation to warrant our belief. Socrates’ practice was followed by the critical thinking of Plato (who recorded Socrates’ thought), Aristotle, and the Greek skeptics, all of whom emphasised that things are often very different from what they appear to be and that only the trained mind is prepared to see through the way things look to us on the surface (delusive appearances) to the way they really are beneath the surface (the deeper realities of life). From this ancient Greek tradition emerged the need, for anyone who aspires to understand the deeper realities, to think systematically, to trace implications broadly and deeply, for only thinking that is comprehensive, well-reasoned, and responsive to objections can take us beyond the surface. Can anyone question the fact that we need deep thinking in Nigeria?  Francis Bacon, in England, was explicitly concerned with the way we misuse our minds in seeking knowledge. He recognised explicitly that the mind cannot safely be left to its natural tendencies. In his book “The Advancement of Learning,” he argued for the importance of studying the world empirically. He laid the foundation for modern science with his emphasis on the information-gathering processes. He also called attention to the fact that most people, if left to their own devices, develop bad habits of thought (which he called “idols”) that lead them to believe what is false or misleading. He called attention to “Idols of the tribe” (the ways our mind naturally tends to trick itself), “Idols of the market-place” (the ways we misuse words), “Idols of the theater” (our tendency to become trapped in conventional systems of thought) and “Idols of the schools” (the problems in thinking when based on blind rules and poor instruction). His book could be considered one of the earliest texts in critical thinking, for his agenda was very much the traditional agenda of critical thinking. By virtue of what they stand for, higher institutions are supposed to be the pillar of critical thinking, this is the major reason research is a fundamental part of all studies. But the way things are presently, you have your answer if you attempt to measures the products of our higher institutions. I don’t have to stress this as I assume we are all too familiar with the state of education in the country. Let’s start from the area of pitching one ethnic group against another. There are stereotypes about almost all ethnic groups in Nigeria. Right from as long as we can remember, we are told to beware of certain ethnic groups because “that’s the way they behave.” We grow up not questioning these stereotypes and when we assume positions of leaderships they are already etched in our minds and difficult to ignore. But a critical thinker will judge people based on their character and not ethnic group. What about infrastructure? Currently, government at all levels in Nigeria concerns itself with the building of infrastructure. Let me state from the onset that I’m a firm believer in world class infrastructure because they make our modern existence easy. But the big question remains: while we concentrate on infrastructure, should we continue while the moral firmament of the country is tattered? As we build infrastructure let’s not forget that we need to ‘build’ the people that would appreciate and value the infrastructure and literally ‘own’ them. A critical thinker always has the self-awareness to know the difference between a rational thought based on careful consideration and an emotional response based on personal bias. Emotion is the enemy of reason. By understanding his own perspective, he can also consider the perspective of others and come to a conclusion based on fact, not feeling. He also embodies the phrase “work smarter, not harder.” They are masters of efficiency. From solving problems to facing real life situations, critical thinking is a valuable skill for students, and eventually citizens, to master because it teaches a variety of skills that can be applied to any situation in life that calls for reflection, analysis and planning. It is equally important in the new knowledge economy. The global knowledge economy is driven by information and technology. One has to be able to deal with changes quickly and effectively. The new economy places increasing demands on flexible intellectual skills, and the ability to analyse information and integrate diverse sources of knowledge in solving problems. Good critical thinking promotes such thinking skills, and is very important in the fast-changing workplace.