Ayisat Oriyomi nee Yusuf has faced many challenges in life; from being abandoned by her mother, maltreated by her step mother, having a baby at 13 to finding redemption in Boxing at 15. The Oyo-State indigene now 25 and a mother of two, dreams of Olympic glory and international recognition in a sport that not long ago was considered not ideal for women. The 2018 Commonwealth Games athlete and two-time Lagos State Governor’s Belt winner talks to Oluwamayomikun Orekoya on her journey, challenges and future plans. After her parents divorced when she was in junior secondary school, Ayisat Oriyomi was forced to live with her father’s new wife, whom maltreated her. Then, at the age of 13, she became pregnant and gave birth to her daughter who now lives with her mother. Whilst pregnant, her stepmom threw her out of the house and Ayisat became homeless. She lived with some friends before her biological mother came to her rescue and she was able to return to secondary school after giving birth. At 15, at a chance meeting in a school sports programme, Ayisat met her future husband and personal coach, Micheal Oriyomi who introduced her to the sport in 2010. “When I first met my husband, I did not know what direction my life was heading. We met at a school function and he was already a boxer. He took one look at me and decided I had the right physique to take up boxing and since I had nothing to do I went with him and I haven’t regretted my decision ever since.” “My life has changed because of boxing,” Oriyomi added. “Before, I had nothing to do with my life but God blessed me through boxing.” It is a known fact that boxing has been struggling in recent years in the country, it is even tougher for female boxers whose trade does not appeal to many audiences. The likes of Helen Joseph and Edith Ogoke have found fame fighting abroad, female boxers, like their male counterparts, are mostly underpaid in Nigeria, abandoned by the authorities until a tournament is on the horizon and attend a few tournaments, local or international, to gain the desired exposure. “I may have won prizes and travelled across the world but that doesn’t mean I earn big. I don’t feel like a champion and maybe I don’t look like one either. Boxing hardly feeds me or pay my children’s school fees, “she laments. “When I see boxers from other countries at competitions, it is very clear they get quality training and I think they are well supported. Here in Nigeria we are not that well off. Our training conditions are hardly comfortable and the facilities and equipment are mostly outdated. Boxing in Nigeria is not encouraging at all, especially for a female. I am still in the sport because of the passion I have for it.” Despite the constant struggles and frustration Oriyomi faces in the sport, the 51kg flyweight is determined to represent Nigeria at the Tokyo Olympic Games this year and hopes to secure International promotion after the tournament. “My goal this year is to qualify for the Olympic Games in Tokyo later. I am currently training for the African Olympic Qualifiers holding in Dakar, Senegal next month. “I hope to make the team and make Nigeria proud. Hopefully If I get to the Olympics, I would be able to get the required exposure that would make International promoters recognise my talents and snap me up” Ayisat, who staged a comeback after giving birth, says 2018 remains her best year since she took up boxing after representing Nigeria for the first time at the Gold Coast Commonwealth Games and winning the Lagos State Governor’s Belt. “2018 was definitely my best year since I became a boxer. I had stopped boxing when I gave birth to my son. So I returned in 2017 and I had to start from scratch. Building up my fitness was no mean feat. But I gradually started winning fights and progressed in the amateur ranks. “Then in 2018, I beat other boxers to come out tops in my weight division in the Commonwealth Games trials and that was how I got to the Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast Australia. I then won the Lagos State Governor’s Belt for the second time, becoming the first female to win the belt twice.” Oriyomi says it difficult for people to accept that she is boxer and has been ostracized by family and friends in the past because of the sport. She has also been asked about her sexuality because of the masculine physique she developed as a result of the sport. “My parents were not happy with my taking up boxing. I lost a lot of childhood friends who wanted nothing to do with me because I was boxing. In fact I was mocked because boxing made me more masculine and people would stare at me wondering if I were a man or woman.” “Many people ask me how my husband enjoys me whenever we are intimate because of my physique but I am not bothered. My husband likes me the way I am. I tell them that it is none of their business.” Oriyomi thanks her husband Michael, a policeman and fellow boxer, for being understanding and patient, adding that the sport sometimes affect their marriage. “I don’t engage in sex for about three months to a tournament or fight. My husband and I abstain from sexual acts during that period and I know he is making a lot of personal sacrifices for my career. I guess I am lucky that my husband is also a boxer so he understands my situation.” Oriyomi daughter wants nothing to do with the sport and is totally opposite of her mother but her five-year-old son is very interested in the sport and is currently training to become a boxer. “My daughter doesn’t like boxing at all,” Oriyomi says. She hardly comes to watch my fights and I don’t blame her, the sport can be a brutal and for women it takes a very headstrong individual to want to engage in it.” “My son on the other hand loves boxing. He is currently training with his father and I to become a boxer in the future. I just hope he has a better chance in the sport than his parents had,” she added.