 THE Transportation Hailing Alliance of Nigeria (THAN), has condemned the ban on motorcycle and tricycle operations in some local governments and local council development areas of Lagos State. THAN is the regulatory body for modern motorcycle firms, such as Max.ng, Gokada and Oride. The Lagos State Government on Monday banned the operations of motorcycles and tricycles in six local governments and 15 local council development areas, stating ‘safety and security concerns’. The ban takes effect from tomorrow. But THAN opposed the ban, describing it as insensitivity on the part of the government. At a news conference in Lagos, co-founder and CEO of MAX.ng, Adetayo Bamiduro, said the government should regularise the industry rather than rendering people jobless. He said MAX.ng has, since inception, complied with relevant laws and regulations guiding motorcycle operations in the transport industry, including compliance with engine capacity requirements. Bamiduro said: “The government is relying on its Transport Sector Reform Law 2018, which restricts motorcycles from operating on major highways, but Section 15 of the law states expressly that ‘motorcycles above 200cc are exempted from the restriction’. All Max motorcycles are 220cc engines, a 10 per cent premium above the regulatory requirement. “As stakeholders in the industry, we have always complied with rules and regulations. We have held meetings with the government on regulating the industry, but the government would always tell us to wait. We even took the initiative to self-regulate our operations and present same to the government without any positive response, only for us to hear of a ban. “The government did not consult us before announcing the ban. We are not an informal unregulated sector, we are companies backed by creditable and reputable investors, and we are in this business to help the government solve transportation challenges. We understand the security risks the government referenced, but what about the security risk of joblessness? What happens to the drivers who will be forced out of the system? Where are the jobs they will do? Security risks cannot be viewed from one dimension.”   