From Moses Emorinken, Abuja  The German government has paised Nigeria’s efforts in the eradication of polio, having achieved the milestone of reaching three years without reporting any case of wild poliovirus. Germany has been a long term supporter of the Polio Eradication Programme in Nigeria, providing tremendous and longstanding financial support over the years with grants to fill critical funding gaps for vaccines and campaign operations across the country. The Executive Director of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA), Dr. Faisal Shuaib, traced the historical financial partnership with Germany on Polio Eradication to over 10 years ago. Shuaib, while addressing the German Ambassador, Mrs. Brigitt Ory, and members of Parliament during their visit to a Family Health Clinic in Garki, Abuja, to observe a vaccination session and surveillance documentation, revealed that Nigeria has over the years received millions of Euros from Germany as grants for Polio Eradication Initiative. The NPHCDA boss, represented by the Incident Manager of the National Polio Emergency Operations Centre, Dr Usman Adamu, said the funds received from the German government were pivotal to feats recorded in the fight against polio. “These funds, which came in at different times, were used to purchase vaccines and finance operations of special immunisation campaigns. Just recently, in December 2019, the German government released 26.8 Million Euros (€ 26,800,000) channeled through the World Health Organisation and UNICEF to the Nigerian government to support polio operations and procure vaccines.” The Officer-in-Charge (OiC), WHO, Dr. Clement Peter, stated thus: “Since the detection of the wild poliovirus three years ago, Nigerian Government, with support from Government of Germany and other partners, implemented various innovations during outbreak response (OBR) and scheduled polio campaigns to halt transmission of the virus.  Surveillance has been strengthened and technological innovations such as e-Surveillance and use of audio visual techniques for AFP detection and expansion of community informant network helped to further increase sensitivity of surveillance to detect any suspect cases. “In spite of this progress, the current success in Nigeria is still very fragile as insecurity, which hinders access to some children, and suboptimal routine immunisation coverage across several states, pose a threat to sustaining recent gains. 47 per cent of children nationally have not received their third dose of polio vaccine, whilst 19 per cent of children in Nigeria have not received any vaccination at all.” Speaking on behalf of the Government of Germany, a Member of Parliament, who is also part of the budget committee, acknowledged the achievements of NPHCDA, WHO, and UNICEF in polio eradication and the positive impact they have made in the journey. The representative said, “We are happy to be on the ground to see how our money is being spent, despite a lot of bad stories that have been circulating about Nigeria; it is a job well done. It is very heartwarming to come and see these positive achievements and we look forward to celebrating a certified polio-free Nigeria with you all in June 2020.” The last wild polio virus case was detected in August 2016, in Monguno Local Government (LGA) of Borno State. As Nigeria moves towards a polio-free certification later this year, WHO assured that it remains committed and vigilant in its support to immunisation and surveillance efforts as well in ensuring that every child is reached with vaccines.