Yemi Remi is a broadcaster, director, artist, playwright, singer and entertainer.  He directed Aaree Ona Kakanfo, a play that made waves during the Christmas and New Year seasons in Lagos.  Staged at the National Theatre, Lagos, the play is a reflection of the traditional roles of Aaree, a generalissimo in Yoruba culture and tradition.  At the end of the play at the weekend in Lagos, Remi, a classical theatre director with many years on the job spoke to Edozie Udeze. The play had all the trappings and nuances of tradition. The actor and actresses were adorned in old Yoruba costumes with some tying different  amulets and charms to their waists, ankles and necks. They were all part of the show, demonstrating an event that took place as far back as the 1860s. The Ijaiye wars of the 19th century still remains one of the fiercest in the history of the 19th century Yoruba wars. The director of the play Yemi Remi quickly explained the reasons for the play and for the war that produced it. “Yes Aaree Ona Kakanfo is one play every Yoruba person should watch.  This is so because it speaks about the tradition and culture of the people.  Aaree Ona Kakanfo was a warlord, a generalissimo in Ijaiye, Oyo State, in those days.  He never allowed anybody to step on the culture of the people.  He felt, till the end that the culture of the people must be upheld.  Once it had to do with tradition, no one should go beyond it.  It was like the culture of the Edo people.  I love their culture; they love their own culture and maintain what they have no matter the situation.  So that was what the Aaree fought for all his life. “Now, he had an encounter with Alaafin Atiba.  Alaafin Atiba died and his first son that was not supposed to take over did so.  In Oyo culture then, the first son was meant to be buried alive once the Oba died.  The heir to the throne must be buried alive with the Oba once he died.  That was why the first sons were given too much liberty to do as they liked while the Oba was on the throne.  You can burn down houses; you can have as many women as you liked or do whatever you like to make yourself happy. “They were allowed unlimited pleasures within the kingdom.  Apart from that, even the Aaree would go with the king and the prince the same way.  It was a barbaric culture, so to say.  However, one of the princes told the Oba, all these traditions why don’t we stop them?  Even the white people came and insisted this culture must go.  They went to Calabar and stopped the killing of twins and so also in other places.  But the people here in Yoruba land insisted they would not stop it – saying no, it is our culture.  So one day, the heir to the throne of Atiba, Atiba was the king then in Oyo, fortunately went to an elderly person who knew the history of the people very well to inquire.  Is there any tradition I don’t know that I should know when I become a king?  The old man said to him: You’d better pray for a long life for your father so that you can live long too.  The boy said but why: because once your father dies you are dead too.  He then rushed back to the palace to ask his father if this was true.  Buried alive?  The father said yes, that is why you are enjoying too much.  The boy said no, this shouldn’t be.  He then asked his father, who will succeed you and continue the lineage?  If you go and I go and, I am your only heir, who will keep the lineage?  This is barbaric and we need to stop it, he told his father. At that point, Oba Atiba said okay let me call the generalissimo to tell him to change this tradition.  But when the Aaree got to the palace and was told, he refused to allow this to be changed.  No, this is not possible.  Then Atiba asked him: why was I not buried with my own father?  And the Aaare replied, because you were not around when your father died.  Then  Oba Atiba said if that is the case then there is war between you and I.  So, war broke out. “But then there is a river called Ose at Ijaiye.  It is a very powerful river.  Anybody who takes refuge there will not be taken captive or subdued.  Then there the battle line was drawn between the two enemies.  But while the war was to start, one powerful person cursed both parties that they would never amount to any good.  This confused them all.  But the generalissimo lost his two sons in the battle.  In that case, he decided also to terminate his own life.  He said there was no need and that he would keep the culture of the people to the last.  Before he died, he instructed that he should be buried where his sons were killed.  This was by the side of the river Ose.  He then took poison and died and was buried by the river.  “It is a tragic story fit for the stage at his moment for people to learn from.  Even today there are some of our people who still oppose tradition.  But it depends on the tradition and what it stands for.  Now we are in modern times and we need to change a lot of things to suit the moment.  For me I will support that when a president or governor is being sworn in, let him swear by cutlass or gun.  You will see that they will not steal; no, they will not steal.  But Bible and Koran, we have taken the two for granted.  God will not catch you immediately, but the gun will shoot you down on the spot if you steal in office.  Those idols, those images of worship they will catch thieves.  I will allow such a policy.  So that the leadership will sit up and face governance with some level of honesty and decency.  Then our ladies must wear their dresses properly and not expose everywhere to show a lot of indecency in public.  There are some of the traditions we need to keep to maintain a disciplined society.  I even support our masquerades, some of the beautiful masks that when you sit down you know you are being entertained.  Now, even the National Theatre, some people say it is a place for idol worshippers.  But this is not true; it is a proper place for total entertainment, plays, even churches now come here to worship on Sundays.  People still insist that at FESTAC’77, people came with different idols to deposit inside the Theatre.  But this is not true; it is for the good of Africa and for the black race all over the world. “Now, some of the people in the generalissimo’s house in Ijaiye are those who want to uphold what the man stands for.  They are there at Ijaiye but those who want change have since left the compound.  I think we are in our modern times, I am not saying we should not follow tradition.  No! But now what we should do is to shift it a bit to the left and a bit to the right.  We have to sieve the shaft from the grains, to get the best.  This is so because like it is in China, and most Asian nations, they developed with their cultures yet they embrace modernity, they love technology.  A combination of both have made them one of the best in the world.  I am sure if we had some of our relevant cultures in place, we would have developed more than these.  But because we allowed the white man to come and destroy some of those good ones, you see where we are today.  We even encouraged them to think that some of our cultures were fetish and then we joined in destroying them.  It is by so doing that we have today instituted corruption.  In those days there were issues to keep corruption in abeyance, in proper check.  We need those to come back into the system.  Corruption is too much in the system, we have to do something to check it before it wipes out the entire system. “Before now, you’d put your wares outside; buyers would go there, put the appropriate money, pick what they want to pick.  There was no cheating; it is no longer like that these days.  Is it good?  But we can get back to that where honesty, trust, truth and sincerity still hold us together.  There are some of these cultures that protect us, while others are not.  So let’s see how we can uphold those good ones for progress, for our own good generally”. 