From Agha Inya  Gender Development and Policy Centre (Gen-Cent), University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN), in collaboration with Women Aid Collective (WACOL), has taken the campaign against sexual harassment in tertiary institutions to the University of Nigeria, Enugu Campus (UNEC). The centre, which promotes gender research and policy matters, had earlier launched the anti-sexual harassment campaign in Nsukka campus of the university. At the event held at the main hall of UNEC weekend, the Director of Gen-Cent, Prof Anthonia Achike, challenged students to speak out whenever they encounter incidences of sexual harassment, assuring that Gen-Cent  has experts who are poised to take up cases and ensure justice is done to victims. Achike advised students to shun acts and behaviours that predispose them to be sexually harassed, urging them to ‘dress decently and move in the company of people you trust ‘. Achike explained that one of the objectives of the sensitisation exercise was to articulate views that would guide the centre in developing policy on sexual harassment for UNN. “If you are not bold to report cases of sexual harassment, you are encouraging the act”, the Deputy Vice-Chancellor, UNEC, Prof Edith Nwosu, who represented the Vice-Chancellor, told staff members and students. Nwosu said the issue of sexual harassment in tertiary institutions had assumed a dangerous dimension and had attracted global attention.  She described the menace as a cancer devastating human dignity, urging workers and students to exercise self-control. The DVC praised the Gen-Cent and WACOL for leading the campaign, stating that the programme would give her workers and students the boldness to confront the issue. Nwosu reiterated that the university’s administration had zero tolerance for sexual harassment, and would ensure that victims who speak out would be protected. Dr Obi Nnamuchi, who presented a paper on: “Legal issues in sexual harassment”, on behalf of the director of WACOL, stated that although Nigerian law does not specifically recognise sexual harassment there are related provisions in the Constitution that can be applied to bring justice to victims. He urged students to break the silence on any form of sexual misconduct, stating that that was the only way of addressing the problem. Fliers containing complain hotlines of Gen-Cent and WACOL were also distributed to participants  at the event.