Our Reporter  Ekiti State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chairmanship aspirant Bisi Kolawole has spoken on the endorsement of his aspiration as “the best practice in democratic world.” He appealed to all well meaning leaders to support his candidature. Leaders and stakeholders in the Central Senatorial District had in Efon-Alaaye endorsed Kolawole for the chairman. The former lawmaker representing Efon  Constituency in the House of Assembly described his aspiration as a sacrifice that would usher in a new era of party administration in Ekiti State. He said he has visited local government areas, preaching the need to forge enduring unity and party discipline, and mobilise for the party to win future elections. He said: Ayo Fayose and other leaders who came out openly to endorse me on Sunday must have been impressed by the feelers they got from the field, having worked extensively among party people. Kolawole added: “It is obvious that I am not a Facebook aspirant, I remain a practical politician and so, I have gone round visiting eleven local governments. How many of my co-contestants have done this?  I have engaged party people one on one telling them what I am capable of doing if  I am given the opportunity to lead the party in the State.  “My campaigns are issued-based  and I am not surprised that well-meaning leaders have started giving their support. I see their action as that which is still within the context of democratic norms across the world and I want to say that, with the way I am working on this project and by the time I conclude my visits to the remaining local governments, I am hopeful that more leaders would have every cause to identify with my aspiration. “It is normal that some people will feel uncomfortable with this development because they have not been able to work at our pace. But, all what they want is to have the crown without any conviction that they can do better. We are presently on the field  ahead of the elective congress and we will go to the election with the hope that delegates will reward hardwork, integrity and competence. “I want to appeal to our leaders and critical stakeholders across the state to give me support and I want to assure everyone that I have the wherewithal to rebuild our party to win future elections.” 