Prof. Jonathan Aremu, a consultant to ECOWAS on Trade Policy and Payment System has described hasty implementation of Eco currency by the Francophone countries as erroneously implemented, expressing that the action was taken as their agreement with French government on the CFA expires in 2020 as they do not want to renew the agreement. He spoke with Charles Okonji  What is your stand on ECOWAS common currency? Well, this is part of the responsibilities I handled as a consultant to ECOWAS on Common Investment Market. I worked on ECOWAS payment system and assessment. Common currency is good in an economic integrated community, but economic integrated community has four stages. What are the stages? Stage one is Free Trade Area, stage two is Custom Area, stage three is Common Market, while stage four is Economic Union. Under the stage one, we have the ECOWAS Free Trade Area, under the stage two we have to start with the implementation of Common External Tariff (CET), under the stage three, which is the common market, we are expected to have common policy on admin, common policy on investment, common policy on industry, and that is called ECOWAS for the people, while the stage four is the Economic Union. All these stages are to be completed and implemented before we can start talking of ECO currency. So, the implementation is wrong because we have not even started with stage one, and they have gone ahead to start with the implementation of ECO. In the plan, single currency cannot come until stage four, so that is to say that everything is wrong with the implementation at this stage. If you get to European Union and you want to implement single currency, it will be difficult because member unions are not of the same policies, so it will be difficult to implement. At stage three, which is common market, then, you can have common position on policies which is easier for convergence. But the convergence criteria which ECOWAS put in place both primary and secondary criteria cannot work because we are not yet in common market. So, those criteria would be very difficult. So, when you look at the West African Monetary and Economic Union, you will notice that the Francophone have already started operating economic union, that is why they have CFA as their common currency, but the rest of the ECOWAS countries have different currencies, so, it would be better that the actual criteria is met.  It is important that the Customs Union, the Common Market, the Economic Union where you can have a single currency. But that is not what we are doing. We are just at Customs Union at the moment and they want to implement single currency, it will only be difficult, and it will not work. The implementation date has been shifted times without number, what is your comment? So, the timetable which ECOWAS have been changing and shifting is not on the comfortable face of the economic integration to allow us to operate a single currency. So, any attempt to force this convergence to operate a single currency cannot work. Therefore, when some of us became consultants to ECOWAS because they been using CFA and it has been tied to French Franc.  Commission on Common Market and single currency, the idea of payment system came up. What is payment system? It means for instance, that if I want to buy $20 worth goods from Ghana, all I need to do is that I will pay $20 equivalence to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), and the CBN knows how it will send the money to Ghana, but the Central Bank of Ghana will receive the $20 equivalence in Cedi. So the same thing will happen if some Ghanaians want to buy from Nigeria, they will debit them in Cedi and credit us in Naira. So at the end of the day, the central bank of the two countries will meet   and clear the  balance that have not been paid, in any international currency they want. So, that is what we have been developing since 2010. But unfortunately, when the consultant finished his work two months ago, nothing was done to be able to look that but, but the Francophone said that we would be able to implement Eco and they went ahead to start with the implementation, but their currency is linked to France currency, which means the hijacking of Eco policy. The entire ECOWAS said they wanted Eco currency. This wasn’t the Eco we wanted that would be linked to French currency. The original concept of Eco was developed by African English speaking people, which was to be the second currency (ECO), because the French speaking Africans are already making use of CFA. So the idea was that the ECO and the CFA could be merged together and become one currency in future. If we are to go to ECO, then all the ECOWAS members go direct ECO. So, for this reason, we have to go back to the table and discuss. So if it is still the ECO that we are going to use, there is no way the Francophone countries will say they would use the ECO and link it to France currency, because that is wrong. Secondly, the issue of starting ECO this year is wrong. They have to wait until the secretariat is ready, but if they decide to go ahead because they have the majority in the house in terms of numbers, but if they insist that we should go on with it, there is no problem, but it must not be linked to France. What is your take on France pulling out from CFA being tied to French currency? In 1945, they signed an agreement that they will operate the same currency, and just like the West African Currency Board that was issuing Pounds to the English speaking West African countries. So their own was to be issuing CFA and the agreement was to come to an end in the year, 2020, and they don’t want to renew the agreement, because they are not in charge of their reserves, they are not in charge of the CFA. But you cannot force us to agree on implementation of ECO on 2020 because you want to disengage from France, no, it is not possible.