Former Senate President Bukola Saraki on Tuesday told the Federal High Court in Lagos that a suit by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) seeking the forfeiture of his Ilorin houses is an abuse of court processes intended to scandalise him. Saraki, a two-term Kwara State governor, told Justice Rilwan Aikawa that the EFCC was merely attempting to review in another court, the July 6, 2018 decision of the Supreme Court, which cleared him. According to Saraki, the Supreme Court judgment discharged him “from culpability arising from the same money and houses, which are the subject matter of this action”. The EFCC, in the suit, claimed that the houses on Plots 10 and 11 Abdulkadir Road, GRA, Ilorin, Kwara State were acquired with proceeds of unlawful activities allegedly perpetrated by Saraki while he was Kwara State governor between 2003 and 2011. Justice Aikawa, on December 2, 2019, ordered the temporary forfeiture of the houses to the Federal Government. The judge adjourned for Saraki to appear before him to give reasons why the houses should not be permanently forfeited to the Federal Government. In response on Tuesday, Saraki, through his lawyer, Kehinde Ogunwumiju (SAN), filed a preliminary objection, challenging the territorial jurisdiction of the court to entertain the suit. Ogunwumiju said the new suit by the EFCC was an abuse of court processes because it was filed at a time a suit on the same subject matter was still pending at the Federal High Court in Abuja. According to him, in the Abuja suit, Justice Taiwo Taiwo, on May 14, 2019, gave an order for parties to stay action on the subject matter pending the determination of an originating motion on notice. “Despite the pendency of the above-captioned suit, service of the originating processes and the subsistence of the aforesaid order of this court, the respondent surreptitiously commenced a suit between the EFCC and Dr Bukola Saraki on October 14, 2019 in this court where it seeks orders aimed at neutralising the order of the Abuja Division of this court,” he said. The ex-Kwara governor said the EFCC’s new suit was meant to “irritate, annoy and scandalise” him. He urged Justice Aikawa to dismiss it. The judge adjourned till February 5, 2020, to take arguments on Saraki’s objection. An EFCC operative Olamide Sadiq said: “Whilst investigation was ongoing, several fraudulent transactions were discovered. “I know for a fact and verily believe that our investigation has revealed the following mind-boggling findings, among others: “That between 2003 and 2011, Dr Olubukola Abubakar Saraki was the Executive Governor of Kwara State. “That whilst he held the aforementioned position, the common pattern was that after payment of monthly allocation by the Federal Government to the Kwara State government, a cumulative sum of not less than N100 million would be deposited into the Kwara Government House account. “That upon the payment of the N100 million, same will, in turn, be withdrawn in cash by Mr Afeez Yusuf from the Kwara State Government House, Ilorin’s account in bits and brought to the Government House.” Also, Magu yesterday assured Nigerians that the commission is not witch-hunting Bukola Saraki. He described the insinuation that the EFCC opened office in Kwara State to deal with former Senate President as unfair. “Kwara is one of the oldest states in the country. It deserves the headquarters of the EFCC. There was a time there were 12 states in Nigeria and Ilorin was a state capital of Kwara. You should be protesting why EFCC was not brought here earlier; not because of an individual, far from that,” he said.