Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu has promised that tourism and entertainment sectors in Lagos State will receive more attention from the State Government in the year 2020. Sanwo-Olu made the promise at the grand finale of the “Greater Lagos 2020 Extravaganza” organised by the State government through the Ministry of Tourism, Arts and Culture. The event which kicked off simultaneously in five Centres – Ikorodu, Badagry, Agege, Victoria Island and Epe respectively on Christmas Day, climaxed on New Year’s Eve until the early hours of January 1, 2020. The Governor, who attended the Eko Atlantic Centre of the event for the grand finale in Victoria Island, assured participants that the New Year holds greater potentials for the State in general and the entertainment sector in particular. “I can assure you all that this Year 2020 will be the beginning of greater, bigger and mightier things to happen in our entertainment and tourism industry. Let’s pray that Lagos continues to be prosperous, just as I pray every one of us will have a better Year 2020 and beyond”. While commending Lagosians for their large turn-out at the designated venues, he praised the efforts of the Ministry of Tourism, Arts and Culture and sponsors in organising a successful outing. “I want to thank our sponsors and the Ministry of Tourism for their efforts. This is Lagos, the Centre of Excellence and pacesetter among other States in this country. This year, you are going to see unprecedented development in Lagos. It has started, you will begin to see and acknowledge it”, the Governor stated. The Commissioner for Tourism, Shuli Adebolu reported that with over 10,000 participants in attendance at each of the five venues of the event on a daily basis, not less than 350,000 Lagosians would have participated in this year’s edition of the annual music and entertainment show. Adebolu noted that the free show was peaceful throughout the duration with participants conducting themselves in an orderly manner without security breaches in any of the locations. She said, “I am also impressed and happy that Lagosians fully participated in this year’s celebrations across the five centres. In fact, I can boldly say that Lagosians conducted themselves responsibly and no untoward incident happened from the first day of the show to the grand finale”. Stampede: No LASU student with us, says IGH doctor Two students of the Lagos State University (LASU), Ojo, admitted on Monday at the Emergency Ward of the Igando General Hospital, Lagos, had been discharged from the hospital. LASU management had on Monday explained that some anxious students, who wanted to be among the first set to write the General Nigerian Studies (GNS) 102 caused a stampede. The incident, which happened at a 500-seat Computer Based Test (CBT) Centre in the campus, led to some of them sustaining various injuries. A Correspondent of the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), who visited the hospital yesterday, was told that the students were discharged from the hospital that same day of the incident. A doctor at the Emergency Ward of the hospital, who spoke to NAN on condition of anonymity, said the students were treated immediately they were brought in on Monday. “Two students were brought into the hospital on Monday and they had been discharged because their injuries were not serious. “They are currently at the school hospital where they are being monitored,” she said.