Years after the Federal Government implemented its rural electrification policy to improve power supply in rural communities, which are not connected to the national grid, the idea is yet to achieve the desired result. A larger percentage of Nigerians, who the initiative is meant for, are still in darkness, writes AKINOLA AJIBADE.   From the small-scale hydro, wind, coal, biomass and other sources of electricity, opportunities abound for the country to provide electricity in rural areas. Not only do the sources vary, they are believed to be cheaper and easier to access for production of electricity, unlike that of gas-fuel and hydro methods of electricity, which remain the two major sources of electricity generation in Africa and beyond. Little wonder that the Federal Government is leveraging them to provide electricity in both semi-urban and rural areas. Ever since the early 1980s, when the Federal Government mooted the idea of providing electricity for people in the rural communities, the government appears not to have achieved its desired results. The World Bank underscored this in its report made available to The Nation. In the report, the bank said an estimated 94 million people are still lacking electricity in the country. The 94 million people, the report added, are mostly living in rural areas, coupled with the fact that they do not have access to roads, hospitals, water and other infrastructural facilities. Though the Rural Electrification Agency (REA), a Federal Government’s agency, has been providing solar electricity in many of the six geo-political zones in the country, the agency is far from meeting the energy needs of most of the rural communities. The inability of the Federal Government, to achieve its target of providing electricity in rural areas by 75 per cent in 2020 said it all. Not only this, the government is believed to be far away from achieving its 90 per cent target of providing rural electricity in rural areas by 2030 as efforts are not being made in that regard. While this lasted, there is the need to examine salient issues, which surround rural electrification.  Birth of REA The Rural Electrification Programme was initiated by the former Federal Ministry of Power and Steel and implemented by the defunct Nigeria Electric Power Authority (NEPA) in early 1981. Prior to this period, the government carried a study in the sector in order to determine the number of Nigerians who lacked access to power and those that did not. The outcome of the study showed that a bigger chunk of the population were not connected to the grid, a development, which made the government to introduce the idea of providing electricity in rural communities in the country. Several years after the programme was introduced and implemented by the government, the initiative has not recorded meaningful progress. Managers of the programme said problems, such as funding, difficulties in procuring equipment for the projects and poor performance of the contractors hired by the government to execute the projects, stalled operation of the scheme. REA’s successes Its former Managing Director, Damilola Ogunbiyi, said the agency is supporting small-scale businessses, and schools with solar power in order to encourage socio-economic growth. According to her, some markets now use solar to operate at a cost, which is beneficial to them. The agency, she said, ensures that shop owners have access to solar electricity and further stop relying on generators to power their operations, adding that the agency has improved access to electricity in some of the universities by providing them with solar.  Other achievements include collaborations among the REA, World Bank and some of the states, as part of efforts to deepen the use of solar and other methods of off-grid electricity. Corroborating Ogunbiyi, the Managing Director, Powercap Limited, Mr Biodun Ogunleye, said the rural electrification agency has performed well in the country. He said the agency, without gainsaying, has provided electricity in two universities, which relied on generators to power their operation. Ogunleye said: “To say that the rural electrification agency has recorded success is an understatement. I can say authoritatively that the agency is well on track of reducing the number of households, which do not have access to electricity. “Off-grid method of electricity is now being reckoned with in Nigeria. In recent times, mini-grids are being installed in Nigeria, a development, which suggests that users of solar and other renewable energies can make their products available to many people in their localities without course to grid to grid supply.  Pitfalls Rural electricity programmes are not without their own challenges. Like any other aspects of human endeavours, the scheme is bedeviled with problems such as paucity of funds,  bureaucracy, lack of commitments on the part of contractors hired by the government to handle projects and customs issues, among others. The Chief Executive officer, Consistent Energy Limited, Mr. Segun Adaju, said the off-grid subsector of the power industry is facing a plethora of problems. He said using solar electricity is  a challenge to some Nigerians, especially those in lower income  brackets. The problems, he said, include rising cost of solar equipment, such as panels, and batteries. He said the decision by the Federal Government to impose customs levy of 10 per cent on imported solar equipment is affecting the business. Operators of panels, he added, are finding it difficult to install panels as its price has increased tremendously. According to him, the issue has pushed up the cost of solar energy in the country. He urged the government, to make off-grid electricity work, adding that “by so doing, the rural electricity initiative would record more successes as many Nigerians would like to invest in it”.  Way out Ogunleye advised the Federal Government to formulate policies that would help in reducing the prices of solar equipment. He said the government should be thinking of how to make solar devices affordable and have a long lasting values and not creating more problems in the subsector. He said it would be difficult for a low-income earner to provide a solar facility of between N500,000 and N1million. He stated that when the price is much lower, Nigerians would be able to afford solar electricity and also prefer it above generators and its attendant hazards. He said when a man can use his solar electricity to power fan, charge his phone battery and air-condition, he would definitely prefer solar to generators that would be consuming fuel, while at the same time injurious to health.