Our Reporter  A Saudi court’s sentencing on December 23 of five people to death for the killing of Washington Post columnist, Jamal Khashoggi, can only represent a partial closure of the matter. The full closure would come with a convincing argument that crown prince Mohammed truly knew nothing about the sordid incident. “The decision is too unlawful to be acceptable,” Khashoggi’s fiancee, Hatice Cengiz, said in a text message to The Associated Press. “It is unacceptable.” In the same vein, Agnes Callamard, who investigated the killing for the United Nations, tweeted that the verdicts are a “mockery”. He added that the masterminds behind the crime “have barely been touched by the investigation and the trial.” Amnesty International also called the outcome “a whitewash which brings neither justice nor truth.” In all of these, the big question mark is on the Saudi prince. As things stand, it would seem the five persons sentenced to death are the sacrificial lambs in the matter. In all, 11 persons were tried over the murder; five were sentenced to death, three sentenced to a combined 24 years imprisonment for covering up the crime while the remaining three suspects were freed by the count due to what it called “insufficient evidence”. A statement read by the Saudi attorney general’s office on state TV which provided the court details however did not disclose the names of those found guilty. Apparently because of its very sensitive nature, only members of Khashoggi’s family, a few diplomats including from Turkey were allowed to witness the nine court sessions; from which independent media were barred. The last may not have been heard of the convictions since the sentences are subject to appeal. Khashoggi, a renowned critic of the Saudi royal family was a resident of the U.S. He walked into his country’s consulate in Turkey on October 2, 2018, on appointment in connection with documents that would allow him to marry his Turkish fiancée. He never came out alive. However, an independent investigation by Callamard revealed that a team of at least 15 Saudi agents, including intelligence and security officers, a forensic doctor as well as individuals working for the crown prince’s office had flown into Turkey to meet Khashoggi inside the consulate, suggesting they were probably responsible for the journalist’s death.  This claim, as well as the insistence by Khashoggi’s fiancée that Saudi Arabia could not exonerate the crown prince from the murder, and Turkish officials’ claim that Khashoggi was killed and then dismembered with a bone saw prompted a global outrage which shook the Saudi royal family to its very foundation. Although the crown prince said “I take full responsibility as a leader in Saudi Arabia,” he insisted he had no knowledge of the operation. King Salman, the prince’s father’s response was a shake-up of top security posts after the killing. The royal family, which had earlier been giving shifting accounts about Khashoggi’s disappearance eventually said he was killed by rogue officials. Apparently because Turkey had bugged the Saudi Consulate in Turkey, it was able to produce and share audio recordings of parts of what transpired before the late journalist’s arrival in the consulate and after, it is difficult to prove that Prince Mohammed was not involved in the murder. For instance, Callamard’s 100-page report released last year included details from the audio that Turkish authorities shared with her, including details about how the Saudi officials said they would carry out the journalist’s body after killing him. She said the doctor in the team said: “Joints will be separated. It is not a problem.” “If we take plastic bags and cut it into pieces, it will be finished. We will wrap each of them.” Despite its seeming inconclusiveness, the convictions are still a victory for the global outrage which trailed the columnist’s gruesome murder. It was one murder too many and the world rose in unison to condemn it and called for thorough investigations to unravel those behind it. With the wishy-washy trial that has produced minions as culprits; the last may not have been heard of the Khashoggi murder. Perhaps the details would be told someday. 