 THE 2019 edition of the popular Calabar Carnival ended last week with all the glitz and glamour associated with Nigeria’s premium entertainment and tourism event. In the most anticipated competitive category, the Carnival experienced a twist, by having two first-place winners-the second of such recurrence for the local bands in four years. Freedom Band and Passion Four tied for the top position, while Seagul trailed and came second, with Bayside band taking third place and Master Blasta coming along. Chairman of the Calabar Carnival Commision, Mr Gabe Onah declared the results and also awarded the Seagul Band with the best team on the road, while Passion Four was awarded best decorated truck.  Onah explained that the Commission, with the assistance of the international observers, confirmed the Most Creative and authentic band as Passion Four, while the most improved band of the year went to Freedom Band. Also, Anambra state came tops as the best out of 22 states that performed at the carnival, while Lagos state came second and Enugu state took third. Having as its theme: ‘Humanity’, Governor of Cross River State, Ben Ayade, noted during the flagging-off ceremony that the theme was carefully selected. He described the concept of ‘humanity’ as the greatest religion on earth because it preaches love, kindness and unity. “As we leave here today, if we don’t learn anything let us learn that humanity is the greatest religion.With humanity, you don’t need your Bible or Qur’an because with it you will show love to your fellow men that need your love. Whether you are rich, poor, tall, short, black or white; humanity does not know the difference because it breaks all barriers,” he said. Touted as the biggest street party in Africa, the carnival also featured a list of Nigerian celebrities such as Segun Arinze, Bolanle Ninalowo, Ime Bishop, Charles Inojie among others. They danced through the streets of Calabar playing part to humanity. Meanwhile, the International segment of the carnival which held at the U.J Esuene stadium featured different dance groups from thirty countries, thrilling the crowd with amazing performances, as they displayed their cultures, costumes, tradition and also infused the theme of the carnival in their display. Efforts by the host state government was to take advantage of the event to make the society see each other as one in humanity, and not to lose it’s essence.