  ACCESS Bank Plc has reiterated its continued support for special needs children by donating a 44 KVA Solar Power System to the Down Syndrome Foundation Nigeria. Speaking on Thursday at the presentation of the facility at the foundation’s office at Iju, Fagba Lagos, the bank’s Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Seyi Kumapayi, said the lender is investing heavily in Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives. “What you have seen today is further actualisation of Access Bank’s CSR initiatives. It is not just for my group, but it is done across the bank, in terms of giving back to the society. We have been partnering with the Down Syndrome Foundation Nigeria for more than five years in various forms,” he said. According to the CFO, the bank has supported the group through arts, education, health, among others and will continue to meet their needs from time to time. Kumapayi said the second phase of the CSR initiative for this year will be supporting people with secondary scholarship funds. The fund, he said will enable beneficiaries pay for some of their examinations fees. He said the support is not coming just for the Financial Control Unit of the bank, but from the bank as a group because of its believe in giving back to the society in a sustainable manner. “For us at Internal Control Unit, in the last five years, we have impacted over 8,000 lives positively and will be raising that to 10,000 lives in the next five years in line with the bank’s commitment to touch people’s lives positively,” he said. Also speaking, National President, Down Syndrome Foundation Nigeria, Mrs. Rose Mordi, said the foundation needs all the supports it can get to take care of the special, needs kids. “Every day, kids are born with this condition and they need help. Kids with this condition need support. About 50 per cent of children born with down syndrome are prone to congenital heart defects. That is what is called hole in the heart. And some of them die daily where the issue is not properly addressed. We believe that if they are not alive or healthy, we cannot do anything for them. We want to ensure that their health is well taken care of,” she said. According to her, the children live at the facility. “A lot of them are born without being trained. We need support to help us get them all the things that are required to help them live fulfilled lives. What Access Bank has done is that they have taken a chunk of the challenge we used to face by providing us with the solar  power system. That is one of the best things that has ever happened to us,” she said. Continuing, she said that by the Access Bank’s gesture, the children will be comfortable while the foundation will save money to do other things.  