Thirteen people have been feared killed in an attack at Kulben village in Kombun District of Mangu Local Government Area of Plateau State. The attack occurred on Wednesday at about 10:30pm when residents had gone to bed. Confirming the attack, the police command said one of the victims was Klengchin Yusuf and 12 others. A statement signed by spokesman Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Terna Tyopev said: “We only receive the information on the attack when the gunmen had carried out their evil act and disappeared.” The statement read: “Gentlemen of the press, today, at about 0730hrs, the Plateau State Police Command received information that at about 2230hrs, gunmen suspected to be herdsmen attacked residents of Kulben village in Kombun District of Mangu Local Government. “Klengchin Yusuf and 12 others lost their lives, while one person, who was critically injured, is receiving treatment at the Mangu General Hospital. “On receipt of the information, Police Commissioner Isaac Akinmoyede directed the Deputy Commissioner of Police, Department of Operations, to lead detectives to the scene and stop the attack, arrest perpetrators and restore peace. “Investigation is on. The command solicits information from the public to facilitate arrest and prosecution of the suspects, to act as a deterrent to others.” The state government has condemned the attack. It described it as a setback to the peace already restored by the present administration. The government statement signed by the Director of Press, Simon Markut, read: “Governor Simon Bako Lalong has condemned in strong terms the killing of innocent persons following an attack by gunmen at Kulben village in Kombun District of Mangu Local Government on January 8. “The governor in a reaction described the attack as another attempt to puncture the peace that has gradually returned to the state.” Lalong, while commiserating with the victims and bereaved families, warned that his administration would not allow chaos and insecurity. He hailed security agencies for arresting seven suspects. Lalong said that investigation would be carried out to get to the root of the matter, adding that anyone found wanting would face the full wrath of the law.