By Taofik Salako, Capital Market Editor  The Federal Government might have extended the deadline for the national shutdown of open drugs markets by one year, given drug distributors and other stakeholders opportunity to tidy up arrangements for a seamless transition. The Federal Government had earlier fixed December 31, 2019 for the shutdown of open drugs markets and transition to Coordinated Wholesale Centres (CWC) as continued in the new National Drug Distribution Guidelines (NDDG). Indications emerged that the government might have extended the deadline to December 31, 2020 after operators of open drugs markets and other stakeholders engaged regulatory agencies on the plan and feasibility of a seamless transition. Industry sources confirmed that government and industry stakeholders had reached agreement on the extension of the deadline in view of the ongoing efforts for compliance. The regulated CWCs system was designed as an alternative to the chaotic open drug markets as part of efforts to stamp out fake and substandard drugs in the country. Under the new arrangement, the Pharmaceutical Council of Nigeria (PCN), the industry self regulatory organisation (SRO) and the National Agency for Food, Drugs Administration and Control (NAFDAC) are expected  to commence enforcement of the ban on open sale of drugs as from 2021. In view of the capital intensive nature of the project, implementation of the NDDG policy has been extended twice to allow dealers in various states ample time to construct structures that meet global standards. Rather than hastily pushing operators out of business, the Federal Government approved the construction of CWCs to relocate dealers in Lagos State, and other locations across the country. Through these regulated centres, pharmaceutical companies will distribute their products and ensure that drugs are monitored down to retail consumers. Chairman, Lagos Medicine Dealers Association (LSMDA, Island Zone), Sir. Felix Ugbojiaku said that PCN and other stakeholders realised that the projects are highly capital intensive and needed more time to be completed. According to him, in Lagos State, work is being intensified by City Pharmaceuticals and Allied Partners Limited which is handling the project and the project will be completed on or before the new December 31, 2020 deadline. A recent news report had also quoted NAFDAC Director, Investigation and Enforcement Directorate, Mr. Kingsley Ejiofor, as saying that the PCN was working with NAFDAC to ensure that structures that meet international standard are built by private pharmaceutical products dealers in designated locations in Lagos State, Onitsha in Anambra State, Aba in Abia State, and Sabon-Gari in Kano State. Ejiofor reiterated that CWC project was one of the policy measures to stamp out fake and substandard drugs while ensuring quality and safety of drugs in circulation as the products will be monitored from manufacturers to retail consumers. Ugbojiaku pointed out that LSMDA has been working with government regulatory agencies including PCN, NAFDAC, and other stakeholders to ensure that the country transits to a new era where drugs will no longer be sold in the open market because the manufacturers and the importers will channel drugs to only the CWCs.  “We are very committed to this project. Considering the centrality of good quality drugs the project implementation will bring about, we are quite optimistic that it will ensure the availability of good quality, safe efficacious and affordable drugs in the health care delivery system of the country,” Ugbojiaku said. Reacting to a recent publication that portrayed Idumota Lagos as one of the largest unregulated open drug markets in the country, Ugbojiaku said that the Lagos Island zone is one of the most regulated zones in the country. According to him, in the Lagos Island zone, there are multiple layers of regulation which make it difficult for fake drug peddlers to thrive. In addition to regular unscheduled visits by NAFDAC, LSMDA has instituted a task force saddled with the responsibility to hunt down any fake drugs dealer that sneaks into the zone. “Besides, Lagos State government has its own agency that also makes unscheduled monitoring visits to this business environs. All these combine to ensure that the best of healthcare products and services are delivered through this business hub serving not only South West of Nigeria but also entire West African sub-region. In the last 10 years and more, fake and substandard drugs have never been and can never be found or sold in Idumota, Lagos Island axis of drugs distribution chain,” Ugbojiaku said. 