The story of Air Warriors Women Basketball team is like a fairy tale. Debutants at the 2019 Zenith Women Basketball League, and made up of young and less experienced girls, they carry a dream that is driven by passion and fuelled by determination and encouragement from the club owner, Solademi Abdulmajid Oladimeji. At the end of the 2019 league in October, Air Warriors had come from a new-comer toga to conqueror, winning the national women league at the expense of Firstbank, Customs, Dolphins and MFM Queens. It also emerged the first team to win the coveted trophy and N2million grand prize, from the Savannah Conference. The final match was even more eventful with the Abuja-based outrunning MFM from the beginning to the fourth quarter at 57-53. To make the Lagos final, Air Warriors achieved another feat by winning all their seven matches of the league. They emerged winners of the second phase of the north zone of the Zenith Women’s Basketball League by defeating oldies and defending champions, Nigeria Customs Basketball Team. In a match they dominated from start to finish Air Warriors led the first quarter 29-20 before finishing the half with 65-46 point lead and led on to the end with 80-64.  Eight teams participated in the tournament with Air Warriors clinching the first position with 14 points. Nigeria Customs had 13 points and Plateau Rocks had 12 points to qualify for the grand finale in Lagos. Air Warriors coach, Samson Shotiminu, said his girls had youthful vigour going for them, which helped to overrun the more experienced Customs team. Chairman of the club, Solademi Abdulmajid Oladimeji, however, said his girls were prepared for the onslaught. “These girls are still young and this is a momentum that we really want to sustain with all our players to make sure that each and every one of them to have one or two awards under their belt and, possibly, making sure that every award; player of the season, the best guard, and what have you – comes to us. That is our prayers. That is our aim. We want to make sure that we represent our country. That is our joy.” One of his girls, Murtajanatu Musa, was also named as the Most Valuable Player (MVP) of the Lagos tournament. Oladimeji speaks further on the dream, vision and mission that drive the team. Air Warriors joins the winners’ roll call of the Zenith Bank WBL last season thus becoming the first team outside Lagos to have the top flight league, how does the club hope to keep up with the momentum? We want to keep the girls on their toes and ensure that they don’t become complacent. We want to start with screening so that we can discover one or two more talents. Then, we bring them together with the players we have to ensure that we prepare earlier and well so that we can sustain the level that we are now or even surpass it. Air Warriors came first, what else do you need to surpass? One, the continental is there and as we are representing the country; we have to be at our best. Secondly, we have to be able to attract corporate bodies and others that would want to partner me, the chairman of the club. We are also launching our academy this year. We want to maintain this momentum to give our rivals greater challenge. How does it feel that one of your players gets an invite to the senior national team and also got nomination for the 2019 Arewa Sports Award? It was a thing of joy for us and we hope that many of them will still be nominated. These girls are still young and this is a momentum that we really want to sustain with all our players to make sure that each and every one of them has one or two awards under their belt and possibly, making sure that every award; player of the season, the best guard, and what have you – comes to us. That is our prayers. That is our aim. We want to make sure that we represent our country. That is our joy. The new season is fast approaching, what should we expect from the Air Warriors family? Yes! We have a lot to add. We don’t want to just sit down on what we have achieved. We want to be an entertaining team. We want to be the team that will attract crowd to matches. There is no time that Air Warriors will be playing that people know that we are playing and people will not come to see us. We want to bring people back into the stadium. The Nigeria Women Basketball team will be filing out against Mozambique, Serbia, and U.S.A for the Olympic qualifying tournament in Belgrade; do you think we stand a chance? Our chances are high. Right now in Africa, we are number one. From the players that are coming up we have advantage because we are even the champions of height and we have good players who want to break new grounds. Our chances are good.