 PZ Wilmar Food Limited has identified a relationship between feeding well and productivity in workplaces and among students. Through its Mamador brand, the firm said it will continue to push for healthy feeding habits among Nigerians and  encourage them to adopt a healthy and balanced breakfast lifestyle. Speaking during the launch of its breakfast campaign in Lagos, it said it will sensitise the public on the need for a more healthy approach to breakfast. Category Marketing Manager, PZ Wilmar, Chioma Mbanugo, stressed the need to drive understanding of the importance of breakfast for children. “We want to inspire a new generation of healthy Nigerians, which is why we have decided to pay attention to the leaders of tomorrow, essentially because we believe it is important for the children to know why breakfast is the most important meal of the day and also what constitutes a healthy breakfast. The goal is to enable them have a great head start each day, which is where the Mamador Light Fat Spread comes in, as it offers loads of nutrients essential for growth and development, especially in children. Choosing breakfast foods that are rich and balanced with nutrients boost kids’ attention span, concentration, and memory — which they need to learn in school. We want to equip these children enough to also inspire their parent to make the right breakfast choices for them,” she said. Also, Assistant Brand Manager, Mamador, Omobolanle Akin-Fatodu, stressed the need for families to take healthy breakfast. “Not only is it important to eat breakfast, you should also eat the right kind of breakfast – a meal packed with nutrients to get you off to a great start and keep you going throughout the day. Sadly, it is the most skipped meal of the day, so Mamador is on a mission to help Nigerians develop a breakfast-eating habit, and a healthy one, at that. We recently launched our new Mamador Light Fat Spread, which offers loads of benefits – it is cholesterol and trans-fat free, very easy to spread with a creamy buttery taste and most importantly, it provides the required vitamins and minerals essential for growth, development, and optimal functioning of our bodies and minds,” she said. PZ Wilmar Food Limited, through its new Mamador Light Fat Spread, seeks to reach and educate millions of children in select schools across the country on the importance of breakfast and the role it plays in their optimal bodily and mental functioning. It said it is also using the campaign to further introduce consumers to the latest addition in the Mamador portfolio – the Mamador Light Fat Spread. The newly introduced spread is said to contain ‘health and taste benefits that deliver on healthy nutrition and is packed with nutrients that help children and families have an active head start to the day, among other benefits. Through the breakfast campaign, Mamador also seeks to create awareness as regards the health repercussions of unhealthy breakfast habits and food combinations that are typical of Nigerians, proposing healthier options in the process.