 These women sell everything from vegetables and cosmetics to clothes and meals like ewa agoyin and akara. They get up at the crack of dawn and spend their days negotiating with customers and suppliers; managing what staff they have – all the while trying to draw in customers, in order to make enough money to support their families. I know this because over a one year period, we at Grooming Centre embarked on a project with the MasterCard Centre for Inclusive Growth, aimed at properly tracking and analysing these women’s sales logs, amongst other things. What we found was both remarkable and revealing: the impact of contributions of the bottom of the pyramid to Nigeria’s economy is often underestimated. Of Nigeria’s 200 million citizens, 88 million — or 44.2% — are at the bottom of the pyramid. These individuals are the drivers of the nation’s informal sector, and ultimately, its unleavened potential. They are your small and micro- entrepreneurs: your market traders, cleaners, your hairdressers, mechanics, motorcycle riders, and so on.  Currently, the informal sector makes up about 60% of Nigeria’s economy, with a growth rate of 8.5% in the last two years. Women are more likely to be part of the informal economy; and of this informal sector, women face disproportionately greater financial access barriers, which prevent their full participation in the economy. The potential at the bottom of the pyramid in Nigeria is evident, and yet, the gender gap in access to financial services persists across all types of financial services.  For example, women are less likely than men to have formal bank accounts and even less likely to have borrowed. Globally, women-owned small businesses face a credit gap of $1.7 trillion, limiting their ability to grow. This reality is replicated a little closer to home, in Kenya, where women are only able to access 7% of total available formal credit. According to the World Bank, Africa has the highest growth rate of female-run businesses in the world, and across emerging markets, female owned small and medium-sized enterprises represent nearly 40% of all SMEs (some nearly 10 million women- owned firms) — a figure that nearly doubles with the inclusion of female micro-entrepreneurs. Remarkably, however, in these markets, women-owned micro/small businesses have unmet financial needs of US$260 – US$320 billion a year.  To drive the point home, the available global evidence indicates that Nigeria’s GDP could grow by 23% —or $229 billion— by 2025 if women participated in the economy to the same extent as men (through opening bank accounts, accessing loans, etc.). As we think about developing solutions to the barriers faced by women in accessing credit, it is useful to remind ourselves about why this particular agenda is of urgent and utmost importance. Beyond moral arguments about social justice, basic human dignity and giving the most marginalised members of our society greater chances at life, there are significant economic benefits that we all reap when women are included. Women often invest a higher proportion of their income back into their families and communities than men. Evidence from around the world shows us that when women’s access to credit and other financial services is improved, they expand their businesses, directly increasing the productivity of their communities. They also invest more in their children’s education and health — two key intergenerational levers of development outcomes.  A study conducted in Bumala Village in Kenya showed that access to savings accounts for female market vendors allowed them to keep higher levels of inventory and therefore have higher incomes. Another randomised field experiment among 1,148 poor women in 40 villages across rural Mongolia showed that group loans had a positive impact on female entrepreneurship in particular.  Amongst women who participated in the experiment, there was an overall increase of 9% in the incidence of women operating a business, compared to the control group. In addition to institutional barriers which both women and men at the bottom of the pyramid face, women — perhaps rural women in particular, face additional socio-cultural barriers. Beyond the language barriers and cultural notions about women’s roles at home, in many parts of Nigeria, women cannot own or otherwise cede ownership of landed property and chattel to the male figures in their families. As such, credit facilities which rely on the existence of some form of physical collateral necessarily exclude these otherwise industrious but under-capitalised women.  A better indicator of credit-worthiness would be a track record of enterprise or savings history based on formal or informal methods. These will necessarily entail intensive engagement with these women and their communities — but if we are to be intentional about building a femeconomy, including these diligent women at the bottom of the pyramid, and ensuring our collective economic growth as a result — these are the sacrifices we must be prepared to make. One other limiting factor is the lack of awareness of credit products/services available. Innovation in the last few years has certainly translated to an increase in the number and types of products available to low income individuals in Nigeria. However, often, these products are not marketed in ways that our already marginalised women can understand or trust. Financial institutions have also adopted models that often do not translate to uptake in consumption by small and micro-entrepreneurs — given the highly informal nature of these businesses. In addition, the paucity of gender-disaggregated demand-side data means that financial institutions often do not understand the nature and form of the credit needs of Nigeria’s underserved small and microentrepreneurs. First, understanding these nuances is critical. Our financial institutions must then design and scale products, sales and servicing models to appropriately cater to these women. None of this is to say that all women at the bottom of the pyramid are dynamic, ambitious and industrious individuals who will shine given the credit needed to improve their economic outcomes. In reality, in addition to being economically marginalised; these women are often also socially and educationally marginalised. It is important for financial institutions to determine where skills or financial literacy training and social preparation are necessary inputs which will extend the impact of any credit facilities made available, and for public actors and private players who are able, to encourage the consistent and continuous transfer of human capital.