From Frank Ikpefan, Abuja  Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Babcock University, Ilishan-Remo, Prof. Sunday Owolabi, has said the mission of the institution is to provide quality education for Nigerians. Owolabi, who is a professor of Accounting, said this would make them responsible, productive, and useful in the society. Owolabi spoke during a conference for proprietors and principals of secondary schools as well as parents and other stakeholders in Abuja. He said: “Our mission is to give quality education to Nigerian citizens so that they can become responsible, productive, useful and also become a heavenly candidate. That’s our mandate and we will not relent doing it.” He said the conference was put together by the university to teach proprietors and principals of secondary schools how to run a successful school. According to him, the proprietors were exposed to some tips on how to run a successful high school. Owolabi added: “The conference was to teach the principals how to run a successful, efficient, effective and profitable school. They have been able to acquire a lot of things. We were able to expose them  to ways of  running a successful high school. Because their output is my input so I am interested in their success.  “We had to come together to form a collaboration to ensure that all obstacles that may be on their way to run a successful school are removed. “It is not good to allow anybody owe more than a semester. Once that happens, you stop that child from coming to school. It should be extended to even private schools. “It is good to run a viable private school. Don’t run a school with a population that cannot pay. What is the purpose? After owing for one year they will run away to another school. So why are you retaining them more than one term? After one term let them leave. Give the seat to another person who is ready to pay. “To run an efficient school, you cannot continue to fund the children’s bills. At the end of the day, they will change school. Unlike a university where it is not easy to change school, they change school very easily every year. Those things need to be considered. “When they stay, you will be losing so it is better to stop them from coming than for them to escape because ultimately they will escape. When somebody is owing more than one or two semesters, they will change school and move to the next class in the next school and abandon you. “The proprietors may form a union whereby they will be able to make reference point. If anybody is owing and come to your school, send them back to go and settle their bills first. That may be the solution to that.”