As a sports enthusiast, you never want to miss a game or anything happening around your favorite teams and athletes. However, between your busy work schedule and daily family or social life, it can be hard to watch a game live or watch the sports news on your TV. Fortunately, these top 10 sports news apps have got your back, bringing you everything from statistics to the latest transfer news. The Bleacher Report keeps you updated with the latest news on your favorite athletes and fancied teams. You can choose the teams you prefer to get updated on, and the app will give you real-time notifications, gathering the content from several credible online sources. This app is widely known for delivering quick sports analysis, updates, scores, and breaking sports news. The app works on both android and iOS devices, allowing you to follow your favorite players and teams for a personalized news experience. It also comes with integrated social features. Designed as a free sports app compatible with Android & iOS smartphones, Yahoo Sports gives you sports-related information without any subscription. Users can also watch NHL and MLB games live while enjoying regular sports updates in the form of news, statistics, and scores. Whether you’re looking for sports news updates, insights, or expert analysis to help you wager on the right outcome at Betway, ESPN has got your back. Users enjoy personalized information on the favorite teams and players, and you can pay a monthly subscription to start streaming live videos from your smartphone. With CBS Sports, you’ve got stats, scores, and real-time news right on your fingertips. You can log into the app with your Facebook or Google account, and you’re free to add all the teams you love for quick access to related stories, schedules, and scores. You can also listen to podcasts and radio, as well as access a TV schedule depending on your ZIP code. Developed by Microsoft Corporation, the MSN Sports app provides extensive coverage on basketball, hockey, football, cricket, golf, and rugby. It also covers sports events in Africa, Europe, the Middle East, and the Asia Pacific, featuring thousands of teams and leagues with player profiles. 365Scores is among the best sports apps with the freshest information on teams and players from all leagues. It comes with an online 3D tracker offering full visualization in a game, enabling users to track game highlights. For over two decades, LiveScore has been providing live game scores on different sports, including tennis, cricket, hockey, American football, basketball, and soccer. There’s no better app for NFL enthusiasts that the league’s official app, NFL Mobile. The users get unlimited access to all the 32 games in the league, getting the chance to watch live content, including the Pro Bowl, Playoffs, NFL Network, Super Bowl, and regular-season games. For sports coverage and news, BBC Sport is another brilliant app covering sports like rugby, Formula 1, football, tennis, golf, and cricket. In other games, it offers brief information with several links to dedicated credible sources that keep you updated on everything, including rowing and archery. Even better, you get much more sports information compared to other apps, including videos and interviews.