A UKRAINIAN airliner on Wednesday crashed shortly after take-off from Tehran, bursting into flames and killing 176 people on board. Debris and smouldering engine parts from the Boeing 737, which carrier – Ukraine International Airlines -said was last serviced two days ago, were strewn across a field southwest of the Iranian capital where rescue workers in face masks laid out scores of body bags. This came as 56 people died in a stampede during the funeral for the top Iranian general Qasem Soleimani who was killed in an airstrike in the Iraqi capital, Baghdad. Ukrainian Foreign Minister Vadym Prystaiko, while reacting on the crash, said: “Among the victims were 82 Iranians, 63 Canadians, 11 Ukrainians, 10 Swedes, three Germans and three Britons.” The airline noted that most passengers were in transit. The accident occurred as confrontation between Iran and the U.S. threatens to trigger a wider conflict in the Middle East, and officials cautioned that speculation about what happened was premature. It was the Kiev-based carrier’s first fatal crash, and it said it was doing everything possible to establish the cause. Canadian Foreign Minister Francois-Philippe Champagne said he was in touch with Ukraine’s government. “Our hearts are with the loved ones of the victims. “We will continue to keep Canadians informed as the situation evolves,” he said on Twitter. Under international rules, responsibility for investigating the crash lies with Iran, and Iranian state television said both of the plane’s black box voice and data recorders had been found. Iran will not give the black box of the crashed Ukrainian airliner to plane maker Boeing, the head of Tehran’s civil aviation organisation was quoted as saying . Ali Abedzadeh also said it was not clear which country Iran would send the box to so that its data could be analysed, semi-official Mehr news agency reported.  Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said that the government will reach out to international partners to ensure that the crash is thoroughly investigated. “Our government will continue to work closely with its international partners to ensure that this crash is thoroughly investigated, and that Canadians’ questions are answered,” Trudeau said in a statement after offering his condolences to the friends and families of the victims. Trudeau also said the government is in touch with the government of Ukraine, and “is speaking to relevant authorities and to international partners”. Canada broke off diplomatic relations with Iran in 2012. Airlines re-route or cancel flights around Iraq, Iran But, major airlines have cancelled Iran and Iraq flights  and re-routed others away from both countries’ airspace, following an Iranian missile strike on United States-led forces in Iraq. Germany’s Lufthansa, Dubai-based Emirates and low-cost flydubai were among airlines that cancelled flights, as the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration barred American carriers from the area. But several other carriers continued operations over the affected airspace. Iran fired more than a dozen ballistic missiles from its territory targeting at least two Iraqi military bases hosting U.S.-led coalition personnel early , the U.S. military said. Within hours, the FAA barred U.S. carriers from airspace over Iran, the Gulf of Oman and the waters between Iran and Saudi Arabia, citing “heightened military activities and increased political tensions in the Middle East, which present an inadvertent risk to U.S. civil aviation operations.”