With Victor Akande  THERE are two major things a reality TV show does to participants: it is either the fans like a contestant for their realness or resent them for pretense. Although the organisers will not force the true identity of contestants on the viewers, the power of the show lies with the viewers who are able to decipher how real each contestant has been on the show. In Big Brother Naija show for instance, one could recollect that a participant, Bisola, had a seven-year-old child which she disclosed at the opening of the show – this way, if being a single mother is of interest to any fan, they are able to identify with Bisola’s actions relatively. Teddy A and Bam Bam who were on another edition of Big Brother Naija followed through with their relationship after the house and established one of the realities of a show of that nature. There are times that one needs a break from scripted entertainment, and enjoy the veracity and piquancy that come with impulsive shows. Such times are when the beauty of reality television comes to play. Here comes to town, a new one called Ultimate Love, set to make history through it’s objective of finding a marital relationship for participants outside the house. There will be money and a heart to win. But whatever the motives of the would-be participants turn out to be, the essence of the show is to generate conversation about life itself. Ultimate Love is the new reality show from MultiChoice Nigeria set to hit DStv and GOtv screens on Sunday, 9 February 2020. Eight males and eight females will be placed in a secluded location known as the “Love Pad”, with hopes that they will find life-long love. The contestants will have to compete and carry out different tasks and win the votes of the public. The winning couple will not only have won each other’s hearts and the hearts of viewers but will also win an all-expense-paid traditional wedding ceremony and a fully furnished house – if they commit to getting married. If not, they still get to win a cash prize and other amazing prizes.  One of the unique features of the show is the presence of “Aunty”. Who is Aunty and what is she all about? Just like Big Brother, Aunty will also be a prominent feature on the show but unlike the former who is recognized by his voice only, Aunty will be physically present in the Love Pad. Her job will be to help the singles find their perfect partner and provide them with counsel where necessary. Aunty will also ensure that the contestants are occupied with loads of daily and weekly tasks and activities, all designed to help them pick the perfect partner and groom their new-found love. Already, this pivotal character has left soon-to-be fans of the show guessing who would play the role of Aunty. Perhaps she will be revealed before the show or may be not. Organisers have promised that the Ultimate Love reality TV show will deliver a good dose of excitement, twists, surprises and suspense when it makes its debut on Sunday, 9 February. This is no regular dating show, as it is a journey for 16 strangers who are willing to take a chance on love against the background of a reality TV show. Viewers will expect raw emotions, lovers’ spats and most importantly, expressions of love that will keep them glued to their screens.