The leader of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Port Harcourt City Local Government Area of Rivers State, Nnamdi Wuche, spoke with BISI OLANIYI on the crisis in the chapter and the agitation for power shift by the riverine areas.  Former House of Representatives member Igo Aguma approached the High Court in Port Harcourt and he obtained an order stopping the proposed APC congresses. What is your reaction? In as much as there is need to have peace in Rivers APC, is it for Igo Aguma to go against the decision of the Comrade Adams Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee (NWC) of the party? The members of NWC of APC are working tirelessly to ensure that there is peace in APC, especially with the setting up of a reconciliation committee, headed by the Senate President, Senator Ahmed Lawan. Rivers is not the only state in Nigeria, where APC is having problems and crises. You know what is happening in Edo State. Aguma could give advice or make suggestions to members of the reconciliation committee about how peace could be achieved in the party, not through court case. The court injunction obtained by Aguma is abnormal and not expected of him, taking into consideration his close relationship with the leader of APC in Rivers state and the Southsouth zone, Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, the Minister for Transportation. Nothing stops Aguma from meeting with Rt. Hon. Amaechi to suggest how the party can make progress. As the leader of APC in Port Harcourt city council, did Aguma not complain to you about developments in the party before approaching the court? Since charity begins at home, if Aguma had things bothering him about Rivers APC, he ought to have first informed the home base, but he never did. Aguma and I are very close, but he did not deem it fit to brief me, before taking the legal option. If he had contacted me before going to court, I would have advised him appropriately. Having not exhausted the internal conflict resolution mechanisms of APC, before approaching the court, in line with the constitution of the party, does APC in PHALGA intend to sanction Aguma? I am the leader of APC in PHALGA, but I will still consult other stakeholders of the party, before decisions can be taken. Of course, we have started discussing. We have started weighing his actions and inactions. At the appropriate time, we shall come up with our resolution to that effect and decide on the appropriate measure to follow. Are you comfortable with the Isaac Ogbobula-led caretaker committee of APC in Rivers State? One of the reasons that Igo Aguma approached the Rivers State High Court, Port Harcourt is that the caretaker committee, put in place by the Comrade Adams Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee (NWC) of the party should be nullified because that the caretaker committee is not in the constitution of APC. Members of NWC of APC did no wrong in putting in place the caretaker committee in Rivers State, in order to move the party forward. Aguma is wrong to have gone to court over the matter. His (Aguma) approaching the court to stop the ward, local government and state congresses that should have started on Saturday, December 21, 2019 is uncalled for. Rt. Hon. Amaechi will not be deterred with Aguma’s court case, because he (Amaechi) remains focused and he is working tirelessly to move Rivers APC forward. There is no problem without solution. Rivers APC must forge ahead. I can confirm to you that Amaechi has been fair to all the members of APC in Rivers state. So surprised that Aguma is still referring to Amaechi as his leader. If you are no longer with somebody, you ought to come out boldly that you are no more with him, rather than pretending to be loyal, when you are not. That is not how to play politics. Aguma had on many occasions represented Amaechi’s group at different fora, including speaking on radio and television, as well as having publications in newspapers to defend the transportation minister and his actions. Aguma was one of the allies of Amaechi, who had given him (Aguma) so many responsibilities in the party. It is difficult to trust anybody. Aguma’s conscience should be able to determine where he is, but certainly not with Amaechi. Are you suspecting that Aguma is acting the script of another politician? There can be no smoke without fire. A man cannot just wake up and begin to speak negatively about somebody that he was very close to. Our leader, Amaechi, has been consistent in believing in his supporters, but some of his supporters have continued to disappoint him. For those of us who believe in Amaechi and who will continue to believe in him, God willing, we must be consistent. As the leader of APC in PHALGA, you ought to be aware that a committee has already been put in place, including members of APC and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), to facilitate the defection of Governor Nyesom Wike of PDP to APC in early 2020. How will you feel if Wike, a lawyer like you, and his teeming supporters join you in APC? Wike is a politician and he knows what he wants. If he wants to defect to APC, he is welcome. If he feels that leaving PDP for APC will be a safe ground for him, no problem.  We are already there in APC and we will be waiting for him to come, then we will know the next line of action. We are very ready to receive him, whenever he decides to defect to APC. If Wike’s planned defection to APC is responsible for the court cases and the crisis, he (Wike) and his allies must bear in mind that we are fully on the ground in APC in Rivers State. Whoever wants to defect must follow the right channel and do the proper things, devoid of character assassination, name-calling or causing confusion. Rivers is a multi-ethnic state, with upland/riverine dichotomy. Amaechi and Wike are both Ikwerre, but the Rivers governor wants that he is succeeded in 2023 by a former Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Chief Austin Opara, also an Ikwerre, to succeed him. Will Wike be fair to the riverine people and other ethnic groups? That is Wike’s scheming. In politics, you utilise the opportunity that you have. The ability to utilise crises or political opportunities effectively makes the person a good politician. You can only scheme and scheme well, if you have an opportunity. Wike is looking forward to a political future, after being governor for eight years. I can assure you that APC will produce Rivers governor and president in 2023. We will surely put our house in order before the next elections. APC will succeed in 2023. There must be corrective measures on what happened to Rivers APC during the 2019 elections. What is the way forward for Rivers APC? Aguma’s case at the Rivers State High Court, Port Harcourt was adjourned till January 27, 2020, for definite hearing. Except Aguma will want to withdraw the suit, otherwise, we will wait for the court’s decision and then we will continue. I am aware that Ibrahim Umar and 22 others, who are supporters of Senator Magnus Abe (the representative of Rivers Southeast Senatorial District in the 7th and 8th Senate, who was APC’s governorship aspirant in 2015 and 2019) have indicated that they will appeal the December 18, 2019 judgment of Justice G.O. Ollor of Rivers high court, Port Harcourt, which struck out their suit, thereby setting aside the interim order which halted the ward, local government and state congresses of the party in Rivers State. Rivers APC will remain. Some persons will go out, while more people will come in. We want true reconciliation, peace and progress in the APC in Rivers state, especially for the party to go forward. As we are seeking for peace, the right things must be done, following the proper channel. There is no political party in Nigeria without crisis. I can assure you that the ugly experience during the 2019 elections, when Rivers APC could not field candidates for the state’s House of Assembly, governorship and National Assembly elections, will not be repeated in 2023. We have learnt our lessons.