Several football enthusiasts on Wednesday hailed Senegal’s Sadio Mane and Nigeria’s Asisat Oshoala for winning the top awards at the CAF Awards 2019 held on Tuesday in Hurghada, Egypt. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Mane won the Men’s Player of the Year award, while Oshoala won the women’s version of the award after an outstanding calendar year. Mané won the award for the first time, after beating Liverpool teammate Mohamed Salah and Manchester City’s Riyad Mahrez, while FC Barcelona Women’s Oshoala won for a joint record fourth time. Having finished behind the Egypt forward in the last two years, Mané became the second Senegalese to win the award after another Liverpool player, El Hadji-Diouf, in 2001 and 2002. Oshoala, who scored in FC Barcelona Women’s UEFA Champions League final defeat to Lyon, beat Ajara Nchout of Cameroon and South Africa’s Thembi Kgatlana to the African women’s top prize. A cross-section of football enthusiasts, while reviewing the development, told NAN the two recipients were well deserving of the awards, adding that consistency was crucial for them in winning the awards. Felix Anyansi-Agwu, the Chairman of Enyimba International Football Club of Aba, said Mane and Oshoala, as well as other winners in the various categories, were well deserving of the awards. “Congrats to Mane and Oshoala. As for Victor Osimhen and Samuel Chukwueze, just like every other Nigerian player, they must learn to be consistent if they hope to win future awards. “Mane really deserves the award, as he did very well in 2019 and was unfortunate not to have won the 2019 FIFA Ballon d’Or. “Oshoala on her part has been consistent for both club and country and winning the award for a joint record fourth time was no mean feat. “All other winners in the various categories actually also deserved the awards on merit. “Many people would have actually argued the fact that Wilfred Ndidi should have been in the Africa First Eleven. “But the fact still remains that the young man has not done enough this past year to deserve a place in Africa Best XI compared to the ones that are on the list. “To be sincere, it saddens my heart each year when the African Player of the Year (APOTY) award was being presented to non-Nigerians. “The last time a Nigerian won the APOTY was 20 years ago and yet we produce players with great potentials on the continent on a yearly basis with nothing to show for it on Africa’s big stage,” he said. Mohammed Mukhtar, the FCT FA Chairman, on his part said Mane was long overdue for the award. He added that Oshoala’s joint record fourth win was a clear testimony of her hard work and commitment to the game. “Both the Men’s and Women’s Player of the Year award winners were the overwhelming favourites, even before the results were announced officially. “There was no question about the consistent contributions and commitments of both players to their clubs as well as their national teams. “Mane has been outstanding and consistent for club and country for quite a long time now and same goes for Oshoala,” the FA chairman said. He however questioned the choice of Morocco‘s Achraf Hakimi over Osimhen, adding that the latter was the overwhelming favourite in the category. “In my opinion, Osimhen deserved it more. What more consistency do you need from a player who scored 27 goals and seven assists in 45 matches in 2019 (both in Belgium and France). “In addition, he scored four international goals in five outings with the national side, compared to Hakimi who scored nine goals with seven assists in 42 matches of 2019 for Borussia Dortmund. “This one was not fair at all,” Mukhtar added. However, a former Technical Director of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Kashimawo Laloko, on his part said the country’s football teams underachieved last year. He insisted that their players did not deserve to win any award on account of that. In his assessment, Laloko expressed his displeasure at the disappointing showings and believed the country should have performed better, laying the blame at the doorsteps of administrators and coaches. “As far as I am concerned, we achieved nothing in football in 2019 and thus do not deserve any showing at such a big stage. “At the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) in Egypt, we came third and Nigerians were jubilating. But we are supposed to call our football administrators to order, because we should be achieving more. “During the qualifiers for the 2020 African Nations Championship (CHAN), for example, it was all marked with controversies and eventually we failed to qualify. “Coach Imama Amapakabo, who was the same coach for the CHAN tournament, messed us up again. He was accused of using the wrong players and we suffered for it. Now, we will not be at the Olympics in Tokyo. “Even at the Under-20 World Cup which used to be our area of strength, we failed to make any mark and it was the same for the Under-17 event. There was also the Super Falcons’ failure to qualify for Tokyo 2020 Olympics,” he said. (NAN)