Some corps members of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) serving in Enugu State have expressed joy over the payment of N33,000 new monthly minimum wage by the Federal Government. The corps members, who have been expectant, expressed their happiness while speaking to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Enugu on Friday. Some of the corps members said it was a shock when they started receiving the credit alert at about 2:00a.m on Friday. The respondents, who spoke to NAN, expressed their joy over the payment, noting that the payment was a New Year package from the federal government. One of the corps members, Mr. Joseph Odichi said it was like a dream when he got a call at about 3:00am from a fellow corps member about the payment. “We are really grateful for this administration especially President Muhammadu Buhari for fulfilling its promise especially at this crucial stage of the year. In fact, this is another Good Friday for us. “We also thank the Director General of the NYSC, Brig Gen. Ibrahim Shuaibu, for making it possible after confirming the implementation few weeks ago,” he said. The corps members also pleaded with the DG for the payment of the arrears, noting that it would go a long way in helping most especially the Batch A corps members that would be passing out in less than two months. Another corps member, Miss Arowosegbe Busayo said she still could not believe it but thanked the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari for the kind gesture. “We have been expecting to receive this N33,000 since April last year but we thank God that finally it has been paid. “Most of us could not sleep after the breaking news at about 2 am even though some banks are yet to pay,” she said. Miss Divine Umoh, also a corps member, said that it was too good to be true when she heard the news in the early hours of Friday. “Government has failed us in the past with their promises but this issue of minimum wage has changed my perception. “We pray that things will get better in 2020 because people are really suffering and we urge the federal government to look into our arrears payment,” she said. Another corps member, Tosin Omoloyin jokingly asked for extension of his service by six months.