With Victor Akande ON the heels of my book, Hazy Pictures, and series of similar thoughts expressed in the Standby column, some creative industry stakeholders have yet to see beyond a punchy title or screaming article headline. Although the book sets out to critique the Nigerian motion picture industry, vis-à-vis the business, art and politics of a sector that has come to be known as the second producers of home video in the world, the title, Hazy Pictures, is seemingly an outright criticism. Very intentional. On the day of the book launch, a stakeholder had said before guests at the event that the problem of Nollywood is not about pictures. “We know what our problems are and with time we’ll address them,” he said. But like they say; a book is not judged by its cover. Journalism has not only taught me to write for the public, but to also get the public to read and understand. That is all that communication is worth – getting people to share your thoughts. Therefore, from typeface, to type size, colour, and titles or headlines, I owe you and myself the duty of getting you attracted to me. So, how else do I provoke your thoughts without calling you by your shortcoming? Nollywood is one of the best things that have happened to the entertainment industry in Nigeria, but when a fortunate child appears too overwhelmed by their sudden success, a parent who desire a better future for the child suspends all accolades, just so the child can outgrow exuberances. This is my stake on an industry that has done me so much good, but whose praise I find very difficult to sing without some level of restraint. The need to keep us on our toes continues to be my driving force because if Nollywood excels beyond its present status, I will be the first to walk around with my shoulders high. If on the other hand it fails in this growing competitiveness among its peers on the African continent, believe me, I will have no choice than to cover my face in shame, because indeed, it is my industry too! Hazy Pictures may sound critical of the industry, but a visually obscured picture is not necessarily a bad one, rather, one which merely needs to be fine-tuned for clarity. Perhaps also, with the way things are going in the industry, it is not clear that some stakeholders know the direction that Nollywood is facing. That also calls for questions, especially where professionalism is being sacrificed for quick profit. Come to think of it, there are low budget films all over the world and it is never an excuse for why a film should not be best within its financial limits.  Therefore, if you follow the flow of these writings, you would understand that its presentation is as dramatic in style as what a discerning mind would cherish. When you remove a log from a man’s eye, it is only logical that he would not only see better, but feel better. Nollywood requires such knowledge and understanding to break away from some of its hinderances. One of the things that Hazy Pictures sets out to do, is to rewrite some of the narratives of the industry that have become phenomenal, especially now that the industry is a case study for researchers and students of theatre and dramatic arts. It becomes pertinent for reporters to set the records straight. As enumerated in what was tagged the synopsis of the industry, I did state that Nollywood became a national income alternative to agriculture and oil when, nearly three decades ago, a few professional dramatists and business men, dealing in blank video cassettes, saw the need to record dramas for home viewing. This evolution has been traced to names like Alade Aromire, with the film, Ekun (1987) and Kenneth Nnebue who did Living in Bondage (1992). The latter’s effort was followed suit with Gabriel Okoye’s Battle of Musanga and Nneka the Pretty Serpent. And so, the wide acceptance of these flicks by movie buffs could be said to have opened the floodgate to the craze of direct-to-video production, thus bringing about what today has come to be dubbed Nollywood. But suffice to say that, the evolvement of home video had its root in the age-long Yoruba travelling theatre, the attendant cinema exhibitions and the popularised television dramas of the 80s. Until very recently, some of these facts were indeed hazy to most of us. On this note, I like to say, may our short-sightedness not becloud our vision and perception of the numerous potentials that await the entertainment industry in 2020. Bonne année!