Our Reporter  Were she to be alive, filmmaker Amaka Igwe would have been 57 years old yesterday. The late filmmaker was born January 2, 1963 in Port-Harcourt, now Rivers State. She studied Education/Religion at the University of Ife (now Obafemi Awolowo University). After her degree, Amaka joined the MNET short celluloid film “Barbers Wisdom” as director and then proceeded to the University of Ibadan, where she obtained a master’s degree in Library and Information Sciences. She spent her time during her National Youth Service Corps as a travelling secretary for the Scripture Union. She then worked at the Anambra State University of Technology as an executive director at Eida Information Systems before settling in the creative industry. She married her husband Charles Igwe in April, 1993, and had three children before. Amaka was the owner of Top Radio 90.9 Lagos and Amaka Igwe Studios. she was recognized as one of the second generation filmmakers who helped begin the video film era of Nigerian cinema. She died in 2014. However, internet search giant, Google, on Thursday, recognised Amaka by creating a doodle which was seen on its search engine.  Speaking about the development, actress Moyo Lawal who is also the late Amaka’s birthday mate was the first person to give her a lead role in a movie, a move which Moyo said bouyed her confidence. “Forever in my heart, Anti Amaka Igwe,” Moyo wrote. “Today was her birthday. First woman to ever give me a lead , that was when I knew for sure, that I was talented and nobody could tell me nothing. Continue to Rest In Peace mama.” To celebrate her own birthday, Moyo posted a picture in which she held a cup cake in one hand and had another cake on the arm of the chair she sat on. In her post, she thanked her family, friends and fans for their gifts. “Gifts from friends and well wishers mean a lot to me but you see gifts from family, they mean everything,” she wrote. “Thankful for an enlightened family that allows me to ** do me** because they know the real me. “P.s my family always give me, the most amazing “meaningful” presents… this year, they gave me pots, plates… and some beautiful jewelry…. …… (This gifts have meaning , if you are Yoruba and above 30, you will totally get this)”