Jimoh Ijegbai, a lawyer, is the Edo State Commissioner for Education and an ardent supporter of Governor Godwin Obaseki. In this interview with Osagie Otabor, he says the governor’s achievements will secure victory for him at the poll.  How can the Edo APC crisis be resolved? I do not see any crisis that will not end, if people are genuine. There can be disagreement but the ability to resolve the crisis differentiates us, from animals. I think that, if there are genuine efforts. What are the issues? Oshiomhole laid the foundation. Obaseki is building on what we started. I do not see any reason for the crisis not to be resolved. The party is making effort to see peace rein in the party in Edo State. How will it end? In a democracy, there are laid down rules for whatever you are doing. It is not a lawless society. The constitution of the party is there. Whatever you are doing that is not in line with the laws of the land, you are wasting your time. It ought not to be. In democracy, you have submitted that you are going to be guided by the rule of law. It is not a situation where one person will take an action at the spur of the moment that is not legally binding. I think at the appropriate time, we pray peace return to the party and there should be reconciliation, which makes it easier for the party and everybody in the state. The argument among some party members is lack of continuity? Governor Godwin Obaseki has done three years and we are preparing for another election. We are waiting for INEC to announce the time table. To those in this state and outside the state, they can see that Governor Obaseki has done excellently well. In the area of IGR, what we had before Obaseki came on board was a state that was being run by ‘Agberos’. You find them celebrating that they have made billions of naira. Even the former Governor realised that Edo cannot  continue on that path because of the downturn of the economy and he decided to go for one of the best brains we have to become Governor. Obaseki after a careful planning decided we cannot remain that way. He said we must devised technology to use in collecting revenue so that we can plug all the loopholes and ensure that the Edo people get value for whatever is happening in the state. As a run down to the introduction of technology in the collection of revenue at the local government level, the entire 18 local government could only raise N33m monthly. When technology was introduced, the revenue shot up to about N300m as at December last year. If you compare N30m and N300m you should decide whether we can go back to the old ways or continue on what we already started. The populace will be the greatest beneficiary of good governance. Governor Obaseki was one of the persons that put up the pension scheme we have today in Nigeria. He decided to introduce the contributory pension scheme. Today, you can see that pensioners are no longer protesting. Pension and salaries are paid at the same time. He has introduced the same policy at the local government level so that a situation where the wage bill is increasing and pension is increasing there will come a time govenrment will come to a halt and you will not be able to pay those in service and those who have retired. The best way to go is the contributory pension scheme. In education, some people make silly statement that the Governor is not doing well. It is true that Oshiomhole embarked on red roof revolution but Obaseki decided to take it further that it is not sufficient to have structures and the learning process is not there. We decided to introduce technology in teaching our children at the primary school level. It is now being extended to the secondary level. Our children are now learning. There is a big difference between what we have before and what we have now. Obaseki also introduced reforms in the Colleges of Education. In line with the reform policy we are pursuing, we are going to have one College of Education with three campuses. Abudu will be in charge of primary school teachers, Igueben will train teachers in secondary, vocational and technical education and the one at Afuze will train those with Special needs, physical and health education. They will specialise in their core areas. The curriculum will be built around the technology we are using at the primary and secondary school level. Our teachers will be better equipped. We have a team of consultants that will ensure the reforms succeed.  Later this month, we will send a bill to the House of Assembly to consolidate the three colleges into one with three campuses. If you look at our tertiary institutions, we have ran a system that there is no longer crisis. Salaries are being paid, research and development are going on. Obaseki has done well in road construction across the state. Last year, we renovated 240 primary schools across the 18 local government areas. We decided to go to the base. There is no Ward in the state where you will not see one project carried out. It is an attestation that the Governor want to build the party from the base. You don’t need to lobby before projects get to your area. Change is difficult to scale through. People will initially resist it but later they will embrace it. I know that Edo people know Obaseki is working. The other day, the CBN Governor was in the state where he launched a very ambitious programme. We are cultivating 120,000 hectares of land for oil palm. In the next three years, the economy of the state will experience a boom. The state is moving in the right direction. The governors is diversifying the economy. You know about the production centre and the industrial park. By the time Obaseki is re-elected, these things will start bearing fruit. But, some APC leaders are not in tune with your analysis? Obaseki has a vision. He is not focusing on what do I do quickly without planning so that people will be hailing him. He decided to plan first so the result will be more manifest in his second term. There are dearth of teachers in the rural area? In this state, for over 10 years teachers were not recruited into our schools. It did not start with this administration. We have taken the statistics of the gap we have and I know we will fill the gap this year. Our reform will not be complete without having teachers in critical areas. We are aware there are dearth of teachers but we are going to recruit teachers. At the beginning of this year, we got approval from Mr. Governor. There are some schools where contracts were awarded without cash back up. Some of the contractors pulled out. Obaseki has given us a marching order to prioritise and come up with a program to see how every month we can pay contractors so that work can go on smoothly. We have taken inventory of our structures. Why are APC members still not happy with Obaseki? Critics always make the loudest noise. Go down to the 192 wards we have, majority are in support of Mr. Governor. In a democracy, majority will have their way and minority will have their say. It is a very tiny minority that are making noise all over the place. They thought the style of governance should be different and we should continue on the old trajectory that didn’t lead us anywhere. No government will want to go back to old ways of doing things that will not take care of the future. Change is one thing that people will resist when it is coming. When they see the good it is bringing that is when they will accept. There is a tiny minority who have been benefitting in the past and want the old ways to continue. They now realise they cannot key into what is happening thy start talking. This is the first time a Governor is making appointments from the party base. Go down to the grassroots level. For the first time, we have 192 Special Assistants from the 192 Wards. In time past, I know of a local government that will take all that slots. That system is no longer there. Everything has been democratised. There is a feed back mechanism to the government as to what is happening in every ward. For those of use who are Commissioners, the nominations came from the various Wards. The Governor could have made the appointments from his office but he said let the people decide. Let the people lead. That was the mantra. 