Usmanu Danfodyo University, Sokoto (UDUS) 200-Level undergraduates of Forestry have alleged that their result in PHY (Physics) 103 ‘mysteriously disappeared’ from the portal. They want their department to intervene. ABDULEASHEED HAMMAD, a 300-Level Law Student, reports  Year Two students of Forestry, Usmanu Danfodyo University, Sokoto (UDUS) are not happy over a missing result. Like their contemporaries, they had checked the university portal for their second semester result, which UDUS released on December 30 of last year. To their surprise however, one of their courses- PHY (Physics-103) – was either not graded or is missing. The students borrowed the course from the Department of Physics. The affected students who shared their experiences with CAMPUSLIFE are nursing the fear that this development might affect them in future, if it is not rectified now. Beside the students of Fishery, however, checks by CAMPUSLIFE, further revealed that a few students across some departments who  wrote PHY-103 are having similar experiences. Speaking with our correspondent, Abuh Godslove, a 200-Level student of Forestry, said: “I felt disappointed when I checked the portal only to realise that my grade (in PHY-102) was not there. At first, I thought I was the only one until I contacted some of my friends from my department, and discovered that their case is similar. “I will like my department to look into the issue and rectify it as  soon as possible. Based on what we have heard from other levels ahead of us, such missing grades could result in very poor performance,” he said. Oluyemi Yusuf, a second year undergraduate of Biological Science, was equally devastated when he didn’t see his grade for course BCH 103. “I felt bad when the result was released and mine wasn’t showing any grade. Even though, I haven’t taken any step on this. I want my department to help me all the way,” he said. Two other victims from Forestry Department,  Muhawiyya Aliyu and Ummulkhair Abdulrahman Cheche, told CAMPUSLIFE that they and others were yet to formally communicate their grievances to the Department of Physics. Nonetheless, the pair appealed to their department to take further steps in identifying the root cause of the anomaly. “I want my department to help us consult the Department of Physics for a way out,” Aliyu suggested. Najeeb Ibrahim of Forestry is particularly irked that while students in other departments have seen their results, theirs are still hanging. Meanwhile, Abubakar Abdullahi Tijani of the Department of Pharmacy is unhappy because others have seen their results. “I felt depressed when PHY-103 was released. My other colleagues have seen their grade on their portal but I am yet to see mine. Before now I thought I was the only one experiencing this but I later got to know that it also happened to some other  departments. ‘’Lastly, I am pleading with the Physics department to find lasting solution to the problem of missing grade on students portal,” he appealed. Meanwhile, the assistant class representative of the Department of Fishery, Yunus Yusrah, told CAMPUISLIFE that initially, she thought the error was from the university’s information system until she discovered that a handful of other  departments were equally affected. “I actually thought it was related to the problem from MIS (Management Information System); not until I found out that other departments have seen their own except Forestry. “I really felt like ‘What is happening?’ But I have informed some of the lecturers  in our department so they can take steps on how to address the problem. Maybe they should alert the Physics department about this problem.” she said. But Mallam Zubairu Yakubu Gada, who is a Coordinator for 200-Level Forestry Student, has lambasted some students for habitually failing to register a course of interest  online until after exam, saying that is often responsible for missing results. Gada advised the affected students to put their grievances across to the authorities formally. He said: “If the 200-Level students  of Forestry are not seeing their grades in PHY-103 on their respective portals, they should lodge a formal complaint at the Department of Physics, provided they have registered for the course on their portal. But if they didn’t rectify the problem, that is when the department will take necessary action before they can release the result.” He continued: “If they are carryover students, provided that they have registered the course on their portal, they need to make formal complaint to the (Physics) department. I advise that the class representative for the 200-Level should go and do that on her colleagues’ behalf. I’m sure their results will be released.” Head of Department of Forestry Prof A.D. Issa, explained that he was yet to receive any complaint from the students. “They (students) didn’t complain to me as the Head of Department. They should have lodged a complaint for me to look into,” he began. “How would I know that they have missing grade? Let them lodge complaint and I will take it up.”