Our Reporter  Insensitivity! This simply describes the mere announcement that N37bn has been budgeted for the renovation of the National Assembly (NASS) complex. The question that comes into mind immediately is whether the National Assembly members know what is happening out there. At a time when Nigerians are being told that there is no money and the country is about borrowing about $29.9bn; we want to spend a whopping N37billion to renovate the NASS? The Acting Chairman, Senate Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Godiya Akwashiki, missed the point when he said that the NASS leadership did not play any role in the approval of the project, and would not play any in its execution. This is immaterial. His words, “The public outcry against the leadership of the National Assembly on the issue of the N37bn National Assembly complex renovation project is not only misplaced but unnecessary and unwarranted.” He even confounded people the more when he said that “How the team from the FCDA arrived at a cost of N37billion is not the business of the National Assembly.” So, what is the purpose of the Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA) budget passing through the National Assembly? Why can’t the authority just spend without recourse to NASS for appropriation? The way Senator Akwashiki is talking, it seems he is yet to understand why Nigerians are sad about the development. It is not only the Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) that is unhappy; if the NASS leadership must be told, the group is speaking for millions of voiceless Nigerians who have to suffer one way or the other if such a huge amount is spent to renovate the NASS. The public anger against the expensive renovation is not about whether members of the National Assembly are going to benefit from the contract award or not. It is also not whether the money is part of the NASS 2020 budget. The issue is that N37billion of the tax-payers’ money is about to be spent to renovate the NASS. Pure and simple! Even if the FCDA, the owner of the building says it wants to spend that much to renovate the place, a sensitive senate which carries out oversight functions on other government establishments ought to reject the proposal on the basis of the cost which does not reflect the state of the country’s economy. If we spend N37bn to renovate the place, how much would it cost us to build a new NASS complex? If the senate saw nothing wrong in this proposal, then it shows the carefree manner it has been spending the country’s scarce resources. Much as we agree that horse trading is part of the democratic process, we find it disgusting that the president would accede to such request. For a government that came into being ostensibly to right the wrongs of the past, this is unbecoming and does not in any way reflect the Spartan lifestyle that President Muhammadu Buhari is noted for.  It is true we abhor the kind of legislature/executive rifts that characterised the immediate past NASS, at the same time we deplore the incestuous relationship that would allow such proposed expenditure to pass the presidential test if the NASS members could not see the insensitivity in it. If Nigerians are angry; it is not just about the fact that the NASS complex is about to be renovated for N37billion. It is pent-up anger from other issues in the assembly, including constituency projects, the outrageous allowances collected by NASS members in a country where minimum wage has just been raised to N30, 000, a thing that some state governments will find difficult to pay. What we have been having over the years is a situation which seems to give special status to NASS members or which immunes them from the economic challenges that the country is passing through. While the sing-song from government is for Nigerians to tighten their belts, those in the NASS and political office holders generally are loosening theirs. This is unacceptable. Let the cost be reviewed downwards and let the renovation be done in phases if it is true that the place is indeed in a bad shape. We should stop talking about billions of naira as if we are talking about former Zimbabwean dollars! Nigerians should say no to this self-serving, highly insensitive and provocative proposition.