By Praise Olowe  It is often common among Nigerians to spend the rest of their lives with someone who is in the same age bracket. Perhaps based on culture, many think it is really weird for a man to marry a woman who is much older than him. However, for some people, and even Nigerian celebrities, a large age gap works well. Here are Nigerian celebrities with daring age gaps between them and their women: *Lola and Peter Okoye  Singer Peter Okoye is married to Lola Omotayo, who is said to be six years older. Omotayo is a marketing representative. The couples are already parents to son Cameron and daughter Aliona. Peter and his twin brother Paul were born on the 18th of November 1981. In an interview years back, Lola spoke on their age difference. She said: “Like I said, Peter is an old soul and he always tells me that I’m like a 23-year-old.
“Even in Nigeria here, they are dating people far older than their age. So, we shouldn’t base it on the age factor. He doesn’t make me feel like he’s younger than me.”
On November 17, 2013, Peter and Lola walked down the aisle as husband and wife in a lavish wedding ceremony. * Kaffy and Joseph Ameh  Kafayat Sharafat popularly known as Kaffy is a dancer, choreographer, dance instructor and fitness coach. She is best known for breaking the Guinness World Record for “Longest Dance Party” at the Nokia Silverbird Danceathon in 2006. Kaffy, a mother of two, got married to Joseph Ameh one of P Square’s drummers in 2012. She is eight years older than Pappy J as he is popularly called.
The couple has been very happy together. *Deola Ayeni and Dare Art-alade  Dare Art Alade – popularly known as Darey – is a musician, singer-songwriter, and Idol series judge. He is the son of the renowned Nigerian entertainer, Art Alade. Dare honed his skills at an early age, singing with several choirs, including the National Troupe of Nigeria Choir and then the Cathedral Choir. From 15, he began performing extensively in clubs around Lagos, Ibadan and other cities in Nigeria. Dare Art-Alade and his wife Deola Ayeni, who is said to be eight years, have been married for more than 10 years. Dare said of the age difference: ” No pressures at all! Everybody at sometime finds what works for him or her. I am perfectly happy with my marriage to my wife and I absolutely have no problems or pressures of any sort.” This is another couple who has proved to us that age Is just a number when it comes to marriage.