Inmates of the correctional centre in Kuje in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) are being trained in a wide range of agricultural ventures that will prepare them for life after leaving jail. BLESSING OLAIFA reports.  Dukpa correctional farm centre is located in the Gwagwalada area council in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). It is one of the 17 farm centres owned and managed by the authorities of the Nigerian Correctional Service (NCS) in different locations across the country. During a visit by this correspondent to Dukpa farm centre, the inmates working on the farm, in the age bracket of 25-35, looked vibrant and enthusiastic as they went about their various tasks. They were about 75 in number and some of them were seen grazing herds of cattle around the farm and nearby open fields. This correspondent observed the excitement in the inmates as they carried out different roles on the farm. The NCS authorities have decided to train them in productive ventures that would prepare them for challenges they would face in the larger society when they are eventually released after their terms. The NCS has continued to maintain that regardless of the crimes that brought them into confinement, hopes of better and decent life still lie ahead for the inmates and that they can still make positive contributions to the society when they regain their freedom. Many believe that if the inmates had been exposed to the productive ventures they are presently engaged in at Dukpa farm centre in the first place, perhaps some of them would not have found themselves in correctional centres. At Dukpa farm, there is the livestock section, fishery section, poultry section, and maize and rice farms. In poultry, for instance, the inmates are trained in how to mix the feeds and feed the chickens. They are also trained to observe sudden changes in the health of the birds and call for medical support if need be. They know how to clean up the stalls and also pick the eggs. A bakery and confectionery building had just been completed on the farmland. The authorities of the NCS are only awaiting NAFDAC certification to commence production of bread and other consumables. But the inmates are already receiving training ahead of NAFDAC certification. For sure, the NCS has found a way to keep these young men busy. It is heart-warming that the agency has also been reformed to provide legal cover against stigmatisation, especially after they have served their terms. The Public Relations Officer of NCS, Francis Enobore, said under the new law, it is a criminal offence for anyone to refer to them in derogatory or despicable language following their transition back to normal life and restoration to the society. According to Enobore, the NCS has 17 of such farm centres across the country, with several vocational and skill acquisition centres managed by the institution. The idea is to train the inmates and prepare them for life after they have served their prison terms. Enobore said there are 76,000 inmates all over Nigeria, with 52,000 awaiting trial and 2,750 on death roll. Enobore said those on death roll are the most difficult to control or counsel. According to him, their number keeps growing because state governors who should sign their death warrants are not willing to do so. The spokesman added that although inmates on death roll must be fed, the law does not allow the NCS to deploy them on the farm or train them in any form of vocational activity. Asked if the farm has met the expectations of the correctional authorities, Enobore said, “When the present Controller General, Ja’afaru Ahmed, came on board, one of the key areas he vowed to tackle was rejuvenating our farm centres across the country. And to start that process, he identified three farm centres; we have one in Kujama in Kaduna State, the second is Lakushi in Plateau State and the third one is Osala farm centre in Edo State. These farm centres are isolated to enable us to go into large production of crops that are relevant to what we need first because he was also looking at the possibility of generating the bulk of the food we use in feeding the inmates from our farms.  “The farm centre in Kujama has been dedicated to the production of maize, the one in Lakushi is dedicated to the production of rice while the third one in Edo state is dedicated to the production of palm oil. And to hit the ground running, we procured 22 tractors and their relevant implements that have been deployed to these farm centres for massive production.” But have these investments paid off. The NCS spokesman said; “I may not be able to put figures to that right now because I don’t have the record readily at hand. But the new trend that has brought the procurement of modern equipment to enhance productivity in the farm is yielding positive results. “Like you know, the farm centres are not established essentially to generate revenue. The focus is to train the inmates and I can tell you what we also train the inmates in these vocational centres across the country. “It is difficult to close the moral gaps in an adult offender whose character had already been formed. We are tasked with a duty to bring him back to the path of the society where he can now derive pleasure from eating from his sweat. A lot of efforts would have been put into it and it means a lot to the social and economic stability of the country. The efforts must also be seen to engender peace in the land, providing something for the inmate to fall back to when he leaves, and many other gains.” Does this method really work on the inmates and improve their economic status? Enobore said some inmates leverage the little freedom they have to build economic status for themselves. Their experiences allowed them to be focused and prepare them for a better future. “We have custodian camps. It has no wall, it is almost similar to the one we have in some states. The inmates go there, those that committed offences outside sexual offences are taken to that place irrespective of the number of years. When they have served one-quarter of their sentences in various locations of their primary detention, they are transferred to such location based on the recommendation of officers in charge of their primary locations. “They are taken to those borderless environments to be given monitored freedom. Monitored freedom in the sense that they are not entirely free but to a very large extent you don’t see them go about with wardens by their side. They are given relative freedom to see how they can gradually transit to society. Most of them have their families around, they rent houses for their wives and children, they pay their children’s school fees and all that. “Two years back when I was in Kaduna, which is the place we have one of such locations, there was an inmate who was making two million naira from the sale of vegetables from his garden. He confessed to us that he was training two of his children in the university and we have so many of them. There was another person from the east, though he has left that place, he had commercial buses and bought household properties. So we are impacting on them.” Enobore, however, said one of the major challenges faced by the NCS is the growing number of awaiting trial inmates in correctional centres across the country. 