The constitution, by the Federal Government, of a committee to work out the modalities for the increment in pensions payable to retirees in the public sector could not have come at a better time. Coming in the wake of the new national minimum wage, it seems the least the Federal Government could do to align the current pension structure with the wage system. In reality, the review is supposed to be mandatory – the National Salaries, Incomes and Wages Commission is saddled with the onerous responsibility of ensuring that this is done every five years, or with every cycle of wage increases, or whichever comes first. Its failure is what has led to the ludicrous situation in which some of our retirees are said to take home N2,000 or less a month, as pension. The committee, with membership drawn from the National Union of Pensioners (NUP), Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD) and Nigeria Police Force is expected to submit its report next month. We welcome the initiative. The plan would appear limited to retirees under the transitional arrangement since the old, largely unfunded defined benefits scheme is for all practical purposes, as good as dead. As for contributory pensions, these are directly indexed to the workers/employers’ joint contributions; so the benefits cannot be raised by administrative fiat. In any case, the latter is expected to match up with every cycle of wage increase. Unfortunately, if Nigerians are too familiar with the agonies of retirees under the old defined benefits scheme under which pensions, aside being ridiculously paltry, are more often than not not paid as at when due, more appalling is how the transitional arrangement directorate has nearly turned into a den of thieves. The implication of the new measure is that the Federal Government and the states will have to work out the financial implications as well as additional budgetary provisions to cover the differentials – and this at a time both tiers of government – including local governments – are not only in arrears of their pension obligations but have their finances stretched thin. Nigerians can only wonder how the government hopes to curb the mind-boggling abuses that might still arise in the course of the planned review. Of course, we understand that the transitional arrangement will remain with us for some time. Moreover, that the pensions are in dire need of review is also beyond question. Caught between the indolent, corruption cesspool that the PTAD once was, and the do-nothing National Salaries, Incomes and Wages Commission, the pensioner could not have been anything but an endangered lot. Although the measures expected would seem limited in scope, they might at least come to something in the end. However, as in times past, the problem will not be so much what the committee recommends; neither would it be government’s acceptance or lack thereof, of the committee’s recommendation. Rather, things will come strictly down to government’s treatment of it – the discipline of ensuring that the provisions are followed through and obligations scrupulously implemented. In all, to say that nothing is guaranteed is merely stating the obvious. Having gone this far however, we expect the Buhari administration to go the whole hog in implementing the committee’s recommendations if only to be seen to have made a difference in the lives of this class of Nigerians. If the government cannot offer its senior citizens access to free health care and other social welfare packages as obtained elsewhere, it should at least be able to pay what is fair and just for their past services, and this in a timely manner.