 VICE President Prof Yemi Osinbajo (SAN) at the weekend said social safety net an act of kindness but a product of sovereign obligation, adding that the government remained irrevocably committed to pulling millions of Nigerians out of poverty. Speaking at the fifth premiere of Airtel Touching Lives at Eko Hotel and Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos, Prof Osinbajo expressed the gratitude of the Federal Government to the telco for “touching so many lives and doing so without fanfare over the past five years”. Touching Lives is the flagship corporate social responsibility (CSR) of Airtel Nigeria. He said the lives that have been touched must serve as a reminder that so many lives still remained to be touched. The VP recalled that while drafting the manifesto of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2014 along with Prof Pat Utomi and others, the issue of social safety net was given top priority, adding that the government must support the weak, the poor and the vulnerable. “The cardinal pillar of the APC must be to provide social safety for the people of this country, that government owed a duty to the poor, the weak and vulnerable,” he said, insisting that social safety net is not an act of kindness but a sovereign obligation the government owed the citizens. He said social safety net is part of the government’s social investment where the Federal Government is feeding 9.5million in 34 states across the six geopolitical zones. Also speaking on the occasion, the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Pantami, commended Airtel for the initiative, saying the beauty of having wealth is to share with others who do not have. He cited tech billionaires such as Warren Buffet, Bill Gates and others that have set aside a substantial part of their wealth to lift the poor out of poverty. Speaking to the challenges facing the industry, he assured the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Airtel, Segun Ogunsanya that he had addressed the Governors Forum chaired by Dr Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State and had obtained commitment from the governors that the issue of right of way (RoW) has been finally settled. He said some governors have even offered waivers to any telco that intends to build fibre optic cables in their states. He also said the issue of multiple taxation was also addressed at the meeting Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu commended Airtel for touching so many lives through its fantastic CRS project.  He said the telco had earlier donated about 200 lines for the Rapid Response Squad (RRS) of Nigeria Police to aid effective communication which he said is crucial to crime fighting in the state. He said government cannot do it alone, saying the N1.168trillion budget passed into the law by the state House of Assembly is not enough to address the needs of over 20 million Lagosians. He promised to continue to address the challenges of governance and take care of the vulnerable segment of the society. As a mark of appreciation for the good works the telco is playing, Sanwo-Olu promised to give huge discount to it on RoW, urging the telco to however raise the bar in Season 6. Earlier in his welcome address, Ogunsanya said the telco has kept faith with the CSR even during the economic recession. He stressed the importance of community, adding that the strong must support the weak while the rich must support the poor. Ognusanya said giving out is not a function of how deep the pocket, adding that the telco could only touch lives since it is only God that can change lives. 