Bauchi State Governor Bala Mohammed inherited some challenges from his predecessor, Mohammed Abubakar. Correspondent DAVID ADENUGA examines how the governor is tackling the problems.  Bauchi State Governor Bala Mohammed is ready to break new grounds, despite inheriting a failed state. The Senior Special Assistant (S.S.A) to the governor on Media,  Mukhtar Gidado, reeled out the achievement of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP)-led Administration in the state in the last eight months. The media aide has said  the journey so far for his principal  in the last eight months  has not been a cosy ride. Gidado noted that aside inheriting backlog of debts, the PDP led administration has some of challenges to deal it. Apparently, not a novice when it comes to governance, Gidado said  Mohammed, a former Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Minister is aware of the daunting task  of  reviving the economy of the state. “As a matter of fact, the governor has taken the bull by the horns, fighting the the infrastructure battle among others,” he said.  Ghost workers: Our correspondent recall during a programme aired by Channels Television,  Bala Mohammed had said said the total wage bill of Bauchi State was now N7bn. He said the figure showed an increase of almost N1.8bn from the N5.2bn being paid by the immediate past administration. Mohammed explained that the  existence of ghost workers in Bauchi civil service is not only crippling the system but denying thousands of unemployed graduates the opportunity to gain employment. The former minister of the Federal Capital Territory, said his new government inherited an over-bloated workforce ”that only exists on paper”. He said although the state battles to foot its monthly salary bills, ranging between N2.5 billion and N5 billion, ”the civil service is still, surprisingly, bereft of required manpower”. The  Muhammed administration had  announced the suspension of 41,000 civil servants, including permanent secretaries and directors who will also not collect their October salaries because they had no bank verification numbers (BVN). Bauchi, a state with very low IGR, is said to have about 110,000 workers and retirees on its payroll. The National Bureau of Statistics in its 2018 report published in May last year  ranked Bauchi, the 25th on the IGR table. The North-east state generates a paltry N9.69 billion annually – which translates to about N800 million monthly. A rating by the National Bureau of Statistics has also placed  Bauchi  among the poor states in Nigeria. Mohammed had maintained the monthly bill of the state, is unacceptable especially ”when the numbers don’t tally with the workforce on the ground”. He lamented that there is a prevalence of suspicious of ghost workers. In the middle of the ghost workers brouhaha, the  Commissioner of Finance in the state, Nura Manu Soro  resigned 36 days after he was sworn in Soro, who  was sworn-in alongside other commissioners on September 11, resigned via a WhatsApp post. He wrote: ”I have resigned my position as the Commissioner of Finance and member of the Bauchi State Executive Council. I’ll issue a press release on the situation later Insha Allah.” His resignation may not be unconnected with the discovery of  ghost workers in the state. Although, Soro has refused to disclosed the reason why he resigned neither  did he pick calls and  text messages put across to him. But, sources at the finance ministry in Bauchi claimed that “Nura Manu Soro was not comfortable with the new wage bill in the state  and also insisted to leave when the governor declined him approval to go after the bulky ghost workers he had uncovered few days after assuming office.” Few hours after his resignation, the State Government announced a cabinet reshuffle which moved Soro from the finance ministry to the Ministry of Youths. Not quite long after  Soro ‘s resignation, the governor   confirmed that 41,000 workers  without Bank Verification Number had been uncovered by the state government.  Accumulated debts: Mohammed speaking through his chief media aide, Dr Ladan Salihu  had  told our Correspondent that the  the huge debt profile of the state has  constituted a threat to the development of the state. He said that N137billion debt was the accumulation of the N96 billion left by the Isah Yuguda government and the N41billion by the immediate past administration of Mohammed Abubakar of the All Progressive Congress (APC).  His words:”It would be unexpected to say the huge debt profile will not affect development as it has laid ambush on various development mechanisms. “With such huge debt profile, you would have expected to see some projects already on ground. When asked why he is yet to petition EFCC over his predecessor’s alleged  financial recklessness, he said:  “We are not preoccupied with filing petitions at this point in time. We are more concerned about setting agenda, letting the people know about the policy direction of our government as we have barely spent a month in office. We are occupied with putting things in order. “I can assure you when we aggregate the misdemeanour, all the highest financial crimes that will warrant us to make a case, we shall make a case. We will definitely cross the bridge when we get there. But for now we are preoccupied with laying the foundation for us to succeed.” But, the media aide to the ex-governor,  Ali. M. Ali, said his principal only took non-commercial loans to develop infrastructure in the state. He said the Abubakar administration did not go out of its way to secure fresh loans adding that that they were loans given by the Federal Government to all the states. He added: “The FG thought of bailing out states struggling to pay salaries. That was why there was a bailout loan of N8.7bn. There was also a budget support facility of N8bn. “There was an agricultural loan of N8bn along with an infrastructure development loan of N10bn. So, if you calculate all these loans, you’ll get N34.7bn. “I’m surprised with the impression that over N45bn debt was left, in addition to the loans we inherited. You need to be clear about some of the loans. There is a foreign component to it, which I am not in a position to disclose now. If you look at the time these loans were given, the exchange rate was lower than it is now. So, if you convert that to the naira equivalent, you’ll see that the debt profile will be very huge. Beyond this, the (Abubakar) government did not take any commercial loan; that’s what people don’t understand.” He also said the former governor left behind N11.6 billion in the state coffers and debt of N41billion and not N137b as alleged.  Achievements: The  S.S.A to the governor, Mukhtar Gidado has reeled out  the achievement of  his principal, Governor Bala Mohammed saying he has restored the hope of the hopeless in the state. On infrastructure, the S.S.A said  “Governor Bauchi Mohammed flagged off the construction and rehabilitation of roads in the state capital worth five billion naira.” “The projects are, constructions of Gombe Road to  Turum  – Maiduguri Road Bye-Pass, Sabon Kaura – Miri Jos Road Bye-Pass and rehabilitation of Sultan Abubakar Road to Muda Lawal Market Road as well as Yakubun Bauchi Quarters Road as part of efforts to developed the area reduce traffic  congestion  and road accidents” “The construction of Gombe Road to Maiduguri Road bye- pass is 4.4 kilometers, Sabon Kaura to Jos Road bye-pass is 6.2 kilometers, Yakubun Bauchi Quarters is 1.8 kilometers while that of Muda Lawal market road is 1 kilometer.” “The governor also flagged off the construction of Hospital Road, Azare Bye-Pass which is 1.3 kilometer, while that of Tafawa Balewa Road to Jama’are, Shira Road is 6.5 kilometres.” “The people’s Governor, also flagged off the construction of Sade to Akuyam road linking Dazaro and Misau Local Government Areas awarded at the cost of over 3 billion naira which covers a distance of 16.2 kilometers to be constructed with two coats of surface dressing on a 7.3 metter carriageway and single coat on 1.5 metter shoulders on each side of the road which has been on the drawing board since 1981.” “Similarly, he flagged off the construction of the road linking Alkaleri and Tafawa Balewa Local Government Areas of the state at the cost of over 8 billion naira, the road covered communities of Yalwan Duguri to Badaran Dutse, Birim-Bajama to Kumbala, and Kundak-Wurno to Burga.” “It was designed to have a lenght of 58.4km with total width of 10.3m which comprised of a carriageway of 7.3m and 1.5m shoulders on each side, 4 bridges, 45 box culverts and 70 pipe culverts of different sizes. The road is expected to be completed within 24 dry months.” “The governor who released 50 percent of the money for all the road projects awarded to facilitate their timely completion, said the construction of the roads was in line with the policy thrust of his administration to provide infrastructure that have direct bearing on the lives of the teeming populace of the State.” On education, Gidado said ”Governor Bala Mohammed flagged off the disbursement of five Hundred Thousand Naira to each of the 1,320 schools in five Local Government Areas of state who are the beneficiaries of the 2019 Schools Improvement Project grants, a World Bank project.” “The Governor without delay provided 6.7 hectares of land for the construction of Northeast UBEC Model School in Bauchi so as to fast track the execution of the project.” “With the commitment of the governor towards overcoming the challenges facing the sector, Bauchi State Government secured the award of three million US Dollars for the implementation of Better Education Service Delivery for All, a federal government project.” “At the launching of the programme at Alkaleri Local Government Area of the state, the Governor said already 53,056,200:00 naira has been approved and provided  for the provision of teaching and learning materials.” “He disclosed the release of over four hundred and thirty six million naira as part of government’s support to the programme being run by NEI- plus, a USAID intervention programme in the state.” “On the proposed establishment of the Nigeria Airforce University in the state, the governor, during a visit to the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sidique Baba Abubakar at the Airforce Headquarters Abuja, described it as a welcome development and applauded the Airforce Chief for his commitment.” “Governor Bala Abdulkadir  while at a closed door meeting with officials of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation UNESCO in Abuja solicited their support towards blocking gaps and inadequacies in the state education sector:’ “Also,  to train technical teachers, Bauchi State Government will collaborate with Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University Bauchi.” 