 LAGOS State Government will begin enforcement of the law that bans the operation of motorcycles (okada) and tricycles (keke) on major highways, bridges and roads from February 1. The government says the measure is to ensure safety of lives and property. It said the first phase of the enforcement, which begins on February 1, will be in the following local governments and local council development areas (LCDAs): Apapa Local Government and Apapa Iganmu LCDA; Lagos Mainland Local Government and Yaba LCDA; Surulere Local Government, Itire-Ikate and Coker-Aguda LCDAs; Ikeja Local Government, Onigbongbo and Ojodu LCDAs; Eti-Osa Local Government, Ikoyi-Obalende and Iru/Victoria Island LCDAs; Lagos Island Local Government and Lagos Island East LCDA. Information and Strategy Commissioner Mr. Gbenga Omotoso, who spoke yesterday at a news briefing at the Lagos House, Alausa, Ikeja after the council meeting with security agencies, presided over by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, said the decision was taken after “a robust assessment of the debate on what has been widely referred to as the motorcycle (okada) and tricycle (keke) menace, where it was resolved that the security and safety of lives of Lagosians was paramount.” He said the figures of deaths and accidents caused by okada and tricycles were scary. “From 2016 to 2019, there were over 10,000 accidents recorded at the General Hospitals alone. This number excludes unreported cases and those recorded by other hospitals. The total number of deaths from reported cases is over 600 as at today. “The rate of crimes aided by motorcycles (okada) and tricycles (keke) keeps rising. Motorcycles (Okada) and tricycles (keke) are also used as getaway means by criminals. “Therefore, after consultations with stakeholders, the State Security Council, in compliance with the extant Transport Sector Reform Law 2018, has decided to commence enforcement of the law, which bans the operation of motorcycles (okada) and tricycles (keke). “This is the first stage of the government’s plan to sanitise our roads and protect Lagosians from the negative effects of these illegal modes of transportation,” the commissioner said. He said motorcycles (okada) and tricycles (keke), according to the existing laws, are banned on all highways, bridges and the listed roads. Omotoso said law enforcement agents had been directed that with effect from February 1, there would be zero tolerance for motorcycles (okada) and tricycles (keke) in the listed local governments, highways and bridges.   “The public are hereby notified that offenders and violators will be dealt with in accordance with the law,” he added. The major highways affected are: Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, Apapa-Oshodi Expressway, Oworonshoki-Oshodi Expressway, Lagos-Ikorodu Expressway, Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway, Eti-Osa/Lekki-Epe Expressway, Lagos-Badagry Expressway, Funsho Williams Avenue, Agege Motor Road and Eti-Osa Lekki Coastal Road. While the following bridges are also no-go areas for them: Iyana-Ipaja Bridge, Agege; Dopemu Bridge, Agege; Airport/Ikeja Bridge; Agege Motor Road/Oshodi Loop, Oshodi; Mushin/Isolo Link Bridge; Dorman Long Bridge; Ojuelegba Bridge; National Stadium Flyover; Apapa-Iganmu Bridge; Apapa-Ijora Link Bridge; Liverpool Bridge, Apapa; Mile 2 Bridge-Loop, Amuwo-Odofin; Okota (Cele)/Ijesha Link Bridge; Apakun/Apapa-Oshodi Bridge Network; Ikorodu Road/Anthony Clover leaf Bridge; Trade Fair Flyover; Festac/Amuwo-Odofin Link Bridge and two flyover along Alhaji Masha Road. 