 AS part of efforts in strengthening academic research across all tertiary institutions in the country, the Trust Education Fund (TETFund) has said it would increase research grants to the tune of N7.5 billion in its 2020 budget as against N5 billion earmarked for it in the previous year. This was disclosed by the Executive Secretary of the body, Prof. Suleiman Elias Bogoro, at the inauguration of four major projects worth N4.9 billion at the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University, Bauchi. Bogoro reiterated that TETFund will continue supporting universities to enhance its innovative research and documentation. In his words: “In the TETFund budget for the year 2020, we are adding 50 percent of what we disbursed last year for research grants. We are budgeting this year the sum of 7.5 billion naira as against 5 billion naira earmarked for research grants last year. TETFUND will also fund 12 centres of excellence for innovative research in the six geopolitical zones with two centres each in each of the zones in the country. The centres will be promoted with special funds allocation in each of the zones. It is disheartening to discover that researches are now tailored more on promotions and certifications rather than solving problems. This trend must change by employing quality renewed academic leadership and attitude.” Bogoro also charged university lecturers to embark on developmental research to solve problems of the nation rather than certification. He added that Nigerian universities are becoming stronger, competing with foreign universities in terms of quality research harvest and academic excellence. ”I am very happy to announce to announce to you that ATBU is one of the universities in the country that is in the forefronts of research,” he said. Earlier in his address, the vice Chancellor, Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University, Bauchi, Prof. Muhammad Ahmad Abdulazeez, commended the federal government through the Tertiary Education Trust Fund for providing the necessary funding to execute these noble projects, stressing that “it will go a long way in accelerating development of our university.” 