A court in Lagos on Monday put two sisters on trial over alleged forceful demand of their late brother’s property from his surviving children by threatening their legal guardian. The defendants: Chiugo Nnagbogu, 50, and Ngozi Nnagbogu, 45, are facing a three-count charge of conspiracy, breach of peace and demanding property by written threats before the Yaba Magistrates’ Court. They, however, pleaded not guilty to the charges. The Police Prosecutor, Sgt. Modupe Olaluwoye, told the court that the defendants committed the offences on Dec. 10, at Pure Unik Global Link Services Ltd, located at No. 13, Glover Street, Ebute-Meta, Lagos. According to her, the defendants, who were sisters to late Barry Nnagbogu, made attempts to forcefully take over his company from his five children, barely two months after their mothers’ death. She told the court that the defendants sent death threats to the guardian of the children, Mrs Uche Nwonu, to leave the company for them. “My Lord, the defendants sent different text messages to Mrs Nwonu, saying that they will kill her if she opens up the company for operations. “The children inherited the company from their mother who just died; she inherited it from the defendants’ brother, it is all stated in her will. “The defendants are claiming that the company was their late brother’s own but instead of going about it the right way, they are threatening people’s lives and putting their brother’s children at risk,” the prosecutor said. The offences contravene Sections 411, 168 (d) and 302 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015 (Revised). News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Section 302 stipulates 14 years imprisonment for the offence of demanding property by written threats, while section 168 (d) carries three months for the offence of breach of peace. In her ruling, the Chief Magistrate, Mrs Oluwatoyin Oghere, granted the defendants bail in the sum of N500,000 each with two sureties each in like sum. She said that the sureties must be gainfully employed and show evidence of three years tax payment to the Lagos State Government. The Magistrate adjourned the case until April 17 for mention. (NAN)