Organised Labour says it cannot guarantee industrial peace and harmony in states which are yet to commence the implementation of N30,000 New Minimum Wage/consequential adjustments by January 31st, 2020. Addressing journalists after it National Executive Meeting (NEC) , the President of Trade Union Congress (TUC) , Comrade Quadri Olaleye said the union has directed all states to start mobilisation, saying that the governors and the supporters will be held responsible for whatever happens after 31of January. “The Congress advises all state governments who have not complied with the implementation and immediate payment of the N30, 000.00 new National Minimum Wage to commence negotiations and implementation on or before 31st January, 2020, otherwise the State Government should be responsible for the consequences of their failure. “State Councils have been directed to commence mobilisation of their members immediately.
“As at now and by our record, only six states have signed and commenced implementation, 15 states are in the process of negotiation, while the rest are yet to commence negotiation. ” We want to assure them this is not an empty threat. Labour will shut down any states that have not yet started the implementation or negotiation, ” Olaleye said. On the spate of insecurity in the country, Olaleye calls on Federal Government to intensify more practical efforts towards wiping out killings, kidnapping and insurgency to save the country from total collapse.
He said states should be supported and encourage on the security. He said labour has also resolved to participate in a global rally against war slated for January 25, 2020
This according to him, is in view of the vulnerability of workers in war period. The union also condemns all forms of casualization and slave labour in Nigeria. Olaleye said the Congress will in the year engage any employer that violates the right of Nigerian Workers to unionize and have permanent employment. “The Government is hereby advised to extend Local Content Policy as applied in the Oil sector to be applicable to other sectors of the economy,” he said.