Our Reporter  Two students of the Federal Polytechnic, Offa, Kwara State, have been offered scholarship in the recent 2018/2019 Federal Government Scholarship for Students in Nigeria Public Tertiary Institutions. The two beneficiaries are Jaiyeola Sofiat Omoniyi an ND 2, Accountancy student and Olagoke Oladele Williams an HND 1, Mechanical Engineering student. As contained in the award letter signed by the Director, Federal Scholarship Board on behalf of  the Minister of Education; the scholarship is for two years and it is valued at 100,000.00 (One hundred thousand naira only) per session. The Rector, Dr. Lateef Ademola Olatunji, while  congratulating  the beneficiaries,  charged them to be relentless in  their commendable academic performances, adding that more valued scholarship opportunities awaited them  in the future. He urged other students to be serious with their studies and be confident enough to apply for scholarships whenever it is available. Dr. Olatunji lauded the Federal Government for coming up with series of programmes designed towards eradicating illiteracy in the country and for  availing the less privileged access to quality education.  The beneficiaries thanked the President Muhammed Buhari-led administration for coming up with programmes that will make academic activities flourish in the country. They also thanked the polytechnic management for creating an enabling environment for students of the polytechnic to benefit from the scholarship. In another development, Dr. Lateef Olatunji, while unveiling  the newly- constructed relaxation centre named ‘Love Garden’, in the main campus, said that the management of the Polytechnic is concerned about the welfare and wellbeing of their students. He disclosed that  the main objective of the centre is for students to relax and interact when they are free. He, however, warned students not to turn the it into a place for nefarious activities or an avenue for social vice adding that, the polytechnic will not hesitate to rusticate any student caught engaging in illicit acts at the centre. He further assured the students of the commitment of his administration in ensuring a conducive  learning environment and availability of all necessary facilities needed for academic activities and technological advancement to flourish in the institution. 