By Charles Okonji Save Orogun Nation Group (SONG), an umbrella body governing the Orogun Youths has warned that those maliciously raising false accusations against the Deputy Senate President should desist from such evil act. The warning was contained in a press statement made available to The Nation which was signed by the President of the association, Mr Pius Eguono Onodjae. He noted that entire leadership and the members of SONG, Port Harcourt branch noticed that some group of persons have constituted themselves as a point of distraction and political snare to undermine the good works and position of our amiable son in the person of the Deputy Senate President (DSP) Chief Barr Ovie Omo Agege. He said; “We the members of SONG totally condemn the entirety this unforgivable and malicious damage to the name and personality of our only Senator that have projected the Orogun people and the entire Urhobo nation in this present political dispensation. “We humbly implore all Orogun sons and daughters both at home and in diaspora and the Urhobo nation to come together to resist this wicked act.” He noted that the faceless group is lunching attacks, using Mr Adodo Solomon as an arrow head due to the fact that he is the South South Leader of APC, adding that Omo Agege’s rising political profile is intimidating those scheming for 2023. “We have decided to resist the enemies of Orogun and the entire Urhobo nation. Anyone that have chosen the path of destroying the great political achievements of Urhobo nation should be ready to face the anger of Orogun youths and the Urhobo people as a whole. This is because we are ready to protect our own at all cost. We will not stand aside and watch the moving train of progress and development being driven by His Excellency Sen Ovie Omo-Agege to stop halfway due to the selfish political desires of certain miscreants. We reaffirm that the SONG and the entire Urhobo nation trust and believe the man with our mandate, thus has passed a vote of confidence on his character and leadership long before your mischief political intentions” Onodjae stressed.”