  Vitória de Guimarães and Nigeria midfielder, Mikel Agu , has attributed his recent new found form to the arrival of his son, Stefano and marriage to heartthrob, Henrietta.   Agu, 26, got wedded to his wife in June 2017 and his son arrived in January of 2018.  The former Porto player said he experienced remarkable stability and upliftment after his marriage.   Two months after tying the nuptial knot, he moved to Turkish side Bursaspor on a season-long loan deal and played prominently to secure another loan spell back in Portugal with big club, Vitória de Setúbal. Eighteen games and one goal helped Agu secure a permanent deal with Vitória de Guimarães and got called in Nigeria’s preliminary 30 man squad for the 2018 World Cup in Russia. However, he did not make the final 23. Speaking exclusively with Sport & Style, Agu noted that his game experienced psychological inspiration since he settled down in marital bliss. “It’s been said that marriage and babies bring luck and I actually experienced it after my marriage to my wife, Henrietta, closely followed by the coming of my son, Stefano. For two years now I have experienced divine upliftment in my game and much stability. I have experienced more playing time and respect too. “I must admit. The arrival of Stefano my son and the support from my wife have helped me. Thrice I was named for the Man of the Match awards while playing for Setubal on loan. My performance got me a renewed contract for the next four years at my parent club, FC Porto. I was also surprisingly called up into the Super Eagles. Getting marriage has given me stability. He’s of the opinion that the marital bliss he has experienced also gave him a turnaround in the national team. In November, Agu was recalled to the Super Eagles 2021 AFCON qualifiers against Benin Republic and Lesotho, after almost a year since he last made an appearance for the team. He said: “I’ve been very happy, I could not eat. It is a good thing that the goal came on the day I was recalled to the Eagles after a year absence. Coincidentally, the last time I played for Nigeria was in November and My Wife’s birth month is also November.” So far this season, Agu has made six league appearances and scored his first goal in the 5-0 win over Belenenses. Agu admits he has worked hard this season in anticipation of a recall to the national team. “The dream of every African Player based abroad is to play for the national team. It doesn’t happen often so we tend to appreciate it a lot. “I have always put in the work and told myself, one day the coach will notice me again and I will get my chance.” “The feeling of being back is always wonderful for every footballer. For less than one year now injuries have kept me away from playing consistently. But I thank God I’m back again playing and I pray He keeps me stable this season. “I believe one thing in football- there are people who work very hard to get to the top while some are naturally gifted. I believe I’m among that who is naturally gifted, that’s why even when I stayed out from playing for some time, my return was still phenomenal.” He said the national recall also gingered him as he netted a 20 yarder in his club’s 5-0 spanking of Belenenses last October. Though, he did not make the final list against Lesotho and Benin Republic, Agu noted that the Nigeria team is solid. “I’m happy to be back in the team. The coach has assembled a solid team and looking at the quality of players in camp, injuries and suspensions cannot have any effect on this current team because there are capable players to come in and fill any void at any time.” Agu speaks further on his pet project, giving back and Europa League experience. Europa League Our Europa League journey has ended, mathematically. It was always going to be difficult because we were in a tough group with Frankfurt and Arsenal. For us now the major focus is the league because we’re fighting hard and working hard. The team is known to be a competitive side. However there are so many things to take away. The London match against Arsenal was big and we did not disappoint our fans. That was my fifth game in the league and after the match I think I got ratings. I enjoyed playing in the midfield and that is one match that I did complete a lot of passes. That experience would definitely help me in other matches. Adopted name Normally, the name Mikel came about after Mikel Obi played in the Under-20 World Cup. Then back in my street where I was playing football back in Benin City, Edo State, friends started calling me Mikel. They said we have similar styles and that was how the name came about. He is my mentor. He is a player I like so much, I followed his footsteps. He is my favourite player and we play in the same position. For instance at Chelsea he played at defensive midfield and in Bursaspor I play as a defensive midfielder too.” Giving back I’ve been privileged to join the train of Nigerian players abroad and I do remember how I started from a small youth club back in Benin-Edo state. That is why I want to give back and give other kids in my area the opportunity to also showcase their talents and follow their dreams. It is in collaboration with BJ Foundation and the essence is for grassroots clubs in Benin City, the like of Benin Warriors, Rockers and Ine Stars to show their skills. I am thinking of making the tournament a yearly affair in order to encourage youngsters and give clubs and players one more competition to look forward to every year. Mikel Ndubuisi Agu started his career with grassroots team Megapp FC in Nigeria. He took part in the 2009 Copa Coca-Cola, where he was chosen as the best player of the tournament, attracting the interest of scouts. After the tournament, Agu joined the youth academy of Porto. Agu was first signed under the Porto-U 19 setup training with the senior team with the occasional bench appearance. His development would see him play 2 seasons for Porto B before eventually getting an opportunity to play for the first team. Agu made his debut against Gil Vicente in a 2-1 win coming as a substitute for Josué. Doing so, he became the first Nigerian to play for the club. Following his wonderful performance in Porto B, the then manager Paulo Fonseca promoted him to the main team. He would then be sent on loan to gain experience playing in the first division. Seeking playing opportunities at Porto, Agu was deployed mostly in the Porto B team, with whom he made 69 league appearances between 2012 and 2016. He completed over 30 appearances in each of the 2012/2013 and 2013/2014 seasons. At the start of 2015/2016 season, after making one appearance for Porto B, he went on loan to Club Brugge in the Belgian Jupiler league. He made just two league appearances as Brugge finished the season as league champions. Agu was loaned back to the Portuguese league for the 2016-2017 season, which served somewhat as a breakout season for him. He made 27 league appearances, starting 25 times; and 34 total appearances in all competitions for Vitória Setúbal. He played a part as they made a run to the semi-final in the Taça da Liga. His much improved game-play ensured that he was finally recognized as a top player within his own right. His performances were also noticed by his country’s national team, leading to a call-up in 2017. This decision was made that he would be recalled to the Porto first team at the end of the season. Agu’s style of play can be likened to former Chelsea player John Obi Mikel. He received the nickname “Mikel” from fans in Benin City, where he grew up, due to similarities in movement and overall play. He has an excellent close-control and has shown a very good passing range, complementing this with the vision to play long balls from the back. On occasion, he has shown the ability to control the tempo of the game. Defensively, he shows good anticipation and does not rush into his tackles, positioning himself just in front of the back four. 