 JMG has recognized its workers that have stayed over 20 years and 10 years in the company.  The company gave awards to staff who have stayed with the company  for 20 years. The employees who have been with the company for 10 years were also recognized and appreciated at the ‘JMG Celebration Dinner 2020’ held in Victoria Island, Lagos. JMG is a power solutions provider that started in Lagos State and for more than 20 years delivered solutions to multitude of clients from the private and public sector. The  complete solutions bundle caters for construction companies, consulting firms, engineers, property managers, industrial buildings and many more , that  rely on them for integrated solution. The solutions also help them in focusing on their needs and providing excellent customer care throughout the duration of the project. The backbone of JMG is built on over 30,000 square meter of assembling and manufacturing plants, offices and warehouses, with over 1,500 people in employment. They have offices across Nigeria and in Ghana, Ivory Coast, Lebanon & Iraq. The event themed “Culture” had in attendance 150 persons including board members, company executives, staff, their partners and well-wishers all gathered together to celebrate the achievements of JMG and its staff who has been with the company for 2 decades and a decade respectively. To top off the evening, there was a raffle draw and amazing prizes such as 55’ Smart 4K UHD Televisions, Standing Fans and Microwaves were won. The Managing Director of the company, Mazen Jubaili said the company’s diversification and growth over the last two decades as a result of the collective efforts of their work force” and he subsequently spoke about plans to take JMG to greater heights as Nigeria’s leading company in power solutions. JMG Director,  Otunba Francis Meshioye, highlighted the “importance of a strong work ethics” and also encouraged the members of staff to take a cue from Jubaili who has successfully nurtured JMG to where it is today as a result of his “Work Ethic” . The evening came to an end with everyone chatting and dancing to the rhythm of the sounds from the Djs deck, while they all look forward to the next event when they get to do this all over again as one big happy family…  