By Musa Odoshimokhe  A MEMBER of the House of Representatives, Ganiyu Johnson, has said the All Progressives Congress (APC) will continue to prioritise the peoples’ welfare. He said the party would focus on programmes that would reduce poverty and make life meaningful for Nigerians. Speaking in Lagos at a two-day training for unemployed persons, he said Oshodi/Isolo Constituency 2 is blazing the trial in its effort to ‘teach the people how to fish instead of giving them fish’. He said: “It is a thing of joy for people to be taught how to fish, rather than be given fish. That is what happened to the constituents, in a bid to reduce unemployment. We are hopeful the training will reduce the unemployment in the constituency because we intend to empower about 1,000 constituents before the end of my tenure. “There is hunger in the community and with this training participants will be able to fend for themselves. We have over 60 per cent of the population as youth, so if we engage them, it also means we can reduce the crime rate in our community. “This is a chain programme where participants are expected to utilize the seed money that will be given to them. They can also engage other people in future by passing the skills and knowledge to others.” The former Lagos State Commissioner for Infrastructure appealed to participants to maximize the skills acquired.  He said the beneficiaries would have additional training and that their products would be registered with National Agency for Food Administration and Control (NAFDAC). Chairman of the Isolo Local Council Development Area (LCDA), Shamusudeen Olaleye, said Johnson is a blessing to the constituency. He said it is remarkable that the federal lawmaker has been feeding supporters of the party at the constituency. He said the lawmaker had a one-on-one meeting with the constituents. Olaleye urged participants to take advantage of the opportunity because such approach to empowerment is rare. Over 50 participants benefitted from the training. They were issued with certificates and given seed money to commence their businesses. 