 Activist-lawyer Femi Falana (SAN) has again requested the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) and Justice Minister Abubakar Malami (SAN) to release leader of Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN), Sheikh Ibraheem El-Zakzaky and his wife, Zeenat. He said this was in compliance with valid and subsisting orders of the Federal High Court and the Kaduna State High Court. In an open letter to Malami yesterday, Falana said the request was in line with the new policy of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration to operate under the rule of law. The open letter was titled: “Request for compliance with court orders in favour of Sheikh Ibraheem El-Zakzaky and Hajia Zeenat El-Zakzaky.” It reads: “In view of the recent decision of the Federal Government to comply with all court orders, we have the instructions of our clients to request you to ensure compliance with the valid and subsisting orders of the Federal High Court and Kaduna State High Court concerning them.” Falana urged the Minister of Justice to review his position on the matter and ensure the immediate and unconditional release of El-Zakzaky and his wife. The popular lawyer chronicled several efforts of the government to justify the detention of RevolutionNow Convener Omoyele Sowore and El-Zakzaky. He recalled that after last week’s release of Sowore and former National Security Adviser (NSA), Col. Sambo Dasuki (retd.) from what he called illegal custody, the minister reportedly said the detainees “could only be released by the Kaduna State government”. Falana insisted that the position of the AGF did not take cognisance of the fact that his office, the Presidency and the Department of State Services (DSS) had repeatedly given contradictory reasons to justify the disobedience of the court orders for the release of the detainees. He averred that in an attempt to justify the decision of the Federal Government to detain Sowore and Olawale Bakare (aka Mandate) in defiance of the orders of the federal high court, the DSS issued a statement on November 14, 2019. In it, the DSS claimed that the duo, as well as El-Zakzaky and Dasuki, were enjoying themselves in custody as “they are allowed access to people and use of other facilities, like telephones, gymnasium, TV, newspapers and medical facilities”. Falana said: “On December 2, 2016, the Federal High Court, presided over by the Justice G. O. Kolawole (now of the Court of Appeal), declared illegal and unconstitutional the arrest and detention of Sheikh El-Zakzaky and his wife by armed soldiers. “Consequently, the court awarded them N50 million damages for their illegal detention, ordered the DSS to release them from custody forthwith and provide them with a house since the Nigerian Army had burnt down and demolished their house in Zaria, Kaduna State. “Without any legal basis whatsoever, the Federal Government refused to comply with the aforesaid court orders. Curiously, the contemptuous acts of the Federal Government were publicly defended by your good self and some other high-ranking officials of the Muhammadu Buhari administration.” He added: “On January 3, 2017, the Federal Government filed an appeal against the judgment of the Federal High Court for the release of our clients. “No motion was filed for stay of execution of any of the orders of the Federal High Court. However, the motion of the Federal Government for extension of time to file the appellant’s brief out of time was not taken on the grounds that a contemnor could seek any relief from an appellate court. “On January 19, 2017, the Federal Government claimed that Mrs El-Zakzaky was not in detention but decided to keep her husband’s company. “On January 20, 2017, sources close to the Presidency were alleged to have said that our clients could not be released on grounds of national security. “On June 16, 2017, the Minister of Information, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, explained that the reason our clients had not been released was that the house being built for them by the Federal Government had not been completed. “In a desperate bid to stop the Shi’ites from further embarrassing the Federal Government by demanding compliance with the court orders for the release of their leader, the Federal Government caused the Kaduna State government to charge our clients with incitement of members of the Shi’ite movement to commit culpable homicide, blocking of roads and leading an unregistered organisation to wit: Islamic Movement in Nigeria. “As you are no doubt aware, the over 300 Shi’ites alleged to have been procured by our clients to commit the said criminal offences have been discharged by the Magistrates’ Court and the High Court of Kaduna State for want of evidence. “However, by an order made on August 5, 2019, the Kaduna State High Court granted our clients leave to travel to India for urgent medical treatment, subject to the supervision of the respondent, that is, the Kaduna State government. “But instead of allowing the hospital to treat our client under the supervision of the Kaduna State government, the Federal Government took over the medical treatment, imposed doctors on our clients and denied them access to their personal physician who had accompanied them from Nigeria. Thus, our clients were deliberately denied access to medical treatment in defiance to the order of the Kaduna State High Court. “Since our clients were brought back from India, they were kept incommunicado until they were transferred to the Kaduna Correctional Centre last month. In spite of several assurances, the authorities of the correctional centre have denied our clients access to any form of medical treatment.”