From Nsa Gill, Calabar  The University of Calabar Teaching Hospital (UCTH) will conduct its first open-heart surgery in the hospital in the second week of May. his is the outcome of the partnership the hospital management has entered into with a United States-based team – VOOM Foundation. Answering questions from reporters before a thanksgiving and town hall meeting in the hospital, organized by the nine-month-old management, the Chief Medical Director of UCTH, Prof. Ikpeme A. Ikpeme, said having open heart surgeries in the hospital meant UCTH will join the big league of hospitals who have performed heart surgeries and it will be a giant stride achieved, as far as medical practice is concerned. He stated that his administration has been able to rescue the hospital from dysfunctioning. He said: “It is nearly nine months gone already and as the chief executive of this hospital, I count it necessary to review our activities and lay it up open to all stakeholders so that we can collectively evaluate, critique and proffer solution so that our UCTH can be great again. ‘’Since assumption of office, we have made modest progress in areas which include; improved sanitation and aesthetic which earned the hospital commendation from visiting teams such as the FHI360 and Partners, describing UCTH as the cleanest tertiary hospital they have visited in Nigeria.” He added that other areas that experience dramatic change are the hospital’s power sector, which now supplies 24 hours power in critical areas such as the theatres, ICU, radiology, casualty wards, etc. “Water supply is more stable than ever before. The drug revolving fund account (DRF) is now fully functional. It is on record that our revenue has consistently and significantly improved. We have improved the funding of the dietetics department to feed patients on a special diet, including call-duty food for staff. Security is not left out. We have enhanced lighting points and have installed CCTV cameras in strategic points to aid surveillance,” he said. Giving more insight on the planned open-heart surgery, due by second week of May 2020, the CMD said: “We are working hard towards that with a United States-based team called VOOM FOUNDATION. We have taken deliveries of consumables; we are constructing a dedicated theater suite for the surgeries. Staff and bio-medical engineers are kept on standby. We are refurbishing our machines, which will be used for the surgeries.”  Ikpeme further revealed that another area of research UCTH is currently working on as a teaching hospital, is “trying to develop and build upon the achievements of our institute for tropical research in the hospital and we are collaborating with the United States (US) military to research on malaria and drug-resistance in the tropics. Both clinical and field research is going on’’. He admitted facing a lot of challenges since he assumed office, stressing that workers’ attitude was a big headache not only in UCTH but nationwide. “Attitude to work is a human factor; it is not only a UCTH problem. It is a national problem. Workers have developed a poor attitude to work, but the management is working hard to restore sanity in its workforce. A time book and movement book has been analysed to pick out ghost workers and lateness,’’he added. The hospital has also entered into negotiations with a major radiology equipment company to bring back to life to all equipment that was no longer functional. “We recognised how low the hospital sank in time past; we are a work in progress, striving very hard to meet the demands of our clients. We understand that we are the biggest health provider in Cross River State. We are thankful to the public for their confidence displayed in the last 9 months. We urge them to return, we have the best hands, best brains and minds, bigger concentration of excellently trained manpower. We are creating environments with quality equipment that will ensure that we have excellent healthcare service delivered to them. I want to state that UCTH is back and back very strongly; we are here and we will be getting better.”