 THE family of the slain Commandant, Armed Forces Command Staff College (AFCSC), Jaji, Kaduna State, Navy Commander Oluwayemisi Ogundana, has urged the government to ensure that justice is served on the culprits that terminated her life. Cdr. Ogundana was murdered in her home at the Jaji Military Cantonment last year allegedly by one Bernard Simon, the prime suspect, now in custody of Kaduna State Police Command. Her remains were interred yesterday at the National Cemetery, Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) after a requiem mass at the Anglican Church, Mogadishu Barracks, by the military authorities. Speaking on the side of the service of songs organised by her family at the weekend in Festac Town, Lagos, her cousin, Mr Tony Adekayero,  urged the Federal Government to make sure those responsible for cutting short the life of the officer are brought to justice. He said: “We are deeply pained by the sudden exit of our daughter. It is very unfortunate that her life could be rudely cut short the way it was. I can only urge the government to continue with the diligent investigation of the case and ensure that justice is served. Look at the three little kids that have now been robbed of the care of their mum. It is very sad.” In a tribute, the officer’s widower, Tunde Ogundana, expressed shock at his wife’s sudden death. He said:  “I am still in shock and complete disbelief but I submit totally to the will of God. My dear wife lived a godly life worthy of emulation. The children and I are proud of her courage and we shall continue the race of life where she stopped.” Mrs Bolanle Akpan, elder sister of the deceased, described the late naval officer as easy going, peaceful, calm and gentle.  “She was the pride of the family, our shining star. I do not know what happened but God knows everything.  Oluwayemisi was a gallant soldier and a strong woman. It really hurts but I leave everything to God,” she said. The Kaduna State Police Commissioner Ali Aji Janga had paraded 36-year-old Simon among the suspects arrested by the command. Simon had said: “I killed Commander Ogundana alone. I sneaked into her house in the evening and hit her on the head with iron rod. “I killed her because she was cheating us in the school. I am a teacher in the school and she was cheating us as staff under her. I killed her to set the whole staff of the school free from her cheats. “There are some financial benefits she deprived us of. She denied me in particular of over N100,000. That is why I killed her to set myself and other staff free from her.” Simon equally admitted throwing Commander Ogundana’s mutilated body into a shallow well. The deceased, who was murdered in September last year, was aged 41.  