A member of the Governing Council of Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko (AAUA), Prof. Olu Aboluwoye, on Monday urged the Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of the institution’s council, Dr. Tunji Abayomi, to stop misleading the public over the suspension of the school’s Vice Chancellor (VC) selection. He faulted the lawyer for allegedly bypassing the already established laws governing the university’s VC process in order to foist a strange fellow on the institution. Aboluwoye, who was reacting to Abayomi’s claim that it was Ondo State Governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, who suspended the VC’s selection process, told reporters in Akure that the Pro-Chancellor did not tell the truth. He said his disregard to the law establishing the university warranted the suspension of the VC’s selection process. He recalled that Abayomi said in a recent interview that it was Governor Akeredolu, not the council that suspended the selection process. Aboluwoye slammed Abayomi for refusing to explain to the public his actions that led to the suspension. He alleged that the Pro-Chancellor violated the university’s laws and regulations concerning the VC’s selection. According to him, all applicants for the position of the VC must interact with the university’s council members to speak about their mission and vision for the school, but Abayomi allegedly bypassed the process and attempted to impose his choice on the school. He alleged that Abayomi unilaterally aborted the selection process to create room for the imposition of his preferred applicant. Aboluwoye, a lecturer at the university, said the law establishing the university allowed the selection committee to nominate two people, “but the council chairman allegedly unilaterally selected the two council members to be in the selection committee, whereas the council members must nominate.” “The suspension of the VC’s selection process was consequent upon a protest letters by the trio of Prof. Olu Aboluwoye, Adewale Gbakinro and Felix Ale, who pointed the governor’s attention to the atrocities perpetrated by Abayomi at the school. “We must thank the governor, who is also the visitor to the school, for acting promptly to stop the mess the Pro-Chancellor planned for the university,” Aboluwoye alleged. He urged Abayomi to stop being mischievous, advising him to admit his flaws. However, the Pro-Chancellor, Dr. Abayomi, could not be reached for comments at press time.