 IT is worrisome that many Nigerians don’t believe in insurance! Even with evidence of settled claims, they remain adamant. The question is what and who could be responsible for this? Their attitude may be the result of previous records and past experiences, either as a result of the incapability of the insurance company or ignorance of the policyholder/insured. While some are not interested in these insurance contracts, others who are interested do not even know or understand the contract they have signed. If you as an individual or business owner enters into an insurance contract, you must create time to understand what the policy is all about. This may be achieved by employing the services of licenced brokers/consultants/agents, or by personally read through the policy documents (terms & conditions). The latter option looks unrealistic for a lot of people but the important thing is for you to understand your role/right and the underwriter’s role/right in the contract. Isn’t it so unfortunate that most people do this after the deed has been done? I mean when there is already a loss. My take is that you need to see yourself as someone investing in a business which must yield a profitable result. Therefore, when you pay your premium, be patient to understand the details of the insurance contract you are entering into. Try to ask as many questions as you can. Do not sign a contract that is ‘secretive’. Another surprising truth is that some people believe insurance is an opportunity to make extra money or profit, which is totally against the principle of insurance. You cannot make profit in insurance. The best you can get, which is the main purpose of insurance, is to get back to the position which you were in before you experienced a loss. Anything outside that will never work. Below are some key information you need to have and understand in any class of insurance: 10.Policy Terms & Conditions: Here, you have the dos and don’ts stated. Amongst many others, you will see: Having understood the above terms in your policy document which is the contract of insurance, you must take precautions to ensure that:  By: Bola Adegbaju Instagram: @bolaadegbaju Twitter: @bolaadegbaju