SIR: From Rigange-Lamurde local government area, to Wagga-Madagali local government area, to Nyibango-Fofure local government area, to Girgithang-Gombi local government area, to Timbangor-Toungo local government area, to Humbutudi-Maiha local government area, all PDP supporting natives of Adamawa State had a breath of fresh air on Tuesday, January 21,  when the Supreme Court affirmed the election of Rt Hon. Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri as the duly elected governor of Adamawa State in the 2019 gubernatorial election. While the inhabitants and indigenes of Adamawa State are living today in one of the most celebrated political victories, I believe not only that our best days are yet to come but that our best work is yet to be done. With the all-inclusive elite cabinet in the Fintri-led government, every local government area has the capacity to lift the life of its precinct as well as lead our state to a safer and more hopeful future. But doing so will require equal measures of strength, vision, and resolve, embodied in a leadership that grasps both the breath of our potential and the legacy of Fintiri’s leadership style of all-inclusiveness. Adamawa has, indeed, suffered a lot of havoc. Be that as it may, what is now paramount is that we can make Adamawa fully functional again. The tasks of this administration should not just be to guarantee material progress along with a better life, the government must work hard to bequeath to our citizens that unique sense of optimism and that God-given belief in the universal appeal of the ideals that will always mark our character as a forthright and independent minded people. Fintiri’s government should be built around the ideas of shared endeavours, state service, intergenerational obligation, and activism aimed at overcoming partisan and personal rivalries to meet the demands of a decisive era. By the end of this year, natives of Adamawa State should sincerely feel they are part of something unique and valuable, which will not only raise the bar but be the bar, and positively influence the level of civic discourse not just in the state, but the country at large. It is time to renew our best hopes, take up the great unfinished business in Adamawa State, and take up the big challenges that many critics, commonalty and analysts have come to consider as hopeless. Challenges to be given attention includes providing security to our people, providing potable water, achieving energy independence, providing access to good health, creating high-quality schools for all students, creating enabling environment for agriculture and other businesses that will boost our Internally Generated Revenue (IGR), and turning the rhetoric of worker-controlled lifelong learning into a reality. 