The Lagos State Government says it has introduced the Lagos Agripreneurship Programme (L.A.P.) under its Agriculture-based Youth Empowerment Scheme (Agric-Yes) in furtherance of the State Government’s objective of training 15,000 youths and women in the various agricultural value chains by year 2023. The State Commissioner for Agriculture, Prince Gbolahan Lawal noted that the programme which is starting with the one-month training of no fewer than 200 participants is aimed at improving capacity, creating wealth and employment in the agricultural value chains such as poultry, piggery, aquaculture and vegetables. “The current reality and exigencies of job creation for the teeming youth population and attainment of food security requires that a more aggressive, strategic and efficient approach be employed in the training and empowerment of women and youth if Lagos State is to achieve a significant reduction of unemployment, create more jobs and wealth and also significantly enhance food security in the State by year 2023. “Hence the introduction of the Lagos Agripreneurship Programme (L. A.P) under the Agriculture-based Youth Empowerment Scheme (Agric-Yes) which aims to train 15,000 women and youths at the training facilities across the State by the year 2023,” Lawal said. According to him, the training will take place at the Agricultural Training Institute, Araga, Epe adding that the introduction of L. A. P would efficiently reduce unemployment, create jobs and alleviate poverty in the State; attract and pay more attention to the creation of jobs for women in agribusiness. He noted that other objectives of the L.A.P are the fact that it would enhance skill acquisition and improve productivity; produce versatile agripreneurs; increase food production substantially to local food demand within the State; facilitate the attainment of food security; and improve the well-being of citizens of Lagos State. Lawal reiterated the significance of the training stressing that expected impacts of the training includes the creation of 2000 Agro-Entrepreneurs who would in turn become job creators; promotion of food security, improved nutrition and general well-being of Lagosians; and the creation of at least 4000 indirect jobs by every 2000 beneficiaries per year through the engagement of support staff such as attendants and artisans among others.