BUA Cement Plc on Thursday listed its shares on the main board of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), adding N1.19 trillion to lift the market capitalisation of the Nigerian equities market to N15.16 trillion. BUA Cement, the emergent company from the merger of Cement Company of Northern Nigeria (CCNN) Plc and OBU Cement, listed 33.86 billion ordinary shares of kobo each at N35 per share, totaling initial market capitalisation of N1.19 trillion. With the listing, BUA Cement emerged the third biggest company at the Nigerian stock market. BUA Cement’s share price appreciated by N3.45 to close on Thursday at N38.45, adding N116.82 billion to its listing market value to close with a market capitalisation of N1.30 trillion. Managing Director, BUA Cement Plc, Engr. Yusuf Binji said with the listing, BUA Cement was poised to add more value to the Nigerian economy noting that the cement group has over the past few years significantly ramped up capacity and currently boast the most efficient and integrated operations in the Nigerian cement industry. “This new publicly listed company will continue to deliver exceptional value to all stakeholders in the foreseeable future,” Binji said. He pointed out that the merger of CCNN and OBU Cement was driven by a compelling opportunity to capture significant synergies and create value for the benefit of the shareholders in a stronger, more competitive and enlarged company. He said the enlarged company with a total installed capacity of 8.0 metric tonnes per annum would be increasing its installed capacity to 11 metric tonnes per annum with additional 3.0 million metric tonnes plant coming on stream in second half of 2020. He added that in order to meet the demand from customers in its core markets; the enlarged company would be positioned to distribute its products in new geographical markets. “The merger of the two companies to become BUA Cement  would provide opportunities for significant cost savings and improved operational efficiencies by streamlining operations and optimising the use of combined resources. It has also provided a platform where the enlarged company benefits from economies of scale in procurement, distribution and manufacturing of the products offered to our customers. We expect the benefits accruing from greater economies of scale to accrue to our stakeholders,” Binji said. Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), Mr Oscar Onyema, described the listing of BUA Cement as a landmark noting that it was exciting for the Exchange to record such a major listing  at the beginning of the year. According to him, the listing provides another opportunity for investors to have access to a company with good track record. Onyema commended the founder of BUA Group and chairman of BUA Cement Plc, Alhaji Abdul Samad Rabiu for listing the company on the NSE describing it as a show of confidence in the value the NSE offers.