From Osagie Otabor, Bénin  There is political tension in Edo State. The outcome of the events of 2019 will shape preparations for the governorship poll. On the political front, it was last year that the cold war between Governor Godwin Obaseki and Comrade Adams Oshiomhole became public knowledge. Obaseki and Oshiomhole before now seemed inseparable. Obaseki served as Chairman, Economic Team, during the administration of Oshiomhole and his good performances made him to be entrusted and supported to succeed Oshiomhole. Today, both friends do not see eye to eye. They are scheming to outwit one another. There is no trust between them. Former key players that made Oshiomhole succeed as governor are backing Obaseki. Supporters fingered Oshiomhole as plotting to enthron another person as governor while Obaseki is seen as the arrow head behind the ‘Oshiomhole must go’ slogan. This year will decide the winner between both men. The outcome of the party primary will determine whether the Edo Peoples Movement, a pressure group backed by Oshiomhole, actually will live up to its agenda of removing Obaseki. Crisis has reared its head in the Peoples Democratic Party as it battled to regain power in the state. Some of its members, led by Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, recently defected to ruling APC. The forthcoming governorship election later this year will show whether the PDP is still a force in the state. Eyes are on Frank Okiye, Speaker of the Edo Assembly. Will he remain in office? He is battling with cases in court. Okiye emerged Speaker through Obaseki. Nine members were present, but three others have also been inaugurated. Today, 10 lawmakers are sitting and have passed many laws and motions, including screening the  Chief Judge, Justice Esther Edigin. The seats of the remaining 14 members-elect have been declared vacant. A recent court ruling has restrained INEC from conducting by-elections in the 14 affected constituencies. As the year rolls by, the fate of the 14 members-elect will be determined if they will ever get to be inaugurated. Ize-Iyamu and his PDP supporters are yet to be accepted by Obaseki’s faction of the APC. Chairman of APC in Orhionmwon local government area, Benjamin Oghumu, recently said Pastor Ize-Iyamu is yet to be registered into the APC at the ward and local government level. Edo State is set host several sporting events this year. The renovated Dr. Samuel Ogbemudia stadium has been adjudged as having the best sporting facilities in the world. Edo will host the first qualifying match of the Super Eagles for the 2022 World Cup.  It will also played host to the Super Falcons and Falconets. The biggest event is the National Sports Festival tagged ‘Return of the Natives’. The theme and logo of the event have been unveiled. Obaseki has vowed to reclaim all government lands that were encroached upon. An example was set at the Government Science and Technical College former Bénin Technical College where several individuals lost their houses to the school. All the individual houses including hotels were fenced inside the school. However, what Edo people are waiting to see this year is whether Governor Obaseki will pull down the hotel owed by Tony Kabaka Adun. The state government has issued demolition notice to the hotel worth millions of naira. Kabaka claimed he was being victimised because he refused to support Obaseki’s second term bid. He initially poured invectives on Obaseki on the day the notice was issued, but later apologised. Obaseki has insisted on pulling down the hotel. Edo people are watching. Aspirants seeking to replace Obaseki in the APC are Chris Ogiemwonyi, General Charles Airhiavbere, Saturday Uwulekhue and Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu. In the PDP, the aspirants are Omoregie Ogbeide-Ihama, Ogbeide Ifaluyi Isibor, Kenneth Imasuangbon and Engr Gideon Ikhine. They have dreamt for four years of entering the Osadebey Avenue this year. But, Edo people will determine their fate after scaling the primary. 