He became a celebrity on account of his longevity. Last July, he was celebrated for being Nigeria’s oldest surviving soldier, during the Army Day celebration at Ikeja Cantonment, Lagos. “Sometimes on the job, I get to meet incredible people,” Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, who represented President Muhammadu Buhari at the event, had tweeted. “Today, I met perhaps Nigeria’s oldest surviving soldier…He is almost as old as the amalgamation of the protectorates that became Nigeria.” The amalgamation happened in 1914, which was 105 years ago at the time Osinbajo made the observation. Adama Aduku, who died on December 31, 2019, aged 101, wasn’t only regarded as the country’s oldest surviving soldier; he was also Nigeria’s oldest war veteran. Private Aduku (retd) fought in the Second World War (1939-1945). He was born in 1918 in Abejukolo-Ife, in Omaha Local Government Area of Kogi State. Interestingly, Aduku, who joined the army in 1942, said he took that path because a soldier had assaulted his village head. Aduku’s account: “The man named Salikawa was a soldier who resorted to beating up our chief for refusing to carry his bag and seeing him off to his house, which was 10 miles away. “When the matter was reported to the District Officer, the chief was advised to obey the soldier in his own interest or face whatever consequences that resulted from that. “I was very angry and bitter and I made up my mind to join the military so that I could go back to the village and also beat up Salikawa for humiliating our chief.” Two years after joining the army, Aduku was among the new recruits moved to Ibadan to prepare for movement to Egypt en route to India, where they were prepared to fight for the British Army in the Second World War. Aduku fought on the side of the British Army because Nigeria was at the time a British colony.  He represented an era when the Nigerian military was under the control of a colonial government. Aduku recounted his war experience: “In the course of that journey, we ran out of drinking water, so we had to rely on the water from the sea to drink despite it being salty.  By the time we finally got to Egypt, we waited a bit before moving to Bombay in India and later to Kolkota, also in that country, for the war. “While over there, we fought with Japan in an intense battle and we were able to defeat them. We also fought against enemies in Burma.” Four years after joining the army, according to Aduku, he yielded to his grandmother’s plea that he should leave. This move showed the soft side of a man President Buhari described as “a soldier’s soldier” in a posthumous tribute. It is not clear how he lived after he left the army, but his longevity suggests that his military training didn’t leave him. A statement by Buhari’s media aide, Femi Adesina, said the President “commends Aduku’s strong spirit and commitment to statehood, especially for actively participating in the 2019 Nigerian Army Day celebration and other activities of the Nigerian Legion.” He got a commendation award and N2 million during the Army Day celebration, said to be his last public appearance. Remarkably, Aduku’s strength belied his age. It is noteworthy that he said in an interview: “I may be 101 years old, but inside me, especially when it comes to making a woman happy in bed, I am still strong and fresh.” Aduku deserved to be honoured for his record, and it’s a positive thing that the Federal Government and the military honoured him in the twilight of his life.