Our Reporter  Royal splendour, the rich Yoruba culture and Ghanaian hospitality were in full display in Accra last weekend as the Yoruba community in Ghana honoured some members of its race from Nigeria. Chieftaincy titles were conferred on 14 honorees by His Royal Majesty, Oba of Yoruba in Ghana, Alhaji Hamzat Peregrino Brimah V111.  Among them, is city businessman and former Nigerian lawmaker, Hon Moshood Mustapha, who bagged the title of Oluomo of Yoruba in Ghana. The ceremony which took place at the prestigious State House, Accra on Sunday, January 18, 2020 was attended by the Ghanaian Vice President represented by the Vice President, Dr. Mahmoud Bawumia and the Nigerian Ambassador to Ghana, Mr. Femi Michael Abikoye. Foremost Yoruba monarch, Oba Adeyeye  Ogunwusi Ojaja II,  the Ooni of Ife, led the royal train, which included the Olofa of offa, Oba Mufutau Gbadamoshi Esueoye11; the Olusin of Isanlu Isin, Oba Solomon Oloyede and the Olugbon of Orile-Igbon, Oba Francis Alao. Kwara State Governor, Mallam Abdulrahman Abdulrazak, was at the head of a team that included current Federal Lawmaker from Kwara State, Hon. Abdulganiyu Olododo; Special Adviser to the governor on special duties, Alhaji Yinka Aluko; former Commissioner for Information, Kwara State, Oloriewe Raheem Adedoyin; businessman Mallam Mohammed Sidi; media chief Mallam Nurudeen Abdulraheem and former Kwara State lawmaker, Hon. Adamu Sabi. Vice President Bawumia, who represented President Nana Akufo, acknowledged the contribution of Yoruba people to the socio-economic development of Ghana. He urged the Yoruba community to continue living in harmony with other tribes in the country. Oba Adeyeye enjoined the Yoruba race worldwide to foster unity among themselves and congratulated the honoree “on behalf of all Yoruba tribe on earth.”  Oba Adeyeye took the audience back to the 18th Century, where there was nothing like Ghana or Nigeria, but just the black race living together in harmony and love. He admonished the Yoruba race: “Yoruba as a tribe has had a long standing historical connection with Ghana as one of the black tribes on earth. We are all one from the same source. I urge everyone of you to continue seeing yourselves as brothers and sister here in Ghana and anywhere we found ourselves in the whole world “We appreciate the government and all Ghanaians for their love and peaceful co-existence with the Yoruba living on their land, which brought about this historical event in the life time of the Yoruba community in Ghana.” Oba Adeyeye also lauded the recipients, saying: “I rejoice with all the recipients, especially the popular Nigerian politician, Moshood Mustapha, who has been honoured as Oluomo of Yoruba in Ghana. He urged   the new chiefs “to continue the good behaviour and generosity that earned you these titles,” adding: “We are proud of you as Yorubas.” Giving historical background of the Yoruba in Ghana and reason for honouring some individuals His Royal Majesty, Oba Hamza Peregrino-Brimah VIII, said: “The present Yorubas are the 5th generation of Yorubas in Ghana, and it is right time to honour some carefully selected individuals who had contributed significantly to our community and the Republic of Ghana in general.”