By Tolulope Oni We definitely live in a world where there are activities all around and lots of excitement. Communication basically is key in surviving in this world. When we communicate with family, friends and loved ones, they help to bring a sort of happiness and joy to us. I can imagine the feeling of being with family and loved ones. It feels great, isn’t it?. With all these, people still experience the issue of being lonely and can’t seem to shake it off. When someone gets lonely or have a feeling of being lonely, it could lead to having health issues, depression and even having the thoughts of committing suicide. With this, let me take you through on some of things one can do to put a stop of being lonely: * Talk about it The thing to do first is to involve people that you trust on the issue you face. It might seem a little hard to do so since you’ve grown deep into the world of loneliness but it surely pays off when you discuss the problem one faces to someone who is ready to listen. When this is done, it’ll help in the other phases to stop loneliness. * Recognise you are not alone The issue of loneliness is a big thing because due to this, many have committed the act of killing themselves. The next step to take is to learn that you’re not alone in this world. I wonder why one will feel lonely but do you know that there are great people and excitements in this world. You need to know that there are people who are ready to help on issues one faces. *Join a forum When the issue of loneliness surfaces, it is also advisable to join a forum. A forum is a gathering where people with different life issues come together to share them and to majorly seek advice and solutions. In the gathering, pour out your mind so that the help you seek for can be rendered. In these gatherings, there are people with a high sense of humour that you can relate with to help put a stop to loneliness. *Engage in social media The social media is a way one can use to stop loneliness. In this state, visit the social media platforms ( facebook, twitter, instagram, etc). There are articles that are filled with mind-changing information that helps greatly. Though, the social media have some bad sides, but with helping individuals, the social media is helpful. * Seek Professional help It is necessary to seek the help of professionals when you’re in the state of loneliness. Loneliness is for a short time and definitely will go away if necessary steps are taken to ensure so. With one seeking the help of professionals, they would help to give solutions on the issue.