Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has attributed the state’s huge leaps since the beginning of the current civilian dispensation in 1999 to divine help. He said the state would not have achieved so much in the last 20 years if God had not been directing the affairs of the state. The governor said though successive administrations in the state laboured to put it on the path of irreversible growth, but the efforts would have been in vain without God leading the struggle. Sanwo-Olu spoke yesterday during the government’s annual thanksgiving service at the State House in Alausa, Ikeja, the state capital, with the theme: Offering Glorifies God. Other personalities at the event include the governor’s wife, Dr Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu; Deputy Governor Obafemi Hamzat and his wife, Oluremi; House of Assembly Speaker Mudashiru Obasa; members of the State Executive Council (Exco) and top religious leaders. The yearly event is meant to praise the Almighty and to commit the government into God’s hands in the New Year. Sanwo-Olu stressed that though he is the governor, God remain the “Sole Administrator”. His election and eventual inauguration into office, the governor said, could not have been possible with his own personal will.  He promised to always defer to God in the state’s matters. “Since we assumed office, God, in His infinite kindness, has bestowed on our state numerous blessings. We have enjoyed His protection and His unimaginable grace and guidance. We have come to realise that the wisdom of man by itself is not sufficient to govern this state. God has been more than faithful, freely making divine wisdom and insight available to us to navigate difficult decisions and situations as they arise,” Sanwo-Olu said The governor described the New Year as “crucial period” for governance in Lagos. According to him, his administration will soon roll out its development programmes with renewed momentum. With the signing of the N1.168 trillion 2020 Appropriation Bill into law, Sanwo-Olu said Lagos State has been equipped with new vision and determination to realise Greater Lagos agenda by pursuing welfare programmes that would impact the lives of the people. Reading from Psalm 127:1, the governor noted that human wisdom, determination and commitment would not be enough to achieve all the programmes initiated by any government. He said the thanksgiving was meant to seek God’s guidance and lay the development plans of his administration before the Almighty. “We know that determination and commitment alone are not enough. The essence of our gathering here, therefore, is to seek the face of God and lay our plans before Him so that we will not labour in vain. “It is my prayer that God in Heaven will continue to bless our state. He shall bless and multiply our efforts so that our limited fish and loaves of bread will be more than sufficient for the multitudes He has given us this grace to lead,” he said. The governor praised God for peaceful political transition last year, while observing that harmony had continued to reign in the State against the prediction of doomsayers. He promised that his Government would continue to pursue the cause of peace. Sanwo-Olu promised to justify the confidence the electorate reposed in his administration. “God has given us a new opportunity to refine our vision, redefine our priorities and renew our energy for the journey ahead. As a government, we are determined and committed to the realisation of our vision for Greater Lagos. Our strategic plan is hinged on the six pillars of our T.H.E.M.E.S Agenda.” Other personalities at the event include the governor’s wife, Dr Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu; Deputy Governor Obafemi Hamzat and his wife, Oluremi; House of Assembly Speaker Mudashiru Obasa; members of the State Executive Council (Exco) and top religious leaders.