Muyiwa Lucas  THE President of Dangote Group of Companies, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, has identified the maritime industry as a key element in the efforts to restimulate the Nigerian economy. Dangote said this in Lagos while commenting on the country’s economic potentials and the vast opportunities in Nigeria’s waters. This was as Minister of Women Affairs, Mrs. Pauline Tallen, said the maritime sector had been galvanised into an inclusive community of stakeholders and players working to grow the economy. Tallen said it was an opportune time to invest in the Nigerian economy. Speaking ahead of the maritime Corporate Dinner and Merit Awards organised by the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), which is geared towards reinvigorating the economy, Dangote said, “The maritime sector is key to the development of the Nigerian economy. As stakeholders, we are committed to supporting the Federal Government towards achieving a vibrant maritime industry in Nigeria. My support is unflinching. “I also commend the management of NIMASA for being focused in providing an enabling environment for industry players in the country, while recognising the great job of the team under the leadership of Dr. Dakuku Peterside, the Director-General. The maritime industry awards is a very good initiative, one necessary to stimulate excellence in the Nigerian maritime industry.” Dangote praised NIMASA for its efforts at enhancing maritime safety and security, which he said has created a viable platform for better indigenous participation and capacity building. I In her own comments, Tallen commended NIMASA’s new push for gender equality under the current Director-General, saying it has created an environment where actors are comfortable to contribute their talents to the sustainable use of the country’s ocean resources for economic growth. She extolled the virtues of women in the Nigerian maritime industry, and advised them to make the best use of the environment created for them to be their best.  