The maritime sector is a pool of wealth and catalyst for promoting a wide range of commercial activities, if fully utilised. Assistant Editor MUYIWA LUCAS writes that if properly harnessed this year, more revenue will be generated from this source.  ALTHOUGH the maritime industry stands as the second highest revenue earner for the country after oil, not much has been done to harness it. With 10,000 kilometres of inland waterways, out of which 3,000km is navigable yearly and 840km coastline facing international waters, the country is Africa’s leading maritime state. Stakeholders and experts have  explained that the country’s inland waters, which connects about 28 states, possesses the potential to foster intra-country commerce in fishing, water transportation, tourism, and boat building A further confirmation of the potential of the waters came from the  Managing Director of National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA), George Moghalu, who disclosed that the agency could generate more than 5,000 jobs. Similarly, the President of Shipowners Association of Nigeria (SOAN), Mkgeorge Onyung,  averred that the maritime industry, if fully tapped, could address 90 per cent of the country’s economic needs. Moghalu identified poor awareness of the activities of NIWA as an area to be addressed. He also sees insecurity on the waters as a surmountable challenge. He said: “I have been here barely two months; a lot of people don’t know about NIWA. A lot of people don’t know what NIWA stands for. A lot of people don’t know the responsibilities of NIWA. I see this as a challenge that has to be addressed. “Unlike in the past, the resources available to government are not much anymore, so it requires us to think out of the box to think inwards to see what we can do to generate the needed resources internally, by a way of internally generated revenue to balance whatever you are going to get from the national purse. “With that, we can carry out responsibilities of the authority. So, funding is also a major challenge. I will work to make the waterways attractive, to explore the tourism potential, business potential and many more.” Onyung said the industry has the capacity for stronger national economic stability. According to him, the much-sought after oil sector also has a strong maritime component that strengthens it. For instance, he noted that the recent final investment decision taken by shareholders of the Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG) on its Train 7 worth $10 billion can provide as much as $3 billion benefit to the shipping or maritime industry. “We don’t need any other sector. The shipping sector can contribute 90 per cent of all that we need to make Nigeria prosperous. “All we are asking for is ships. I am sure the government is seeing it. There was a slogan we were using very much, which is: ‘No Shipping, No Shopping’. Without shipping, no one will be able to buy anything in the world. Shipping handles 90 per cent of global trade. You have a sector that can solve 90 per cent of your problems, why are you wasting time on other sectors?” He therefore said the searchlight should be on shipping as a priority area.When borders were closed, the nation felt its effect more because it has no ships. “If we had ships on the waters, we wouldn’t know, if borders were closed or not. “Train 7 of NLNG final investment decision has been made. We are talking about  $10 billion that  is going to be unlocked. Out of that huge amount, maybe 20 or 30 per cent of it, is going to involve shipping. There is no way we are not going to get $3 billion from it through shipping, if we have ships to participate and that will create jobs, boost the economy and the money will remain in Nigeria,” he said. But much as these stakeholders have identified potential to make the  waters economic spinners, they also contend that certain measures must be put in place to make this happen.  Adequate  policing The waters have earned a record of notoriety for being one of the most unsafe maritime spaces in Africa. Piracy and sea robberies have not only increased cost, insurance and freight to the country from other parts of the world, but has threatened lives of crew members who suffered kidnapping for ransom. Last December, two high- level piracy and kidnapping incidents involving tanker vessels in the Niger Delta area happened. Experts, including former Secretary-General of Maritime Organisation for West and Central Africa (MOWCA), Magnus Addico, has called for creation of a regional coast guard. But Moghalu said these might be challenging, but that they were surmountable. To this end, he revealed that NIWA was working  with the marine police and Navy to address it. Also, the President, Nigeria Association of Master Mariners (NAMM), Captain Tajudeen Alao, advised the government to create a dedicated coast guard for protecting the domain. Alao said the coast guard could be carved out from marine police, navy and other security outfits to further safeguard the waters. According to him, the Navy should only come in for merchant vessel security upon invitation by the coast guards to solve specific issues. They agree that deploying the navy in what should be coast guard function could be counterproductive and may not address maritime insecurity.  Funding Critical maritime assets, such as access road to Baro River Port in Niger State, modern rail linking ports to Kaduna Dry Port and opening up of other dry ports across the country requires attention. Not much has been done with funds provision to promote growth in these sub-sectors. Experts say once this is done, the channels will also contribute to the nation’s revenue.  CVFF The industry waits anxiously for the promise by the government to release the Cabotage Vessel Financing Fund (CVFF), in the first quarter of the year. This, if done, would increase number of Nigerians participating in the industry, particularly in the lifting of crude oil dominated by foreigners. 