 THERE was excitement in the air last week when the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) extended the the deadline for the ongoing recapitalisation of insurance firms from June 30, 2020 to December 31, 2020 . Earlier, there was an uneasy calm among insurers, brokers, loss adjusters, and shareholders and others as the deadline drew near. Insurers praised the commission under the Acting Commissioner for Insurance, Sunday Olorundare Thomas, for extending the deadline. The extension, they said, would give them more time to achieve their plans. They said  they had more time to seal deals or partnerships, adding that non-extension of the deadline could have made them to ruch into mergers or acquisitions and faced some challenges. Brokers, on the other hand, have over the years, decried the challenges of renewing their licences yearly. They claimed they had alot of bottlenecks to conten with. Other issues that bothered the brokers is contending with huge fines and penalties for minor infractions, which made the Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers (NCRIB) to invent a mediatory platform to reduce the life-threatening policies towards its members. Last week, the commission announced that the brokers could renew their licences every two years. The commission also said it was looking at other areas of concern. Shareholders also did not hold back in a fight to finish with the regulator owing to recapitalisation as they dragged the regulator to court. At present, all seems to be well between the duo after series of engagement. NAICOM workers also held the commission at the jugular, protesting against what they described as highhandedness and poor welfare. The workers, who shut the commission on some occasions, also alleged corruption and lack of capacity building by the Kari-led administration. But relative peace seems to have returned to the commission as workers and the management seem to have been engaging on how to settle worker’s welfare, which had led to agitations and strike. The President, Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers (NCRIB), Mrs. Bola Onigbogi, said she was happy with the relationship between the broking sector and the insurance industry regulator. She said the Acting Commissioner had assured of the council’s support, adding that she  is optimistic that all issues concerning them would be settled. She lauded the commission for the duration of licence renewal, which had been extended by the regulator. At a seminar entitled: Strategic focus of the commission in the year 2020: from compliance to development, the Acting Commissioner said the commission was shifting focus from compliance issues to emphasise more of its market developmental responsibility. He said: “As 2020 continues to unfold, giant strides will be made by the commission in all aspects of its statutory responsibilities. This is the time to put the past behind us and look forward to a better and more vibrant sector. The task of building an insurance sector of our dreams is a collective one and thus, all hands must be on deck to ensure our dreams become realities. We recognise the impact of conducive work environment to effective and efficient regulatory system and this will always remain our priority. “The second phase of the Market Development and Restructuring Initiative (MDRI) will soon be unveiled and it will mark out clear targets and tasks for all stakeholders in the industry. Going forward, we shall vigorously pursue the continued implementation of compulsory insurances in every nook and cranny of the country. We are certainly not unaware of the challenges inhibiting the successful implementation of these classes of insurance thus far hence, our resolve to work with relevant stakeholders to ensure a seamless drive. “Indeed, the successful implementation of compulsory classes of insurance across the nation will ensure adequate protection of our strategic national assets. We will be working with the relevant security agencies to guarantee effective and efficient monitoring of compliance.” On recapitalisation, he said the essence of the recapitalisation is a move to ensure that the industry becomes more robust in its technical competence and financial base, building confidence, trust and enhancing market value. He stressed that this was aimed at repositioning the sector for growth and development. He, however, maintained that the recapitalisation process is up and running in line with the roadmap and the commission will see to its logical conclusion on December 31, 2020. “The financial inclusion strategy has been central to the Federal Government developmental plan and the commission has over the years invested hugely in the development of financial inclusion mechanisms which includes the introduction of microinsurance and Takaful Insurance products. The introduction of these lines of insurance is intended to deepen the penetration of insurance in the country and bring into the fold majority of the populace that are hitherto excluded. So far, some milestones have been recorded in this regard with three standalone Microinsurance and four Takaful insurance companies already granted approvals. The commission shall continue to deploy more energy and resources in building public trust and confidence in insurance despite years of poor perception. “The annuity business made headlines recently with a boost in the contribution of the business to the sector. The public is becoming more exposed and knowledgeable about the workings of annuity, this we expect will continue as the future is looking very bright for the business as we have witnessed. This has also shown a positive growth in trust and confidence in the sector. “The commission is committed to ensuring financial soundness and viability of the insurers and the adequate protection of policyholders at all times. These will continue to be part of our regulatory priorities. We will continue to ensure that genuine claims are promptly paid while also ensuring a reasonable protection of investments of shareholders. In demonstrating its willingness to protect the policyholders, the Commission has further strengthened its Complaint Bureau Unit to respond to public complaints over claims settlement. Available statistics have shown that there has been great improvement in this area. “Ensuring the right pricing of insurance products and effective deployment of technology for ease of transaction are among the key areas the commission will be emphasising this year. Digitalisation of insurance business is no longer an option, but an imperative which we all have to work towards its actualisation. As we may all be aware, the industry is lagging behind other financial services sectors in this area. The commission is working vigorously to see that all its operations are digitalised. The year 2020 is a year for us to turnaround the fortunes of the industry and this cannot be accomplished without digitalising our processes and encouraging the industry to imbibe same.” Thomas also said the commission would introduce reforms and initiatives in line with international best practices.  