By Dr Joel Akande  Today’s article is the last in our series on skin disorders. In the past few weeks, we had discussed such topics as functions of the skin and its impact on health, infection, sexually transmitted diseases as affecting our skin. We looked at excessive hair and hair loss. Also, we considered common skin issues such as eczema and allergy. Today, we will take a look at the impact of nutrition or its absence (food, water, vitamins and supplements) on skin. In developed countries, alcohol ingestion or misuse, cigarettes smoking, bowel disease, fast food, and mental illness are major illnesses that affect diseases of the skin. In Nigeria, alcohol misuse, poverty, poor personal hygiene, infections/bowel infestations are factors affecting our nutrition and hence our skin.  Types of nutritional disorders that affect skin health Protein malnutrition (fish, meat, egg, milk, beans) or not taking enough of the listed food items may lead to malnutrition popularly known as kwashiorkor. In a child that suffers from the illness of kwashiorkor, the hair fine and sparse has a reddish brown effect. The hair is under pigmented.  The facial expression looks miserable, wasted and bloated. The skin is crackled. The face pigmentation is patchy.  A look at the mouth or angles of the lips show cracks called angular stomatitis.  The eye lashes are sparse. The feet are swollen. The skin is dry and wrinkled with redundant skin because of loss of the fat underneath. The prevention is to eat balanced diet rich in protein of fish, egg, beans, milk and animal proteins in measured and reasonable amounts. It’s not a single occasion of overfeeding the child, but one in which the child consumes the items of protein as part of the daily diets.  Absence of vitamins in the diet Adult or children need vitamins. Absence of vitamins and supplements may have overall adverse effects on our health.  Examples of vitamins that are required on daily basis are vitamin A, B1, B2, B6, B12, C, D, E, Biotin and Folic Acid. Most adults will obtain these vitamins from their food and children should too. Babies being breastfed will most probably get their required vitamins. If babies are receiving artificial foods should have all of these vitamins as supplements to their food.  When children or adult lack vitamin B1, beriberi may result. It shows up by legs and hand swelling, skin breaks easily. There may be tingling sensations and numbness with sensation of burning. Another effect of lack of vitamins can be seen when individuals lack Niacin. This may result in development of pellagra with exposed area of the body being mostly affected as described under malnutrition. Deficiency of other vitamins have their effects on the skin.  Malabsorption Individuals that suffer from poor absorption or as doctors call it, malabsorption, may also suffer from protein, vitamins, minerals (iron, zinc etc) and fat deficiency disorders. Their effects on the skin will be similar to as if they have not consumed the necessary food of protein, vitamins and fat as under malnutrition. Individuals suffering from chronic diarrhea, bowel diseases, liver disorders, tuberculosis, chronic pancreatitis, operations on the stomach and so many others may suffer from such malnutrition. In sum, nutrition and indeed well balanced nutrition is a necessity for a healthy skin. Deprived of essential proteins, vitamins, and minerals, the skin will begin to show serious signs of illnesses. Similarly, internal diseases that impair absorption of food, minerals and vitamins as well as protein and fat may adversely affect our health in general and the skin in particular. In the past few weeks, we have dealt with skin disorders. We addressed preventive measures and your role in all of these. In closing, remember, the human skin plays significant role in our health and we owe it a duty to protect it and maintain its health.