By Kolade Adeyemi, Kano  Kano Governor Abdullahi Ganduje on Monday called on opposition parties in state to join hands with his administration for the uplift and continued development of the state. Ganduje, who spoke to reporters at African House, Government House after the Supreme Court affirmed his election, praised Allah for the victory. “We thank Allah for the victory that made it possible for the Supreme Court to reaffirm our victory after Election Petition Tribunal and Court of Appeal judgements. We also thank Kano people for peaceful conduct of their affairs,”. “With this victory, l feel very happy and l feel honoured by the people of Kano state and as you can see everybody is happy. I thanked God for guarding us. ” l also thanked the judiciary as an institution and a very important Institution for democracy, so we have to thanked them for doing the right thing,” he stated. He also thanked all people who actively participated in praying for the victory that came his way, emphasising that, “Whoever believes and depends on Allah, will always see light at the beginning, mid and end of the tunnel, no matter the circumstances.” “We also commend all the Judges who partook in this exercise of deepening democracy. This shows the commitment of our judiciary in strengthening our democracy. This is highly commendable,”. Ganduje said: ” l have confidence in the judiciary, because they are doing the right thing, not because l have won the election, looking at the trend of what is happening. “I insist that our opposition should come and join us to move the state forward. We have a lot of developmental projects on ground. And more are coming. “We have to thank everybody and our challenge now is for reconciliation, therefore. I am inviting everybody in respect of any political party.we expect the contribution of everybody, so as to move Kano state forward. “Our free and compulsory education policy needs all hands on deck. Our security system also needs all and sundry. Among others,”.