By Nwanosike Onu, Awka Two children kidnapped by in Eziowelle,Idemili North Local Government Area of Anambra State are yet to be seen one year after. As a result, the families of the five- year- old children have raised the alarm that the sleepy community was being taken over by miscreants in the area. During the protest on Monday, Mrs Victoria Maduako and Mrs Elizabeth Amaife, told The Nation the two of their sons, Tukwasichukwuobi and Chinenye were kidnapped by unknown persons on January 30, 2019 . The pupils, according to the women, were abducted by the hoodlums from Uzibi Primary School and had not been seen till date, lamenting they were in pains and agony. Following the wrong deeds going on in the Community, no fewer than 500 members from the town, yesterday, stormed the state government house to demand for the desolution of the caretaker committee in the area. The protesters, who besieged the gate of the Government House,including widows, youth and the elderly, were led by Chief Anthony Ojemba Chigbo, They carried placards with different inscriptions like “Governor Obiano save Eziowelle Town from sliding further into anarchy and “The problem of Eziowelle can best be described as ‘tyranny of the minority ‘ among others. Chigbo said: “the problem of the community is a clique who see Eziowelle as their fiefdom that must be governed by their cronies in an undemocratic closed unwritten vicious succession arrangement. “Civilized attempt to force these tyrants to open the electoral space to enable all eligible persons to vote and be voted for started way back in 2013. “Advocates for review of the 1992 Eziowelle Improvement Union (EIU) Constitution were assured in a convention by the then incumbent president general (PG) that “we shall not go into the next election without opening up the electoral space through constitution review. “This assurance turned out to be open deceit designed to calm frayed nerves. The status quo continued unabated until the build up to the June 30, 2018 EIU general elections” They asked Obiano to appoint a caretaker committee that would be saddled with the responsibilities of opening up the electoral space in Ezeiowelle, auditing the accounts of Eziowelle Improvement Union since 2015 and conduct a free and fair election and return Eziowelle Town back to civilisation.