 LAGOS State Government has reiterated its commitment to make water transportation safe and easy for the residents. This was revealed at a one-day training on guidelines and code of conduct on waterways tagged: “Making water transportation safe for all”. The event, held at Tarzan Jetty, Maroko Foreshore, Victoria Island, Lagos, was organised by the Lagos State Safety Commission (LSSC). The Director-General of the commission, Mr. Lanre Mojola, said safety, as the word implies, is paramount to the Lagos State Government led by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, hence the persistent advocate by the safety agency to always maintain safety consciousness everywhere people find themselves. He said his agency would make waterways transportation easy and safe for Lagosians because “waterways transportation remains the easiest and cheapest form of transportation, hence the resolve of the present administration to make it safe and attractive to all.” Mojola said it was imperative for the stakeholders to understand what the code of conduct was, as far as waterways transportation was concerned. The Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Tarzan Jetty, Alhaji Tarzan Balogun, urged stakeholders to utilise the opportunity provided by the government through the LSSC. He said they should ensure they read and understand what the code of conduct stipulates as far as waterway transportation is concerned. The General Manager, Lagos State Waterways Authority (LASWA), Damilola Emmanuel, advised stakeholders to work together to have a smooth waterway. He said working together would enable stakeholders understand the challenges and provide solution to the problems that might arise. Other experts presented papers such as highlighting of plans for developing and implementing guidelines and code of practice for Lagos waterways. The workshop was attended by stakeholders in the water transportation business like boat operators, dredgers association, fishermen, timber traders, marine policemen, etc.