The people of Kaduna under the auspices of Southern Kaduna Peoples Union (SOKAPU) have mourned Prof. Simon P. Mallam and five other persons who died in the  gas explosion in Sabon Tasha area of Kaduna metropolis on Saturday. This was as Kaduna State Police Command released the identity of victims of the gas explosion. Prof. Simon P. Mallam, a renowned Nuclear Physicist from Kaura local Government in the Southern part of Kaduna State was until his death the Director General of Nigeria Atomic Energy Commission. SOKAPU President,  Jonathan Asake, in a statement condoled with the families of the victims and called on the government and other relevant regulatory agencies to enforce safety regulations for life threatening businesses such as gas outlets and petrol stations that are situated in residential areas to avoid future recurrence of avoidable loss of precious lives. According to the SOKAPU president, “SOKAPU on behalf of the the  67 Ethnic Nationalities represented by the various Community Development Associations, send our heartfelt  condolences to the family of late Prof. Simon P. Mallam, on the very painful exit of this rare gem, a great icon and an illustrious son of Southern Kaduna whose sad event occurred on Saturday the 4th of January, 2020 following a gas explosion which killed him as he was within the vicinity of the accident. “Our heartfelt condolence also goes to the families of the six persons killed alongside Prof. Mallam. May God grant them the fortitude to bear the injured and receiving treatment at various hospitals we wish them a quick recovery.” The Kaduna State Police Command, in a statement has revealed the identity of deceased victims. The Command’s PPRO, DSP Yakubu Sabo in a statement also disclosed that the death toll had on Sunday risen from five to six. He said the police in the course of investigation identified five of the deceased persons who died in the explosion as: Prof. Mallam Simon, Wale Ajayi, Daniel Peter, Victor Asoegwu and Micheal Ernest. He added that “Properties valued at sixteen million, four hundred and two thousand,three hundred Naira (N16,402,300) only, have been burnt in the four shops affected by the fire. “The Commissioner of Polic CP Ali Aji Janga psc has expressed his sincere condolences to the families of the victims and assured the Public that, the Command is still investigating the root cause of the incident and will ensure justice in accordance with the law.” PPRO said.