From Damisi Ojo,Akure  Ondo State Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu has urged management and staff of the Millennium College of Health Technology, Akure, to remain committed to production of globally competitive health professionals needed for  the advancement  of the country’s health sector. Akeredolu stated this at the second combined convocation ceremony which involved three sets comprising 2016/2017, 2017/2018 and 2018/2019 academic sessions. The event  marking the 10th anniversary of the private institution was  held at the College main auditorium, Aaye, Oda Road, Akure. The college, at the occasion, conferred on Akeredolu, an Excellence Award for his sustainable health policies and programmes, which the institution noted are impacting positively on the lives of the people of the state. Receiving the award, the governor   represented by the Head, Standard and Quality Assurance, Ondo State Contributory Health Commission, Dr. Toyin Adeyalo-Ogundare,  thanked  the College for the award. He also reassured the people of the state that his administration would not relent in its commitment to ensure that every  resident of the state is captured under the State Contributory Health Insurance. He lauded the institution for its tremendous progress in the training of middle health professionals within the relatively short period of its establishment, urging the college to sustain the outstanding achievements. The Chairman,Governing Council, Mrs Caroline Ogunbadenusi, said the  health policies and programmes of Akeredolu-led administration have not only made qualitative healthcare services affordable but also more accessible to the people of the state. She specifically lauded the governor for his free medical services for pregnant women and children of 0-5 years, recruitment of more health personnel, establishment of more health facilities and upgrading of the existing ones, among others.  Ogunbadenusi said the college would not rest on its oars until it becomes the best private  health institution in Nigeria. She disclosed that the college had concluded affiliation with some Nigerian and foreign universities for degree programmes to provide a veritable platform for graduates to pursue Bachelor /Master degrees and enable them climb to the pinnacle of their respective careers, right from the college. The Provost of the College, Mrs. Ayodele Adinlewa, said all programmes of the institution including the Higher National Diploma (HND) have been fully accredited by the relevant Federal Government Regulatory Bodies/Council. She added that the school is fully committed to theoretical, practical training and entrepreneurship skill development. Speaking on behalf of other graduating students, Akinwumi Esther, thanked the management and staff of the college, their parents and guardians, for their unwavering commitment to ensure their success in all ramifications, promising to continue to be good ambassadors of the college. 