Cross River State Governor Ben Ayade on Monday absolved himself of complicity in the continued detention of journalist-turned politician, Agba Jalingo. The governor said Jalingo crossed the line as a politician by committing treason, which no state government has the power to handle. Ayade spoke on Monday in Abuja when State House Correspondents asked him about Agba’s plight. The governor said he had tried to ensure his release without success as he lacked the jurisdiction to do so. A rights group, Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP), had threatened to file a suit against Ayade and the Cross River State government over Jalingo’s incarceration. It alleged that Jalingo’s ordeal was orchestrated by the governor, following a report of “fraud” he published against Ayade. But the governor said Jalingo is facing treason charges, which are not within the purview of his constitutional duty. He explained that the activist crossed the line from being a journalist to a politician when he became the state Chairman of the African Action Congress (AAC), the party founded by #RevolutionNow Convener Omoyele Sowore. Ayade stressed that Jalingo became a person of interest to security agents when he consistently used the social media to canvass the toppling of the Muhammadu Buhari administration. “The case is between Agba Jalingo and the Federal Government of Nigeria. On his Facebook page, he posted an ambitious programme… Please, don’t get it wrong: Agba Jalingo is not just from Cross River State, he’s not just from Obudu, where I also come from, he’s (also) my brother. “On his Facebook page, he sent pictures where he was being teargassed at the #RevolutionNow march in Lagos; his own pictures, posted by himself. When Sowore was being arrested, he went back to his Facebook to post that the revolution had just started: ‘We will continue this battle until revolution works.’ He admitted this in court. “In court, it is Federal Government versus Agba Jalingo, not versus Cross River State. The same Agba Jalingo, who is in jail, I send him money. I called my Chief Press Secretary and others and said that journalists would not understand that Agba Jalingo is the State Chairman of Sowore’s party. From the time he moved into politics, he became a politician. “You are seeing him as a journalist, but he’s not; he’s the chairman of Sowore’s party in Cross River State. So, he’s a politician. He has a primary calling, which is journalism. Please, ask Agba Jalingo: the Cross River Watch, the first person to give him money to set up its office was myself. His official vehicle, it was me. I don’t have to list all of these. He knows that I have funded and supported him. But journalism stops where blackmail becomes part of your strategy. “I have an intellectual background as a professor. I will stand with journalists at all times and I will never prosecute somebody. But if you ask Agba Jalingo today, I’m the one working with his lawyers for his freedom; I’m the one sustaining him and sending upkeeps. The same man who once called me a golden brother, that I’ve stood with him through tough times. “When he started publishing damaging articles against the state, I called him as a brother. I said: look, the former governor told me that you so much blackmailed him, that his wife was detained because she was involved in (alleged) child trafficking. “He had to resort to settling him monthly. When journalism gets to that level, it becomes very dangerous. I don’t want you people to support a cause that is not fair. “I am of the opinion that Agba should be released because I think he was just youthfully excited. But let him not use the power of the pen, let him not use journalism and hide to blackmail, chastise, lampoon or destroy another person just for personal economic benefit,” he said.