 LAGOS State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Tuesday made a case for more space for women in decision making, saying it would lighten administrative burden. He spoke when he delivered a keynote address during the official launch of ‘HeforShe’ Campaign at Adeyemi Bero Auditorium, Alausa, Ikeja. ‘HeforShe’ Campaign is an initiative of the United Nations launched in 2014 to promote gender equality. The governor, who was decorated as a champion of the ‘HeforShe’ Campaign with nine other personalities, said that his administration had shown example “in this regard by having 12 women in the executive council (exco).” Sanwo-Olu said: “This campaign is a clarion call on the male gender to sign up to this initiative because it is an idea that the society as a whole stands to benefit from. Women are endowed with potential the society needs to harness, to achieve optimum level of development.” Stressing the role of women, the governor said: “I lend my voice to those of our mothers, sisters, wives, daughters and friends to call for your support in their quest for gender equality. “Let us create more space for them to operate, as this will free us from the burden we have borne over the years. Also, it is important that we eschew all forms of violence against women, be it physical, financial, emotional or professional. “In addition, issues of women empowerment and equal opportunity for both genders are part of the cardinal policies of this administration. Just a couple of weeks ago, 1,050 vulnerable women and a few men benefitted from this administration’s empowerment programme, which we have decided to be doing on a quarterly basis. “I am fully persuaded that women are not out to take over from us, they have only asked for more space to operate. Why should we deny them?  After all, in today’s world, women have demonstrated great capacity in all areas of human endeavour that were hitherto considered exclusive preserve of men in the scheme of things.” He said Lagos State has been in the forefront of promoting gender equality through its policy of zero tolerance for gender based discrimination and protection of women and the girl-child against violence, sexual harassment, rape and trafficking. “Finally, as the chief gender champion for the ‘HeforShe’ campaign, I call on other champions and everyone to support our women, and accord them more space to operate. Let us continue to love and believe in them and the world will be a better place for all of us to achieve our full potential,” Sanwo-Olu said. UN Women Deputy Representative in Nigeria Mr. Lansana Wonneh said that with the launch of the campaign in the state, “it is a demonstration that Lagos has shown commitment and progressiveness in promoting gender equality.” He said Nigeria is a very low achiever in gender equality with 0.825 per cent index for women, adding: “We have to celebrate women emancipation and gender equality. “If you invest in the education of women and girls, you increase the tax base. It is just important that those who are doing the best have equal opportunity to even do more.”     