However, while cases and arrests have been rampant, it seems like trials have been taking forever and convictions have been rare and far between. Like an observer put it, “the whole hullabaloo over Favour Daley-Oladele may soon die down and everyone would move on as if nothing has happened.” While that may sound cynical, the reality on ground literally gives credence to his position. Starting with the case of Clifford Orji, right to the cases of the ‘mad men’ ritualists and several others caught red-handed across the country in recent years, nothing much have been heard. But according to Lagos State Police Public Relation Officer, DSP Bala Elkana, “ritual killing are murder cases and they take time, sometimes, months but that does not mean that convictions are not eventually secured. Just last week, judgment was pronounced on those people who go about exhuming body parts from cemeteries. I can’t exactly remember the number of years they got off-hand, but they were convicted.” When reminded that convictions have been rare nevertheless, with cases of Clifford Orji and the fake mad men ritualists in perspective, Elkana said he would have to contact the Police Legal Department for updates He however revealed that murder cases are handled by the Director of Public Prosecution, Office of the Attorney General. “The police charge them to court, and then we send the case diary to the Ministry of Justice for vetting and legal advice and the Attorney General’s office takes over.” Asked if the police is pushing for a special legislation for ritual killing since it seem to be on the rise, Elkana said, “Murder is murder – whether it is ritual or not. It is a capital offence and the punishment is death sentence – unless it is manslaughter. You can’t possibly get a worse sentence than that, can you?” He asked. When reminded that the cases still drag for so long, even when the suspects have confessed and their confessions are in the papers, Elkana said the procedure, which is a lengthy one, is part of what is responsible for this delay. “Because it is capital in nature, murder cases are not cases we can rush to court. Once there is a case murder, you rely on very important evidence called autopsy – the doctor’s report. If it is not there, it is an issue. Also, a lot of evidence need to be put together before it goes through trial. So we will take the corpse to the hospital for autopsy and the pathologist examines it. “Also in a typical murder case – whether ritual or not, you have to ascertain the cause of death. Is it natural or a factor? If something killed him, who caused it? And the death must be within 101 days of that factor that caused it. So, if you don’t get those points clear, you may have the accuse walk out of the court a free man. In Lagos State, it is now mandatory that an autopsy must be done on the corpse of a suspected murder case, irrespective of the family’s religious stance. Without an autopsy, cases get thrown out easily. “You also have to be able to link the death to the person you are accusing. It is after this that we send it to the office of the Attorney General before it proceeds to trial. In the course of the trial, witnesses, as well as the doctor who performed the autopsy, will be called to court to testify. So it is nothing that can be done in a few weeks or one month like stealing. “Remember, we’re dealing with human life and the punishment is death. So you have to be meticulous, so you don’t go and hang an innocent man. Take for example the case of Rev. Dr. King. You saw how long it took; but eventually a conviction was secured. All said, you must bare it in mind that murder cases don’t get easily thrown out.” Elkana said.