The Nigerian Society of Engineers has sworn in Engr. Babagana Mohammed as it’s 32nd President. Muhammed, a former chairman of the Victoria Island branch of the Society, was sworn-in at an investiture held at the International Conference Center, Abuja on 11th January 2020. Until now, he was the Deputy President of the NSE and had earlier held 22 positions in the last 13 years. Babagana succeeded  Engr. Adekunle Mokunolu who was the 31st President from 2018 to 2020. Mokunolu was also present to handover the reigns of leadership to his successor. The Borno State born engineer who took over the leadership as the 32nd President for a period of two years, in his investiture speech emphasized on building the country on different fronts, “We will align ourselves with the national development goals 2030 and ensure the profession of engineering gives its best to national development,” he said. According to him, “the Nigerian Society of Engineers will open its doors to innovation from all and sundry. Individuals with outstanding ideas that can move the nation forward will get support from the society whether or not such individuals are Engineers.” He further stressed on the importance of young engineering graduates getting necessary help to be able to create jobs by equipping them with skills relevant in the 21st century. In his words: “young engineering graduates should be job creators, either for others or at least for themselves.” Babagana said, the world is moving away from the era of certificate based employment, to skills based employment thereby calling for urgent moves in equipping young people with skills. He concluded by proposing ways of strengthening the society, increasing its membership, mentoring young engineers and nurturing them, settling conflicts within the engineering family from different regions of the country and many other important issues. The investiture witnessed the presence of eminent personalities including, the Executive Governor of Borno State, Engr. Prof Babagana Zulum, alongside members of his cabinet; Executive Governor of Yobe State, Hon. Mai Buni; Former governor of Borno State, Sen. Kashim Shettima; President of the Council for the Regulation of Engineering in Nigeria, COREN. Others are past presidents of NSE and personalities both from within and outside the Engineering ecosystem.