Some female participants in the National Youth Service Scheme (NYSC) want to be allowed to wear skirts, instead of trousers. The request, which is being pushed on religious grounds, has continued to generate controversy as authorities of the NYSC would have none of it. SANI ONOGU and FRANK IKPEFAN report.  For every Nigerian graduate, mobilisation by the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) for the compulsory one year service to the father land is often exhilarating. Most graduates welcome it with a sense of fulfilment, recognition and accomplishment. Besides, others see it as a fitting cap to their years of toil and academic rigours in their respective higher institutions. The service confers pride and reinforces the citizenship of the participants. For freshers, it marks their official initiation into the world of work, social, economic, administrative, cultural and political system of the nation. Those undergoing the service are often accorded respect while in their NYSC uniform, a trademark as well as a symbol that evokes the ideal behind the scheme. But for 23 years old Emeghoghena Julia Ikuoya and some of her colleagues – Patience Nogide Nwaogu and Grace Adewunmi Adeboye – that goal and personal fulfilment may never be realised, if their present faceoff with the managers of the scheme is not amicably resolved. They told reporters during a protest in Abuja last week that their ordeal began when they refused to wear trousers given to them as standard uniforms supplied by the government to all participants. They have opted not to wear the pair of trousers that come with the NYSC kit. They chose to convert the trousers to skirts. In reaction, the NYSC authorities were said to have de-kited decamped them. Their monthly allowances have also been stopped by the authorities. The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) chapter has insisted that they will only be readmitted after complying with the rules guiding the scheme. But the Ikuoya and her two other colleagues said that their plea to be allowed to wear skirts is hinged on their Christian beliefs that women should not wear trousers. But the officials would not budge. In defiance, Ikuoya and her colleagues hit the streets in protest. Pronto, Serve With Skirt Movement (SWSM) protest was born. The protesters stormed the Unity Fountain, Maitama, Abuja where they demonstrated against the mandatory use of trousers by female members participating in the scheme. They said the action became necessary to call on the Federal Government, especially the National Assembly, to make the wearing of trousers optional for participants in the scheme. They carried banners and placards with varied inscriptions calling on the authorities of the NYSC to amend the rules and make the wearing of trousers by female corps members a personal choice. Some of the inscriptions in their banners and placards include: “We are denied our fundamental human right to religion, thought and conscience”, “NYSC promote patriotism, not religious discrimination and moral decadence”, and “Wearing trousers is against God and Christian ethics. NYSC, allow females to wear skirts.” Others are: “NYSC skirt uniform is not new, allow us to serve #Back to 1976 Allow us to wear skirt”, “Trousers do not cover nakedness of women”, NYSC doesn’t infringe on our religious liberty and rights”, “We cannot dress like the world”, “We are not worldly, we are true children of God” and “Our daughters cannot dress like men, our daughters would be mothers tomorrow.” Ikuoya, who led the protest, is a graduate of Economics from the Ambrose Ali University, Ekpoma, Edo State. She said she was initially posted to Nasarawa State for her service in 2019 but that due to some health challenges, she sought redeployment to Abuja and was seconded to the National Space Research and Development Agency, popularly called Obasanjo Space Centre. Ikuoya, with NYSC State Code: FC/19B/821, said that her refusal to put on trousers earned her query and stoppage from working at her primary area of assignment. She said she had explained to the State Coordinator that she cannot wear trousers because of her religious beliefs and conviction as a Christian. According to her, females serving with the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) are allowed to wear skirts, female Naval officers do wear skirts. She said that even in the Army, females are allowed to wear skirts. She wondered why the NYSC is treating female corps members differently. Ikuoya said, “In the NYSC’s bye-laws, it is not stated that the uniform must be trousers. It is not stated that anybody putting on the skirt would be decamped. If our mothers who served in 1976 wore skirts and they were given their certificates, why are we being denied our right to serve our dear nation? We are citizens of Nigeria and we want to serve our dear nation. Our sisters from various states of the federation, both Christian and Muslim, are being decamped because they want to wear skirts and if you do not look at the NYSC’s bye-laws, trousers nor skirt was stated, it said we should wear uniforms. “I want the Federal Government to approve the wearing of skirts by females for Christian and the Muslim corps members. People are being made to turn against their religious beliefs just because of NYSC. Please let the Senate look into this and let our sisters serve with skirts.” Ikuoya narrated how she went to her designated local NYSC office in Area 11 in Garki, wearing her skirt to do her documentation but that one of the NYSC officials seized her papers. “I explained to her that I can’t wear trousers because I am a Christian and that my religious beliefs and my convictions won’t let me wear the trousers. But the official said I should go and wear trousers. I then complained to a family friend at the office of the Head of Service, who accompanied me there. “They gave me a query for changing my uniform to skirt. I told them that I am a law-abiding citizen of Nigeria. It is stated in the NYSC’s bye-law that one should not deface the uniforms given. That is why I didn’t tamper with the trousers. I made a skirt of the same material that suits my conviction and since I was exempted from camp, I am not going to climb any rope in my place of the primary assignment so I pleaded that I should be allowed but they did not let me. “In my reply to the query, I attached a 1976 picture showing female corps members wearing skirts. Immediately they read the first line, the woman flung it and started raising her voice at me. Then I told her, madam, please don’t raise your voice at me, but she increased it. I almost passed out. I picked up the reply to the query and left. “God helped me that I graduated well. I cannot turn my back on God at this point. Even if I would have to leave the service or serve for free, I would do it. The State Coordinator invited me to Kubwa and accused me of not replying the query that I was given. But I explained that I responded but it was rejected. They now told me that I would be referred to a disciplinary committee.” She recalled how two female corps members were sent out of camp in October 2019 over similar dress code issues and how the intervention of religious and human rights groups forced the authorities to rescind the decision. The protesting corps member said she had approached the Human Rights Writers Association (HURIWA) and the Legal Aid Council (LAC) about her plight. She said the LAC wrote to the NYSC but that she was on Monday summoned by the disciplinary committee of the NYSC. “The disciplinary committee asked me so many questions which I answered. I told them that just last October, hijab was approved and the bye-law was not amended. I am not against Muslims because I know they want to wear skirts and some of them were decamped too for wearing skirts. One at Iyana-Ipaja in Lagos and another one in that same NYSC office located inside the Arts and Culture building in Area 11 Abuja. She had to go against her religious obligations to obey the NYSC. But ever since they listed me, they paid me for only three months because I relocated. I have been going to my PPA. I did not ask for money and I have been serving. Even if they won’t pay me, they should just give me my certificate.” Also, Miss Nwaogu who graduated from the Federal University of Technology, Akure, during the 2016/2017 academic year, narrated her experience. She was posted to Ebonyi State for the scheme. According to her, “I told them that I want to wear my skirt and serve my nation because as a citizen of the country, I have the right to serve my nation just like all other graduates are doing”. She, however, said that the camp authorities opposed her move after which she was allegedly assaulted by an official. “They insisted that I must wear their trousers or else I leave the scheme. During the orientation, I faced a lot of insults and humiliation. One of the military men tore the skirt I wore”. She added that after going through my service year in Ebonyi, she followed up the case and was made to face the disciplinary committee. She had to travel down to Abuja to lay her complaints, regretting that nothing has come from it. “They insisted that I must wear a skirt and the bye-law did not say so. Why will I be an enemy of God when I have the conviction that it is against my religious beliefs, my conscience and conviction. I was brought up by Godly parents. “I have never worn shorts nor trousers outside my house. Why should they insist that I must wear trousers now that I am serving? That is my question. Secondly, I discovered that the shorts we are made to wear by NYSC expose one as a lady. “Looking at those things, you cannot wear it. It is so humiliating. This is the same government that arrests people on the streets for wearing short dresses. Yet, in the camp, they insist that you wear them.” Nwaogu said after the camp training, she was denied posting letter to her place of primary assignment on account of wearing a skirt instead of trousers. She said the officials claimed that the directive came from the NYSC headquarters in Abuja. Two years down the line, she has not been given her discharge certificate.  “I thought it was a joke and that I would go back to the secretariat in Ebonyi and collect my posting letter. I kept on going there and they always told me that Abuja has not said anything. They never released the letter to me for primary assignment. I don’t have NYSC certificate. I came down to Abuja to come and lay my complaint. But they insisted through a formal letter to me, that I should go back and serve if I am ready to wear their trousers. But I am not ready to wear the trousers. I will rather give them the certificate.” On her part, Miss Adeboye hails from Oyo State. She graduated from the University of Ibadan last year and was posted to Enugu State for the service. She was posted to Enugu State in June, that is “Batch B” 2019. When she got to camp, she approached the camp director and pleaded that she be allowed to wear a skirt through the service. “What they told me was that I should write a letter that I don’t want to serve because I cannot wear trousers. I felt that was wrong because I want to serve and as a Nigerian, it is my right to serve my country. I was asked to write a letter that I did not want to serve because I was not allowed to wear a skirt. But I refused to write that letter. They gave me a query asking me to explain why I refused to dress up in NYSC uniforms. I explained that I did not refuse the uniforms, just that I could not wear what they provided. I was given a decamp and de-kit and I was sent away from the camp.” The Coordinator of the SWSM, Barrister Udochi Emmanuel-Baba, said that the protest became imperative following the age-long inhuman treatment meted to female corps members who refused to wear trousers. She noted that the SWSM comprised several youth groups across the country who is concerned about the plight of female corps members who have been prevented from serving their fatherland because they refused to wear trousers after they were mobilised for service. She lamented that while some of the victims were stopped from participating in activities at the orientation camps, others were not deployed to primary areas of assignment and equally denied statutory allowances and certificates. Emmanuel-Baba said: “The crux of why we are here for this rally today is because year after year, our female corps members posted to various states are being embarrassed. They are often decamped, de-kited and sent out of the camp because they wore skirts. We all know that that in itself is a breach of their fundamental human rights as provided for in Section 38 (1) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. We also have a situation where these trousers are evoking immorality at the camps and we cannot take it anymore. This was not so in the beginning. Way back in the 1970s and the 80s we had our mothers wearing skirts during the NYSC compulsory national service and we want to go back to that.” Emmanuel-Baba argued that those that cannot abide by the rule that compels females to wear trousers be granted exemption from service. “If they can exempt us which is what we want. We have already asked for that severally but the NYSC has not given us that as an option. She threatened court action by the group if the authorities failed to accede to their demand.  Use of skirt remains banned – NYSC In reaction, the authorities of the NYSC have insisted that the use of skirt by Christian or Muslim female corps members remained banned. The Scheme insisted that the approved dress has not changed and that it will continue to be enforced. The NYSC Director-General, Brig-Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim, in a telephone chat with one of our correspondents on Wednesday, said the provisions of the scheme are contained in the Act establishing the NYSC and its bye-laws. He said: “Our position remains the same that corps members are not allowed to wear a skirt. We have our laws and it doesn’t permit corps members to wear a skirt. We have our dress code and that is what we are using. “NYSC is not a female organisation. NYSC is for all Nigerians – both men and women. Pictures of girls marching alone in the skirt are not true. We have never had that in the scheme. There was no point in time that girls were trained alone. “The training of corps members in camp is for both sexes. NYSC a religious organisation. The NYSC was established for the promotion of national unity and anything that will bring disunity within the younger generation should be discouraged. “When corps members come for service, religion is secondary. The duty of the corps member is to serve the country first and the NYSC first. Any other thing is secondary. “Our corps members are mobilised to serve and they are patriotic. In NYSC, it is the country first, the scheme first. That is what we do. We have our dress code. People should learn to adhere to it. “Once we give our uniform to corps members they should not go and deface it. Nobody should tell them to reduce it. They should wear it bogus as it is. Once you wear it bogus as given to you, it will not show your shape.”