Oyindamola Fabinu was not fully aware of how mentally tough she was until she got to the Law School. The Osun State University alumnus tells ROBERT EGBE how she overcame her fears to become the first lawyer in her nuclear and extended family. Daughter of an accountant, trader  My name is Oyindamola Oluwabunmi Fabinu. I am from a family of six and the second of four children: one boy and three girls. I am from Ilesa West Local Government Area (LGA) of Osun State. My dad is a chartered accountant and works with Osun State College of Technology Esa-Oke, while my mom is a trader. She sells fabrics and foodstuffs. How secondary school changed my life I attended Ultimate Nursery and Primary Schools, Ilesa, Osun State and finished in 2006. In primary school, I was not really a brilliant child neither was I a dullard. I guess I was just an average student. I later enrolled at Iloko Model College, Iloko Ijesa, Osun State and graduated in 2013. My experience at Iloko Model College was a life-changing one because when I gained admission into the school, I wasn’t really a brilliant student. Things even got worse when I got to Junior Secondary School (JSS) 2. I became very dull and my self-esteem became very low. I didn’t know what was happening to me, but I knew that I could do more for myself. Through the help of God, my teachers and parents, I started picking up little by little and school became very interesting for me. Second Class (Upper) at university, First Class at Law School I graduated from Osun State University (Ifetedo campus) where I obtained my LL.B degree with a Second Class (upper division).  Thereafter, I attended the Nigerian Law School (Lagos Campus) in 2018 and obtained my Bachelor of Laws (BL) degree with a First Class. I was called to the Nigerian Bar in November 2019. I am the first lawyer in my family, both nuclear and extended family. I heard horrible stories about Law I never wanted to study Law because of all the horrible stories I heard while growing up about the stress and the rigorous training involved. Nevertheless, I was inspired to choose Law because of an uncle in my church, Mr Muyiwa Adeyemi, who became the first lawyer in our church then and the rest they say, is history. If I didn’t study law, I would have studied Mass Communication. God helped me to be consistent Law School was fun and stressful at the same time. Law School brought out so many abilities I never thought I had. All I can say is that, I relied so much on God because I knew that I couldn’t do it on my own, so I depended totally on God and he didn’t fail me. God also gave me the grace to be consistent; I strictly followed my personal reading timetable and was never afraid to ask questions from my colleagues and seniors. At some point, I became very tired and scared but I never gave up on myself, I kept pushing till the end. Thank God for friends like Tomiloba Babarinde, Tobiloba George and my roommates who made Law School fun for me. I enjoyed myself in my own little way.  My Call to Bar fulfilled my parents’ dream I was one of the recipients of the Nigerian Law School (Director-General’s prize) for First Class students in 2019 and my call to Bar was a dream come true for my parents; they were so happy and proud of me. In our own little way, we celebrated the success. Memorable day My most memorable day in Law School was the day we finished our exams and Law School (Lagos campus) organised a cocktail for us; I really enjoyed myself. Marrying a lawyer? Being a lawyer or not is not an issue for me. There are so many things to consider apart from the profession. What I would change about Law School What would I like to change about Law School: TIME! The time is just too short and the syllabus is cumbersome. Mentors I look up to my Dad and Mum. I also look up to Mrs James who is a lecturer at the Nigerian Law School (Lagos campus), she’s a great woman! Judge, SAN or Professor? I would choose to be a professor The future I aim to obtain my LL.M and focus on building my career; I would love to be a law lecturer someday. Final words To all aspirants out there, you’re not dull, you’re smart, move out of your comfort zone and discover the real you. You’re unstoppable! 