Petty traders and artisans operating shops in Abuja are indifferent to the planned increase in electricity tariffs. The traders, who spoke with FRANCA OCHIGBO, said in the first place, epileptic power supply over the years has forced them to rely more on generating sets.  Petty traders and artisans in the Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), have said that they will not lose sleep over the planned increase in electricity tariffs, as announced by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC). Although the traders said they were shocked by the 230 to 250 per cent increase slammed on electricity consumers in the capital city, they remain unperturbed nevertheless. According to them, the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) has all along been supplying them darkness at exorbitant rates, through the obnoxious estimated billing system. When told that some Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) have obtained a court injunction halting the planned increased, the traders simply dismissed it as a “fruitless exercise”, with some of them asking rhetorically, “how many court injunctions orders has the government obeyed?” Many of them said they are used to what they described as the antics of the AEDC over the years and that they have always expected the worst from the distribution company. At the popular Area 1 Shopping Complex, some of the traders and artisans that spoke with our correspondent said although they hardly get electricity supply, they are being made to pay between N50,000 to N60,000 to the AEDC every month. According to them, paying the monthly electricity bills has become a sacrifice they are being forced to make. To enable them to run their shops, all the traders and artisans have their individual generating sets. They rely more on their generating sets and consider public power supply as a mere standby source of electricity supply to the complex. One of the artisans, Umar Isa, a tailor, said the government must be joking with the planned hike in tariffs, considering the epileptic electricity supply. He pointed to open space around the complex where this correspondent observed as a cluster of generators. There was no electricity supply so the humming noise from the generators engulfed the entire complex as thick smoke from the units enveloped the area. “This is just one section, there are about three of this clustered generators in the complex serving business owners when there is no power supply”, Isa said, pointing to the power generating sets. He continued: “Electricity supply to this complex is not constant at all. We hardly have power supply yet every month they bring electricity bills. If you do not pay, they come and cut supply. The generators are clustered according to the distance from your business centre or shop. Apart from the ones you see close to my tailoring shop, there are three other clusters not far from here, all serving the complex.” When asked if he was aware of the planned increase in electricity billing, he said increasing the tariff at this point amounted to jumping from the frying pan to fire. It is not like we get this light to use. The consumption is not commensurate with the amount we pay. But the problem is that if the tariff is increased, you will be forced to pay. I am a tailor. Many of us are just working to keep the business going. As you can see, there are many tailoring shops in this complex, the competition is very high. “It’s not as if increasing the tariff means customers paying more. They will not pay more than what they used to pay. Instead, they are even down pricing our services. Sometimes, clothes that ordinarily should be made for N5,000, we make for N3,000 so that the business does not close down, and to sustain our immediate needs. “Once they increase electricity tariff, you do not have a choice than to pay since others are paying. Presently, I am not on the meter. I do the direct payment (estimated billing) monthly. They can bring a bill of N10,000 this month and bring a bill of N30,000 next month for electricity that is not constant.” The tailor revealed that traders at the complex have learnt to play the game with officials of the electricity company to save cost. According to him, you must not offset your entire outstanding bills, otherwise, the officials will double your bills in the subsequent month. “If you clear all your outstanding bills, they will double your bill the following month, meaning you have enough that is why you are paying the previous one. The electricity workers do not want you to clear the last bill so that you won’t be free. This is the way they see it since you are clearing your N30,000 bill, instead of the N20,000 you owed, it means you are making a lot of money.” Isa lamented with the planned increase in electricity tariffs, it is obvious that the government does not have any consideration for the masses. “When we meet with journalists asking for interviews, we see it as a mere fallacy, because the people in authority will read it and know that the people down there are going through some serious issues but they don’t care. “By my understanding, the government hardly considers what the masses are facing. They don’t feel the pains of the masses, because, with all they claim they are doing, we are not seeing the effects. This is a country where anyone can do what they want to do. Take it back to house owners, it is every month that they increase house rents. No one to assist, our government has turned a blind eye and has refused to checkmate those things. Whatever you can do to sustain yourself and your family is your own business.” “As you see me doing this job, I am a graduate. After graduation, there was no job. I had to look for an alternative. I am a graduate of political science. If you are not cut out to be dubious, you have to find a legitimate means of survival. Sometimes some people claim they are being sent by the federal government, they will come with forms asking us to fill as small scale businesses. We will fill, and these forms come with a promise that they will give us loans, but at the end of the day, nothing. We believe they use us to get what they want.”  Another artisan, Udoka Ogbozor, who repairs telephone handsets at the complex, said he does not care about any increase in electricity tariffs if it will guarantee stable supply. “On my side of the complex, we are in a group. We have an arrangement with the AEDC where we pay between N50,000 to N60,000 into an account every month. We went on to task ourselves, every month, we bring out between N500 and N1000 because we are many. We pay this money into the AEDC account every month, which makes it easy for us. Some days, we don’t get to see light for two to three days that is when we use generators. Although it is noisy using a generator, we have learnt to cope with the noise.” On whether he is comfortable with the planned increase in electricity tariffs, Ogbozor said: “Whatever I will say will not change anything. If I say it is good or bad, it still does not change anything. Instead, laws in Nigeria are enforced and forced on the people. As far as the Nigerian government is concerned, the people’s opinion never matters.” Prince Simon, who repairs laptops and IPads, said he heard about the increase in tariffs and saw newspaper headlines but did not believe Nigeria government will go that far. “I thought it was mere news, I did not know they were serious. I applied for a meter which I am yet to get. I applied since April last year but I have not gotten it. I have even paid the N37,000 for the meter and they gave me a receipt. I was told to come back, but I still have not gotten it. I have been paying estimated billing for a one-room apartment for a very long time. Where I live, I pay N4500 estimated billing. This is Nigeria where anything can happen. In the complex, it is a different thing altogether. Like all Nigerians, we go through the hardship of lack of electricity so we rely on generators more to do our businesses.” Also, Chidi Nwankwo, who sells clothing materials, said the government is not being fair to Nigerians. He wondered why the government would decide to increase electricity tariffs when they cannot provide stable electricity for Nigerians. “We all know what we are going through in this country. Electricity supply is very epileptic. If the supply is permanent, we will all understand that they are doing the right thing, probably to generate revenue for maintenance. “In my shop here I buy electricity because I have my meter. Every month, I buy electricity for N10,000. There are clusters of generators at the corner. If there is no light, I connect to my generator. There is about 30 per cent constancy in electricity supply to this complex. “As for the Nigerian government, I don’t think I have a voice because they do whatever they like with us in this country. They never seek the opinions of the people. They do whatever pleases them, so if they say they want to increase electricity tariff, don’t be surprised to wake up tomorrow morning and it is already increased. I am not happy with what is going on, but I cannot kill myself,” Nwankwo said. 