 THE safety of Nigerians is paramount to the administration and no stone will be left unturned to achieve this, says the Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, in his office in Abuja with some professionals in the building sector. He said as a ministry saddled with internal security, its goal is to partner relevant professional bodies to achieve the mandate. Earlier, the National President,  Nigerian Institute of Building (NIOB), Kunle Awobodu, hinted that the body earmarked March 13 as ‘Builders Day’, a  day a five-storey building collapsed at No. 63, Massey Street on the Lagos Island, killing over 20 people, who were mostly school children. He added that the painful incident caused by substandard building construction, which has become a common practice, should be a reminder to stakeholders in the building industry on the  implications of non-compliance with appropriate  building construction process. Aregbesola said his ministry would collaborate with the  professionals to train artisans in building and ensure standardisation of  materials being used in building construction to avert the frequent incident of building collapse across the country, which has claimed many lives. He enjoined the professionals to help provide building skills at the correctional centres where inmates could be engaged in more productive activities, as well as generate income for themselves and the country. The minister said: ”Among the causes of massive unemployment and insecurity in Nigeria is the failure of people to recognise key primary service providers, such as the building artisans, so we are addressing this trend as part of our efforts at removing all threats to the security of lives and property of the citizenry. There is a need to train and retrain artisans in the various fields towards national development.” Awobodu called for increased  government efforts in monitoring building production as well as engagement of qualified professionals to handle the tasks. He regretted that only collapse of notable buildings were usually recorded, adding that the figure was on the increase with 43 incidents in 2019 alone. He added: “Out of the 17 buildings that collapsed in Lagos in 2019, 59 percent were existing buildings while 41 per cent were buildings under construction. In Anambra State, out of the five buildings that collapsed, four were under construction. Plateau State had three and Delta also recorded three building collapse. We had 59 lives lost in the various collapse and 74 injured persons. ‘’If what happened in 2019 is  higher than what we had before, one would ask the fundamental question: ‘Are we making progress or suffering retrogression in this battle against collapse of buildings.’” While calling for effective mechanism for monitoring and policy review to tackle the menace, he called on Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to use his expertise to nip the problem  in the bud. He explained that the governor was a former vice chairman of a committee set up by  former Governor Babatunde Fashola to reform  the physical planning and urban development laws of the state. He called for urgent action to save lives and protect the image of Lagos and Nigeria globally. He appealed to professionals in the sector to go back to the drawing board  and see why there is a high record  buildings collapsing under construction. Awobodu said the formal sector is well regulated but that the informal sector needs stiffer regulations as they engaged in various corrupt practices alongside quackery, causing increased building collapse. The NIOB boss said the institute had chosen May 13 as a day to carry out mass sensitisation of the public on the importance of standard construction to nip the menace in the bud. “Builders all over the country including other stakeholders in the built environment will come out en mass for road shows, rallies, seminars, lecture in tertiary institution building departments, students of building and we will reach out to those in government to make representation on this incessant collapse of buildings and the way forward. “ Building artisans leaders will be there, the block builders all over the country and every professional that has anything to do with building are all involved because the record we have in 2019 is a challenge to what we have been doing in the past,” he said. Awobodu said several collapse buildings were not brought to public notice because the owners of such buildings try to evade sanctions. He called for prosecution of building collapse offenders to serve as deterrent for those who may want to cut corners to compromise construction standard. He said building construction should not be an all comers affairs, but that building production management should not be left for artisans but professionals to ensure strict adherence to standards. The minister hailed the pragmatic approach to solving building collapse, employed by the Lagos State government on its new building regulations that assigned  professional builders the responsibility of managing construction work at all building sites in the state. He regretted that compromise on professionalism has caused the nation losses.Encouraging other states to learn from the state, he maintained that if the building regulations were adopted, it would help  the nation to reduce the perennial crisis of building collapse. Responding to the issue of foreign building personnel taking up local jobs, Aregbesola promised that the Immigration section of the ministry would ensure that the building expatriates coming into the country were duly registered with the institute and licensed  by the appropriate regulatory body, the Council of Registered Builders of Nigeria ( CORBON). This should be a due process of reducing quackery and upholding professionalism just as was being done by the Nigerian Medical Association and Nigerian Bar Association, he added.