William Troost-Ekong became noticeable in the Nigeria’s defence line as one of the almost lookalike ‘oyinbos’ (a local parlance for fair skin or half caste Nigerians). The other member is Leon Balogun.  Gradually, the 6 ft. 3 tall player, who was born in the Netherlands into a mixed Dutch and Nigerian family, began to carve a niche for himself and he is today the vice-captain of the team. A feat achieved in five years, since he made his debut for the Super Eagles in June 2015 against Chad. He was eligible for both Netherlands and Nigeria following appearances for the Netherlands at under-19 and under-20 youth levels, but he opted to commit his senior career to fatherland-Nigeria. He made his senior international debut for Nigeria on 13 June 2015, playing 90 minutes in an AFCON qualifier against Chad and three starts for the senior team in 2016 before being selected by Nigeria’s under-23 team in their 35-man provisional squad for the Rio 2016 Summer Olympics. In June 2018, he was named in Nigeria’s 23-man squad for the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia. Club career has taken him to England, after playing football at youth level for Fulham and Tottenham Hotspur, the Netherlands for FC Groningen and FC Dordrecht, Belgium for KAA Gent, Norway for FK Haugesund, Turkey for Super Lig club Bursaspor and currently Italy for Udinese. Troost-Ekong joined Italian Serie A club Udinese on 17 August 2018 and he has made 35 league appearances helping Udinese to a respectable 12th position, up to 14 spot on the standings. For the Super Eagles, he has made steady progress to tie down a regular starting shirt and made his World Cup and Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) debut. AFCON 2019 was particular impressive for him as he came out with a bronze medal at his first AFCON. He has also grown in stature in the team where he became vice-captain, less than five years after his first call up under Stephen Keshi and scored four times. Now, his passion for Nigerian football has no bound and he believes that Nigeria has a crop of young players capable of taking Nigeria’s football to the next level and regaining the lost glory of the Super Eagles. He is particularly fond of the youngish trio of Wilfred Ndidi, Victor Osimhen and Samuel Chukwueze. He said: “When you look at the Nigerian team, you will agree with me that it is a team for the future. We have great young players that when they eventually mature will do great exploit. Wilfred Ndidi is someone that is already doing so well and I think he’s going to be a big name; hopefully, a household name within Africa. We have (Samuel) Chukwueze and Victor Osimhen. They are both doing well and ready to go the next level. They are so important to their teams now and not yet at their peak. They are young and would go a long way in their career. We should be proud of these players. At home, we may not know how big their profile is, but if you live in Europe, you can imagine their good profile.” Outside football, Troost-Ekong, however, loves to talk about his pet project: fight against Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTDs). He’s now one of the leading faces for NTDs after he teamed up with New York-based the END Fund through his collaboration with Common Goal, the global football-for-good organisation. In an interview with TAIWO ALIMI, the lanky player speaks more about life in Italy, the Netherlands versus Nigeria debate, his pet project and the future of the Super Eagles. Life in Italy I have lots of positives. Udinese is a great town with lots of Italian tradition. I feel great here and since I moved here August 2018, I have only missed a handful of games and I feel like I’m improving a lot. I really love living in Italy with my family. That is why I committed to another contract that would keep me here till 2023. I believe in the club and management and I’ve gained a lot since coming here. We have not done badly, but we can do better. I’ve also become a better tackler since coming to Italy. I have to focus more on tactical positioning, decision making and this has given me the opportunity to be able to do more. I have developed more in that aspect of brain work. Super Eagles I’ve been in the Super Eagles for about five years and I think I’ve made good strides. I love the team make-up and can conveniently say that we are a family. Last year, I played in the Nations Cup for the first time. I was more relaxed than a year before when I also debuted at the World Cup. We played with more confidence even though we had a crop of young players. It was a great event for us and winning a bronze medal is very important to me. We were not given mush of a chance but we knew we had a lot to offer and we basically went for it. When we came to the AFCON, we felt more prepared and we did well to qualify the way that we did. One of the greatest matches at AFCON was the match against Cameroon where we had to fight back to win the game. Even against South Africa, to score so late and to pass the quarter-finals, I think our team showed great resilience. I hope that I would hang around for some time to win more laurels for the country. The matches have boosted my confidence in the team. Team for the future When you look at the Nigerian team, you will agree that it is a team for the future. We have great young players that when they eventually mature will do great exploit. Wilfred Ndidi is someone that is already doing so well and I think he’s going to be a big name; hopefully, a household name within Africa. We have (Samuel) Chukwueze and Victor Osimhen. They are both doing well and ready to go the next level. They are so important to their teams now and not yet at their peak. They are young and would go a long way in their career. We should be proud of these players. At home, we may not know how big their profile is, but if you live in Europe, you can imagine their good profile. Netherlands vs Nigeria I was born in the Netherlands and played for the Netherlands at under-19 and under-20 youth levels, but I got my first senior call up from Nigeria. I’ve said it before that playing for Nigeria was the best decision for me. My parents were happy with that and same for my siblings. I was given an opportunity by (Stephen) Keshi and I’m happy and satisfied looking back to that first game in 2015. I’m satisfied, I’m really happy with the place I am right now. I stand by my decision that it was always a dream to play for Nigeria. The pride I get playing for Nigeria, wearing the shirt, I wouldn’t want to trade that for anyone else. I’m very happy about my decision and wouldn’t change it for anything. I love coming back to Nigeria and meeting my family members back in Nigeria. Nigeria is my roots and I feel at home there. Wearing the Nigeria colours is a lot exciting for me and I’m super happy when we do well and I’ve been at the other end of the stick too. My first game at the World Cup was pretty one of those moments when we gave away a penalty against Croatia and the impact on many people and how many people are thinking what would happen. The responsibility you feel at such moment is huge and you still have to give your best and be responsible for whichever the result goes. Giving back to Africa The idea of doing something for my roots came to me immediately I started coming to Africa more regularly. The fight against Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTDs) is a great campaign because it affects millions of people in West Africa and Nigeria. I have notable people partnering me now because they see that I am passionate about this campaign. I’ve been on TV and the social media spreading the words and I’m glad to lend a hand in this direction. Philosophy I’m not that of an extrovert but when I have to speak up, I do; especially on the field because that is part of my work. And when I do not have to speak I keep quiet. (Ahmed) Musa for an example is a great captain and he does not speak too much. That fact, of course, does not take anything away from his leadership qualities. On the pitch, he shows everyone his intention and that works great for us all. I like leadership that leads by example and not by making noise or shouting or speaking a lot. Family matter The coming of my son, Oscar, is teaching me another kind of responsibility as a father; it is another responsibility. Being a father is real-life responsibility. It is a new responsibility and I guess I have to learn on the job too. But I’m really enjoying it.