Access to healthcare and the promotion of well-being for all – are key components of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which every authority is enjoined to encourage. But, in Anagada, an indigenous community in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), inadequate staffing, among other challenges, are threatening access to primary health care (PHC) and other agents that promote sustainable living. Eric Ikhilae, reports  Every morning, the waiting area within the forecourt of the building, housing the only public health institution, is often packed with community members needing medical attention. The huge number, it was learnt, is a daily ritual, which only reduces as the day wears on. “This is how we do it almost every day. The large number is, mostly as a result of inadequate hands. We are eight officials, but six of us are volunteers,” one of the health officials said as she welcomes this reporter to the Anagada Primary Health Care (PHC) Centre. The services offered in the facility are reflected on the signboard, erected in front of the bungalow, housing the centre, which is situated in the middle of the community, in an unfenced parcel of land. They include: antenatal care, delivery and postnatal care (for pregnant women); nutrition, immunization malaria pneumonia, measles and dysentery (for children under three years); screening of malaria, hypertension, diabetes and family planning (for all adults).  Anagada is located along the Zuba – Lokoja highway, within the Gwagwalada Area Council of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). To a first-time visitor, however, a tour of Anagada presents a familiar picture, because the state of infrastructure is similar to what exists in most satellite towns in the FCT. Over the years, and for reason known only to its administrators, the state of infrastructure in most satellite towns reflects the injustice in the distribution of infrastructure and basic amenities in the FCT, which are concentrated in the Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC), one of the six Area Councils that make up the territory, but, mostly inhabited by the rich and senior government officials. According to the traditional head, Mallam Alhassa Musa, Anagada is one of the communities indigenous to the FCT. He said the last census exercise estimated its population at a little over 500,000. The health officials at the healthcare centre, who are mostly females, pleaded not to be identified, as they spoke, while attending to some patients, who sat before them. “I have been here now for over four years. Some have spent more than that. We studied community medicine, but there is no work. Rather than sit at home and watch our community members suffer because the only government owned health facility in the community is not adequately staffed, we decided to come and help. “It is not easy. We are not paid anything. We only look up to God for assistance. We carry out most health services here. We take delivery of babies, we do ante natal, we conduct minor surgeries. “In fact, there is hardly any case that has been referred outside for some time now. We beg the government to employ us so that we can do more,” another of the female officials said, a position that many others equally echoed.  Importance of PHC innation’s health delivery system In view of the roles it plays, particularly serving as the first point of call for health needs by majority of the citizens, who dwell in local communities, PHC is often considered as a critical level in the three tiers of health system of very country. The World Health Organisation (WHO) stressed this in a 2018 report when it noted that “Primary health care is about caring for people rather than simply treating specific diseases or conditions.” It added that “PHCs are usually the first point of contact people have with the health care system. They are designed to provide comprehensive, accessible, community-based care that means the health needs of individuals throughout their lives.” A former Nigerian Health Minister, Isaac Adewoye, during a presentation before the Senate on May 21, 2019, stressed that “when primary healthcare centres and secondary health care centres are functioning, the teaching hospitals and tertiary institutions will not be overcrowded and will function better. “About 90 percent of ailments can be taken care of at primary and secondary healthcare centres, only if they are functional. 70 percent of Nigerians who require health care needs are supposed to go the PHCs, 20 percent are to go to secondary health care centres and only 10 percent of Nigerians with referrals and complicated cases are supposed to go to a tertiary teaching institution.”  Other challenges At a meeting with some Development Communication (DevCom) students from the University of Abuja (UNIABUJA), in his meeting room within a decrepit structure, which serves as his palace, Mallam Musa also spoke about the plight of the health workers and the need for more hands in the healthcare facility for enhanced performance. “We need assistance in the areas of health services provision, water supply and road infrastructure. The only government-owned health facility in this community is the Primary Healthcare Centre. The structure is there, but there is the problem of inadequate personnel. “Those managing the healthcare centre are trying their best. But we need more hands. The government should post more healthcare experts to this community. They should provide employment for those who are currently assisting as volunteers. “In the area of water supply, we only rely on boreholes, which are becoming inadequate. We currently have just three boreholes that were provided by the government. We want more. We want the government to help use with more boreholes, since there is no arrangement for pipe borne water. “The area where we have more trouble is road,” Mallam Musa said, as he encouraged the visitors to go around the community and confirm the state of the roads, which in some areas, are abandoned because of their state. He noted that: “There is no single tarred road in this community. The people at the Gwagwalada Area Council promised about five years ago to help us. We are still waiting for them to fulfil their promise.” On how they are able to keep the roads in a manageable state, since some of the residents own vehicles, Mallam Musa said: “Well, most of the time, we resort to self-help.  During the raining season when the roads become impassable, we mobilise the youths, who use shovel and other equipment to dig and manage the roads for us to use. We are hoping that someday, the government will fulfil their promises to us.” He said the community has been able to address its educational problem. He said: “In the area of education, we do not have problem. At the moment, we have sufficient number of schools. We have primary school, junior secondary school and senior secondary school. We also have private schools. “We also do not have problem in the area of electricity supply. I do not know how they did it, but we also have sufficient supply of electricity here, except on few occasions when electricity facilities, like cables and transformers, are vandalized by some criminals.” Mallam Musa also said they do not have problem of crime in the community, adding, “we have been able to manage that. We are peaceful people here. So, crime is not a problem in this community.” He said his people are politically conscious. He explained: “our people often participate actively in politics. We have, in the past, produced Councilors, Supervising Councilors and at some point, a Special Assistant to the Chairman of the Council. So, we are active in politics too.” History and people of Anagada The traditional head of the community gave a little insight about his people and their history, when he said: “We are Koro. We are not Hausa. Our language is Koro. Our Community is under Gwagwalada Area Council. I do not know exactly when this community was established. I was born here. My great-grandfather and grandfather lived here. So, this community has been in existence for some time now. “According to history, we are originally from Zuba. This place used to serve as the farming site for our forefathers. They will travel from Zuba to this place, do their farming activities for days and then return home. “The practice, as we learnt, was that they will come on Friday, stayed until Thursday the next week and then, return to Zuba. But, at a point, some began to settle here. They did not see the need to travel to and from Zuba again. So, that was how this community was formed. The name – Anagada – simply means a place of relaxation. A place of rest. You know, our forefathers used to rest here after their farming activities, until they decided to settle here. So, the name was derived from the purpose for which they used this place before they decided to settle here,” Mallam Musa said.  Suggested solutions The visiting students, who are budding experts in development communication studies, volunteered some suggestions on how the community could address its challenges, without necessary waiting for government’s intervention that often takes time to come. The community members were advised to extend the self-help strategy currently being deployed to address the problem of the road infrastructure to other sectors. By so doing, it is believed that members of the community would be able to harness their competencies to address some of their challenges. It is further suggested that for instance, members of the Anagada community should set up an association of its indigenes or former residents, who now live and work outside the community, to occasionally reach out to the community, in the form of community a development association that could assist in addressing some of the identified challenges. They could also task the rich among them to contribute funds for the payment of the allowances of the health workers, who currently provide volunteer services, to keep the community public health centre running. It is equally suggested that the community should exploit its members’ political awareness and participation to its benefit by ensuring that the political representatives press for and influence projects that will benefit the community. 