By Ernest Nwokolo, Abeokuta Ogun Governor Dapo Abiodun on Friday assigned portfolios to his Cabinet members with a call on them to decide quickly the legacy they would leave behind, saying he wants “history to remember” his “government favourably.” Abiodun advised the 19 Commissioners not to allow the dividends of democracy become elusive to Ogun people, urging them to use their actions and performance to help the State blossom, grow well and the people to thrive. The Governor, who spoke at the June 12 Cultural Centre, Abeokuta, the state capital, while addressing the new cabinet members shortly after they had taken their Oath of office, pointed it out to them they “are not answerable to any one individual, group or godfather” save the people who must be at the centre of their work at every point in time. Some of the key commissioners and their portfolios include: Mr Olaolu Olabimtan (Budget and Planning); Barr. Gbolahan Adeniran (Justice); Dr Tomi Coker (Health); Barr. Femi Ogunbanwo (Special Duties); Tunji Odunlami (Urban and Physical Planning); Hon. Abiodun Abudu-Balogun (Environment); Mrs Kikelomo Longe (Commerce and Industry); Mr Dapo Okubadejo (Finance); Mrs Funmi Efuwape (Women Affairs); Mr Jamiu Omoniyi (Housing) and Mr Ade Akinsanya (Works and Infrastructure). Others are Hon. Afolabi Afuape (Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs); Hon Tunji Akinosi (Forestry); Prof. Sidi Osho (Education, Science and Technology ) and Dr Adeola Odedina (Agriculture) The Governor also urged them to be steadfast, prudent, accountable and efficiently integrate their vision into the administration’s two approaches to governance – focusing on the “Pillars” such as education, health, agriculture and food security, infrastructure while others would go a long way towards amplifying the “Enablers” He said: “Through your selection and subsequent appointment, you have been presented with a rare opportunity to lead and serve the people who expect so much from you in terms of performance. Their aspirations, their desires for growth and prosperity are hinged on your success. “The dividends of democracy should not be elusive, your actions and performance should help our State blossom, grow well and our people to thrive. This appointment is a call to service. Through your dedication, time and energy your character will be appreciated and esteemed.”