A Kwara High Court in Ilorin on Wednesday issued a warrant of arrest against a Lagos-based businessman, Isiaka Jimoh, following his absence in court to face a N155 million fraud charge. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), in September 2019, arraigned Jimoh and his company, Chemtech Chemicals Limited, on a two-count charge of obtaining N155 million under false pretence. The charge said Jimoh and his company, between July 4 and July 17, 2017, with intent to defraud, obtained N155 million from Azeez Taiwo of Manabiz Ventures, under the pretext that the money represented part payment for the supply of 1,000,000 litres of base oil. It added that the defendant committed an offence contrary to Section 1 (1) and punishable under Section 1 of the Advance Fee fraud and other offences Act. At the resumption of proceedings yesterday, the defendant’s lawyer, Adeola Omotunde, told the court that his client was ill and had to be flown abroad on December 20, 2019, for treatment. Omotunde urged the court to adjourn the matter for cross examination. But the EFCC lawyer, Christopher Mschelia, objected Jimoh’s absence, saying he had violated his bail conditions. “Part of his bail condition is that he must be available for trial. I urge this court to revoke the bail granted to him and order that bench warrant be issued against him,” Mschelia said. Justice Sikiru Oyinloye said there was no proper notification before the court to show why the defendant would not be present for his trial. He said: “The defendant has violated Section 191 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act, Law of Kwara State. There was no letter informing this court about his illness. “Any person on bail is enjoying limited freedom. I see no reason why this court should not be notified about his whereabouts. The bail is hereby revoked, the EFCC is directed to arrest and produce the defendant in court. “The sureties should appear in court at the next adjourned date to show cause why they should not be charged for contempt.” Oyinloye said. Justice Oyinloye thereafter adjourned till February 5.