 The Beginning Usman Abd’Allah became Enyimba’s interim manager in July 2018 before he was named the substantive coach at the start of the 2019 Nigeria Professional football League (NPFL) season in January 2019. Before his appointment, Enyimba had already grabbed a CAF Confederation Cup slot in the 2017 NPFL season under erstwhile Gbenga Ogunbote after finishing third behind Plateau United and MFM but Ogunbote’s one year contract was not renewed so he had to move on. The management of the team re-appointed Paul Aigbogun who had earlier had two stints with the Peoples Elephant. Abd’Allah served as his first lieutenant because of his rich resume including his possession of UEFA A Licence coaching certificate and the fact that he could hold forth when Aigbogun goes on national assignment with the Flying Eagles. As fate would have it, Abd’Allah became an interim manager in July 2018 and later a substantive coach when Aigbogun found it difficult to combine the two jobs. Abd’Allah got into the saddle when Enyimba was at its lowest ebb. They were not in the running for the league crown and were also having a torrid time in the CAF Confederation Cup and unsure of qualification to the quarter-final owing to some insipid results in the group stage. The Good and Bad Times The new helmsman turned the team around almost immediately and if not for the abrupt manner in which the NPFL season ended in 2017 after matchday 24 because of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) leadership crisis, Enyimba would have contested for the league diadem. They finished the 2018 season in fourth place with 38 points from 24 games behind Lobi Stars (43), Akwa United (41) and Kano Pillars (38) and also got to the semi-final of the CAF Confederation Cup before alleged administrative ineptitude led to their elimination by Raja Casablanca of Morocco 3-1 on aggregate. Had the situation been managed better may be the People’s Elephant would have picked a final ticket ahead of the Moroccans. Enyimba proceeded to Gombe by the road just over a week to the first leg of the semi-final encounter with Raja and played three exhaustive Federation Cup Group Stage games for three consecutive days against Katsina United (September 26), Plateau United (September 27) and J Atete (September 28). By the time the team played those matches and embarked on another long road trip to Aba for the preparations for the October 3rd CAF Confederation Cup semi-final, first leg tie, the players had become exhausted and couldn’t offer much as they lost 1-0 at home to Raja. Enyimba were also eliminated in the quarter-final stage of the 2018 Federation Cup by Kano Pillars after another grueling road trip to Gombe just four days after the game with Raja to face Sai Masu Gida and they were humbled 4-2. However, owing to better preparation (two weeks) Enyimba performed better away to Raja but lost 2-1. Abd’Allah impressive record with Enyimba continued as he delivered the record eighth league title to the People’s Elephant after emerging tops at the NPFL Championship Playoffs held among the top three teams from the two groups that featured in the abridged league. Though Enyimba finished third behind Enugu Rangers and Lobi Stars during the abridged season they turned things around during the playoffs and won four of the five matches they played against Enugu Rangers, Kano Pillars, FC IfeanyiUbah, Akwa United and Lobi Stars at the Agege Stadium, Lagos. Abd’Allah also oversaw Enyimba’s progress to the first round of the 2019/2020 CAF Champions League after they defeated Rahimo of Burkina Faso 5-1 on aggregate and also managed to guide the club to the group stage of the CAF Confederation Cup (with their 4-1 aggregate victory over TS Galaxy of South Africa in the playoffs) after their demotion to Africa’s second-tier club competition by Al Hilal of Sudan in the first round. Enyimba have won one group stage tie (1-0 over San Pedro of Cote d’Ivoire) and they will make progress if they are able to beat Paradou of Algeria (who are presently second in Group D with four points) this weekend in Aba in a Group D tie. The former Kano Pillars coach is also leaving the reigning league champions in a position they can still retain the title they won last season. Enyimba were in the ninth spot with 15 points from 10 games as at the time he left his duty post on Sunday night and they still have two outstanding games against MFM (away) and Wikki Tourists (home). He handled a total of 53 competitive matches for Enyimba including seven of those as interim manager winning 23, drawing 14 and recording 16 loses. His record on the continent in the CAF Champions League and the CAF Confederation Cup is slightly above average with seven wins, two draws and seven losses including two away triumphs against Djoliba AC of Mali and TS Galaxy of South Africa. The Catharsis The major complain against Abd’Allah was that Enyimba’s performed poorly in away games due to their ultra-defensive approach. However, the ousted coach cited lack of support from the management; meddling in the team selection, violence and threats to his life by the supporters as factors that worked against him. The coach also pointed out that poor welfare, unpaid match bonuses, delay in wages payment and poor travelling arrangements hindered the team’s progress. Enyimba has already moved on with the appointment of Fatai Osho on interim basis but the same issues that ‘forced out’ the former coach will continue to hunt the team if they are not attended.