By Odekunle Ayishat Lolade  A new institution Good Shepherd College of Education,  has promised to change the face of teaching in Nigeria by adopting the 21-Century learning techniques which empower learners to think critically and creatively. The college vowed to breed a new generation of learners through transparent and transformative learning techniques; hence its catchphrase ‘Learning and Development’. Provost of the institution Dr Oluwayemisi Oyeyemi, announced this during its inauguration at its permanent site in Alakuko, Ogun State. She said: “The Good Shepherd College of Education shall seek to help learners develop relevant competencies for successful modern-day living. We shall also be a part of the efforts to raise educators who are not only academically proficient, but also passionate, creative, emotionally intelligent, socially aware, culturally-connected and competent communication-wise. “Our operations shall be underpinned by a distinctive ethos of transparency and in line with our transformative learning principle. We shall provide pastoral care in order to nurture faith in God, oneself and others.” Delivering her inauguration speech titled: Competencies beyond credentials, Oyeyemi espoused critical and creative thinking as the fulcrum of 21-Century learning’ She explained how technological revolution has brought significant change to human endeavour, and particularly education, altering the traditional learning method. “Educators and researchers are exploring new ways of giving students more voice in how they learn. Instead of relying on textbooks and teacher direction, students now have to think critically about issues and events, collaborate with peers and adults, and make creative use of digital tools to communicate ideas,” she added. Further, Oyeyemi said 21st century learning requires that students must challenge the status quo; deal with a flood of information; have team spirit; think about issues and address them creatively; and above all, be tech-savvy. According to her, the manner at which technology is breaking grounds is an indication that in not too distant a future, there are going to be more tech-oriented jobs, but which the students of today are hardly prepared for. “Apparently, there is talent mismatch between workers’ qualification and their specific skills sets and combination of skills employers want. This speaks to the fact that credential alone will not count in the present scheme of things. Competency will be the new currency.  In view of the foregoing, Oyeyemi said experts were craving that teachers who are the facilitators, also embrace educational approaches  that facilitate acquisition of cross-disciplinary skills, allow learners participate in internships, apprenticeship and volunteer experience, all which make them acquire practical job-related skills and work habits in a more traditional academic courses. A contemporary teacher must also be futuristic, Oyeyemi argued, adding that other qualities include: tech-literacy, ability to adapt, communication proficiency, and passion for the profession, among others. Keynote speaker and former executive secretary Nigerian Education Research and Development Council (NERDC) Prof Uduogie. Ivowi, lamented that the teaching was being relegated to the background. Nonetheless, he praised the proprietor of the institution for raising the bar of teaching via his college. Ivowi recalled how Nigeria was once a leading light in teacher education in the 70s and 80s; nonetheless, he lamented that owing to policy summersault, and poor funding, education became commercialised and proliferated, allowing quacks to invade the system. “Many teachers just come to class and deliver without taking into consideration whether the learners have accumulated knowledge or not. I want to say content and presentation are very key in learning. “Also in our time, technology used to be mere theoretical. Today, students now learn on their own, and think outside the box to solve life problems. This is the reality of the 21st century learning, and we must all embrace it.” The high point of the event was the cutting of the inauguration cake, as well as the installation of the Governing Council. Going down the memory lane, Founder and Chairman of Governing Council Dr Abimbola  Oyeyemi, said the vision of the college was given him 41 years ago. He said the construction of the school began in 2005, noting that God in His own way, provided the resources and like-minded individuals that made the vison a reality. Considering his grace-to-grace story, Oyeyemi vowed to make the college a reference point and affordable even to commoners. “I am from a poor background and never expected where God brought me today. Therefore, this college is meant to put education in Nigeria where it should be. We want to ensure that we provide quality education, even to commoners.’’