Last week, I wrote about my secondary school, Christ Apostolic Grammar School, Iperu-Remo in Ogun State that clocked 60 this year. Like I wrote in the piece, the school then tucked away in the rural setting attracted students from all over the country and offered us quality education that adequately prepared us for the future. The facilities available to us were modest and the learning environment was conducive enough. We had teachers for virtually all the subjects students could take. Unfortunately, the situation is no longer the same again in not only my old school, but most government schools nationwide. Over the years, the facilities have become dilapidated and not good enough for learning. Roofs of classrooms have been blown off, buildings have cracked, there are not enough chairs and desks for students, science laboratory is empty, there are no teachers for some key subjects and many other things lacking in the same school where we had the best of times in our days. My child got admitted into one of the foremost federal government secondary schools on the insistence of my wife based on past reputation only for us to find out that the school is not in any way close to what it used to be. Despite claims by successive governments to be committed to funding education and some even claiming to be providing free education, the level of education in our secondary schools and other levels have continued to decline for obvious reasons which the governments have failed to acknowledge. How do we expect the present generation of students to improve on our records when they do not have some of the basic things we had? Why are we surprised that the results of most governments schools in the West African School Certificate Examination are not as good as they used to be in the good old days? The state of the schools is really bad and something urgent has to be done if we desire anything good to come from the students. But for the support of the Old Students Associations and the Parents Teachers Association, the situation in many schools would have been worse. Like in my school, the associations have had to provide some facilities and structures which normally should be provided by the government. If governments don’t have the fund to provide free education they should stop giving the false impression that they are doing so. What kind of education are they funding when students don’t have desks to use, books to read and teachers to teach them? It’s either they are ready to fund education adequately or they are not. They should come clear about what they are able to provide and let parents know what they need to pay for to ensure that their children get quality education. What’s the point having students being promoted yearly without being able to comprehend what they are taught? There are now many secondary school leavers who can barely write or speak good English because of the kind of situations prevailing in our schools. Many top government officials attended public schools but how many of them have their children in such schools now? Sometimes I wonder how much can be achieved by the support of PTA and old students if the government does not give education the attention it deserves in the interest of the development of the country. Education is so crucial to our future that we cannot continue to pay lip service to it instead of committing enough resources to it.