By Janefrances Chibuzor  The Nigerian Conservation Foundation (NCF) in collaboration with  family of Chief S.L. Edu has concluded arrangements for   its annual  memorial lecture. Chief S.L. Edu Memorial Lecture is an annual event organised by NCF, with  theme “The role of Traditional Leaders in Protecting and Restoring the Nigerian Enviroment” will be delivered by His Eminence, Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar CFR, mni, the Sultan of Sokoto. Director-General, NCF Dr. Muhtari Aminu-Kano, said in a statement that the 18th edition of the memorial lecture which will hold on Thursday,  January 16,  at Bankers House, Victoria Island, Lagos will be supported by Chevron Nigeria Limited. Aminu-Kano stated that the lecture will eb attended by  Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Chief Philip Asiodu, Chief Emeka Anyaoku, Alhaji Ahmed Joda, Erelu Abiola Dosunmu, traditional rulers, business executives, community leaders, members of CSOs and the academia, amongst others. The lecture series is aimed at bringing environmental issues to the front burner of national discourse while articulating solutions through speakers from diverse backgrounds. The event equally serves to award scholarship grants to two PhD students whose research are in the field of environmental sciences in any Nigerian universities. The grant is sponsored by Chevron Nigeria Limited and seek to promote research works in nature conservation, biodiversity preservation, environmental management and sustainable livelihood.  Some of the topics and guest speakers in its 17-year history include: A Quiet Revolution: Faith and the Environment – Mr. Martin Palmer, Alliance for Religions & Conservation, UK; Environmental Management: Imperatives in Africa’s Sustainable Development – Prof. Charles Okidi, University of Kenya; Environmental Policy and Performance: a Sustainable Development Agenda for Nigeria – Chief (Dr.) Ernest Shonekan, former Head of Interim Government in Nigeria; Decline of Vultures: Consequences of Human Health and the Economy” – Ms. Amina Mohammed, Deputy Secretary-General of the United Nations (former Minister of Environment, Nigeria). NCF is the foremost environmental conservation NGO with projects spread across the country that focus on the Foundation’s priority areas such as biodiversity conservation, environmental education, policy advocacy and improvement of livelihood of communities 