Our Reporter  LAGOS State House of Assembly Chief Whip Rotimi Abiru, who represents Shomolu Constituency II, has called on Nigerians to join hands with the present administration to make the country great. He advised them to support government’s policies aimed at restoring security and revamping the economy. Abiru in a statement in Lagos congratulated the people for their resilience and patience, particularly in the face of daunting economic challenges. He stressed the need to utilise the family culture in reorientating the children towards imbimbing moral values. The lawmaker called for collaboration between the people and the President Muhammadu Buhari. This, according to him, is  imperative for the country to overcome her pressing socio-economic challenges and to make the nation prosperous once again. He observed that the social media has had a negative influence on the nation’s family culture, making most youths to behave irresponsibly. The lawmaker noted that the Federal Government, through Armed Forces and the support of Nigerians, have recorded tremendous success in the fight against insurgency. He said intense collaboration between the citizenry and government is needed more than ever before to prevent incessant attacks from Boko Haram and eradicate all forms of criminality. Abiru said: “I am delighted that we are celebrating the New Year not only in peace but as a united country. we are today marking the New Year as one indivisible country and more than ever before determined as a people to live together in peace, love and unity. “This is why it is crucial for the government and the people to continue to work together to ensure total restoration of security in every nook and cranny of the country and to set the nation’s economy on the path of progress once more. “Nigeria is the only country we have. Let’s unite to defend and make her the greatest country on the continent,” Abiru who is the Chief Whip of the assembly pledged continued support from the Lagos State legislature to boost development and strengthen growth  economy growth of Lagos state through laws that would assist Mr Babajide Sanwo-olu in achieving a greater Lagos.”