There will be equitable distribution of projects across the federation, President Muhammadu Buhari has said. According to him, no part of the country will be neglected. He spoke while inaugurating a flood and erosion control works project at the Alex Ekwueme Federal University Teaching Hospital, Abakaliki, the Ebonyi State capital. The President was represented by Minister of Science and Technology, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu. He said: “The Federal Government will be guided by justice, equity and fair play in the distribution of projects across the country. “No part of the country will suffer neglect due to geographical location or political consideration under President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration.” The minister said the project was one of the 11 Federal Government’s ecological intervention projects for the third quarter of 2018. He appealed to the university and benefitting communities to avoid indiscriminate dumping of refuse in drainage channels. He urged the community to maintain the project. The project was executed through the Ecological Fund Office (EFO) in the Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (OSGF). According to Dr Onu, similar projects nationwide “demonstrates the sincerity of purpose of the Buhari-led administration towards entrenching justice, equity and fair play to all and sundry.” “We’ve seen the tremendous benefits which this project has brought to this hospital,” Onu added. Chief Medical Director of the hospital, Dr Emeka Ogah Onwe, expressed gratitude to the Federal Government but pleaded for the provision of computerised tomography (CT) scan equipment. “We are in very much need of a CT Scan. We take patients to Enugu for TC scan. We do transplants. We have six states around us. “ “Last two months, we had a patient from Liberia. The other time, we had patients from Cameroon,” Dr Onwe said. Dr Onwe debunked a report of a Lassa fever outbreak in Ebonyi State. “There’s no outbreak of Lassa Fever. It was misinformation. Even if there’s Lassa fever, the patient will be treated,” he said.