 THE Federal University Dutse (FUD) Jigawa State is one of the nine universities established by the Federal Government in 2011. Its College of Medicine, it was believed, would be of great benefit to the people  healthwise. However, what should have been a source of joy appeared to have been a bitter pill for the government and the people. This is due to needless scheming by some powerful individuals over the location of the Federal University Teaching Hospital, Dutse. Two areas: Dutse and Birninkudu, are in contention. The state government was said to have offered the Rasheed Shekoni Specialist Hospital two years ago to the Federal University Dutse (FUD), as its teaching hospital site. But some individuals, it was reported, opted for the Federal Medical Centre, Birninkudu as their prefered site for the Teaching Hospital, Dutse. Although, the National Universities Commission (NUC) three years ago gave approval to the university to offer courses in medicine, but the future of medical education in the university may be a mirage if the wrangling is not nipped in the bud. The Jigawa State government had repealed the law establishing the hospital before handing it over to the management of the Federal University Dutse. Immediately, the FUD management began the process of upgrading the hospital to meet the standard of the proposed teaching hospital. In the process, the FUD authority began to experience some bureaucratic obstacles, which delayed the upgrading of the hospital to the required standard. The Rasheed Shekoni Specialist Hospital in Dutse to the FUD is less than five kilometres to the permanent site of the university, where the School for Medicine is located. Those in favour of using the specialist hospital as the teaching hospital complained that the Federal Medical Centre Birninkudu is over 50 kilometres away from the university and far from the permanent site of the School of Medicine. Several groups, including youths and student, have protested over the matter. The students and youth groups took to the Olusegun Obasanjo Road and Emir’s Palace Road to express their support for the state government’s decision to use the Rasheed Shekoni Specialist Hospital, Dutse as the teaching hospital because of its proximity to the university. The youth staged their protest during the assessment visit by the Minister of Health, Dr. Emmanuel Osagie, to the university, Rasheed Shekoni Specialist Hospital Dutse and the Federal Medical Centre Birninkudu. The protesters carried banners and placards in support of the choice of the Rasheed Shekoni Specialist Hospital Dutse. The President, Students’ Union Government (SUG) of the institution, Muhammad Tasiyu Abbas, condemned the politicisation of the issue. He said: “This will not augur well for the students and the university, considering the suffering the students go through attending lectures because of long distance and too many expenses if the Federal Government dropped Rasheed Shekoni Specialist Hospital for Federal Medical Centre Birninkudu. “Apart from the long distance between Dutse where the university is located and Birninkudu, the road is a death trap.  We lost about 15 students on that road due to accidents. Those involved in those road crashes included the Deputy Chairman National Association of Jigawa State Students (NAJIS), Comrade Husaini Farindutse.” He called on the Federal Government to consider the plight of the students who will bear the brunt of selfish consideration while choosing the site for the teaching hospital for the university. Medical Students’ Association Federal University Dutse Chairman, Aminu Jibril, called on the Federal Government to, as a matter of urgency, come to their aid by continuing the upgrade of the Rasheed Shekoni Specialist Hospital Dutse in the best interest of the students, “because of the facility’s proximity and modern facilities, among others”. Jibril said: “I appeal to the authorities concerned to eschew politics and consider the interests of the students and the convenience of their studies. Let them (concerned authorities) know that most of us (students) are from the low income families. Taking us to Birninkudu will affect our studies.” The organiser of the protest, Mustapha Madobi, said they were protesting against the alleged plan of relocating the proposed teaching hospital to another site, adding that they were calling the attention of the minister to consider proximity and students’ interest while siting the teaching hospital. Dr. Osagie visited the Jigawa State Deputy Governor, Alhaji Umar Namadi, the Emir of Dutse, Alhaji Dr Nuhu Sunusi in his palace and then visited the university and the two hospitals (Rasheed Shekoni Specialist Hospital Dutse and Federal Medical Centre Birninkudu. The minister said the visit was part of his efforts to speed up the process of preparing the first set of students, who are in their third year for clinical training, adding that the visit  was a high priority project for the ministry because of the  students going for clinical training to have a platform to fall back to. Dr. Ehanire said he had communicated his thoughts on the teaching hospital to President Muhammadu Buhari, adding that the technical team on the assessment visit has the Director of Legal Services of the ministry as a member to facilitate the legal process of converting the hospital to the teaching hospital without hitches. He commended the university for its giant strides in the last eight years, adding that he was confident graduates of the university would be well trained. Namadi, who received the minister and his team on behalf of Governor Muhammad Badaru, said the visit had long been over due and that the people of Jigawa State were happy that he visited. He said the Jigawa State government in its commitment to ensure health care provision in the state had handed over the Rasheed Shekoni Specialist Hospital to the Federal University Dutse to serve as its teaching hospital. Namadi further said the state government was also working to ensure the provision of at least one functional secondary health facility in each of the 27 local government areas of the state. Emir of Dutse, Alhaji Nuhu Muhammed thanked the President whom he said knows the importance of health. Alhaji Muhammed added that Jigawa State has been rated as one of the best in health care delivery, adding that the visit was well appreciated as it would also deliver health care to the local communities. The Emir encouraged the Federal Government to continue promoting health, education, agriculture and security. He urged the minister and his team to be fair in their assessment, emphasising that both hospitals are located within his emirate while also considering the students who will be at the receiving end. The Vice-Chancellor of the institution, Prof. Fatima Batulu Muktar, welcomed the minister and his team. On the issue of siting the teaching hospital of the university, she said: “We constituted a committee of experts drawn from all the relevant areas of specialisation to assess what we have, our gaps and way forward.  They inspected the two hospitals that were then proposed and in their submission recommended Rasheed Shekoni to be considered as teaching hospital for the following reasons: Proximity to the parent university and vast land for future developments. “Following this recommendation, we requested the Governor of Jigawa State to consider and release the hospital to the university. Having received approval from the state Executive Council and the Legislature, he magnanimously handed over the hospital to the University as part of his contributions to the Federal Government.” Continuing, she said: “I believe that with your visit, our struggle is over and we can be assured of upgrade of the hospital and, by extension, accreditation by both NUC and MDCN.” She further informed the minister that the University had started playing its role of providing some basic structures at the proposed teaching hospital. Two hostels donated by Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) are under construction. The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has laid fibre optics from the university to the hospital and has equipped the hospital with a state-of-the-art digital learning centre. Prof. Fatima revealed that the institution had secured N2.0 billion from TETFund, which is going into the construction and furnishing of the Faculty of Basic Clinical Sciences, Faculty of Clinical Sciences, Library and administration buildings.