 Having come into power on the much publicised change mantra, one would not have thought that knowing what President Muhammadu Buhari is worth would be an issue. One would have thought such declaration would not only be available on demand, it would be on the internet for whoever cares to know what is there. Change presupposes that old things are passed away and all things have become new. So, if President Buhari’s predecessors did not make their assets declaration public, whether in their first term or second, he should, given his antecedent and his promise to revolutionise the ways in which public or elected officials, especially at the level of the presidency, should behave. But what we have seen with the debate now trailing an innocuous request by the Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project, (SERAP) for the president to make his asset declaration public would seem to suggest that there is little or no difference between six and half a dozen. If President Buhari decides to keep his assets close to his chest and only dumped same in the shelves of the Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB), how then is he different from the rest? Rather than simply obliging SERAP with the request, and probably thanking it for reminding it to do the rightful, Femi Adesina, President Buhari’s spokesperson said no law compelled his principal to make public his assets in his second term. And that to do this “is voluntary and not a compulsion. The president will do what the law requires of him and I can say for a fact that the president has declared his assets. Declaring that publicly is not in our law but voluntary. Therefore, he cannot be compelled to do so,” he said. I find this sad, regrettable as well as unfortunate. It is unbecoming coming from a man like President Buhari that should be eager to make such document public. Secret declaration of assets is useful to no one, especially as the CCB had always refused to make such available to those who request for it. Those who made asset declaration a part and parcel of our democratic experiment did not do so for the fun of it. The aim is to make whatever is declared there get to the ultimate user –  the public. Even if this is not expressly stated in the statute books, it should be implied, especially for someone who became president promising change. Ours is a country where public and elected officials make anticipatory declarations so that what they had declared in advance would now be their target as at the time they are leaving the stage. I do not think President Buhari would do such a thing, given his anti-corruption antecedent. A document released by the Presidency in 2015 said Buhari had less than N30million in his bank account; that he had no foreign accounts, etc. “The documents also revealed that President Buhari had a total of five homes, and two mud houses in Daura. He had two homes in Kaduna, one each in Kano, Daura and in Abuja. One of the mud houses in Daura was inherited from his late older sister, another from his late father. He borrowed money from the old Barclays Bank to build two of his homes. “President Buhari also has two undeveloped plots of land, one in Kano and the other in Port Harcourt. He is still trying to trace the location of the Port Harcourt land. “In addition to the homes in Daura, he has farms, an orchard and a ranch. The total number of his holdings in the farm include 270 heads of cattle, 25 sheep, five horses, a variety of birds and a number of economic trees. “The documents also showed that the retired General uses a number of cars, two of which he bought from his savings and the others supplied to him by the Federal Government in his capacity as former Head of State. The rest were donated to him by well-wishers after his jeep was damaged in a Boko Haram bomb attack on his convoy in July 2014.” What has the president added to these assets which, one must agree, were quite modest for someone who had been head of state, governor, Minister of Petroleum and the head of the Petroleum Development Trust Fund (PTDF) in our kind of country? That is all we want to know. President Buhari should please tell us. 