 IN the past the federal government had closed the land borders, especially around Cotonou a few times. But no one took the government seriously when it closed the land borders across the country last August. When the move was conceived and subsequently perfected, the last thing on people’s mind was that it would be opened in a matter of days. Five months down the line, a lot of people, especially the Nigeria’s neighbouring countries have continued to lament the move largely described as a game changer by few discerning Nigerians, thanks to the unprecedented gains that has accrued to the country as a result. A peep at Nigeria’s land borders Nigeria has four major borders and these borders lead to four African countries. The country shares borders with Cameroun in its southern part in Cross River. It is also borders with Chad in North-East and Niger in the North. Additionally, Nigeria is also borders with Republic of Benin in the Southwestern Nigeria. Justification for border closure According to the Comptroller General of the Nigerian Custom Service, Hammed Ali, who spoke recently during the meeting with the National Assembly’s Committee on Finance and National Planning, the policy instrument has opened an economic door to Nigeria. “All goods, for now, are banned from being exported or imported through our land borders and that is to ensure we have total control over what comes in,” Hameed Ali, the comptroller-general of the Nigerian Customs Services, told journalists in Abuja in October. He expressed that the country generated over N9.2 billion in a day in September 2019. Nigeria’s porous borders, government officials argue, allow traders to escape excise duties and tariffs and fuel illegal smuggling. To reduce fuel smuggling, customs officials last month banned the supply of petroleum products to filling stations within 20km of the borders. Together, these measures are taking a toll on border communities, businesses and the economies of neighbouring Benin and Niger. Markets in border communities have shut since the closure of the borders, and the steady flow of motorcycle taxis, trucks and passengers which keep these areas buzzing has drastically reduced. According to a World Bank recent report, an estimated 80 percent of imports into Benin are intended for Nigeria, which means that Nigeria is their final destination. With this, some small businesses have recounted part of their benefits as innumerable. To the Chairman, National Association of Small and Medium Enterprises (NASME), Dr Adams Olu Adebayo, border closure is the prayer of rice farmers. He argued that border closure has not brought the needed solution because farmers were not carried along and were not ready, as such causing the prices of the available commodities to go up. Mr. Afam Mallinson Ukatu, the National Chairman of the Non-Metallic Mining Group of MAN, is not on the same page with Adebayo. According to him, border closure is not bad, but the government should have consulted with stakeholders before taking decision as most of their members import or export through the land borders “Why should the customs be waiting for border closure pronouncement of the executive before they take stringent steps to checking smuggling? Border closure is not a solution, what we need is a proper policy instrument that will check and track illicit trade perpetrators,” he said. Pressed further, he said, “there is no country in the world that exists in isolation, but strong and adequate policies are put in place and also enforced in the proper manner. For instance, the Chinese has several scanners at its land borders and numerous check points that would not allow illicit trade to thrive. Most of our manufactured goods are sold in the neighbouring countries, but with border closure, manufacturers now find it very difficult to move their goods across the border.” SBM Intelligence, a Lagos-based political and economic risk advisory firm, has warned that the closure of boundaries also has consequences for export-focused Nigerian businesses. “Nigerian authorities assume that a border closure works only one way – on the import side. But it bears reiterating that the country is actually a net exporter via the land borders and this closure affects these exporters.” A recent report by FSDH Merchant bank found that some textile firms in the northern city of Kano have closed shop because they cannot export to clients across the border with Niger. SBM believes Nigeria’s porous borders reflects a “failure” of the Nigeria Customs Service to effectively carry out its duties. In the view of the Director General of Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), Dr. Muda Yusuf, the closure of Nigerian land borders recently has come with benefits and costs, noting that there are upsides and downsides. According to him, reports indicate a drastic reduction in smuggling of rice, poultry products and sugar. The smuggling of petroleum products outside the country to neighboring countries has also declined considerably. In a document made available to The Nation, the LCCI boss further explained that it is important to reckon with the costs, supply chain disruptions and loses that businesses and individuals have suffered as a result of the closure. Corporates, large number of informal sector players and individuals doing legitimate businesses across the borders have become victims of the border closure. This poses a dilemma. The government means well, but there are many innocent casualties, he stressed. “As we celebrate the benefits, we should also count the costs.  Jobs have been lost, prices have skyrocketed, legitimate exports to the sub-region have been halted, intermediate products for some manufacturers have been cut off, some multinationals companies have been de-linked from their sister companies in the sub-region.” Expatiating, Yusuf said, “The economies of border communities have been paralysed with consequences for unemployment and poverty. Over 90% of Nigeria’s trade with the West African sub region is by road. We export manufactured products as well as agricultural products-detergents, toothpastes, plastic products, steel products, kitchen utensils, grains, ginger, onions, among others. We also undertake many exports to the sub region. These are sources of livelihood of Nigerians doing legitimate businesses. There are also thousands of transporters who make a living from these legitimate trading activities. These are costs that would run into hundreds of billions of naira. We must weigh the costs and benefits. Most often we do not count the cost of government policy on the citizens and businesses.” Recently the country recoded reduction in the quantity of its daily petroleum product consumption. The Minister of State Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, who disclosed this recently, noted that eight million litres in fuel consumption, has proven immense smuggling of petroleum products aided by Nigerian security personnel. The National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) recently released, an increment in inflation; from 11.024 percent to 11.61 percent, a development that experts attributed to the border closure. There has been a notable hike in the price of food items, but will normalised in due cause. Way forward In an article entitled, ‘Nigeria’s Border Closure: Pros, Cons, and Consequences,’ Nigeria’s former envoy to France, Ambassador Akinkuolie Rasheed, while acknowledging the fact that the closure of Nigeria’s land borders for over four months now has raised concerns about the validity and essence of the ECOWAS treaty, which permits the free movement of people and goods across West Africa, stressed that the violation and abuse of ECOWAS treaty on movement of goods and people, the smuggling of firearms and drugs, human trafficking, trans border insurgency among several infractions  have  posed  grave threats to the peace, stability and economies  of member states. While justifying the policy, the former Director of Trade and Investment, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said, “The closure of Nigeria’s land borders or partial closure as the case may be, in August 2019, was intended to curb these nagging problems,” adding that border closure, however, is a serious decision taken by nations in extraordinary circumstances, especially when going to war, or to protect the country’s territorial integrity. He was however quick to add that government institutions in Nigeria such as Customs,  Immigration, Police and other agencies that are responsible for controlling the borders, should  rather be reinforced  and equipped with surveillance machines, metal/ bomb detectors, screening machines, drones, sniffer dogs, and human intelligence etc. to contain smuggling and other transborder crimes. Besides, he said, a multinational task force of officers from Nigeria and its neighbours may also be constituted to jointly patrol the borders as an added preventive measure. These are alternative measures which will offer a more lasting solution to the infractions. 