 Members of Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities, SSANU, Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Anambra State, on Friday staged a protest to the state government house, over the kidnap of their colleague, Engr. Emeka Chiaghana The Unizik Staff, was abducted in his house in Nibo, Awka South council area of the state on October 25, 2019 and had not been seen till date. The protesters numbering over 200, displayed placards with various inscriptions on the plight and  whereabouts of their colleague. Some of the placards read: ‘ we want Chiaghana back to us; Governor Willie Obiano please intervene, among others. Chairperson of the association, Comrade Njideka Nwangwu ,said the protest was necessitated by the abduction of their member . According to her, “By this peaceful protest , SSANU UNIZIK enjoins  the government of Anambra State , security agencies , the university community and the general public to note this important development . ” Nwangwu noted that though SSANU was aware of the efforts of security agencies and UNIZIK management in trying to ensure the release of their kidnapped  member alive , she said the relevant authorities should expedite action for him to regain his freedom and join his family . Responding on behalf of the state government, the Secretary to the State Government, Prof. Solo Chukwulobelu , assured members of SSANU UNIZIK that security agencies were on top of the issue . Prof.Chukwulobelu also said   the state government had not gone to bed on the matter and had been conducting investigations underground to nail his abductors and reunite him with his immediate family. He said the state government had been feeding the Vice Chancellor, Prof. Charles Esimone with the latest information regarding Engr. Emeka Chiaghana’s kidnap . He said the latest update on the issue was given to Prof. Esimone on January 7, 2020 . Chukwulobelu, therefore urged the protesting senior staff of UNIZIK  not to despair but to be strong in their faith as the state government and other security agencies would ensure that their colleague is released from captivity . Meanwhile, the state’s  Police Public Relations Officer, Haruna Mohammed, told The Nation yesterday that the Command was not sleeping in making sure the victim was released