By Okodili Ndidi, Abuja  A former Chief of the Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Patrick Koshoni is dead. A statement signed by Naval Spokesman, Commodore Suleman Dahun, informed that the former Chief of the Naval Staff died after a brief illness at the age of 77. According to the statement: “The Naval Headquarters wishes to announce with heavy heart the demise of a former Chief of the Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Patrick Seubo Koshoni (rtd). “The senior officer died on 25 January 2020 after a brief illness. Born in Lagos on 11 April 1943, Vice Admiral Koshoni (rtd) joined the Nigerian Navy on the 11 June 1962 after a secondary school education at St Finbarr’s College, Akoka, Lagos. “That same year he started the naval cadetship training at the National Defence Training Academy in India and was commissioned Sub-Lieutenant on 13 July 1964. “Admiral Koshoni (rtd) attended many naval, management and leadership courses and headed many naval and military appointments, committees and task forces. “He served the nation meritoriously as the Flag Officer Commanding Western Naval Command and as Honourable Ministers of Health, Transport and Aviation as well as Labour and Productivity. He was a member of the Supreme Military and Federal Executive Councils from January 1984 – August 1985. “During his tenure as the Chief of the Naval Staff, he led initiatives for the articulation of Nigeria’s foremost maritime strategy; the Nigerian Navy Trident Strategy and helped to institutionalise the Presidential Fleet Review, Manpower Rationalization for the Service and the Chief of Naval Staff’s Annual Conference, which has continued to serve as a veritable platform for strategic engagement and policy review. On retirement from Service, the indefatigable Admiral also served as the Chairman National Internal Security Organization (defunct National Guard). “He is survived by his wife Mrs Margaret Aderoju Koshoni, children and several grandchildren. Necessary arrangements for his burial is being concluded in liaison with his family and a firm programme will be communicated in due course”.