By Gbenga Omokhunu, Abuja The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has accused the federal government supporting activities of Boko Haram, Islamic State West African Province (ISWAP), and other terrorists in the country. It dared the federal government to prove Christians wrong by: “publishing names of their kingpins, of the terrorists, herdsmen killers and bandits in their custody and those who are being prosecution in the court of law for the world to see, if the government has not been treating those criminals with kid gloves”. CAN President, Rev. Samson Ayokunle, vowed not to keep quiet until the abducted Christians, including the Chairman of Adamawa State chapter of CAN, Rev. Lawan Andimi were released. Ayokunle, in a statement on Tuesday by his spokesman, Pastor Adebayo Oladeji, said: “The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) is not doing the bidding of the terrorists by crying out for the freedom of our members in the captivity of the Boko Haram terrorists. “The government should wake up to its primary responsibilities which is to protect the lives and property of the people. Calling on the Federal government to free our members from their captors who claim to be attacking us for religious sake is the right thing to do in this situation we have found ourselves. “These criminals are targeting the predominant Christian communities, killing, maiming and abducting the people with or without any resistance from the security agencies is unprecedented. “Let the government wake up to its responsibilities and see if we will not stop talking about its failure to protect our members. That is not politicisation of religion. The governor of Borno State is shouting that the soldiers are extorting money from the people instead of defending them. “How many Christians are heading any of the security agencies in the country? We are praying for the government on daily basis but that does not mean where the government is failing we should keep quiet? “Since Leah Sharibu and other Chibok girls have been crying for help, there is nothing on ground to show that the government has been sensitive to their plight. “The only reason why they are in captivity is because they are Christians, no more, no less. That the government is condemning the terror attacks is not the same thing as stopping the attacks and arresting the criminals responsible or are they telling us they are spirits? Telling us to keep quiet is adding salt to our injuries.” The body added: “Last week, it was Adamawa and on Monday, this week it was Kaduna State where 41 people were kidnapped! “As long as the unpleasant situations in the country remain the same the leadership of the Christian Association of Nigeria will not keep quiet since that is the only thing we can do aside from praying for the captives”.