Kehinde OLULEYE  TALENTED, pretty and super-smart, this week’s On-Air-Personalities (OAPs) are some of the brightest presenters in radio. Their power assets include their voices, charm, presentation skills, intelligence, sensuality (when needed) and several other plusses. Gone are the days when OAPs make a living by interviewing and mingling with celebrities. Nowadays, the best and the brightest of our dazzling array of OAPs are powerful celebrities in their own right. It is the reason we can’t stop trolling them and the paparazzi will not allow them to rest. So, this week, we shall be going through a long list of our coolest OAPs who make our entertainment sector to glitter so brightly.  Toke Makinwa Nigerian radio personality, television host, blogger, lifestyle entrepreneur and author, Toke Makinwa, is one of the most popular radio persons in Nigeria. Confident, sure-footed and bold, Toke shines always. Whatever she wears, the author and branding genius sure knows how to dot her i’s and cross her t’s.   Nancy Isime One of the hottest OAPs and actresses, Nancy has a very peculiar snazzy look that sets her apart. A model, she has worked with Ade Bakere, Adebayo Jones, Zizi Cardow, Shakara Couture among others.  Toolz Beautiful from whatever angle you look at her, Tolu Oniru-Demuren, popularly known as Toolz, is bold, beautiful and blessed with near-perfect natural curves. Toolz is a smart dresser,wearing only things that make her comfortable and add to her gorgeousness.  Gbemi Olateru-Olagbegi Gbemi Olateru-Olagbegi is as popular as the celebrities she interviews. She is stylish and smart. She is one of the anchor presenters on Cool FM and Beat 99.9 FM. She always nails it at events with her stylish outfits. Do2tun Oladotun Ojuolape Kayode, better known as Do2tun, is a Nigerian on-air personality, video jockey, actor and media entrepreneur. Do2tun is both sexy on and off air. Whether he is posing for a quick photo or walking on the red carpet, his bold expressive style reflects his fun-loving character.  Helen Paul Popular Tatafo presenter from the show,“Wetin Dey,” on 102.3FM, Helen Paul-Bamisile is an actress, comedian, OAP, business woman and singer. Now known as Alhaja Don Jazzy, Paul is one to bring her entire repertoire of skills to play whenever she is presenting or interpreting a role. In addition to all this, she also has a cute fashion sense. DJ Spinall Sodamola Oluseye Desmond, professionally known as DJ Spinall, is a Nigerian Disc Jockey, record producer, songwriter, label executive, and media personality. DJ Spinall created a style that is unique to his outfit, known as TheCAP. His dressing is not complete without this trade-mark African style-inspi red cap. Yaw Steve Onu, popularly known as Yaw, is a Nigerian comedian, actor, master of ceremony and radio personality with 95.1 Wazobia FM. This charming OAP has a wide mass appeal that has made him one of radio’s biggest personalities. And when it comes to looking good, you won’t find him in the middle.  Moet Abebe Who doesn’t know Moet Abebe? Laura Monyeazo Abebe, popularly known as Moet Abebe, is a Nigerian video jockey, television presenter, actress, catering executive. She’s everything rolled into one!  Two words describe her: daring and smart. Kaylah Oniwo This on-air personality with Cool FM, Kaylah Oniwo, is a multi-talented brand ambassador and stage artiste. Kaylah is one woman that you’ll never find lacking confidence and smartness.