Experts are of the view that the neglect of technical and vocational education is already hindering Nigeria’s technological advancement. They argue that neglecting technical and vocational education is perhaps one of the reasons for the importation of technical skills from neighbouring countries, TOBA AGBOOLA reports.  Achieving sustainable development requires integrative approaches that embodies formal and informal education. While the country is making efforts to encourage technical and vocational training as part of steps to tackle unemployment, there is still a yawning gap at forging an integration that is formidable enough to achieve the required impact. The shortage of technical expertise, according to experts, is part of the challenges preventing the practical application of the Nigerian Content Act 2010. They stressed the need to revamp technical and vocational education in the country. For instance, the School of Technical Education (STE), formerly Technical Teacher Training Programme (TTTP), was designed by the Federal Ministry of Education to provide the needed manpower in the area of primary, technical and secondary levels of the education system. The TTTP started in the Yaba College of Technology, during the 1992/1993 academic session for the award of B.Sc. (Ed.) degree in Technical and Vocational Education in affiliation with the University of Nigeria, Nsukka. Similarly, the military administration of the  Gen Olusegun Obasanjo promulgated Decree 33 of 1979 (amended by Decree 5 of 1993), to give legal backing for the establishment of federal polytechnics for the training of middle-level technological manpower for the nation’s industries. To make the polytechnics attractive, attempts have been made to rate Higher National Diploma (HND), at par with university degree. Unfortunately, today a dichotomy exists between university degrees and higher national diplomas, and employers of labour, both in the public and private sectors, are in favour of the former. This development has done a lot to drastically reduce the interest of Nigerian youths in polytechnic education. Speaking  at the presentation of Austrian-German-Swiss Business Outlook in Lagos, a delegate in the German Embassy, Dr Marc Lucassen, noted the huge skill gap in the technical fields, adding that the Embassy is willing to partner with government on training. He also said the embassies of Germany, Austria, and Switzerland, are very active in the area of skills development across the country, noting that development collaboration is very important. He said: “We are willing to partner with Nigeria in solving the problem of skilled labour and one of our major constraints is the availability of skilled labour. “One of the things we want to do is to establish a large German vocation centre which will not necessarily be for Germans, but whoever is willing in being part of the vocational training scheme in terms of financing, on job and off job training.” Past President, Chartered Institute of Personnel Management of Nigeria (CIPM), Udom Inoyo argued that a labour surplus economy like Nigeria should not have any reason to import certain skills if the country is truly desirous of tackling unemployment. “For example, if you visit some of the building sites with on-going construction projects, you will realise that a lot of the workers are from neighbouring countries.  He said: “In addition, the shortage of technical expertise is part of the challenges preventing the practical application of Local Content Act 2010 in the country. So we cannot overemphasise the need to revisit and revamp technical and vocational education in Nigeria. “I always tell young folks that the era of white shirt and tie is gone. People need to get their hands dirty and take pride in any job that they do. The housing sector is still untapped in Nigeria and yet we are not prepared for the opportunities. Buildings don’t have straight lines, tiling is a problem, painters are in a hurry and plumbers are unavailable. What of the power sector with huge skilled and semi-skilled opportunities?” Early this year, Edo State opened a collaborative effort with the Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA) and ITF (Industrial Training Fund) through the NECA-ITF Technical Skills Development Project to develop skills for youths in the state as well as job creation and employment through public private partnership (PPP). Governor Godwin Obaseki, who paid a courtesy visit to NECA Secretariat in Lagos, also sought the development of vocational and technical skills of students of the Benin Technical College. ITF- NECA initiative is a Public-Private Sector initiative aimed at developing vocational and technical skills in Nigeria. The NECA-ITF TSDP initiative is to train students to acquire more skills and manpower development that will equip them for employment after College. Its objectives, he said, are to provide employable skills to trainees to meet the middle-level manpower of industry needs in specific trade areas as well as prepare trainees for life-after-school by empowering them with entrepreneurial skills for job creation. Officer in Charge (Regional Office), of the United Nations Industrial Development Organisation (UNIDO), Dr Chuma Ezedinma said for the country to confront the current unemployment crisis, emphasis must be placed on education that support the development of technical and entrepreneurial skills and competencies. On the way forward, many experts opined that most the Nigerian technical colleges are not fulfilling their mandates. They argued that the dearth of skilled and technical hands contributed to this collapse. They said there is the need to go back and address the challenges confronting it.