Chief Olayinka Olasehinde Simoyan, former diplomat, administrator and community leader has died. He passed away at Egbe, Kogi State on October 29, 2019 after a brief illness Born to Mr. Angus Aremu and Madam Yeyeolu Simoyan both of Egbe, Kogi State on February 1, 1934, the young Olayinka was tutored by his father in his early years, and later attended the Sudan Interior Mission Central School and Titcombe College, both in Egbe, Kogi State. He proceeded to the Nigerian College of Technology in Zaria where he studied public administration at the University of Ife (Ibadan branch). In furtherance of his diplomatic career, he studied at Universite de Montpellier, France and the American University in Washington, DC. He also received a Certificate in International Relations from the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced Studies. After leaving the Foreign Service, he had a stint at BIAO Banking Training School, Paris, France. He also attended the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies in Kuru (Jos). He undertook postgraduate studies at the University of Ibadan and wrote a doctoral dissertation on Yagba history. During Chief Simoyan’s illustrious career, he served as Second Secretary at the Nigerian Embassy, Washington, DC between 1965 and 1968. He was Charge d’Affaires at the Nigerian Embassy, Benin Republic (1971-74) and Austria (1974-76). While serving in Vienna, Austria, he doubled as Nigeria’s alternate permanent representative to the International Atomic Energy Panel, Deputy Permanent Representative to the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) and a permanent member of the Nigerian delegation to the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). He was Deputy Chief of Protocol, Ministry of External Affairs during the Festival of Arts and Culture in 1977 (FESTAC ’77). He later joined the banking industry as Deputy General Manager, International Bank for West Africa (later Afribank) and  later Executive Director till 1986. He married Modupeola Simonyan (nee Afolabi) on November 23, 1963 and they had three daughters and three sons. He is survived by his children, eight grandchildren, nieces, nephews, cousins and a host of others to whom he was a father figure, trusted friend and mentor.