By Ayobami Olutaiwo  A group of teenagers,  the Teen Team, has provided medical assistance, empowerment, food items and educational materials to the people of Isefun community in Lagos State. Teen Team was established by Samuel Ajala, a CAMPUSLIFE correspondent and an undergraduate of the Federal University Oye-Ekiti (FUOYE). It aims to build the capacity of youths through transformation, empowerment and enlargement programmes by creating the right network or association for purposeful life enhancement. It was a three-day exercise, which held at Isefun comminity in Lagos and tagged: ‘Giving back to the society(GBS)’. According to the initiator, the exercise aimed at contributing to the development of the society through empowering young people, providing food and clothing to the needy, and improving their living conditions. A beneficiary, Mrs Balikis Jimoh, said she was filled with joy. “What you people have done is good, it shows you remember some people are still living here,” she said. Mrs Jimoh  added: “I was privileged to be part of it all, but that of medical check-up is what I enjoyed most.’’ The group’s Assistant Director of Medicals, Omope Kemi, noted that  the communities face many challenges. “This could be because they are not b enlightened on how to live a healthy life or due to government’s negligence,”Omope noted. She lamented that most people in the community have poor health  and were scared of what the outcome would be since the check-up was new to them. “For instance, during the check ups for hepatitis B, people were scared and even praying that it should not be positive, but despite all, we give glory to God because none was positive,” she added. On blood pressure, she said people were not being careful about it because it is higher than what it should be for the majority.  “After checking most of the community leaders, their BP was above normal, but precautions were given to reduce it highness,” she added. On what prompted the establishment of the group, Ajala said the idea was inspired by the need to build ‘’ourselves’’ and the ‘’community’’ at large by helping others. According to him, educating the young folks of today brings about a better future tomorrow, adding that there were needs to make way for the intuitive knowledge the young possess to aid a better society. “As you can see, we have used the network of teenagers to empower the people of Isefun community who have been abandoned. “In the last three days, we have been able to empower over 500 people in the community. Besides, we also had one session with the children and teenagers to inspire them of the things around them. “I believe that it is not when we advance in age that we can start impacting our society. We are no longer the leaders of tomorrow but today. If Nigeria must move forward, we must learn to engage the upcoming generation of ours,” he added.