 Apart from being the seat of the government, Abuja is known for its infrastructure and properties. Residents or visitors can attest to the city’s great architectural designs, which, unfortunately, include hundreds of abandoned buildings which sometimes  estates, built to taste but left to wither away. Experts said the sector is one of the fastest growing in the country, which has in recent years attracted young people in their 30s and early 40s looking to own tangible investments that appreciates. They said in the 80s, 90s and early 2000s, Nigeria had few people in the  middle class because most of the corporations were owned by the government and business was done in an old fashioned way. But lately, with privatisation and investors coming in telecoms, oil and gas, Information Communication Technology (ICT), agriculture, insurance, among others, Nigerians’ lifestyle changed and the middle class grew. The middle class are the ones running the economy and they are the ones buying products and services. In doing so, more jobs are created for the middle class which is real demand. Founder and Chief Executive Officer of Cosgrove Investment Limited, Umar Abdullahi, who has been in the sector for over 10 years before establishing his company that owns over 1000 houses in Abuja, said the real estate market in Abuja has been doing very well, after the recession. He described the best years in the real estate market to be around the end of 2011 to 2014, and 2019 after the general elections. He described the market in four ways with the fourth being the commercial real estate in hotels, hospitals, schools, office complex etc , but the first is the residential, which he said can be speculative, these being in the aspect of big properties that cost billions of naira. He said: “They were mostly built when oil price was high, then their was money and people had misplaced priorities, instead of them concentrating on real demand of families looking for maybe three, four bedrooms or less, they sink in billions unnneccearily in the market and they were not real developers, probably just looking for a way of converting their money into something else because they probably did not know what to do with the money in their possession.” The market resulted in the huge number of empty houses because there is no real demand for the kind of properties. He explained that as  the middle class in Nigeria started emerging, especially from the 2009s, a lot of the sectors opened up and the demand for housing rose. This led to category two, which is good for the sector and category number three is affordable housing. Abdullahi said the market has grown to the outskirt of the city centre, which was indirectly encouraged by the government. He said this was why the Federal Capital Territory Authority (FCTA) is trying to provide decent housing for low-income earners, a reason former President Olusegun Obasanjo opened up Abuja to mass housing in 2006 to encourage developers by giving them land with infrastructure. On abandoned buildings in Abuja, he urged the government to come up with a framework to help the matter. The CEO also explained that as one that has travelled around the world, the slums in Abuja are not as bad as they are in some other countries, including more advanced countries. He added that El-Rufai did a good job by formalising how Abuja slums should be in terms of logistics, transportation and residency. If it was not nipped in the bud then, it would have been out of control by now, which is why the security situation in Abuja is relatively fair and now the value of land on the increase daily.