Members of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN) otherwise known as Shi’tes on Monday led a procession through Banex, Wuse Area to Burger roundabout in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja. The IMN members were protesting the killing of top Iranian General Qasem Soleimani following an airstrike by the United States of America last Friday. The members also demanded the unconditional release of their leader, Sheikh Ibrahim El-Zakzaky and his wife, Zeenat detained by the Department of State Services (DSS) in Kaduna State. The angry protesters marched the streets of Abuja, chanting hate songs and slogan criticizing the American government. They burnt a flag of the United States of America and carried placards condemning the killing of the top Iranian general. The President Media Forum Islamic Movement in Nigeria, Ibrahim Musa last Friday issued a statement condemning the killing of Soleimani. It reads: “The Islamic Movement in Nigeria has received the very sad news of the killing of General Qassem Soleimani, Commander of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) Quds Force Soleimani and the Iraqi Commander, Abu Mahdi al-Muhandis in US airstrike at Baghdad international airport today. We strongly condemned this provocative airstrike ordered by President Trump. “The US killing of Soleimani is a “declaration of war” on Iran, which has now dangerously made the world on the edge of a very destructive war. For quite some time now, President Trump has been looking for ways to drag the Iranian nation to a senseless war. “However the US killers, God willing, will not be able to achieve any of their goals with this great crime. Rather, all of Hajj Qassem’s goals will be accomplished by the greatness of his soul and blood. This will be accomplished by his brothers, children, and students from resistance men and mujahideen from all the peoples of the world that reject humiliation and submission to the tyrants of this century. “Indeed Hajj Soleimani will forever be remembered because he led the destruction of the murderous ISIS terrorism that the genocidal US regime created, trained, armed and sustained. “He was an enigmatic General who led from the frontlines, and was an active supporter of the Palestinian freedom cause. He was an ardent anti-imperialist who gave the United States of America and their stooges in the region sleepless nights both in terms of ideas, and more importantly at the battle fronts that they prompted. “The Islamic Movement sends condolences to both the leaders and peoples of Iran and Iraq for these colossal loses, and shares their grief at this trying moment. Our deepest sympathy and condolences to the Imam of our time Imam Mahdi (ATFS), the supreme leader Imam Khamenei and Ayatollah Sayyed Sistani for the Martyrdom of Hajj Qasim Soleimani and Hajj Abu Mahdi AlMohandis and all the Martyrs. Inna Lillah Wa Inna Ilayhi Rajioon”. But the Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA), has condemned protest by any Muslim youths in Nigeria over the murder of a top Iranian commander, Gen. Sulaimani Qasim, in Bagdad by the United States of America. A statement in Abuja by the Head of Media and Communication, NSCIA, Aselemi Ibrahim said: “Although, protests are an integral part of all civil democracies in the world, Council believes the timing is wrong as this could lead to loss of lives. “The attention of the leadership of the Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs NSCIA, has been drawn to a planned solidarity “peaceful” protest by some Muslim youth in the Nigeria over the murder of a top Iranian commander, Gen. Sulaimani Qasim, in Bagdad by the United States of America. “We appeal to these Muslim youth not to allow their emotions becloud them to the dangers of taking to the streets. We believe that the impasse between Iran and America can only be resolved through dialogue at the level of bilateral or multi-lateral diplomacy. “We appeal to the law enforcement agency to be alive to their responsibility of protecting lives and property”.