The Special Adviser on Media to President Muhammadu Buhari, Femi Adesina, on Saturday came under fire for attacking the Christians Association of Nigeria, (CAN). A coalition of 25 Christian Non-Governmental Organisations asked Adesina to stop using his office to attack the leadership of the CAN: “if he cannot join them in condemning the ongoing Christian persecutions in the country.” Adesina, in his opinion titled, ‘Beheaded Adamawa pastor: CAN got it mixed up’ tackled the religious body for, according to him, insulting President Muhammadu Buhari. A statement jointly issued by the national coordinator of the Christian body, Bro Isaac Okonkwo, and the national secretary, Bro Garba Yohanna, said replied Adesina that he is not sincere with his words, adding that: “It is an open knowledge that terrorists and their kinsmen, Fulani herdsmen have turned many predominantly Christian communities into killing fields. This is too obvious to be disputed except to the insincere and mischievous minds like Adesina. While the genocide in Southern Kaduna, Benue, Plateau and Taraba States was at the peak, which had led to mass burials of the victims, Adesina was too busy travelling from Europe to America to say a word in defence of the victims and to sympathise with the bereaved. Instead, he was mandated to change the narrative from the Fulani herdsmen killings to farmers-herders clashes as if those people who were being killed were as armed as their attackers.” It went further: “Our attention has been drawn to an opinion written by Adesina, titled, “BEHEADED ADAMAWA PASTOR: CAN GOT IT MIXED UP” where Adesina thoughtlessly and gleefully spared no words in lashing out at the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) which, technically speaking, he is a member as an elder in the Four Square Church. While we will not speak for CAN, we as concerned citizens in the body of Christ in Nigeria view his uncouth and untamed attacks as reminiscent of the counsel of the wisest man of all centuries, King Solomon, who says “Answer not a fool according to his folly, lest thou also be like unto him. Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own conceit” (Proverbs 26:4-5). The latter wisdom is applicable here. ”We note with great sadness that Femi Adesina, a Christian elder in the body of Christ, and a presidential aide, a journalist of no mean reputation, is now wearing the infamous crown as one of the staunchest defenders of the atrocious killings and maiming of Nigerians, especially Christians under the present administration. Ordinarily, Adesina should not deserve a rejoinder because he has chosen lucre over sincere burden of agony of antagonised and killed Christians which CAN bears in defending and justifying the daily slaughtering and dehumanisation of Christians in Nigeria, especially in the northern part of the country. But he should be rebuked for his pretension and mediocrity which betray genuine Christ-like character.