 Amadou Gallo Fall is a man with a big dream. His dream is to see that Africa becomes a major player in the game of basketball globally. And he has chased that dream since he stepped onto the court to pursue his aim of becoming a basketball star. He was also aware that to change the way the game is perceived in Africa, he would have to one day go into administration. The chance to make the game became a household name on the continent came in January 2010 when the Senegalese joined the National Basketball Association (NBA). The first step he took was to open the league’s office in Johannesburg, South Africa in May of the same. As the NBA Africa managing director, Fall has directed the NBA’s grassroots basketball development initiatives and partnerships with marketing, media and consumer product companies on the continent. He has overseen significant growth in the NBA’s business and basketball development efforts in Africa, highlighted by three sold-out NBA Africa Games – in Johannesburg in 2015 and 2017 and in Pretoria in 2018 in support of charities including United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF), the Nelson Mandela Foundation and Save Our Soul (SOS) Children’s Villages in South Africa. Under Fall’s leadership, the NBA has expanded its grassroots and elite development efforts across the continent, including the Junior NBA, Basketball Without Borders (BWB) Africa and The NBA Academy Africa. The BWB, the NBA and Fédération Internationale de Basketball, FIBA’s global basketball development and community outreach programmes have been held in Africa 17 times, with 10 former BWB Africa campers drafted into the NBA. The savvy Senegalese was also instrumental in opening The NBA Academy Africa in May 2017, where elite male prospects ages 14 to 20 have received scholarships and training after scouting programmes conducted with local federations across the continent. Four NBA Academy Africa graduates have gone on to commit to National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division One schools. Fall is a recipient of multiple leadership awards for his contribution to the growth of the game of basketball and youth development on the African continent. This includes New African’s 100 Most Influential Africans (2019), African Leader 4 Change (2017) and the South African Sport Industry’s Leadership in Sport (2018). Fall previously worked for the Dallas Mavericks, starting as a scout in 1998 before ultimately becoming Director of Player Personnel and Vice President of International Affairs, when he served as the team’s international goodwill ambassador and oversaw scouting assignments.  He helped start Basketball Without Borders Africa in 2003 and served as Camp Director until 2010. He is also the Founder of SEED (Sports for Education and Economic Development), a global non-profit organization established in 1998 with the mission of using sport as a vehicle to inspire, empower and support the holistic development of promising African youth, preparing them to become global citizens. He is a magna cum laude graduate of the University of the District of Columbia (UDC), where he played center on the basketball team.  Fall was inducted into the UDC Athletics Hall of Fame on February 15, 2019. Fall who was also named the President of the Basketball Africa League (BAL) last year visited Nigeria early this month where he spoke to the media on plans to make the new league one of the best in the next 10 years. The President of BAL said his dream of seeing Africa becomes one of the best continents in basketball continues and assured that the new league would help reposition the game in Africa and build an ecosystem that would be beneficial to all stakeholders in the long run. The BAL, a partnership between FIBA and NBA, is a new professional league in Africa featuring 12 clubs and scheduled to begin in March this year with the preliminary rounds already decided late last year. The new league marks the NBA’S first collaboration to operate a league outside North America and the Senegalese is ready to bring everyone on board to ensure it succeeds. Fall also assured the teams would not be left in the lurch but would be supported to run their clubs professionally. He, however, said that facilities have to be top-notch to ensure that venues for games are television and fans-friendly. Despite the stage set for the commencement of the league, Fall is not resting on his oars and he has promised that BAL would make further announcement on changes that might occur before the league commences, noting that they are working closely with FIBA on likely changes in venues and other logistics. “Teams will be playing for prize money and they will be supported to improve their overall organisational capacity. Everything about the league is going to be professional from players’ welfare to playing surface as well as the running of the league professionally,” Fall stated. Fans will also have the chance of seeing stars from other countries play for their local clubs as Fall revealed that teams were already recruiting players, promising they would be supported to ensure the players’ salaries are paid promptly. Other officials of the league are also not left out as the BAL boss assured that coaches, referees and other officials would be trained, while calling on corporate organisations from African countries to team up with the league. “The NIKE and Jordan brand will be the exclusive on-court outfitter of the new league but we are open to working with other organisations to make the sponsorship bigger and the league vibrant,” Fall added. He said the vision of making basketball the biggest game in Africa could one day see the introduction of the women version of the league. But for now, Fall wants everyone to join the dream.    