The Nigerian Electricity Management Services Agency (NEMSA), in partnership with German firm, ZERA GmbH and the National Power Training Institute of Nigeria (NAPTIN), has begun the retraining of its workforce in Lagos to equip them for the challenges ahead in view of anticipated huge increase in number of meters, following the introduction of Meter Asset Providers (MAPs). EMEKA UGWUANYI, who was there, reports.  The Nigerian Electricity Management Services Agency (NEMSA) has entered into a partnership with a German company, ZERA GmbH, to train its engineers and technicians in preparation for the expected upsurge in number of meters as Meter Asset Provider (MAP) licensees take off across the country. NEMSA Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Peter Ewesor,  also the Chief Electrical Inspector of the Federation, said the programme holding in Lagos, is a specialised technical capacity building that would focus on technical standards, installations and meter/instrument operation and repairs. According to him, the intensive training will last two weeks and that 40 engineers and technical officers drawn from Lagos, Kaduna and Port Harcourt would participate. The training is to enhance their capacity in carrying out meter testing and inspection of other electrical equipment. The trainees will be trained on operation and maintenance of meter test equipment, troubleshooting and calibration of electricity energy meter instrument and equipment, adding that the specialised technical capacity building would focus on technical standards, installations and meter/instrument. He said the programme is organised with  ZERA GmbH and the National Power Training Institute of Nigeria (NAPTIN). Ewesor told The Nation: “We are here to declare open the capacity building of our engineers and technical officers on operation and maintenance of test equipment, troubleshooting and calibration of electricity energy meter testing instrument and equipment because we are in charge of testing electricity meters that are used in Nigeria. “We want our people to be on top of the game. If we don’t have adequate knowledge of the job we won’t be able to deliver on the job we are supposed to do. Naturally one has to have better knowledge of a job than the person one is supervising, hence the training is imperative. As you know, we oversee the activities of the electricity distribution companies (DisCos) as regards metering, testing and validation of meters, calibration and decommissioning of meters. “By law, before you decommission any meter, it is supposed to go through a specified laboratory test and field test to show the meter is no longer useful and has actually outlived its usefulness. Consumers or DisCos are not supposed to change meters just for the sake of changing. Therefore, this training is to ensure that our workers are better informed, knowledgeable and equipped enough to do some of the works we bring expatriates to do for us. “That is why we brought the original equipment manufacturer experts to come and put them through on the machines which they supplied us and which we use for our operations. “When any equipment is in use, sometimes a part of it goes out of place and it malfunctions, therefore, with this training, our workers will be able to identify when and where there is a problem in the machine and would be able to fix it. This will go a long way to impact positively on the power sector because when workers are adequately empowered to fix the equipment, it saves money and time for the consumer, industry and economy. “This training will make us to increase the quantum of meters to be tested at our stations on daily basis and will increase the efficiencies and volume of meters we can test daily. We are fully ready for the explosion that is waiting in the industry through the Meter Assets Providers schemes (MAP) because it is expected that huge number of meters would be deployed through the scheme.” The NEMSA boss said the engineers and technical officers being trained in this programme would, in turn, train others, adding that the agency has embarked on intensive education on the need for meter manufacturers and meter importers to adhere strictly to the procedure on regulation code. He lauded the support of the Minister of Power, for ensuring stronger synergy among power sector institutions to boost efficiency and productivity. He advised Nigerians to ensure that all meters installed in their premises have NEMSA seal as authentication to show that that the meter had met standard. He, however, said the Agency will not hesitate to sanction any manufacturer who failed follow the procedure of meter certification before deploying it to electricity consumers and utility companies, adding that NEMSA will ensure that no bad meter comes into the country. He also warned DisCos to verify the expiration of meters at specified laboratories and field tests before decommissioning the appliance, adding that DisCos have been decommissioning and classifying meters as redundant or expired without procedural verification. According to the Ewesor, it was as a result of this that the agency is building capacity of its personnel and equipment to increase the volume of meters it can test on daily basis. Ewesor said: “If we have all tools and equipment with which we are to deliver on our mandate, if the human capital is not on top of the game, definitely we can’t deliver anything. So, we want to arm them to be in touch with current technology. “It is for them to know that they are working in an enforcement Agency and their role is to ensure that the network, the equipment used, and the power systems put in place are in regular fitness to deliver power in a safe and reliable manner and to ensure safety of lives and properties. It is also to make sure that any new project being built is inspected.”  According to Ewesor, NEMSA is in charge of the certification of all electrical installations that are used in the nation’s power sector. “How do you carry out effective and efficient test if you don’t have the capacity, knowledge and technical know-how? So we have designed this specialised technical capacity training for them and we are bringing experts from developed economies in other parts of the world to share experiences with them and then put them through in certain areas where they have challenges. “Since we started NEMSA, they have been carrying out their functions and there were some cases they had to refer to us at the headquarters to deliberate on. People talk about challenges with their meters. “We are called to come and check the meters and when you are checking those meters, you don’t just check the meters in isolation. You check the meters vis-à-vis the electrical installations.” NAPTIN Director-General, Mr Ahmed Nagode, said the institute had trained over 600 staff of the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) and DisCos. Nagode said the institute will also  train another 150 workers being sponsored by the Association of Power Utilities of Africa (APUA), adding: “This will go a long way in building efficiencies for the working force in the power sector. He commended the management of NEMSA for initiating such a programme to train workers on the 21st century methodology in electricity operations and maintenance procedures. According to him, the training was  selected for NEMSA engineers to improve their knowledge and keep them abreast of modern technologies in the world. “We commend the management of NEMSA for deeming it fit to train their staff and for attaching importance to capacity building of staff,” Nagode said, urging the trainees to make the best use of the opportunity by ensuring that they achieved the objectives of the training, and that it would make them better industry players and also guarantee their safety at work. “We are working together with other sister agencies and NEMSA in ensuring that we build human capital for the sector that gets the right sets of skill to achieve its mandate for the industry. “We are also working with NERC, REA, privatiaed utilities companies and other sister agencies, we have been training their staff and we just concluded that of the Sahara Power Group engineers.’’