 THE consumers’ overall confidence outlook rose in the fourth quarter of 2019, as consumers were optimistic in their outlook, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Consumer Expectation Survey released at the weekend has shown. The index at 3.3 points was 6.4 points lower than the index in the corresponding period of 2018. Respondents attributed this favourable outlook to improved family income and family financial situation. Also, the consumer outlook for the next quarter and next 12 months were positive at 19.7 and 30.2 points, respectively. According to the report, the outlook could be attributed to the expected increase in net household income, expectations to save a bit and/or have plenty over savings and an anticipated improvement in Nigeria’s economic conditions in the next 12 months. Most respondents expect prices of goods and services to rise in the next 12 months, with an index of 17.0 points. The major drivers are food & other household needs, savings, purchase of appliances/consumer durables, education, purchase of houses, and purchase of car/motor vehicle (Fig. 2). The overall buying conditions index for big-ticket items in the current quarter stood at 29.7 points. This indicates that majority of consumers believed that the current quarter was not the ideal time to purchase big-ticket items like consumer durables, motor vehicles and house. Also, overall buying intention index in the next 12 months stood at 36.5 index points, indicating that most consumers do not intend to buy big- ticket items in the next 12 months. The buying intention indices for consumer durables, motor vehicles and house & lot were below 50 points, indicating that respondents have no plans to make these purchases in the next 12 months. Also, with indices of -6.3 and 16.5 points, respectively, consumers expect the borrowing rate to fall, but expect the naira to appreciate in the next 12 months. The unemployment index for the next 12 months remained positive at 21.0 points in Q4 2019, indicating that consumers generally expect the unemployment rate to rise in the next one year. The overall consumer confidence index is computed as the average of the three indices, namely: Economic Condition, Family Financial Situation and Family Income. The report said consumers’ overall outlook was positive in the current quarter, as consumers were optimistic in their outlook. Consumers also had a positive outlook for the next quarter and the next 12 months. Majority of consumers believe that the next 12 months would not be an ideal time to purchase big-ticket items like motor vehicles and house. Most respondents expected the naira to remain unchanged, inflation rate to rise, and borrowing rate to fall in the next 12 months. The major drivers of the expected upward movement in prices are food & other household needs, savings, purchase of appliances/consumer durables, education and purchase of houses, and purchase of car/motor vehicle. The fourth quarter 2019 Consumer Expectations Survey (CES) was conducted during the period November 18 to 27, 2019, covering a sample size of 2,070 households drawn from 207 Enumeration Areas (EAs) across the country, with a response rate of 99.9 per cent. Respondents’ distribution by educational attainment showed that 8.6 per cent had university education, 10.7 per cent had higher non-university education, while 26.9 per cent had senior secondary school education. Respondents with junior secondary and primary school education accounted for 4.9 and 19.7 per cent, respectively, while those with no formal education accounted for the balance of 29.3 per cent.