 The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Oyo State has accused Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, of plotting to foist anarchy and chaos on the state. According to the party, Malami was attempting to use fiat to impose illegality on the people. The outburst follows a statement credited to the AGF, in a letter he sent to Governor Seyi Makinde, urging him to disband the local government caretaker committees. Malami, in the letter, had said Makinde was breaching provisions of Section 7(1) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), and also disobeying the Supreme Court judgment. He admonished the governor to comply with the above in the interest of rule of law and democracy. The AGF also stressed the need for the governor to disband all caretaker committees and restore democratically-elected representatives to man the local governments. But a statement by the PDP Publicity Secretary, Akeem Olatunji, said Malami’s letter was too obvious to believe he was not advocating for the sacked All Progressives Congress (APC) council chairmen. The statement reads: “Rather than interfere in the internal affairs of Oyo State, Abubakar Malami should be more concerned about Federal Government’s disregard of judiciary pronouncements and lack of respect for rule of law. “Nigeria as a federation is governed by constitution and not a decree fiat. It’s also not anybody’s fault that drafters of Nigerian Constitution put the control, legislation and supervision of the local governments under the purview of the state governments through the Houses of Assembly. “What Malami and his APC cohorts are trying to achieve is purely 2023 political agenda, similar to attempts by former Attorney-General, Akin Olujimi, to stop Federal allocations meant for Lagos State through executive fiat.” Olatunji reminded the AGF that nowhere in the 1999 Constitution is the President or his agents given the power to withhold funds due to states or local government councils, or even the National Judicial Council (NJC), by virtue of the provision of Section 162 (9) thereof. He added: “Furthermore, the Supreme Court of December 10, 2004, stated clearly that pursuant to Section 162 (5) of the Constitution, if the President or any of his agents has any grievances or whatsoever with any tier of government, he should go to court. “Oyo State PDP is advising APC in Oyo State to look for their saviour elsewhere, as Abubakar Malami is not constitutionally-empowered to assist them in foisting illegality on the state. Hence, the caretaker chairmen are enjoined to face the herculean task before them and disregard the former illegal chairmen who are merely seeking attention.” But the APC has praised Malami’s stand on the matter. A statement by the Assistant Publicity Secretary, Prince Ayobami Adejumo, regretted that the PDP was bent on bringing the third tier of government to its knees for no just reasons other than dirty politicking. The statement reads: “It is unfortunate that the Pacesetter State had to be in the news again for the wrong reasons despite pleas by stakeholders that the governor should allow rationality and constitutionality by allowing elected council officials serve their three-year term. “The governor would rather have grassroots governance grounded to a halt than work with members of the opposition. “The Minister of Justice has demonstrated the zeal to safeguard constitutional democracy and the sanctity of the court since the nation’s Supreme Court had also given a verdict that no governor or House of Assembly has the power to sack elected council officials before the expiration of their tenure. “It is only a politically naive person who would misinterpret Malami’s intervention or encourage Governor Makinde to disregard the instructions. There should not be a question of party affiliation where good governance is prioritised, and it is on this note that we call on the concerned council officials to cooperate with the governor. “We want the elected council officials to begin work immediately. We are not oblivious of the fact that the grassroots has suffered in the last eight months, and it is now imperative for the reinstated officials to do the needful in their respective councils as soon as they return to office…”   