Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi has called on the people to partner his administration by paying their taxes to strengthen the state’s revenue base to facilitate delivery of more services and benefits derivable from democracy. Fayemi explained that prompt payment of relevant taxes would enable the government discharge its responsibility of providing infrastructural amenities to improve their lives. The governor spoke on Monday when he kicked off the rehabilitation and reconstruction of some roads in the state. He said his administration won’t disappoint in the delivery of development and infrastructural facilities despite the meagre resources accruable to the state. Fayemi added that his government is determined to spread development across the towns and villages, in fulfilment of the social contracts he signed with the people. He said: “This kick off marks the beginning of another milestone of this administration, particularly fulfilling the promises we made to the people. This road was awarded in 2013 during my first term in office, and the contractor started the work but the project couldn’t be done before I left office in 2014. “The last administration did little before it was abandoned again, and that informed why we terminated the contracts and re-awarded to the original contractors. If you check well, these roads are critical to the economic development of our people. The Ilupeju/Ire/Ijan road will resolve the challenge of moving the Ire Burnt Brick products from the town to other parts of the state and the country at large. “We are determined and we shall ensure that every part of the state is accessible by good roads, as enshrined in the infrastructure and development pillar of the five cardinal point of this administration. We won’t allow paucity of funds to deter us from achieving this. We have sourced for funds to solve many of our challenges. “I want the contractors to deliver in record time. But to achieve this, I implore our people to cooperate with them so that the projects can be beneficial to every Ekiti people and intending investors.”