TWENTY-SIX vehicles will be on display at the Tata Motors stand at the 2020 Auto Expo. At the expo, scheduled for next month, Tata Motors will announce the debut of four products. These products that will make their global debut will be the seven-seat SUV called the Tata Gravitas, the refreshed Tata Nexon which will borrow the new design from the recently revealed Nexon EV. Another model that could make its debut at the expo is the production-spec model of the Micro SUV based on the H2X concept which was showcased at the last Geneva Motor Show. It is likely that the all-electric version of the Altroz hatchback could be showcased at the event marking its global debut. Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director, Tata Motors Guenter Butschek, said: “We are delighted to announce the theme for our pavilion at the Auto Expo 2020 – Connected India: Responsible and Sustainable Mobility Solutions. This theme will bring alive our future focus on CESS, which is – Connected, Electric, Shared and Safe. The future of efficient, green, sustainable mobility solutions needs to translate into reality. “As a responsible corporate, we are doing every bit to contribute to this agenda and are gearing up to bring a new generation of products faster to market. We are excited to unveil our extensive range of future portfolio at the Auto Expo 2020 which are not only BSVI ready, but are designed and developed to truly enhance the value proposition for our aspiring customers.” With the Altroz becoming the first BS6 compliant model from Tata Motors, the brand will be upgrading its entire line up of passenger and commercial vehicles powered by petrol, diesel and CNG to BS6, including automatic and semi-automatic (AMT) models. Tata Motor has stated that cumulatively, they will have a total of 26 vehicles to be displayed at the expo. With the four global debut, there will be 14 commercial and 12 passenger vehicle to be displayed. The more stringent Bharat Stage 6 emission regulations will come into force from April 1. Many manufacturers have already introduced BS6 compliant models well ahead of the rule being implemented. Tata Motors has announced that from January, it will begin rolling out its BS6 compliant engines in the Indian market for passenger and commercial vehicles.