 By the end of 2019, our collective love of iPhones and iPads made Apple a U$1.3 trillion company – and yes, a trillion dollars, with over US$200 billion cash in the bank. Contextually, it means Apple’s market capitalization is equivalent to half of Africa’s total gross domestic product (GDP) in 2019. US$200 billion indicates enough cash-on-hand to finance Africa’s entire infrastructure deficit for a year.  A close second is Microsoft with US$1.2 trillion; Google and Amazon each hover around US$ 900billion. The collective market capitalization of these four companies – parts of the so-called “Big Tech”— is bigger than the GDP of India or Africa. Welcome to the ‘new world’ of economic power fueled by disruptions and unprecedented corporate influence. In this new decade, the pace of technology will not only deepen disruptions, the pace of disruptions may create inadvertent socioeconomic problems than opportunities for Africa, including Nigeria. The great news is Nigeria can still mitigate the imminent risks of disruptions from Artificial Intelligence, Fintech, Intelligent Automation, and Autonomous Mobility with deliberate and committed government efforts. In a global contest of innovative feats, Nigeria as a nation, needs to define her role in the ‘new world’.  Today, the world recognizes the remarkable achievements of creative Nigerians in global entertainment – Music, Nollywood, and Fashion. The accomplished Doctors of American cities, Ivy League professionals of European cities, and the audacious business traders of Asian capitals make up a stellar group of Nigeria Diaspora – a group whose immense generosity amounts to more than US$ 20 billion in annual remittances – for aging parents, property developments, extended family support, and businesses. Old development models are obsolete. According to the African Development Bank, “the continent’s infrastructure needs amount to $130–170 billion a year, with a financing gap in the range $68–$108 billion”.   By 2050, Nigeria’s population is expected to double; in 10 years, Lagos’ already strained infrastructure will see significant population growth from migration. Housing deficits will sharply increase in urban areas without mortgage facilities; sanitation and congestion will pose health risks.  Here is the straight talk: Nigeria does not currently generate enough oil revenues or tax revenues to close the infrastructure and housing deficits. The great news is the world has more than enough capital to close Africa’s infrastructure deficit through smart partnerships of Private Infrastructure. So, what is the solution? Nigeria needs to establish a transparent and well-capitalized quasi-government infrastructure bank with autonomy to operate, raise capital, support credit enhancements, and expedite bankability thresholds. By reducing project development and capital-raising cycles for credible project sponsors, private capital will accelerate private infrastructure participation alongside the Buhari Administration’s public infrastructure goals.  The developments of vast infrastructure will take at least 10 years – with available capital, completed studies, and legal framework – this is the decade to spearhead deliberate efforts to close these deficits. Incentivize a Venture Capital culture. Invariably, we must double our investments in primary and secondary education for 21st century skills set and ingenuity. Our decade to build. I have always admired the Nigerian work ethic and creativity if given the right opportunities. The average Nigerian values the dignity of work!  We have built communities, industries, and overcame big challenges despite the odds. With clear vision and public sector partnership, we can build our own renaissance to compete with Asia’s rise. We, as a nation, must send strong signals through deliberate government policies of equality that the young dreams in Makoko slums are as valid as those in the high-rise of Banana Island.  We must extend a hand of recognition to the young commodity traders of Kano and Benue with big aspirations of someday competing with Dangote Sugar.  The young girls of Niger Delta creeks that want to study Biotechnology and Engineering to foster clean energy in their forlorn villages. And the children of roadside chefs in Bodija and Jalingo that believe in the seemingly improbable journey of becoming Governors and the President should become common success stories. Let this decade be our decade! The decade we build for the future population growth and co-lead Africa’s imminent disruptions. The decade we shift our minds from senseless ethnic and religious divides to common purpose. The decade we imbue gender, social class and ethnic equality in our institutions to harness the potentials of all our people for our country – and to shape and disrupt the world.