The resurgence of hatred in recent years shows that racism and prejudice are still in existence, says Antonio Guterres, the Secretary-General of the United Nations. Guterres made this known on Monday, in a message published on the UN website, to mark the International Day of Commemoration in Memory of the Victims of the Holocaust. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Jan. 27, every year, is set aside to mark the international memorial day of the tragedy of the Holocaust that occurred during the Second World War. It commemorates the genocide that resulted in the deaths of six million Jews and 11 million others by the Nazi regime and its collaborators. According to Guterres, violent extremism and attacks on places of worship are proofs of antisemitism and other forms of religious bigotry. “On this day, we come together to remember one of the most heinous crimes of our time. “The systematic killing of six million Jewish men, women and children and millions of others by the Nazis and their collaborators in the Holocaust. “We pledge that we will never forget, we vow to tell their stories and honour them by defending everyone’s right to live with dignity in a just and peaceful world,’’ Guterres said. He added that out of the horrors from 75 years ago, the UN was created to bring countries together for peace and our common humanity as well as to prevent any repetition of such crimes against humanity. “Seventy-five years on, neo-Nazis and white supremacists are resurgent and there are continued efforts to diminish the holocaust and deny or downplay the responsibility of perpetrators. “But just as hatred persists, so must our resolve to fight it. “Today and every day, we commemorate the victims of the holocaust by pursuing truth, remembrance and education, and by building peace and justice around the world,’’ the UN chief said. NAN also reports that each year, the global network of United Nations Information Centres (UNIC) and UN offices mark the day in partnership with civil society groups and government representatives. (NAN)