By Tony Akowe, Abuja The House of Representatives on Thursday asked the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu to appear before the House over recurring incidences of extra-judicial killings in the country under the guise of accidental discharges by the Police and personnel of other security agencies. The resolution of the House followed a Motion of urgent public importance sponsored by Deputy Whip, Nkeiruka Onyejeocha (APC-Abia), Reps Ozuruigbo Ugonna (PDP-Imo) and Princess Miriam Onuoha (APC-Imo). Onyejeocha called on the House to summon the Police Chief to brief the lawmakers on the increasing incidences of accidental-discharge deaths in the country. She condemned: “In its entirety, the incidences of accidental discharges, wrongful use of firearms and commiserate with the families of victims” and demand that the House. “Mandate the Inspector General of Police to investigate and bring to Justice and culprits in the killing of Hon. Ndubuisi Emenike and indeed Theo killing attributed to wrongful use firearms by Security agents”. She also asked the House to direct “the Nigeria Police Force, Nigeria Armed Forces, and all other Security Agencies authorized to carry firearms, to desist/ be prohibited from shooting/discharging firearms for amusement, celebrations, jubilation or otherwise other than for the purpose of protection of lives and properties”. The House, she said, should: “mandate the House Committees on Police Affairs, interior and other relevant House Committees to invite the Inspector General of Police, Mr. Abubakar Mohammed Adamu, Commandant General of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) and the other stakeholders to brief the House of Representatives on measures being taken to ensure that these kind of incidences are forestalled and culprits face the weight of the Law”. She recalled several incidences where members of the Security agencies “used their firearms for purposes other than the protection of lives and properties including, but not limited to discharging/shooting at public events such as rallies, weddings, burials etc often for amusement or wild celebrations”. The House is also to investigate the accidental discharge in Imo, that killed Late Emenike and to commiserate with his family.
The House also adopted a similar motion by Rep. Solomon Maren(PDP) calling on the Police, to stop killings in Mangu/Bokkos Federal Constituency of Plateau State.