You know, we have determined that we are no longer going to allow the national situation to overwhelm our humour as a country since nothing good seems to be happening anyway. Our leaders continue to oppress us with our common wealth while also threatening us with laws against hate speech. In other words, we are being given doses of pain, yet we are not permitted to cry, is that it?  Someone reported the other day how forty-something private jets attended some big fellow’s child’s wedding in Borno State in a land where many people have not been able to eat well, right there in Borno State. The jets were fed, I am guessing, but I don’t know about their owners. What is most worrisome is that the country’s two political parties seem to be working in cahoots with each other till you hardly know which is which again. There is hardly a ruling party or an opposition party; there is just this group of politicians in this country now. All we can see is a minister dancing, and our president being silent, and all of them chasing 2023 elections, even when Nostradamus predicted long ago that 2020 itself may be dicey. In the meantime, all we appear to have between us is maybe what is left of our sanity and humour. We must make the most of them both this year. Today, we are going to talk about the rhetoric of wealth. Have you noticed that the name Dangote has been used in so many songs in Nigeria? You know the bearer of that name, don’t you? He is said to be the richest man in Africa; that entails that he is also the richest man in Nigeria. Anyway, I’ve found it disturbing that the frequency of the use of his name in Nigerian pop music is high. Usually, when the name is used, it has been to exemplify wealth in all its profuseness. In other words, as we say around here, the man is used to exemplify one who is ‘stinkingly rich’. And when the name is used, it is to illustrate the singer’s desire for that kind of wealth; or that if the man could achieve that kind of wealth, so can the singer. You’ll notice people hardly choose teachers or writers for that kind of example. Now, I have no idea what the man did to earn his money beyond the fact that he appears to be a notable businessman. Until a few months ago, I held him responsible for much of the damage to many of the roads in Kogi and Ekiti States, which his heavy lorries plied laden with cement to distribute round the country. I noted, and I remember mentioning on this column then, that his cement company at Obajana in Kogi State should have been more proactive about the roads they would use than they were. I believed, and I said so, that the system of evacuation and distribution should have been planned ahead before a single bag of cement was manufactured. However, that is not our focus today. I just needed to get that out of my system because, you see, my anger is still not abated. I am today more concerned that many of our young ones constantly model their ambition on Dangote’s wealth. In short, if allowed, most of them would wish to be as rich as Dangote. Nothing wrong with that, you’ll say, and I would agree with you, but only to some extent. If Dangote as a model is based only on the wealth getting, then it is all wrong because it has not emphasised the right values that we really need in this country, which is hard work. You know what a model is, don’t you? It is when someone patterns his behaviour on another person’s who is thought to be more superior in intelligence, wealth, knowledge or foolishness. Often, the foolishness angle is ignored until quite late, such as late in the evening when everyone has gone home. Anyway, as I was saying, I would say few people know the history of the man’s rough road to opulence which he cannot ignore or forget. There is a post in my phone right now which compares success to an iceberg divided into two parts. The part that people see on the surface is labelled WHAT PEOPLE SEE. It is marked by things like medals, cups, plaques and what looks suspiciously like gold. That part is less than a quarter of the whole picture. The remaining three quarters or more is buried beneath. It is labelled WHAT PEOPLE DON’T SEE. It consists of things like sacrifice, good habits, focus, disappointment, persistence, growth mindset, meeting targets, sleepless nights, rejections, tears, determination time management, staying healthy, daily goals, etc. Like someone once said, success is two per cent inspiration and ninety-eight per cent perspiration. For the comfort of my mind, I want to assume that those songs eulogising Dangote, or any other successful person, be he/she a renowned doctor, magnate, politician, performing artist, etc., are meant to serve as inspiration for people. The understanding should then be clear that to be like those people, people need to lose their own sleep as well. In short, they should also perspire seriously like their models. Unfortunately, in Nigeria, what motivates success is getting more and more unclear. For most of us, the motivation appears to be this insane desire to inspire fear and envy in our neighbours. The thrill of watching their faces as they envy us is almost worth any amount of trouble we take to get wealth. Worse, the thrill of watching our neighbours squirm under the lack of the affordances of wealth or success that come to us is past any commentary. So, if only to be able to oppress neighbours with new toys of necessity – electricity, water, big house, big cars, big wives, big debts, etc., – we would be rich! This is why Austin O’Malley, the twentieth century American writer, says that ‘God shows his contempt for wealth by the kind of person he selects to receive it’. And, ‘because he didn’t ask for titles and honours and dignities but only for immense wealth, these other things came to him also,’ says Saki (H. H. Munro), another twentieth century English writer. I don’t think that getting rich should be anyone’s life goal. Doing that breeds a lot of let-downs, criminality and plain silliness. ‘Be not concerned if thou findest thyself in possession of unexpected wealth;’ says J. J. Roche, yet another twentieth century writer, ‘(God) will find an unexpected use for it.’ It is not wrong to eulogise Dangote (or anyone else for that matter) in song or play. What is wrong is to do so for the wrong reasons. The virtues that promote true development for the individual and the nation far outweigh the importance of wealth. For far too long, the national ethos has been built on wealth for the sake of wealth, the gathering of money for its own sake. This even negates the spirit of capitalism; the western economic model we purport to be emulating. That model says that, as I understand it, to each as he is able in his work, not in outright robbery or outright corruption. Rather, the national ethos has made money worship the sole aim of gathering money in Nigeria. That is why, even as the country languishes in poverty, some of our countrymen are said to be worth tens of billions of dollars while the country languishes, and they can sleep the sleep of the just. This, again, is past commentary. Gather ye money while ye may, but justly. Indeed, it is better to gather the work experience first. That is what ennobles more. 