ENUGU State Police Command has set up a panel to probe the misconduct of three officers. Commissioner of Police Ahmed Abdurrahman, who addressed reporters on Monday, said the officers beat up a civilian, Justice Obasi, on January 4, in Kenyatta Uwani. The culprits officers (NCO) and a constable. Abdurrahman said the panel has three days to conclude work and report to the command. He said: “After the panel’s work, we will look into its findings and recommendations. The officers will …face orderly room trial and… punishment.” The commissioner said Inspector-General of Police (IG) Mohammed Adamu ordered a full investigation. On the purported obstruction of worship at Assemblies of God  on Agbani Road, Abdurrahman described the report as ‘untrue’. He said the police responded to a call from church members that two factions were causing nuisance. “When the police got there, efforts to make the worshippers co-worship, while we set a date to address their grievances, were unsuccessful. When the policemen realised that the violence and disagreement was getting out of hand, they locked the church premises to prevent bloodshed, arson and destruction of property,” he added. Abdurrahman on Monday decorated seven officers, who were promoted by the Police Service Commission (PSC). He urged them to redouble their efforts in fighting crime. The commissioner said the command was blessed to have seven superintendents of Police (SPs) elevated to chief superintendents of Police (CSPs). He said the command was grateful to the IG and the PSC for recognising the officers. Among the decorated officers is ‘the command’s spokesperson Ebere Amaraizu’. He said: “The command is blessed to have seven new CSPs today, who have gone through proper decoration to their new ranks. These officers have shown commitment and dedication to the job and the command’s mandate to fighting crime. “Promotion does not come from man but from God, and I hope you will redouble your efforts to appreciate what God has done for you.” Amaraizu, who spoke for others, said: “On behalf of my promoted colleagues, I promise that we will live up to the confidence reposed in us and be more committed.”