Our Reporter  Just after a brief management relationship, ex-Big Brother Naija housemate, Anita Natacha Akide, has dropped Tee Billz as her management. The controversial reality star who is more known as Tacha, took to her Instagram account on Tuesday to reveal the separation and also thank people she has worked with. “It’s one thing to work with a brand and it’s another thing to work as a family with one goal,” she started. “Over the few months, I have worked with these reputable brands who are now family and it’s been such a good ride. “It has always been my utmost desire to project my brand as “Symply Tacha” through reputable and worthy brands and that has always been the aim of my management.” She then went on to list various brands that have supported her. “We look forward to a better relationship in the forthcoming year with great reverence and respect as always. “Cheers to a great 2019!!! Cheers to a greater 2020!!! “Happy New Year in advance.” The post came after she announced her separation from Tee Billz. “Thank you Billz Vizion for helping me end my 2019 on a high,” she posted, attaching a bromide of the letter. She posted a bromide of the note dated 31st December 2019.  “This is to inform the General Public that I Anita Natacha Akide also known as Symply Tacha has undergone a change in management,” she started the letter. “When I left the Big Brother Naija House, I was embedded with the vision to maximize my potentials and opportunities under the guidance of a vibrant management team, especially considering my growing fanbase (Titans). Thus I embraced the choice of working with Billz Vizion, a management company whom I had enjoyed a good working relationship with in the past couple of months. I honestly do appreciate this and will always have the greatest respect for the company and it’s management.” Tacha also announced that the separation was amicable and she will announce a new management team for her brand soon. “It is pertinent to not that both parties; myself (Symply Tacha) and Billz Vizion had an amicable resolution on this and appreciates each other for the opportunity of working together. We will therefore want the general public to respect our decision herein and take note of same. “A new management company will be announced in due time.” In his Instagram post, Tee Billz also shared a similar letter and wrote: “The Vizion is clear.”