 To enhance its evangelization efforts, the Knights of St. John International (KSJI), a Roman Catholic order of Knighthood, incorporated in 1886 in New York with its headquarters in the United States of America, has boosted its Nigerian formations through the recent erection of four new Grand Commanderies in Nigeria. The new Grand Commanderies are: Abakiliki, Nnewi, Ogoja and Uyo, and were recently inaugurated. This development was disclosed in a press statement by the KSJI National Director of Publicity and Chief of Staff to the Supreme Subordinate President, Sir Peter Osamgbi, after a recent Supreme Executive Board Meeting. Sir Osamgbi added that “with the permission and Charter granted for the creation of these Grand Commanderies, Nigeria now has a cumulative 18 Grand Commanderies, cutting across the nine catholic ecclesiastical provinces in Nigeria” Speaking at the inauguration and installation of the new Grand Commanderies, the Supreme Subordinate (National) President Sir (Prof) Michael Ikon, said that with the establishment of these new Grand Commanderies, members will not only add their voices to the evangelization of the Nigeria ecclesia but to the “growth of the Order in Nigeria and also benchmarks deeper evangelization”. Sir Ikon expressed his gratitude to the four Bishops; His Lordships, Bishop Michael Nnachi Okoro, Bishop Hilary Paul Okeke, Bishop Donatus Edet Akpan and Bishop John Ebebe Ayah under whose Seals these Grand Commanderies are chartered, following their endorsements and admittance of KSJI into their various Dioceses. He also thanked the KSJI Supreme President Sir Frank Waseleski Snr and the Supreme Executive Board, for approving the new Grand Commanderies, which Charters have arrived Nigeria. The presidents of the new Grand Commanderies are: Sir Vincent Eziju, Grand President, Nnewi Grand Commandery, Sir Joseph Odey, Grand President, Ogoja Grand Commandery, Sir Samuel Umohandikan, Grand President, Uyo Grand Commandery and Sir John Nwenyi, Abakiliki Grand Commandery. KSJI is a family apostolate charged with the defence of the Roman Catholic faith and came to Nigeria in 1976. It has a membership of over 18,000 Knights and their Ladies. The Order exists in the USA, England, Germany, Canada, Trinidad and Tobago, as well as in other African countries like, Kenya, Ghana, Togo, Sierra Leone and Liberia.