 THIS time it is Kankara, and this time it is boys. And this time it is still a tale of horrors. When will it end? When will the nation stop the macabre drama of a terror gang, or a series of gangs taking the weak with the glee and defiance of hyenas? When shall we stop to gnash our teeth? Who will save us from mourning, from the loss, from the dreary profile of the sackcloth? The boys were supposed to be sober at school, whether at studies or any of the quotidian routines of schooling. The men struck, mainly on motorcycles. The figures are still unclear. A record says over 600, the government says over 300. As part of his serial public relations goofs, Garba Shehu who speaks for the president, mimicked it at 10. The testimony of one female from one of the villages railed at Garba’s glib statistic when she said she knew over 20 boys from her own neighbourhood alone who were missing. Not in our history have we seen boys carted away in such numbers, and they did it unhindered. The military post was just miles away. An unconfirmed report said there was a shoot-out with the soldiers when they were tipped off. Another statement from the armed forces said they used the boys as human shield. But in spite of that, why did the military not pursue them to their hiding post? Yet, they made away with hundreds of them. There have been sub-tales emerging from the human theft. Some have erupted from the bushes with skeins of agony. Stories of hunger, chronicles of thirst and fatigue, and narratives of fear and torture already form the grist so far in this horrid drama. But it is as if the nation is not supposed to complete a gasp before another onslaught. The slaughter at Zabarmari in Borno State was still haunting with its bloodthirsty rites and the impotence of the military when the boys of plunder came with a new twist. They wanted it this time to have a sort of presidential seal. President Muhammadu Buhari had just arrived in Katsina State for a vacation, and the fellows thought it would garnish their plate. They struck just hours later as though to reinforce the statement of surrender by the president after the Zabarmari massacre that he had done all he could, and it was now left between Nigerians and the impunity of our executioners. To emphasise this official impotence, they did not need stealth. They had time. No one could take away hundreds of boys without taking the pains and even the time. According to reports, the abductors were amazed at their harvest and were reportedly making calls to their masters asking how to bring them over. Yet, all the president could do was lament, and his spokesperson made light with the numbers of the stolen. Many Nigerians have expressed dismay that even the president did not visit the school when it happened. We recall that in the Chibok episode, President Goodluck Jonathan was lampooned for dancing azonto in Kano while the fragile nubiles were in the ribald arms of their abductors. The administration suffered a relentless attack from the All Progressives Congress (APC) and it has been cited, especially with his wife’s comedic asides, as part of the national disenchantment that led to his rejection at the polls and Buhari’s election as president. Today, lightning is striking twice, with deep and dark illuminations.  What this means is that the north of the country is not under any firm authority. The asylum is gradually falling into the grips of madmen. Katsina State has been under the groan of the marauders for a while, and tomes of newspaper reports have recorded the cases of brigandage and slaughter. So bad has it been that the state governor has cried out over the lack of security among his people. When he visited the Government Science Secondary School at Kankara, where the students were abducted, Governor Aminu Bello Masari wept. But he had been crying for long. He said once that he did not have the requisite supply of police to tackle the waves of invasion. When he did not get any response from the centre, he decided to appease the murderers and plunderers. He enacted a policy to entice the boys by giving them shops in the market and homes among the innocent citizens. This newspaper frowned at the policy because we cannot appease the demons. In the end, it has shown that they would rather maim than stay with people of the towns and villages. They would rather steal than sell, rape than court, kill than keep alive. They do not belong to the ambience of civilised lots. The government has decided to close down schools. But that is not a strategy. It is not even a tactic. It is, as always, an act of surrender.  To leave the children out of school is also a way to keep the young and restless at the mercy of recruiters. It has been said many times that the president ought to rejig the military approach. It is obvious the men at the helm of the military are the only ones with patience with the breakdown of law and order in the villages. The president has been told for years to sack his service chiefs, but he has not even attempted to listen to them. He has periodically held emergency security meetings, and the optics at the beginning was that he had now gotten the hang of the problem and the end was in sight for insecurity. But it has become so routine that many citizens now scoff at such meetings. We want to know why the Directorate of State Security has not come to the National Assembly to show the nation why it has failed repeatedly in furnishing the army with tips. Wars are fought, first and foremost, with intelligence. Armoury is important, but knowledge trumps weaponry. With little arms you can disarm a bear. Governors, traditional rulers, top civil servants, the clergy in the north have shown they do not rely on the Federal Government for peace. Even the Sultan of Sokoto has expressed open disgust at the fragility of the north, from Maiduguri to Sokoto. They, too, have no other resources to fight. But we cannot have a nation at the mercy of criminal gangs. The military has promised to get the boys back. We are hopeful, but not optimistic. The record of the government has given us little grounds for cheer. We still have to ask them to succeed because the consequences of failure beat the imagination. If they turned the Chibok girls into brides, the boys may become soldiers, reprising the role of their abductors in the near future. We don’t want that. We need a new strategy, and it must begin with a frank and open talk on the way forward. The president wasted an opportunity to address the nation on the platform of the House of Representatives. We do not want to be a nation like Rome that burned while the emperor was fiddling.