 Following the report by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) that the country has entered into recession, stakeholders said the maritime sector has the potential to generate over N7 trillion yearly, and take the economy out of the woods if  the Federal Government can give the sector  the necessary attention to bail out the economy. Stakeholders who spoke with The Nation in separate interviews, urged the Federal Government to focus  on the maritime sector. They said the sector has so much to offer the economy in terms of jobs and wealth creation, reduction in inflation and debt profile and contribute meaningfully to the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP).  Over reliance on oil Many stakeholders who spoke with this newspaper noted that the country has relied so much on the crude oil economy and urged the government to focus on other sources particularly the maritime trade and agricultural sector. In rejuvenating the economy, a maritime analyst, Mr Semiu Olufowobi,  said maritime remains the key sector apart from oil and agriculture. “Now is the time for the President Muhammadu Buhari administration government to focus on other sources particularly the maritime sector which covers both aquatic and marine spaces including oceans, seas, coasts, lakes, rivers and underground waters. Which also encompasses a range of productive sectors; Fisheries, Aquaculture, Tourism, Transport, Ship building, energy, bio-prospecting, under-water mining and related activities, all pointing towards economic prosperity, when adequately harnessed. “Crude oil contributes to less than 10 per cent  of our GDP but accounts for roughly 90 per cent of our foreign-exchange earnings and half of the government revenues. The recession we are facing is based on the collapse in oil prices in the wake of the global pandemic which has drained government purse. The economic picture may remain cloudy till the end of next year if the government fails to pay adequate attention to maritime sector that has the potential to generate over N7trillion annually,” Olufowobi said.  Infrastructural development To move the economy out of recession, the Former General Manager, Public Affairs of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Chief Michael Kayode Ajayi, said the government must  provide the infrastructural base in and out of the port system and see to human capital and manpower development. Ajayi  decried the situation in Apapa and urged the government to fix the Oshodi/Apapa Expressway to boost business activities at port and generate more revenue to revitalise the economy. He said the quick rehabilitation of the road from Tin-Can Island Port to Mile 2 area of Lagos will assist in salvaging the economy To move out of recession, the Federal government, Ajayi said, needs to protect the nation’s over $14billion maritime trade from criminals operating on its territorial waters. This, he said, would be achieved by strengthening the institutional capabilities of maritime agencies, thereby positioning the country as a  hub of maritime activities in West and Central Africa to boost the economy. “Based on its potential, the nation’s maritime sector has come under siege by criminal elements who orchestrate acts of piracy, sea robbery, arms proliferation, crude oil theft, terrorism, migration, illegal and unregulated fishing and oil theft within  territorial waters “Statistics show a total freight cost estimate of between $5 billion and $6 billion annually, while the maritime component of Nigeria’s oil and gas industry is worth an estimated $8 billion alongside seabome transportation, oceanic extractive resource exploitation and export processing zones. Therefore, there is no other time than now  for the Federal Government to protect the nation’s over $14billion maritime trade,” Chief Ajayi said. A safe, secure and efficient shipping industry, Ajayi  said, would assist in revitalising and diversifying the nation’s economy away from crude oil exploration to a  vibrant maritime trade.  Assist local shipowners The Federal Government, through the Federal Ministry of Transportation and Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), a maritime lawyer, Mr Samson Felix said, must remove everything that is causing delay in the disbursement of the Cabotage Vessel Financing Funds (CVFF), to assist the local shipowners to grow and contribute meaningfully to the economy at this difficult period. “Maritime trade alone can service the nation’s annual budget if properly harnessed. The country is lagging behind in the comity of nations when it comes to ship ownership and shipping business. For instance, the world blue economy worth over $24 trillion. Undoubtedly, blue economy offers great opportunities for foreign exchange earnings. It is also unfortunate that the country is yet to take full advantage and harnessed enormous potential in the sector Also, the Chairman, Nigerian Ports Consultative Council (NPCC) Otunba Kunle Folarin, urged President Muhammadu Buhari to assist the  industry to arrest its declining fortune and contribute meaningfully to the economy ” the way it does in other clime”. Folarin lamented that the sector had not achieved its goals over the years and urged the government to formulate and implement policies and programmes that have the capacity to boost the nation’s economy. He said the nation stands a chance to earn more revenue when policies were properly implemented. The former member of Presidential Taskforce on the Reform of Nigeria Customs Service; Presidential Committee on Destination Inspection and Ministerial Committee on Fiscal Policy and Import Clearance Procedure, Mr Lucky Amewiro, said  maritime has the potential to move the country out of recession. “We have written to the presidency that they should overhaul the maritime sector because if there is no reform, the country will die. The maritime sector is not properly organised. It has no procedure and is losing trillions of naira. When Customs tells you they are making N1 trillion, we have lost almost close to N20 trillion,’’  he said. Former President, ANLCA, Prince Olayiwola Shittu, said the maritime sector has been on a steady decline since the last quarter of 2016. He stressed that the sector is where every attention should be shifted to bring the economy out of the woods. Shittu said that trillions of naira is lost as revenue yearly due to the underdevelopment of the sea ports across the country. ” It was expected that the country may enter into another recession because of the global pandemic. Although, the nation’s sea ports were left open during the global crisis but the government seems to have forgotten that those who rule the seas rule the world. We had expected the government to have used the period to clear out port of the mess. Well, If we truly desire to end the  current recession as declared by the NBS and emerge among leading economies of the world, now is the time for our political leaders to pay closer attention to our maritime sector.” A maritime lawyer, Dr Dipo Alaka berated the government for not paying adequate attention to the maritime sector. Alaka said with Nigeria’s vast coastline measuring about 850 kilometres and an exclusive economic zone of well over 300,000 square kilometres, 3,000 kilometres of navigable inland waterways, six major seaports, 11 oil terminals, and over 170 private jetties, “our political leaders need not to be told the maritime sector is a money spinning industry that must be given the necessary attention like oil.”