 Like it did back-to-back for the preceding 29 years, The Cherubim and Seraphim Movement Church (C&S), Surulere District Headquarters, (aka Ayo ni o) this month held its 30th Inter-denominational Nine Lessons and Christmas Carol Service. Guests and worshippers who thronged the Main Church Sanctuary at Sanya, Lagos, for the event, themed: ‘Peace to the world’, were treated to an electrifying session of music, drama, choreography and dance. It was, in the words of the General & Spiritual Leader of the C&S Movement Surulere HQ, Apostle Prophet Funsho Korode, a gathering “to celebrate our Lord Jesus with harvest of songs as a reminder of His reign and enduring spirit in our mind.” Prophet Korode, who was chief host, led a rich assembly of other anointed clergy, including the General Overseer, The Sacred C & S Church, Ifako, Agege, Dr M. A. Oganla; Special Apostles Johnson Toriola, George Ogunleke and Benjamin Alaka, among others. Guests included Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, royal fathers, among others. Sanwo-Olu, who was represented by his Special Adviser on Central Business District, Hon. Gbenga Oyerinde, haroed on the need for Lagosians to adhere to the Covid-19 protocols duri3the yuletide. Oyerinde said: “As you know, Mr Governor is a Christian and event similar to today’s was specially carried out by him and his amiable wife, Her Excellency Mrs Sanwo-Olu recently at State House. “It is so significant to every Christian that the birth of Christ, in whom our salvation, glory and success lie, in whom we have deliverance from every evil and danger, there is a great need for us to celebrate him. That is why at any point in time like this we need to celebrate Jesus’ birth, which has been done today through a Christmas Carol. “This period calls for sober reflections because 2020 has been a special year for everyone in view of all the challenges. God has been so gracious, so kind to us. “Governor Sanwo-Olu’s message to us is that we are in the second phase of this pandemic. Every one of us should adhere to all protocols that have been prescribed to protect us from the pandemic because we don’t want to experience casualties and we don’t even think we have the resources, having gone through the #EndSARS saga. At this stage, everybody has to be calm and do things in a solemn way so as to avoid creating emergency situations here and there as we celebrate Christmas and New Year.” General Superintended Apostle Oganla, who delivered the main sermon, noted the significance of the 30th inter-denominational nine lessons and Christmas Carol and described it as a milestone in the church’s history. He identified the number 30 as being biblically important. Oganla observed that great things happened in the life of many important Bible characters upon the attainment of the age of 30. He noticed, for instance, that Jesus Christ began his ministry at about age 30, while David, who was a mere shepherd before his anointing, became King of Israel when he was 30 years old. The cleric expressed faith that the 30th edition of the programme would herald great things in the lives of members of the congregation. Earlier, Prophet Korode explained the importance of Christmas in his goodwill speech He said: “Every year we gather to celebrate our Lord Jesus with harvest of songs as a reminder of His reign and enduring spirit in our mind. This year marks another season to come into the presence of God to celebrate the Father in the Son. And for this grace it is fitting for us to say that from the rising of the sun to the going down of the same, His praise shall continually be in our mouths. “355 days down the line, we have enjoyed, experienced and loaded with the benefits of God’s faithfulness, goodness and kindness. Our profound appreciation and gratitude to our maker, who had us in mind, kept us in his palm and put us in reckoning to witness another annual tradition of Nine Lesson & Christmas Carol Service.” Dr Korede noted that in the light of the “traumatic and difficult events” that defined the outgoing year, “songs of praise should break forth from our mouths. ” Our adoration rises unto God that we are among those afforded the grace to witness today’s service. Glory to God.” Reading through Luke 2: 1-7, he urged Christians to focus attention on four aspects of the story. They are: “Timing of His birth; the place of His birth; manner of Christ’s birth; and the great gospel of race itself.” He admonished the congregation to bear in mind “three things that point to the great grace of God in His means of salvation, Jesus Christ.” They are: The supreme sovereignty of God in the coming of Jesus Christ unto the world. God’s providence – the place of Christ birth: and God’s gospel – God’s gift of His son in the birth of Jesus Christ (John 3:16). He said these, to him, were “The messages and crucial lessons to be learnt in this annual event of Nine Lessons and Christmas Carol Service. “In the light of the above, I want to charge you not to get soaked alone in the glitz and razzmatazz of the service, but spare a time this yuletide season, and spoil yourself and your family with a gift that cost absolutely nothing but will immeasurable enrich your spirit throughout the year ahead.” Chairman, Nine Lessons and Christmas Carol 2020, Evangelist Akin Ekundayo, urged Nigerians to let love lead. Ekundayo said: “My message is simple: love one another. If we love one another, the way God loves us, there will be no problems. Most of the challenges humanity faces worldwide wouldn’t have been there if God’s love reigns in our hearts and radiates among the human race. “We need to do more to move closer to God. Once you move closer to God and do his will, I’m sure a lot of things will be better for us.” Highlights of the event included songs of praise, carols, among others.