 For years Nigeria has depended on its poor rural  farmers, who lack access to productive assets. No doubt, achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)  by 2030, and ending extreme poverty, will require  more focus on rural development. There are many national and international actors involved in rural development; with many focusing on improving the plight of rural women’s economic empowerment. The United States Agency for International Development (USAID) has been pushing the frontiers of innovation to develop and advance best practices in agriculture and rural development in Africa. Its global food security initiative  known as “Feed the Future’’ has   hunger and poverty reduction in  many countries, including Nigeria, has its main objective. It planned to do this by bridging inclusive agriculture-led growth and improving nutritional status, especially for women and children. In recent years, Nigeria’s Northeast region has been,  particularly, vulnerable to decline, due to increasing insecurity and  as a result of COVID-19. This has compromised livelihoods, increased the costs of food and basic services, disrupted logistics, operations within agrifood supply chains and consumer markets. The impacts on vulnerable groups are, especially worrying, where many people are threatened by poverty and hunger. In particular, the livelihoods of rural women and men are being affected. That’s why there have been calls for actions to put in place the building blocks to support    recovery of the areas. USAID has been working with  state governments to find solutions to problems. The agency has provided a more scaled-up response to safeguard the food security and resilience of poor rural people by ensuring timely access to input, information, markets and liquidity. The Rural Resilience Activity (RRA) is a Feed the Future initiative funded by USAID with the Mercy Corps as the prime implementer. It is in partnership with Save the Children International (SCI) and International Fertiliser Development Center (IFDC). RRA’s goal is to “facilitate and protect economic recovery and growth in vulnerable, conflict-affected areas and move people out of chronic vulnerability and poverty via expanded opportunities”. The Acting Chief of Party, Feed The Future Rural Resilience Activity, Mercy Corps, Dr Farouk Kurawa,  said the organisation’s objective is to provide evidence for the selection of market systems, livelihoods, and employment opportunities that contribute to inclusive and resilient growth and improved nutrition. He said RRA uses a resilience, market systems development, conflict and nutrition-sensitive approach, to stimulate sustainable, systemic change at scale and bring long-term improvements to conflict-affected households, businesses, and institutions. The RRA, according to him, places  priority on women and youths. The activity targets sectors/value chains, including maize, cowpea, groundnuts, rice, sheep and goats, agricultural input, financial services and other urban/peri urban labor-intensive job creating sectors specifically targeting women and youth. He said the RRA’s Innovation Fund is designed to catalyse new investments in viable economic opportunities (market systems, livelihoods, agribusiness, and employment), stimulate market development and thus reduce the economic, social, and environmental drivers of conflict. RRA, according to him, reviews and disburses grants of between $10,000 and $500,000 to market-driven mechanisms that will help businesses, institutions and smallholder farming households to  mitigate, adapt and sustain well-being outcomes in the face of shocks and stresses such as the COVID-19 pandemic, conflicts, adverse weather effects and other disruptions to agrifood and non-agric supply chains. The states included Borno, Adamawa, Yobe  and Gombe. During a visit to  Gombe  State Governor, Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya, Kurawa said Mercy Corps   has  rescued over 90,000 households from poverty in the Northeast. Kurawa explained that  RRA was a five-year funded programme being implemented by a consortium led by Mercy Corps with support from IFDC and Save the Children International. He said the project would facilitate economic recovery and growth in vulnerable conflict affected areas in the region and that it “will ensure long-term improvement to markets that will sustainably move over 90,000 households in the zone from abject poverty.” Kurawa added that the intervention would focus attention on women and youths with innovative ideas to realise their potential through linkage with banks to access single-digit interest loans. The deputy chief of party explained that the project would expand opportunities for women and youths in the four states to engage in marketable vocational skills and access mentorship. Yahaya commended the organisation for choosing Gombe as the zonal headquarters of the project and assured its staff and facilities of adequate security. Mercy Corps has been involved in transforming the lives of Nigerians through enabling successful transitions into income-generating activities.