Commercial financial institutions and markets in Umuahia and Aba, the commercial nerve of Abia State on Thursday witnessed unprecedented numbers of customers and clients who besieged banking halls and markets to perform last-minute commercial and business transactions ahead of this year’s Christmas celebration. Our correspondent who visited various markets including Ariaria International Market, Cemetery, Ahia Ohuru and Ubani Markets respectively reports that shoppers resident in the state and visitors were seen making last-minute shopping of both perishable and nonperishable items especially in Ariaria, Ahia Ohuru (New Market), Good Morning and Cemetery markets respectively. Commercial banks in major parts of the two cities also witnessed a large turnout of customers who told our correspondent that they came to make last-minute banking activities to avoid being caught in the web of the Christmas celebration and expected holiday that is expected to dovetail into the weekend, starting from Friday. Various Automated Teller Machine (ATM) muster points along Faulks, Okigwe, Azikiwe, Pound and Aba-Owerri roads witnessed large crowd as those who couldn’t withstand the excruciating sun and heat resorted to Point of Sales (POS); who are smiling to the bank as a result of the increased patronage they are having at the moment. The traffic situation in Aba, in particular, has been chaotic for some days, especially along Aba-Owerri road where there is ongoing construction work on the road that serves as a major entry and exit routes from the commercial town, a situation that made people heading towards Osisioma junction to spend hours on the road. Some personnel of the Nigeria Police Force, Road Safety and officers of the Abia State Traffic and Indiscipline Management Agency (TIMASS) were seen controlling traffic at some of the strategic points in the commercial city. This is even as some of them who spoke on anonymity decried the lack of adequate personnel to manage the traffic situation. Checks in various filling stations in the state have shown that they sell petroleum products at the government’s approved pump price. Some staffers of new generation banks who pleaded not to be mentioned said that they were expecting the rush because of the holiday. Some of the traders including Mr. Offor Gilbert who deals on perfumes and other accessories in Ariaria International Market lamented low sales, but for Mrs. Ugochi Achonye who sells clothes at Ahia Ohuru, it is time to make brisk cash within the short time the hustling and bustling last. For traders at popular rice and groundnut oil markets located at tenant and market roads including phone dealers along St. Michael’s road, it was a busy day for them. Some buyers including Mr. Chidi Okoro and Mrs. Chinyere Kalu lamented the high cost of goods; perishable and non-perishables including clothes which they said were beyond the reach of the common man on the street. Until the time of filing the report, articulated trucks loaded with all sorts of goods are still entering and exiting Aba, as some of the owners disclosed that they were stockpiling goods ahead of January when goods are either scarce or witness a sharp increase in price.