 UNION Bank, through its education platform Edu360, has announced a partnership with Kucheza Gaming for the first Mobo Game Jam; an initiative also supported by Digital Schoolhouse and Into Games. Mobo Game Jam is a global game-making challenge which will see young innovators from across the UK and Nigeria compete to create games that combine creativity, compassion, and computational thinking to solve a worldwide problem. Designed to be accessible to all, the Mobo Game Jam encourages inclusivity, sustainability, and humanity in nurturing young innovators’ ideas. Individuals and teams aged between eight and 18 years are expected to submit a game or game concept that explores how to achieve a future where everyone has access to clean water. Entries must meet a set brief, which will be delivered by the renowned storyteller ‘Grandma Wura’, a fictional character created by Proud African Roots. Speaking on the initiative, the Head, Corporate Communications and Marketing at Union Bank, Ogochukwu Ekezie-Ekaidem said:  “Edu360 is pleased to partner with Kucheza Gaming, Digital Schoolhouse and IntoGames on the Mobo Game Jam; an initiative that cuts across three areas we are passionate about – Education, Innovation and Talent Development. “Through the Game Jam, we are creating awareness about social issues and working with young people to proffer solutions. Edu360 remains focused on collaborations and partnerships like this that boost the development of the education sector and build a better, more sustainable future.” CEO and founder of Kucheza Gaming, Bukola Akingbade  also said: “The Mobo Game Jam was conceived to kickstart a path to equipping the next generation of Nigerians with digital skills required to compete in a digital future. Skills like complex problem solving, critical thinking and creativity. We believe and advocate for video games and esports as viable drivers of STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Art and Mathematics) in education in schools.” Participants are to submit their game prototypes in video format while wiinners will get the opportunity to see their games showcased live, while spreading awareness of the importance of making clean water available to all, in the defence against climate change.There will also be cash rewards and free laptops for the top winners. Participants will also access free virtual masterclasses from industry experts to help improve their digital skills. In addition, the Game Jam aims to encourage cultural exchange between entrants by promoting inclusivity, sustainability, and humanity in their ideas. This partnership highlights Edu360’s focus on supporting education and rapidly accelerating access, quality and learning outcomes for Nigerian children and youth. Union Bank remains committed to supporting initiatives that will deliver a more sustainable future for generations to come. 