Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State will know his fate today whether he has been infected with COVID-19 for a second time in nine months. El-Rufai went into a fresh self-isolation Saturday evening after a member of his family and some of his close aides tested positive for the virus. In response, the state government has warned that it may impose another lockdown on the state in view of the recent increase in cases of COVID-19 in the state. El-Rufai, in a video broadcast late Friday, said he decided to proceed on self-isolation after he was notified of more positive Covid-19 test results of persons close to him, including an immediate family member and senior officials of the Kaduna State Government. “As a precaution, he is in self-isolation pending a test by Sunday,” he said. He asked residents of the state  to abide by the laid down Covid-19 protocols, and  to always wash their hands with soap under running water, wear face masks while leaving their houses and avoid gathering of more than six people as the festive period approaches. He promised to report the outcome of his test to the people of Kaduna State today. The governor was quarantined and treated by the medical team of Kaduna State for 21 days in March. Earlier on Friday, the Lagos State Government announced that Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu had gone into self-isolation immediately after one of his close aides tested positive for COVID-19. It said the governor and other members of his team would be tested by the Lagos State biobank, but would remain in isolation until the results of the tests are available. Health Commissioner Akin Abayomi said in statement that the state was “seeing slightly the increasing number of COVID-19 positive cases in clusters in Lagos and all Lagosians should adhere to the prescribed advisories of safe distancing, good hand and respiratory hygiene and avoidance of unnecessary gatherings”. He added: “This is not the first time Mr. Governor is having the COVID-19 test. He has had at least three since May when he announced that 10 of his aides had tested positive for the virus.” Health Commissioner Amina Mohammed-Baloni warned at a press conference yesterday that the state government may impose a fresh coronavirus lockdown in view of the recent increase in cases of COVID-19. According to the commissioner, government would have no option than impose a fresh lockdown should there be no improvement in the current trend. Public spaces, including schools, markets, offices and places of worship may be temporarily closed if people fail to observe COVID-19 preventive protocols, she said. Her words: “In absolute and relative terms, Kaduna State is now recording high infection figures, reminiscent of the first wave of COVID-19 spread in April, May and June 2020. “The lowering of the infection rate following the first wave encouraged the government to approve the recommendation of the State COVID-19 Taskforce for a significant reopening of the state. “However, we are saddened to report that the conditions that compelled the 75-day lockdown of the state are now being replicated.” According to her, 74 COVID-19 positive results were recorded in the state from 531 samples on November 26, adding that the quantum of infections since then suggested both the high infection rate and the reality of a new wave of infection spreading across the state. “As at yesterday (Friday), December 11, the state recorded 117 positive cases from 518 samples. This translates to almost one in four samples testing positive,” she said. The commissioner pointed out that government had expected some increase in infections after the reopening of schools, markets, places of worship and recreational centres. “But the figures easily outstripped our estimates. While infections cut across age groups, this new wave especially affects those aged between 10 and 35. (55 per cent),” she said. She noted that there was now a danger to lives and livelihoods with the renewed COVID-19 infections, adding that ”if the spread continues at the current rate, it may challenge and overwhelm the health system despite our efforts to improve the resilience of that sector.” The commissioner appealed to residents to observe COVID -19 preventive protocols in order to protect themselves and their families from infection. According to her, this is the less costly way out as it involves citizens living their lives and conducting themselves in ways that do not spread the disease. “That way, lives and livelihoods are protected, while public health officers try to contain and manage the disease without causing painful disruptions,” she said. The commissioner urged all citizens to adopt the spirit of the FORWARD campaign which encouraged everyone to follow the stipulated guidelines by authorities in the healthcare sector. “The FORWARD campaign entails wearing face masks always, observing physical distancing and maintaining proper respiratory hygiene. “The rest components are: Washing hands with soap under running water and or using hand sanitisers, avoiding large gatherings as well as remaining indoors when there is no need to be outdoors and eating balanced diet to boost immunity,” she added.