 Media reports that governors intend to borrow about N17trn from pension funds should ordinarily be something to cheer. In the first place, the funds can only yield better dividends when invested, and there are actual provisions for this in the law establishing it. Secondly, that state governments need the loan for infrastructural development should gladden the hearts of not only the beneficiaries but the generality of Nigerians, that this would, at least, help bridge some of the infrastructure gap in the country. Moreover, the security of the investment should be guaranteed, given the fact that state governments are the intended beneficiaries of the loan. But, rather than receive the reports as cheery news, they have been trailed by controversies and condemnation by a large segment of the population. Before going into the nitty-gritty of the arguments, it is important to correct an obvious anomaly in the reports. The total assets of the pension funds as at October stood at about N12trn. So, it is impossible for governors to have requested to borrow N17trn. Even at that, the pension fund administrators (PFAs) can only invest N2.4trn in infrastructure. So, even if the N17trn was available, and governors actually wanted that much, they could not have got it, given this legal restriction. These clarifications taken, indication of interest for the loan emerged after the 22nd Nigeria Governors Forum teleconference meeting about two weeks ago, following a briefing from the Kaduna State governor, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai, who is also chairman of the National Economic Council ad hoc Committee on Leveraging Portion of Accumulated Pension Funds for investment in the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA). It was the Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) that raised initial objection to the governors’ proposal. The non-governmental organisation, in an open letter to President Muhammadu Buhari, urged him to use his “good offices and leadership position to urgently instruct the Director-General and Board of the National Pension Commission (NPC) to use their statutory powers to stop the state governors from borrowing and/or withdrawing N17 trillion from the pension funds, purportedly for ‘infrastructural development.’ SERAP, in a letter dated December 5 and signed by its deputy director, Kolawole oluwadare, made all the points necessary to back its position. It said, inter alia, that: “Allowing the governors to borrow from pension funds would be detrimental to the interest of the beneficiaries of the funds, especially given the vulnerability of pension funds to corruption in Nigeria and the transparency and accountability deficits in several states.” Nigeria Labour Congress followed suit, with its president, Ayuba Wabba, threatening to call workers out on the streets if pension funds were loaned to state governments. Are we going to say these organisations are crying wolf where none exists? Or can we say they have opposed the state governments’ intention on the loan because they are ignorant of the legal provisions that the “PFAs can invest pension assets for infrastructure development through infrastructure bonds and funds, respectively, up to a maximum of 15 percent and five percent of assets under management (AUM).” Certainly not. They are Nigerians and their position on both loans and pensions,  seems to have been informed by experience. Many governors have not demonstrated any capacity for fiscal discipline. Indeed, the profligacy in government, whether federal, state or even local government, is legendary. Many of the state governments have aides with no functions or overlapping functions, that they do not require. These political jobbers earn fat severance packages while governors and their deputies also receive unconscionable pensions for their brief tenure of maximum of eight years in government. Worse still is the fact that there are no structures to check the excesses of many governors who act like their royal majesties. We should also not forget that in Nigeria, the problem is not about lack of laws but enforcement. So, it is not enough to go to sleep where pension funds are concerned simply because the laws look good enough to prevent infractions. Many of our political elites will make nonsense of the best of laws as we have seen in other areas of our lives. So, beyond appealing to the moral conscience of the president on this matter, this is an issue Nigerians must collectively be vigilant about.  That some of the state governments that are not contributing to the fund also want to benefit shows the lack of moral conscience on the part of some of our political elites. Let the governors be creative in their quest for internally generated revenue. Where there is need to collaborate to amend extant laws to make this possible, let them do it. No one should be allowed to play yo-yo with pensions. The PFAs, if they must give the loan, must ensure even stricter measures, especially where governments are concerned. 