The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) Imo State chapter has called for the “immediate and unconditional” release of the Auxiliary Bishop of Owerri Catholic Archdiocese, Most Rev Moses Chikwe. The prelate is believed to have been abducted by gunmen suspected to be kidnappers around World Bank Area of Owerri, the Imo State capital Sunday evening. He was said to have been kidnapped alongside his driver in his car and whisked them away. It was learnt that hours later, the vehicle of the kidnapped Bishop was found in front of Maria Assumpta Cathedral, the archdiocesan headquarters in Owerri. A statement issued by the Imo State chapter chairman of CAN, Revd. Eches Divine Eches, strongly condemned the act and called for the bishop’s safe return to the church. Eches described the act as “a desecration of the altar of God and we call on the perpetrators to release him immediately. “Clerics play a major role in the development and security of any nation as we are called to always pray for the State and people at all times even when we do not agree with their position. “For us in Imo, we have always stood in the gap for our people, and this has resulted in calm irrespective of the political currents. “Most Rev. Chikwe since his assumption of office as the Auxiliary Catholic Bishop Of Owerri has discharged his duties quietly and without malice, which leaves one wondering why he is a target of kidnap. “We call on his abductors to release him immediately unhurt and without ransom. “The entire Christian community in Imo State call on the State Commissioner of Police to ensure the perpetrators of this act of wickedness are fished out to face the music. “We appeal to our teeming youths not to allow themselves to be used by the devil to wreak havoc and fear in our beautiful State. “While we commit to continually offer prayers and supplication to God for the people and State at all times, we request that lives and properties be made safe and that people can move about without fear and intimidation”. While appealing to everyone to pray for the safe return of the bishop, the Christian Association of Nigeria assured that it would leave no stone unturned to ensure his release The spokesperson of the state police command, Orlando Ikeokwu, said although no official complaint had been made at any of the police formations in the state, the state Commissioner of Police, Isaac Akinmoyede, had activated the tactical units of the command to rescue the prelate.