The Institute of Public Analysts of Nigeria (IPAN) Registrar/Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Mr Aliyu Angara, has stressed the importance of workers in any organisation, saying there is need to appreciate them. He stated this yesterday during the institute’s Staff Retirement/Long Service Awards in Jibowu, Lagos. He advised employers to place premium on workers’welfare, noting that they are the bulwark of any organisation. He thanked the workers for their loyalty to the federal parastatal over the years, urging those  still in service to continue to serve with all their might. For the retiring workers, he wished them God’s speed. The institute’s Governing Council Chairman,Dr Femi Oyediran, praised the awardees for their dedication to duty and for being”gentlemen to the core’’. He advised those still in service to emulate them in terms of diligence and innovation. He reminded them that one day, they too would retire. Managing Director Crusader Sterling Pension Adeniyi Falade gave the retirees survival tips on their new life. Falade, who was represented by the company’s Chief Financial Officer, KolawoleBalogun, asked them to cut their expenses by one quarter, manage their time well and enjoy life. He also asked them to engage in other activities to keep them busy. On how to get their benefits on time, he said they should follow up with the National Pension Commission (PenCom), and do their data capturing, adding that once these were done, they would get the benefits within a fortnight. Three staff members retired while 10 received long service awards. The retirees were the former acting Registrar, DuroAbdulsalam, Olayinka Balogun and Ali Ahmed.  The awardees include Mr. Emmanuel Odega, Adeyemi Opeoluwa, Christian Eboh, Augustine Igherio and Miss Suzan Etubi. Responding, Odega expressed gratitude to the institute for the honour. He noted that event was an appreciation by the management of their contributions to the institute and that it would go a long way in enhancing their commitment to duty. 