The Olowu of Kuta, Oba Hammed Adekunle Makama and the Olu of Ile-Ogbo, Oba Abeeb Agbajelola Adetoyese, on Wednesday drummed support for the administration of Governor Adegboyega Oyetola. The monarchs expressed their support during the inauguration of ultra-modern markets in Kuta and Ile-Ogbo and the launch of a sports academy in the latter. They expressed satisfaction with the leadership style of the governor, just as they declared their support for his re-election. The duo also expressed their re-election bid advocacy for the governor as part of efforts to reciprocate the good work and tremendous achievements he had recorded in the last two years. Speaking during the inauguration, Oba Makama hailed the current administration for setting the pace in all the sectors, particularly in infrastructure development. The monarch, who described Oyetola’s two years in office as most fruitful, said the governor had succeeded in setting the state on the path of socio-economic and infrastructure development. Oba Adetoyese thanked the governor for prioritising the welfare of his subjects. He acknowledged the numerous government’s interventions, particularly in infrastructure, health, education and human capacity development, saying he and his subjects would continue to be grateful to the government for all it had done so far to impact their lives positively. Oba Adetoyese added: “I must commend your administration for all you are doing to reposition the state; you have done excellently well. We have been hearing and seeing your good work all over the place, particularly in Ile-Ogbo. “We are confident that your second term is secured. By the Grace of God, you will rule Osun for another term after the expiration of this tenure.” Governor Oyetola reiterated his administration’s commitment to championing things that would redefine people’s lives and ensure the dividends of democracy. He said the newly-inaugurated markets were fruits of the “Thank You” tour embarked on to know the yearnings and aspirations of the citizens. According to him, the projects are central to the administration’s resolve to enhance the standard of living of the people of the communities, thus contributing to their socio-economic and commercial life.