 At a time many pension contributors are expressing angst over the delay in pension remittances, an expert has expressed the need for pension fund administrators to simplify process of remittances. Making this appeal recently was the Managing Director, Leadway Pensure, Mrs. Ronke Adedeji. While reiterating Leadway Pensure PFA commitment to continuous excellent service delivery, as well as competitive returns on investments for its RSA customers – two key qualities that have distinguished the firm from its peers in the pension industry and placed it amongst the top PFAs in Nigeria for many years, she said, adding that a lot can still be done to improve pension administration. By constantly delivering unique services and innovating better processes, Leadway Pensure PFA is pushing the frontiers of the pension industry in Nigeria, while also offering comfort to Retirement Savings Account (RSA) holders she stressed. Recently, the firm launched an online Retirement Savings Account enrollment portal, which enables users to remotely open RSAs and get their Personal Identification Numbers (PINs) within ten minutes, thereby, eliminating the bureaucracy of physical enrollment and giving Nigerians the needed motivation to secure their financial future. This, coupled with the Leadway mobile app, interactive SMS, Pensure Online (P-Online) and SureCal (Pensure Calculator), provides accessibility and convenience for customers to have wholesome and seamless pension experiences with the brand. Commenting on the company’s customer centricity, Mrs. Adedeji said “Our promise to all existing and potential customers at Leadway Pensure PFA is to give them good experiences across all our channels. We are not relenting in our quest to find better ways to connect with our customers and give them excellent pension service delivery. This explains why we won the best PFA in customer service back to back.” According to her, “The performance is a testament to our consistent efforts to deliver excellent results to our customers. As a company, we work assiduously to never stray from our objective of remaining amongst the top five Pension Fund Administrators in the nation. Being intensely aware of the dynamic nature of the market, we consciously guard our RSA funds against downturns to preserve value. Thus, causing our funds to outperform a 14.23% inflation in October. We remain confident that the rest of the year will not be any different.” “We remain committed to helping our customers get more out of life.  In the light of current economic realities, it is critical that every working Nigerian takes charge of their future and open a retirement savings account with Leadway Pensure, a company positioned to thrive despite economic uncertainties and provide them with high quality services and innovative solutions,” Mrs. Adedeji said.