Former Super Eagles striker, Daniel Amokachi has blasted the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) for allowing a $2 million compensation clause in Gernot Rohr’s contract. Rohr was appointed as coach of the Super Eagles in 2016 following Sunday Oliseh’s resignation as manager of the national team. The former international, under whom Nigeria enjoyed an impressive stat of losing only two games in 14 matches, explained a number of reasons for resigning, including the failure of the federation to support him and also over his unpaid wages and contract violation. Rohr guided the Super Eagles to qualify for the 2018 World Cup in Russia with ease but failed to progress past the group stage. Nigeria, under former international Stephen Keshi, had played in the round of 16 of the 2014 edition of the global tournament, a year after winning the Africa Cup of Nations in South Africa. Rohr’s side managed to finish third at the 2019 AFCON in Egypt and was handed a new deal after the federation revealed their satisfaction with his performances. The Super Eagles recently failed to beat lowly-rated side Sierra Leone in the 2022 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers and the former Burkina Faso boss has heavily been criticized for the not-too impressive performances from his side. Special assistant on sports to Nigeria President Muhammadu Buhari, Amokachi, revealed Rohr’s contract contains a huge $2 million compensation clause and has lambasted the federation for the deal. “For the administration to bring somebody like Oliseh and not giving him time because he’s Nigerian and they let go,” Amokachi told Brila FM. “To bring in somebody like Amuneke and not giving him time then they let him go. Then you bring a new coach where those two coaches are far better than him; pedigree-wise and portfolio-wise. “But still, they gave the machinery a lot of money, $60 plus with all the bonuses, if they play two matches in a month, then you’re talking over $100,000. “And then at the end of the day, you put a $2m clause on a coach that has never won anything. A coach that came from Burkina Faso to Tunisia than to Nigeria and you put a $2m clause, that’s the first I’m hearing such” “If you were bringing Guardiola you can put $10m if he says he wants it because you know who he is; he has won laurels. But for a coach that has not done anything, not achieved anything and you put a $2m clause? There’s a lot of failure in that. “I’ll not rate them (NFF) out of 10, but all these things I’ve broken down will tell anybody with a common sense where I’m coming from.” Nigeria’s qualification for the 2022 Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon has now been delayed following their back-to-back draws with Sierra Leone and should they lose their next two qualifying games, they could end up not qualifying for the continental tournament. (Goal.Com)