Longrich International Company has donated food items and household items to Love Home Orphanage, Living Fountain orphanage homes and Pacelli home for the Blind in Lagos State. The firm was led by Chief Executive Officer Longrich International, Mr Alex Jia, the Black’ 5 Star Director, Titilope Olubisi Ejimagwa and ‘Black’ 4 Star Director, Seun Oshofisan during the donations. Jia explained the gesture was part of the company’s culture of giving back to society and identifying with orphans. He said: “The company finds it necessary to extends love to motherless and fatherless people including the disabilities. We are not only doing this because of festive period but a regular projects. “The company has been impacting lives not only in Lagos but across the Nigeria and entire world and it will continue the good gestures to enable the orphanage children have a good living and better future. Longrich is a God’s sent company to provide solutions to entire world’s needs. Better lives, better future is what we are preaching Ejimagwa said Longrich culture is about giving and impacting lives positively. She added that the company have engaged in humanitarian services across the whole world. Oshofisan said: “Longrich is not only a manufacturer, it is a company that has been touching and impacting lives over some years. It is always giving opportunity to people to switch brands and share profit with them, which means people can be empowered and earn regular weekly income through the use of their daily needs such as soap, sanitary pad, body cream, shampoo, baby diapers and everything people use in their various homes. “People should not only spending money on what they need but on what would definitely bring back money into their pocket, something that would enable them empower others in the society. Most of the successful people in the world are those that give people solutions to all what they need. Longrich is a solutions provider.” Matron of Living Fountain orphanage, Victoria Solomon, thanked the company for putting smiles on the children’s faces during the festive season.