Six children and a woman have been confirmed killed in a reprisal attack on some herders’ settlements in Kaura and Lere local government areas of Kaduna State. The attack came barely 24 hours after seven persons were killed in an attack on Gora Gan village of Zangon Kataf Local government area of the state Thursday night. Kaduna State Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Mr. Samuel Aruwan, who confirmed the latest attacks in a statement said, Governor. Nasir Ahmad El-Rufa’i is worried by the renewed killings. The security Commissioner identified those killed in the reprisal attacks as Mustapha Haruna (One year), Ya’u Kada (One year), Sa’idu Abdullahi (One year), Zainab Zakari (One year), Sadiya Abdullahi (Five years), and Aisha Abdullahi (One year), while an unidentified woman was burnt beyond recognition. Aruwan also said that two persons were injured during the attacks, while five other persons were still missing. The statement read that “The military under the auspices of Operation Safe Haven (OPSH) and the police have informed the Kaduna State Government of counter-attacks on some herder settlements in Kauru and Lere local government areas. “According to the operational feedback from the security agencies, the attacks were carried out by aggrieved youths following the killing of seven persons on Thursday night in Gora Gan, Zangon Kataf local government. “The security agencies reported that seven herders were killed in a counter killing in Ungwan Idi and Kasheku villages of Kauru local government while two herders were injured at Ningi village of Lere local government. “The seven herders killed at Ungwan Idi and Kasheku villages in Kauru local government are as follows: Mustapha Haruna (One year), Ya’u Kada (One year), Sa’idu Abdullahi (One year), Zainab Zakari (One year), Sadiya Abdullahi (Five years), Aisha Abdullahi (One year) and one unidentified woman burnt beyond recognition. “Five persons are still missing and troops are searching for them in the general area. Six huts were burnt in the attack. “Aisha Mohammed (20 years) and Sadiya Abdullahi (25 years) who were wounded in the Kauru LGA reprisal attack are receiving medical attention at Ungwan Idi Clinic. “At Ningi village of Lere local government area, the two herders were injured and rushed to General Hospital, Saminaka, in the same local government: Bingel Odi (31 years) and Isa Joda (Seven years). “Governor Nasir El-Rufai who condemned the renewed counter killings sent condolences to the families that lost their loved and wished those recuperating speedy recovery. “He described the renewed killing and counter killing of innocent citizens of Atyap and Fulani ethnicity as unfortunate. He decried the resort to violence, noting that it is not a solution to grievances and disputes, but a tragic way to escalate matters and drag people into more pains and misery. “The governor directed the State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) to provide relief materials to the affected families with immediate effect,” the statement read.