  Former Chairman of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) Abuja branch, Dr. Elachi Agada has succeeded Emeka Obegolu as President of the Institute of Chartered Mediators and Conciliators (ICMC). Agada thus becomes the ICMC’s sixth president. The change of baton held at the 2020 African Mediation Conference, Annual General Meeting of the Institute and induction ceremony for new members. The hybrid virtual conference with the theme” Transnational Commercial Mediation: leveraging options and intersections in Africa” was midwifed by a committee under the chairmanship of a Fellow of the Institute, Mr. Godwin Omoaka (SAN) and had participants from different countries. In his acceptance speech, Elachi expressed humility at ICMC governing council and founding fathers’ confidence in him. He said: “My joy knows no bounds on this occasion particularly as it marks, at least from my point of view a unique demonstration of faith in my abilities and capacity. I assure you today that I intend to keep with that article of faith.” Elachi relived the memory of his inroduction to and interaction with mediation. “When I began my journey as a mediator a little over 18 years ago, I did not realise that fate had destined for me a journey that I had to undertake, one which I am still on and hope to keep faith with till I draw my last breath. It is interesting to note that I happened on mediation by accident. Of course, I had received some knowledge on ADR from the 1-hour introductory lecture at law school in 1999 by the great Kevin Nwosu (of blessed memory) but had not come in contact with mediation or any training in mediation. “Sometime in July 2002, I had just won a case that didn’t feel like I won. It was a classic example of an unsatisfactory determination of the case for me as well as for my client. Then a colleague, Ben Ogbaini showed me a newspaper advertorial for mediation training in Port Harcourt. I registered and participated in the training and on the 30th of October 2002, alongside Segun Ogunyannwo and many others, we were inducted as the first set of inductees of our institute. “The rest is history today. I consider myself lucky to be given this privilege to build on the work of our founding fathers and the great leadership that they and their successors in office have brought to bear on the affairs of the Institute. It is on account of this fact that I use this inaugural address to pay tribute to the Presidents and leaders of the institute before me,” Elachi added. He praised his predecessor Obegolu for making the Institute proud and for his legacy which was “apparent for all to see. From the growth of the institute in term of membership, to the financial stability that the institute now has, to the Mediation house project, the achievements are numerous. “Today I consider it a privilege to succeed one who has taken the institute to heights that had never being imagined. Today our institute stands out as the greatest of them all. My dear brother and friend, I thank you for making us all proud.” He pledged to dedicate himself “to ensuring that when I step down as president in three years, I would have creditably delivered on your mandate. “To actualize this objective, we shall develop a strategic plan of action that will focus primarily on the following thematic areas: Practice opportunities (volunteer mediator scheme), members welfare and value added services, interventionist role of the institute, global collaboration and  standardization of processes, protocols, and procedures,  Institution building. Before the power shift, Obegolu highlighted the achievements of his executive committee. Earlier in his welcome address, Omoaka encouraged participants to embrace challenges. He said: “If it doesn’t challenge you, it doesn’t change you”. When Fred Devito penned these now famous words, not even he could foretell that the world would be profoundly challenged and dramatically changed by the COVID-19 pandemic.  The sudden transformation in the way we live our lives, carry on business, and interact – either at a social or professional level – reflects the new reality that confronts the world. “This conference is the result of that change; and our response to the challenge to adapt to the present reality. It is the first completely remote conference in the history of the ICMC. 