President Donald Trump has recorded his biggest setback so far to upturn the result of the November election after the US Supreme Court dismissed a bid by Texas to reverse the results of the poll. In a tweet following the verdict, President Trump said the court had “let us down” and accused it of having “No Wisdom, No Courage!” The longshot suit lodged late Tuesday against four states key in the November 3 vote — Michigan, Georgia, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin — challenged Biden’s victory in each jurisdiction. But the Supreme Court, made up of nine justices including three appointed by Trump, said Texas — which voted for the president — “has not demonstrated a judicially cognizable interest in the manner in which another State conducts its elections.” The court’s decision “is an important reminder that we are a nation of laws, and though some may bend to the desire of a single individual, the courts will not,” tweeted Michigan attorney general Dana Nessel. Biden spokesman Mike Gwin said the ruling was “no surprise.” “Dozens of judges, election officials from both parties, and Trump’s own Attorney General have dismissed his baseless attempts to deny that he lost the election,” he said. The Texas suit had been seen as audacious and legally unsound, given that no one state has any legal right to interfere in another’s voting processes. Even so, it was backed by 106 Republican lawmakers and 17 state attorneys general. Texas alleged that the results in the other four states were “unconstitutional” because of their heavy use of “fraud-prone” mail-in votes during the coronavirus pandemic. It offered no proof of significant fraud and didn’t challenge the use of mailed ballots in states Trump won. The suit cited numerous alleged examples of potential fraud already rejected by lower courts. Even so, Trump lawyer Rudy Giuliani insisted the allegations were “sound.” “They have to be tested but that’s what the court is for. They can’t just dismiss it like that,” he told Fox News. White House spokeswoman Kayleigh McEnany said on Fox that the court “dodged” and “hid behind the procedure.” But perhaps the most eyebrow-raising reaction came from the chairman of the Texas Republican Party, who slammed the ruling and appeared to suggest the state should secede. “Perhaps law-abiding states should bond together and form a Union of states that will abide by the constitution,” Allen West said in a party statement. 