 Despite my aversion for gory scenes, including accident situations, I couldn’t avoid imagining how the Book Haram terrorists recently slaughtered over seventy rice farmers in Zabarmari village on the outskirt Maiduguri the Borno State capital. I know killing human beings is a game for them based on how they have killed some abducted persons in the past and recorded the scene which they shared online and bragged about it, the number of persons involved this time was mind bugling. I tried to imagine how they subdued the crowd of farmers and slaughtered them one after the other with some of the victims watching before it was their turn. I momentarily saw a picture of some of the victims with their hands tied behind them and their severed heads put on their bodies. I wished I didn’t see the picture as it has been hard to erase it from my memory and avoid being traumatised by the savage killings the terrorists subjected the farmers to. Reading the account of one of the survivors gave some insights about how the terrorists for several days, lived peaceably with their victims, sharing their dormitories and eating their food and pretending to be labourers that came for seasonal work. Then, on Saturday afternoon, according to the survivor, they took out their guns, rounded up the people like cattle and slaughtered them one by one. For the avoidance of doubt, the main group loyal to Abubakar Shekau, not only owned up in a video that they were responsible for the killings, they justified their action and accused the government of not declaring the right figures of the persons they killed. This dastardly round of killing is yet another confirmation that despite federal government’s claim that the terrorists have been ‘technically defeated’, they still have a stronghold on parts of Borno state and states in the North East particularly. If they could easily kill the number of persons they killed in Zabarmari said not to be far from the state capital, safety cannot be guaranteed anywhere in the state. The same way they easily mixed with the farmers is how they can infiltrate other parts on the state and wreck a lot of havoc. Although Governor Babagana Zulum and the joint military forces have done a lot to check attacks by the terrorists, every indication, like this mass slaughter, is indicative of how formidable the various factions of Book Haram are still in the state. Instead of trying to play down how serious the security situation in the state is, the military and federal government officials should own up to having a hard but to crack and explore every possible option. There is no point giving the people the false hope that the security agents have the situation under control when they don’t. What does Information Minister, Alhaji Lai Mohammed mean when he claims that “ Boko Haram is today badly degraded and can only carry out cowardly attacks like the one against defenceless farmers over the weekend” If in their degraded state, they can still kill as many people as they did at the rice farm and own up claiming it was in retaliation for the handing over of their men to the military, the government should not be claiming to be making significant progress in the anti-terrorist battle. Beyond Borno, many parts of the north have become dangerous to live as the Sultan of Sokoto Muhammadu Sa’ad Abubakar declared recently and asked that something urgent is done by the government to arrest the situation. ”People think North is safe but that assumption is not true. In fact, it’s the worst place to be in this country because bandits go around in the villages, households, and markets with their AK 47 and nobody is challenging them,” he stated. With even the Northern Elders Forum joining in raising alarm about banditry, rustling and kidnapping in the country, President Muhammadu Buhari should not allow the situation to continue to degenerate. For once we need to know that we have a President who has the political will and a capable Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces who can stop the free reign of the terrorists, bandits and kidnappers.