 APART from claiming many lives, the Coronavirus pandemic has compounded access to healthcare service for psychiatric patients in the country. This was the position of psychiatric experts at the 3rd Annual Research Conference tagged, “Mental Health and COVID-19 Pandemic: Implications for Research and Practice,” which held at the Federal Neuro-Psychiatric Hospital (FNPH), Yaba, Lagos. Speaking at the conference, Dr. Oluwayemi Ogun, Chief Medical Director (CMD), FNPH, said that the institution has observed increased incidences of new psychiatric cases and relapse due to the stress and anxiety induced by COVID-19. According to her, the pandemic has negatively affected the mental health of many people and barriers have been created for people already suffering from mental illness and substance use disorders. “Neuro-psychiatric complications of COVID-19 infections are being reported and all these have stressed our already existing fragile mental health system, making it imperative for us to change our approach to delivering mental health services to our numerous patients, in order to protect both staff and the client. “The year 2020 has been unique in several ways. For us in the health sector, it is probably the most challenging year most of us have witnessed. The COVID-19 was accompanied by fear and anxiety, which have caused strong emotions in children and adults. Public health actions such as isolation at home aimed at curbing the spread of the disease also contributed to increased stress,” Ogun said. She, however, urged her colleagues to continue research into the pandemic and modify methods of interacting with patients as the need arises. “COVID-19 has changed the orientation of our service; we have to adopt the use of tele-rehabilitation and also rearrange our wards in line with the rules set.” The keynote speaker, Prof. Victor Lasebikan, emphasised that COVID-19 has a huge mental health implication. “The pandemic has a lot of mental health implications both in the short and long term on the victims, survivors, frontline workers, the population and even the government. It creates fears of sorts with people experiencing mental issues such as stress disorder, depression, substances abuse, social and economic issues, the problem of survival.” Also, in one of its research presented during the conference, it was revealed that there is a high burden of psychological/psychiatric morbidity among persons treated for COVID-19, particularly person who have had prior emotional concerns. The findings reiterated the need to pay attention to the mental health of people during disease outbreaks and incorporating psychosocial intervention as part of the interventions. For Prof. Olatunji Aina, who is a consultant psychiatrist, it is better to prevent the COVID-19 infection rather than preventing mental complications. “Curtailment of mental health complications, the most important thing is how to prevent the cause of the incident that is getting infected from COVID-19. Unfortunately, as per human behaviour, many people are not observing the protocols prescribed by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) about the use of face mask, social distancing and avoidance of crowd. The most important thing is to avoid getting infected and observe strictly the safety protocol prescribed by the relevant bodies,” he said. Experts at the conference agreed that there was “high prevalence of psychological distress in our study associated with younger age of respondents, poor sleep and presence of COVID-19 symptoms, which indicated attention should be focused on the mental health of young people who have come in contact with the virus.” They said it is important for health workers and other stakeholders to continue psycho-education for the populace, particularly individuals with mental health conditions on COVID-19 infections, with a view to improving their knowledge, attitude and practice as this will have a positive effect on their mental health and reduce the risk of infection. The dons explained further that the mode of transmission of news and ease of access to social media had made information about Coronavirus and infected individuals easily transmissible. They concluded that the negative impacts on health must not be overlooked, as they suggested significant media campaigns on responsible reportage and spread of information during this period.