 THE role of a writer in a society that is ready to tow the line of development can never be disputed.  For three days in Ilorin, Kwara State, last week, Nigerian authors under the aegis of Association of Nigerian Authors (ANA) gathered for its 39th International Convention.  Surprisingly, the convention came against all odds.  No one ever believed whatsoever that Nigerian writers could defy the huge economic hardship and other social hazards occasioned by the Covid-19 pandemic to organize such a huge and largely successful convention. But that is the spirit of writers-resilient, dogged, resolute, irrepressible, undaunted, even when every hope of survival looms and seems utopian, the writer strives to move on.  And so the same spirit played out in Ilorin as the different venues scattered in different parts of the city wore the toga of ANA.  The banner proclaimed it clearly: In search of a better world; the role of the writer.  Even when the hope of tomorrow does not seem to be in the offing, the writer finds a way to make it attainable, realizable, surmountable. On the banner were pictures of those long time ANA patriarchs and matriarchs who have given their all to ensure a steady progress for Nigerian literature.  They included Professors Akachi Adimora – Ezeigbo, Femi Osofisan, Olu Obafemi, Sunny Ododo, Remi Raji, Raheem A. Lawal and lots more.  As delegates arrived from different parts of Nigeria to the venue at the Peoples Hall of Mustapha Akanbi Foundation, GRA, Ilorin, written on their faces were  broad smiles of a brighter ANA, a more united body. Some delegates arrived late due to bad roads, long distances, name it.  This never deterred them because the literary issues of a nation at a crossroad predominated.  The executive led by Camillus Ukah squared up to the occasion.  Accommodation hiccups never became a problem.  Ilorin has quite enough hotels to choose from and writers quickly settled down ahead of the evening of literary festivals to unwind and set their minds for the greater literary discussions forthwith. The opening ceremony was grand.  The bigwigs were there, eager to set the ball rolling.  The hall quickly came alive as music oozed out in torrents of joy.  Kwara State government was fully represented by the Commissioner for Communications, Mrs. Harriet Oshatimehin.  From the Nigerian Copyright Commission came its D.G. John Aisien and Dr. Wale Okediran a former president of ANA, but now the executive secretary of Pan African Writers headquartered in Accra, Ghana. Chairman of Kwara ANA Mallam Ade praised the congress for its ability to gather at short notice.  “This is an epoch making event.  Some yearly programmes have been cancelled due to Covid-19, but not that of ANA.  What we are experiencing in the world now are enough to stop the convention, yet we said no.  We therefore commend ourselves for this rare feat, this golden success.  This is remarkable and we thank God for it.  Literature has to live; Nigerian writers must move on even as we surpassed all odds to be here”. As he spoke, people sat in obedience to the covid-19 conditions with face masks.  Social distancing was duly observed.  At the entrance were water to wash hands, enough sanitizers and the checking of temperature.  Nothing was left to chance and the atmosphere truly became friendly.  Kwara State Commissioner for Communications, Mrs. Oshatimehin brought home the true role of ANA in these dicey times.  She said “ANA has a role to play to heighten the state of the economy through literature.  Reading culture is nose-diving in our society.  Now, it is the role of ANA to offer new ways of hope, ways to lead us out of the woods.  For us, we know a reader is a leader.  If you can catch up with what is happening in our society via your works, our society will be the better for it”. She went on: “As leaders of tomorrow, our youths have to brace up.  They need to learn how to read, how to lead.  This will help for massive social development of Kwara State.  There is plenty to learn from good books.  This is why we will always support ANA” she said. Okediran came with bundles of goodwill from Ghana.  He was full of excitement that the yearly convention finally held.  He said “I am happy to be here.  I commend the state government for its advocacy to use literature to lift the society.  By next year, ANA will be 40 years, a good moment to raise the stakes of literature beyond these shores.  We need to extend our frontiers to the Pan African Writers Association whose members were grateful to have Nigeria as the largest concentration of writers in Africa. “The covid-19 conditions are duly observed and I am happy about this.  This is a serious pandemic although we are a bit lucky here in Africa.  It is good also that in spite of all that ANA is thriving.  When the face of the world opens eventually I will invite members of ANA to Accra to groove with Pan African writers over there.  This is why they sent you a goodwill message to show their solidarity with Nigerian writers”.  Okediran who has assumed this portfolio as a full time job was all smiles to see African literature rise to its crescendo. John Aisien of NCC was equally glad to be in the midst of writers, even though he came with a sterner message for ANA.  “We will continue to cooperate with ANA on copyright issues.  By next year, I will lobby for copyright issues for Nigerian authors.  But we need collaboration from the publishers association to be able to achieve this.  Nigerian writers also have to make use of the Nigeria Copyright Commission to overcome piracy and restore the dignity of writers”. He explained the real essence of the fight to safeguard writers’ rights and loyalties.  “At the 40 years anniversary next year, we hope to intensify this level of advocacy to lift the fortunes of ANA.  Indeed ANA was one of the bodies that asked that NCC be established and we will continue to respect that”. Sunny Ododo, the G.M of National Theatre, Lagos, felt it was like a moment of home coming for him. “ANA has given me the necessary platform to be who I am today as a writer.  It was the first major instrument that helped me to hone my writing career.  I was once the vice-president.  I have also won ANA literary prizes in the past.  It was here in Ilorin that I became a member 32 years ago”. Olu Obafemi in his speech traced how in 1995 when Ken Saro-wiwa was killed and no one was bold enough to host ANA.  “We took the boldness and hosted ANA”, he recalled.  “Today we do not need crisis in ANA.  Most bodies do not survive crisis once it starts.  Literature is the voice of the people.  So let us face literature and avoid crisis”, he admonished as he looked forward to the 40th anniversary next year in Abuja, the nation’s capital. President of ANA, Camillus Ukah in his welcome speech, noted that “creative literature is an important tool for national development.  Yes, as always, creativity and its intellectual capital are vital to development.  This assertion derives from the fact that development, of any sort, begins from the mind…” Nonetheless, he was grateful to states chapters for the honour done ANA by their presence.  “We are grateful to our elders, resource persons, et al, to be here today for this 39th convention…” ANA did not fail to announce winners of different categories of prizes.  James Eze, press secretary to the Anambra State governor, won the prize for poetry with his collection Dispossessed.  Other categories were drama, prose, children literature.  The keynote lecture was delivered by Professor Raheem A. Lawal of the University of Ilorin.  The topic was: In Search of a better world; literature as catalyst for national development. Over twenty states chapters were in attendance which proved that ANA is on the move again. 