 STAKEHOLDERS in the built industry are pushing for professionalism, integrity and ethics to salvage what is left the urban and regional planning of cities.  They agreed that a lot still needed to be done to improve the livability of the environment in major cities and the urban centres. This position, premised on the belief that the country lags behind in the commity of nations as far as the physical environment is concerned, was a major point at the investiture of Mr. Toyin Ayinde as the 24th President of Nigeria Institute of Town Planning (NITP). Ayinde stated that everyone sought improved conditions but added that we could only reap what we had sowed. He urged experienced planners to join his team to give advise and volunteer for his administration and the government at all levels to ‘right the wrongs of the past’ in planning and urban development. He said: “We will scale heights to reach out to all stakeholders, we will cross the ocean to collaborate with international organisations. We will change the narrative about Urban and Regional planning in Nigeria.” Former President, Association of Professional Bodies of Nigeria (APBN), Segun Ajanlekoko, who chaired the event,  said the new helmsman’s disposition would to move the built environment sector forward. He said this was premised on his willingness to ask questions and carry people along. President, Nigeria Institute of Building (NIOB) Kunle Awobodu regretted that some town planners tolerated slum growth. He charged them to live up to their responsibilities and advise both the government and the traditional leaders well in terms of planning and urban development. He said:  “The built environment professionals should come together for the nation to have a better society. We should all avoid compromise and unprofessional conduct that makes for a disorderly environment.” First Vice President, Nigeria Institute of Architects ( NIA), Been Eboh lamented that our cities are not a reflection of reality. As professionals in the sector,  we should  play the advocacy role to ensure that unfavourable government policies are nipped in the bud. We should advise the government on what makes for a livable environment, we see well planned cities when we travel outside the country but indirectly support a disorderly environment here because of unwholesome practices. I must make bold to say that Town planning in Nigeria is in disarray”. Senior Pastor, Daystar Christian  Centre,  Sam Adeyemi, urged the NITP chief to stand for truth and justice. According to him, God is rebuilding Nigeria and is desirous of using dedicated professionals and men of good will. He prayed for creative and energetic wisdom for him to pull through. Earlier, Lagos State Deputy Governor, Dr Kadiri Hamzat hailed the NITP chief and reeleed out many urban regeneration and town planning laws by the administration. Hamzat, represented by the Commissioner of Physical Planning & Urban Development, Dr ldris Salako, said the state is poised to maintain the environment and will discourage the creation of slum locations. Furthermore, he said the state will redevelop blighted areas and discourage the creation of new ones. He said the process of titling and documentation has redefined, shorting the time it takes to process approvals, C of O’s and governor’s consent.  