Agency Reporter Alhaji Abdulaziz Ibrahim, a Special Adviser to Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State, says the award to his principal as “Most Friendly Governor to People Living with Special Needs of the year ” is highly justified. Ibrahim, the Special Adviser on People Living with Special Needs, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), on Tuesday in Sokoto, that the award, given to Tambuwal by Global Hope for Justice, an NGO, was in recognition of his special attention to special needs persons. He said the NGO recognised the government’s efforts at the just concluded National Disability Summit in Abuja. He noted that Tambuwal had fulfilled his promises by giving them office of Special Adviser, as well as running many friendly policies that were uplifting the people’s living standards across the state. According to him, people with special needs are currently receiving monthly stipends from the government as part of the administration’s efforts at discouraging the group from street begging. The governor’s aide also said that Tambuwal had provided a fully furnished skills acquisition center where people living with disabilities were getting empowered to be productive in order to promote self-reliance. “Our people are engaged in shoemaking, cap making, tailoring, knitting, mobile phone repairs and other businesses from the training they receive at the center. “We are pursuing computer training programmes for our capable persons also, and the state government has provided work stations. “During my visit to Abuja, I also contacted the Minister for Communication and Digital Economy, and he has promised to support this group of persons with more training facilities, tutors, as well as hard and software equipment,” Ibrahim said. He appealed to his members to enroll in skill acquisition training and business opportunities, and reciprocate the governor’s efforts by shunning all forms of begging. “Just of recent, Gov. Tambuwal facilitated some donors to assist our members with motorbikes which eases the difficulty in transportation that our members are facing,” he added. Ibrahim also called for the domestication of the People Living With Disability Act in the state; noting that many structures and programmes were not friendly to people with special needs.  (NAN)