SIR: The Christmas  seasons  has been characterised by  different economic  activities that bring about  movement of people out of their  vicinities, to the extent of people  travelling out of  town and  meeting with  different people, buying  and  selling  of clothes, livestock, agricultural produce, and others. Christmas is celebrated on December 25, and it is a sacred religious holiday and a worldwide cultural and commercial phenomenon observed  with traditions and different practices  that are both religious and secular in nature. The middle of each winter has long been a time of celebration around the world, and this was related to different Christmas activities. Centuries before the arrival of the man called Jesus, early Europeans celebrated light and birth in the darkest days of winter. Many people celebrated during the winter solstice, when the worst of the winter was behind them and they could look forward to longer days and extended hours of sunlight. Christians celebrate Christmas Day as the anniversary of the birth of Jesus of Nazareth, a spiritual leader whose teachings form the basis of their religion. Popular customs include exchanging gifts, travelling, visiting friends,   decorating Christmas trees, attending church services, sharing different meals with family and friends and, of course, waiting for Santa Claus to arrive on December 25 – Christmas Day. For Christians, the belief that God came into the world in the form of man to atone for the sins of humanity is considered to be the primary purpose of celebrating Christmas. But everyone participates in the sharing of Christmas gifts. The good news is that this celebration cuts across  the world yearly on a fixed date,  characterised by sharing of gifts, singing of carols   and exchange of Christmas cards, church services, a special meal and the display of various Christmas decorations including the Christmas tree. The season is associated with bringing gifts to children and adults. This practice entails heightened economic activity and increased spending during the holiday, which is a major sales period for retailers and businesses across the globe.