 IN a bid to support aspiring creatives and established filmmakers looking to gain world-class skills and career advancement, The EbonyLife Creative Academy (ELCA) has been declared open. The program offers free, practical short courses covering all aspects of filmmaking and media content production, including acting, directing, producing, editing, sound, and lighting. Designed by local and foreign industry experts, the courses are designed to help working film professionals improve their skills and make them globally competitive, and to equip beginners with the skills they need to launch their careers on a sound footing.This initiative is supported by the Lagos State Government through Lagos State Creative Industries Initiative (LACI), under the Ministry of Tourism, Arts and Culture. ELCA was conceived by EbonyLife Chief Executive Officer, Mo Abudu in response to the growing shortage of industry professionals, as Nollywood continues to expand. “We have so much talent in Nigeria and our people are ready to work. Unfortunately, very little training is available locally and most people cannot afford to go abroad for training. EbonyLife Creative Academy is meant to fill that gap and make world-class training available. Thankfully, the governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, understood our vision and gave us the support we needed to establish the academy here in Lagos, the hub of Nigerian filmmaking,” she said. Applicants are urged to register on the academy’s dedicated platform as registrations opens on December 17 and the first intake will commence classes on February 7 2021 for the first quarter, while the next intake commences on April 26, 2021 and every quarter thereafter. At the end of each ten-week course, groups of students from different disciplines will merge into teams to produce a short film or television show each for exhibition. Internships are available for the best-performing students, giving beginners an ideal start to their careers. The Governor of Lagos State, Mr Sanwo-Olu on his part said, “We are very excited about this development because it is in line with two of the development pillars of our THEMES agenda – education & technology and entertainment & tourism. By training our people to use the latest technology, we will continue to enhance the quality of our entertainment content and attract production crews from the rest of Africa and around the world.”