The Federal and Lagos State governments have said 795 houses might be demolished to pave the way for the construction of the proposed 37-kilometre Fourth Mainland Bridge. The two authorities said a lot of efforts had been made to reduce the number of affected structures from about 9,000 to less than 800. This was even as the state government assured that owners of the affected property would be adequately compensated, despite the prevailing economy circumstances. It said all stakeholders would be satisfactorily considered in the execution of the project. Speaking at the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment Stakeholders’ scoping workshop with the Federal Ministry of Environment in Lagos, Environment Minister Mamoud Abubakar said there should be sincere commitment on the part of Lagos State government on the compensation for owners of affected properties. The minister, who was represented by a director in the ministry, James Kolawole, explained that though the project would have about 16 alignments, but the best had been selected. “There was an alignment that will affect about 9,000 structures along the corridor, but we have reviewed it and gone for the alignment that will affect about 795 houses, instead of the one that will take more houses. It is an ongoing thing on how best to minimise the negative impact,” he said. The State Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development said the bridge, which will connect Lagos and Ogun states, will pass through Abraham Adesanya in Lagos and Sparklight Estate near the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway in Ogun State. A town planner in the ministry, Mr. Abayomi Omolola Amos said the alignment of the project had been carefully designed to reduce the number of houses that should be demolished. The Federal Government said the proposed bridge will boost economic growth and enhance international trade. Abubakar said the Lagos State government had been working on the project for about four years and had made several representations to the Federal Government. The minister, whom spoke through Kolawole, said the project would enhance commerce and international trade to improve the people’s livelihoods. He congratulated the state government on the laudable project, while stressing the need to take cognisance of both positive and negative impacts of the project on stakeholders. According to him, doing this will ensure all issues are addressed to avoid compromising the comfort of future generations. “For us as a ministry, we are happy with the positive impact, but there is need to resolve the negative aspects: what we need is sustainable development,” he said.