 Lagos State has a peculiar charm that keeps its economy bubbly – population. But that charm has also become its albatross, as the state has become stressful and road traffic a daily nightmare. In its golden days, it was fun to hear – Lagos never sleeps. Today, such epithet no longer speaks of the state’s eclectic social life. It has become the people’s reality, as more people practically sleep on the roads. Statistics come handy here.The average time spent on Lagos’ roads these days ranges from five to six hours. Traffic have grown from bad, to worse, and then, to a nightmare. But experts said transportation blues in the state arose out of the state’s almost exclusive reliance on road mode of transportation.                                                                                Lagos State’vehicle density towers above the national average. Vehicle density in Lagos is put at 231 vehicles per kilometre, while the state has just 9,000 kilometres of roads. A recent estimate by the state’s Bureau of Statistics says between 10 and 12 million passengers ply the Lagos roads daily, using buses, cars, taxis, tricycles or bicycles, while its waterways, which stretched about 4,000 kms could only account for 0.02 percent of its daily passenger travels count. The situation has left the state in the firm grip of traffic nightmare leading to staggering 1.2 billion man-hour loss yearly. To demonstrate its capacity to tackle the crisis inherited from his predecessor headlong, the Commissioner for Information and Strategy Gbenga Omotoso said the Babajide Sanwo-Olu Administration made transportation and traffic control a pillar of its THEMES Agenda and introduced several initiatives aimed at improving travel experience and absorb more vehicles. The Fifth Lagos Traffic Radio, which held last week, was another opportunity to x-ray the various initiatives being deployed in making travel experience more enjoyable. These include the diversification and promotion of other modes of transportation, especially water transportation, and leveraging its comparative advantage on water. Other initiatives include investment in red/blue light rail, to improve mass transportation, improvements in the quality of roads and removal of roundabouts for signalisation to remove traffic jams, introduction of tech-driven enforcement of road infractions. Citizens are expected to obey traffic control laws, even as the government said it would use transport associations to strengthen enforcement compliance and control mechanism among public sector transport operators. Also, the Commissioner for Transportation Dr Frederic Oladeinde said some of the initiatives have started yielding positive results resulting in improved travel experience. Speaking on the Lagos Traffic Law Enforcement: The technology dynamics of new normal, Oladeinde said: “Concerted efforts have been made right from the inception by this administration to integrate technological innovations and dynamics into the traffic management apparatus of the state.’’ Such initiatives, according to him, include the introduction of Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR), and the Computerised Vehicle Inspection Services (LACVIS), the latter of which has reduced vehicle breakdowns, a major contributor to traffic gridlock. Reiterating the same argument at the Lagos Transport Fest, also last week, Oladeinde said technology remains the only way to resolve the endemic transportation challenges of Lagos as a Smart City. He announced plans to install 2,000 CCTV cameras across the state to monitor traffic congestion, complement the efforts of traffic managers, and combat the menace of traffic offenders on Lagos roads. Oladeinde added that in the coming weeks, about 1,000 hand-held cameras would be distributed to personnel of the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority  (LASTMA) to enable them document their operations and ensure proper sanctions to offenders of the state traffic laws. The commissioner said the government is also working to reduce human contact at the point of vehicle documentations, registration and licensing, adding that 57 more LAVICS centres would be established across the state to enable motorists’ key into the zero tolerance for rickety vehicles on the roads. It was at the event in which the Deputy Governor Dr Obafemi Hamzat commended the Traffic Radio for living up to the mandates of its founding fathers as a go-to-station for traffic advisory and one which has been assisting residents enjoy hitch-free movement across the metropolis. He urged residents to tune in to the station to plan their journey daily to avoid loss of valuable man-hour to traffic congestion. Traffic Radio General Manager Mr Tayo Akanle pledged the station’s commitment to continue to provide timely, accurate, reliable and objective traffic report and advisory to the public. He said the station has embarked on some initiatives aimed at getting timely real-time reports as it breaks to the homes of its listeners across the state.