 AellaApp has launched its ‘AellaCast’, a podcast for the burgeoning fintech ecosystem. AellaCast is an insightful  dialogue with dynamic guest speakers, challenging fintech innovation and operation from; start-ups, microfinance, traditional banking, insurtech, cryptocurrency and regulators, among others. Hosted by AellaApp co-founders, Wale Akanbi and Akin Jones, each episode will lead listeners on a journey that peeks ‘behind the curtain’ of some of Africa’s most innovative fintech solutions. AellaCast will shine the spotlight on solutions that have impacted and transformed the current ecosystem, challenging innovations that need to be revisited and a forecast of the next big thing for Nigerian fintech. Listeners will hear from industry luminaries who will share their personal stories and unpack challenging topics in interesting ways. “Now more than ever we are seeing the proliferation of the Nigerian fintech ecosystem, with comparable innovative solutions saturating the market; each promising customers a unique user experience or quicker solutions to their problems. AellaCast podcast series will delve into the inner workings of the ecosystem from start-up to regulatory bodies, with a clear focus on what works, what doesn’t and what innovative impact is more beneficial for customers,” Akanbi said. According to him, as an organisation, AellaCast prides itself on pushing the fintech boundaries in a dynamic unpredictable way, and what better way to challenge the status quo than to have an open dialogue with leading fintech players in the region. AellaCast will be published bi-weekly on Tuesdays and will be available to listen for free on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, Google Podcasts, Breaker, Overcast, Pocket Casts, Radio Public and Castbox. People can also visit the company’s website to listen.  He noted that Aella App is Nigeria’s leading single point financial service and payment solutions fintech, which focuses on providing instant credit and payment solutions for emerging markets. Aella’s mobile application platform guarantees easy access to loans, investments, bill payments, micro-insurance plans, and peer-to-peer money transfers; championing financial independence for all since 2015. 