 FORMER Minister of Power and Steel Dr. Olu Agunloye on Wednesday gave an emotional description of how Prof. Femi Odekunle, a member of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC), headed by Prof. Itse Sagay, succumbed to the battle against the Coronavirus. Odekunle, Nigeria’s first professor of Criminology, 77-year-old, died at the COVID-19 Isolation Centre in Gwagalada, Abuja, on Tuesday. Secretary to the Government of the Federation Boss Mustapha, had during a briefing of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, said: “A good friend of this government just passed on at 6:30pm.” Many did not know the person he was referring to until the news of Odekunle’s death was announced later in the evening. Agunloye, who wrote about the final moments of Prof. Odekunle, described his death as sad. According to him, it was Chief Joju Fadairo who discovered at 8.30pm on Sunday, that Odekunle was sick and in danger. “We both couldn’t get Femi on phone for about one week and Joju decided to call his wife.  From that moment, we worked all night to activate the diverse circle of Femi’s friends. And they sprang to action within two hours. Since then, they worked frantically to ensure that Femi got the best care possible,” he stated. Agunloye, who is a former Minister of State for Defence, said he and his friends tried very hard but Odekunle didn’t make it. The first professor of Criminology, he said, died at about 6.30pm, after a 12-day battle for life. “When I spoke with his wife twice between 1pm and 3pm on Tuesday, I could hear in the background loud heavy rumblings of the man struggling to breathe with great difficulties and excruciating pains even though he wore an oxygen mask. “As a matter of fact, Femi’s friends rose stoutly to his support over the last 48 hours, but it was just too late. Top government functionaries amongst them led by Minister of Interior Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola along with President’s spokesman, Mr. Femi Adesina, SGF Boss Mustapha and two sitting governors tore through bureaucracies and red tapes and pulled stunts but the damages to Femi’s health appeared to have gone too far for remedy. It is sad, very sad. “Prof. Odekunle was my close friend of 54 years. We first met in Independence Hall when I entered UI as a Prelim student in 1966.” Agunloye enjoined Nigerians to exercise great care and caution over their health. Senate President Ahmad Lawan, Osun State Governor Adegboyega Oyetola and the Nigeria Society for Criminology (NSC) yesterday expressed sadness over Odekunle’s death. In a statement on Wednesday in Abuja by his Special Adviser (Media), Ola Awoniyi, the Senate President described Odekunle’s  death as a great loss to the academic community and to Nigeria. He said Odekunle was a reputable scholar and an academic giant who imparted knowledge to his numerous students and served his country with his expertise in a discipline in which he was an authority. Oyetola, in a statement yesterday in Osogbo, the Osun State capital, by his Chief Press Secretary, Ismail Omipidan, said he received news of the demise of the Osun-born professor of Criminology with a huge shock. The governor said Odekunle’s death was an immense loss to his family and the nation. He described the deceased as a man of great intellect, insight and impeccable character, acknowledging his commitment and contributions to the anti-corruption crusade of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration. The NSC described Odekunle’s death as a major loss to the academic community. A statement by the Secretary of NSC’s Board of Trustees (BoT), Prof. Hawau Evelyn Yusuf, said the foremost criminologist was a fearless, upright and exemplary scholar, whose influence in the field traversed continents of the world. Until his death, Professor Odekunle was the BoT Chairman of Nigeria Society for Criminology. Also, a former Deputy Vice-Chancellor at the University of Ibadan (UI), Prof. Adeyinka Abideen Aderinto, said: “Very sad. (He was) a thorough academic, frank and kind. He was my PhD external examiner in 1996 and we remained close till his glorious transition.” Another foremost criminologist, Prof. Omololu Soyombo, described Odekunle’s death as a colossal loss.