 The Nigerian Breweries (NB) has unveiled its N5 billion ultra-modern PET factory to increase its company’s capacity to produce non-alcoholic drinks. The facility has the capacity to produce 24,000 bottles per hour as it would also serve as a strategic point to export to West African countries and beyond. Speaking at the official commissioning of the new ultra-modern automated PET line in Ijebu Ode, Ogun State, the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Niyi Adebayo, who commissioned the factory, explained that the commissioning showed the commitment of the firm to the country and its industrialisation drive. He expressed that it is also a reassurance that fruitful opportunities exist in the economy to stimulate growth and business expansion to add considerable value to the company and the economy at large. He added that the timing of the event is auspicious for the nation and a vital platform for providing an enabling environment for businesses to grow and even more importantly, creating jobs for the nation’s teeming unemployed youths. “We are confident that the commissioning of this plant will bring about economic opportunities for the state and contribute to the non-oil sector of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). This is even more critical as we seek to diversify the economy,” he said. He said the company is playing a strategic role as a key investor in the economy, leveraging its pedigree and commitment to adopting latest technology designed with world class safety and quality standards to deliver new and innovative quality products. Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, commended the company for investing in the country despite the harsh business environment and restated the state’s commitment to creating an enabling environment for businesses to thrive. He said the state government is putting infrastructure in place to drive industrialisation, saying infrastructure remained a key driver for attracting local and foreign direct investments. Welcoming the guests, the company’s Chairman, Chief Kola Jamodu, said the company is committed to playing its role in supporting the government as a responsible corporate organisation. He said the company been listed as one of the highest tax-payers in the country and the highest in the manufacturing sector. Jamodu said the commissioning represents another milestone he said would deepen availability of its non-alcoholic product portfolio. “Our partnership with the state government has seen us invest over N1.6 billion in various community projects and social investments in the areas of education, health, access to potable water, environment, youth and women empowerment. Its Managing Director, Mr. Jordi Borrut Bel, said the PET line was coming at a time of uncertainty with the effect of Covid 19 which had made businesses weary of making capital investment. He said despite this, the company is optimistic that the uncertainty would give way to certainty, stressing that with the right economic policies, private sector investments will continue to have a home in the country providing refreshment and happiness. He added that the commissioning would increase the company’s production capacity of non-alcoholic drinks. “It is expected to produce 24000 bottles per hour designed with the latest technology which meets world class and safety standards. The plant would also serve as a strategic point for our plans to export our drinks outside Nigeria to West Africa and beyond. It will not only satisfy the refreshment needs of Nigeria, but also introduce quality made-in-Nigeria products to new audiences abroad. It is also a win-win for everybody as it means more job opportunities for residents of the State, more businesses for our suppliers and local partners, more opportunities for our staff and ultimately more revenue to government,” he said