School children in the three senatorial districts of Ondo state will have access to 6,000 chairs and exercise books courtesy of a non-profit organisation, The Dalacreamz foundation has announced. It stated this during a public lecture and inaugural anniversary, which attracted notable personalities, including member of House of Representatives for Idanre/Ifedore constituency Tajudeen Adefisoye, represented by Mr Rasaq Adefisoye; member Ondo Assembly Ilaje constituency 1 represented by Mr Ayoola Oluwafemi; Rev. & Pastor Mrs. Fasipe as well as guest speaker Abayomi Odunayo Seriki among others President of the foundation Oluyemi Fasipe noted: “ Without a doubt, there are palpable gaps within the human society that could only be filled by public-spirited individuals. “In a society like ours, where grinding poverty, lack, and wants are stark realities; therefore, tears, hunger, and anguish can only get reduced through the activities of non-profit making foundations like ours. “This organisation is genuinely committed to reducing the depressing effects of poverty targeted at children in Ondo State and Nigerian society at large.” Fasipe added: “The reality of lack and want in our immediate environment has necessitated the birth of this foundation. “Dalacreamz Foundation was borne out of the passion for children and to positively impact Nigerian society. “The critical economic situation of our country has made it imperative for some committed public-spirited individuals to come together under the banner of Dalacreamz foundation for the primary purpose of giving support to the economically disadvantaged children in our society.” On plans for 2021, Fasipe said “Dalacreamz foundation primary interest is to continually give support to vulnerable persons especially children in the society.” The occasion, which also featured the inauguration ceremony of the foundation new patron Hon Tajudeen Adefisoye and executives, was witnessed by a number of dignitaries with pomp and pageantry. Seriki emphasised on the importance of non-governmental organisations in assisting the government to provide for the well-being of its citizens.