 PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has expressed displeasure in the efforts of military service chiefs, saying “their efforts are not good enough” for him. The President spoke in an interview with the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA), clips of which were posted on his verified Twitter handle on Friday. According to him, his administration is well aware of its responsibility to secure the country, provide peaceful atmosphere for citizens, adding that he was aware that there are still much to be done in delivering that responsibility. It would be recalled that many opinion moulders, senior citizens, as we as many interests from various segments of the country had called for the sack of security chiefs as well as a complete overhaul of the nation’s security architecture following the escalation of violent crimes across the country. “I meet them, we have security meetings from time to time, they must be very clear of my instructions. Their effort is not good enough for me. “Our responsibility, I said, is to secure this country for all the citizens to do their businesses without any problem. We haven’t achieved that yet. We ‘ll keep on trying. “We have a lot of work ahead of us and some of the things we may not say because I don’t want to compromise the security and the efforts being made by the law enforcement agencies, but really we are acutely aware of our responsibility; our responsibility is to secure the country. So we have a lot of work to do”, the President said. Speaking on the issue of the kidnap and eventual rescue of more than 300 students of Government Science Secondary School Kankara, Katsina State,  he lauded both the state government and the security agencies for being prompt in response. “I spoke with the governor; I congratulated him and congratulated the army that organised the operation, the encirclement of the abductors and getting the children. The military is well-trained, I think they are sufficiently motivated. “I’m very impressed with the governor. He has been up and doing since it happened and I congratulated him that the children have been successfully recovered”, the President said. 