 Importance of micro, small and medium enterprises Let’s take a look at the market statistics for micro small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). Over 41 million MSMEs are responsible for over 84 per cent of labour force and they contribute over 50 per cent to Gross Domestic Product (GDP) -this is a sector that you want to be deliberate about its growth and how the players achieve scale. The published statistics from the National Bureau of Statistics between 2013 and 2017 reflected an overall growth of five million new businesses from 37 million to over 41.7 million. However, the market recorded a decline of about 60 per cent in the number of medium-sized enterprises from 4,670 to 1,793. What does this tell you? The opportunity for small business to scale is limited. Impact of lockdowns on MSMEs The lockdown experienced in 2020 as a result of the pandemic worsened the market situation resulting from less in-person interactions, less in-person payment options, lesser need for brick and mortar store businesses. The statistics we have from a survey carried out by Fate Foundation on areas impacted by lockdown showed the top three to be cashflow, sales and revenue. About 72 per cent of businesses surveyed said that their business cashflow were severely impacted – and as they say – cash is king. Sales and revenue are also critical elements banks look at to assess and qualify business owners for loans. This made more apparent the lack of infrastructure and access to digital resources for small businesses. It is also showing that technology is not necessarily a level playing field for market players. For technology to be considered a level playing field for small businesses to achieve scale, there are fundamental factors that needs to be addressed. We will look at five questions that will address this issue. What infrastructure and digital resources are available to MSMEs to participate strongly in the market and achieve scale? How can small businesses access these digital resources? What skill sets business owners have to optimise the use of the digital resources? What about trust issues? What about affordability? Importance of tech-driven payment acceptance services In addressing each of them, what infrastructure and digital resources are available to achieve scale? Payment acceptance service is a critical element. In the context of keeping safe, more businesses are using Whatsapp, Instagram, Telegram, Facebook to sell and those who can afford it are building their own website to transact their business online. However, they still receive payments by transfer through direct messages. No doubt direct messages have been helpful but as your business sales increase, how many customers could you attend to in a day without exhaustion as a small business owner! In fact, some direct messages never get responded to until days after! If technology were a leveler and available for all, a critical digital resource that is needed is payment acceptance service for merchants to receive payments and provide better buying experience to individual buyers. This is especially necessary to manage stock out, which is recurring reason for not returning to the vendor’s page, because after going through direct message, the vendor will message you that the item of your choice is no longer available. Additionally, at the end of the day’s sales, the merchant still needs to reconcile account and track sales performance for the day! A solution for seamless payment and account At Access Bank, we have developed SWIFTPAY as part of our unending supports for MSMEs. SWIFTPAY is a payment acceptance service that we have introduced to support the transition and growth of our business customers. SWIFTPAY is just a payment link that can be hosted on your social media page , you can send to anyone to pay you . It is easy – less than five minutes to sign up, convenient, straight through and time-saving for everyone. It takes less than five minutes to sign up. At Access Bank, we are committed to providing very practical solutions that supports the growth of our customers. We know that stronger participation in markets helps strengthen contribution to economic development. We recently introduced visa business debit cards to our customers and we are the first to do in the industry in partnership with Visa. The business debit cards comes with higher withdrawal and spend limits for customers, it gives you discounts to courier services, you know logistics is a critical element for online business and it also comes bundled with access to Google business advisory services to learn how to manage your online store front . Beyond payment and banking We are just all about helping our customers better optimise business solutions. We also have partnerships that help customers create online store for as low as N25,000. You can see that our customers have access to the entire ecosystem that helps you sell beyond the proximity of your store. How do customers access these resources? Very easy! Just open a business account with Access Bank and you are automatically registered to use SWIFTPAY very swiftly. Activate and put the link on your social media page, send to anyone who wants to pay you and watch your sales grow. This is beyond account opening, beyond just lending and it is a commitment to providing value. What about skill sets required to navigate and manage business online?  Let me share a story of my encounter with a business owner recently. I had to go to the Mainland to purchase an item and because it was a bad traffic day and I spent about three hours in traffic to get there. When I got to the store, I went straight to the store owner and I asked her; “madam, please why are you not online?  I don’t see myself coming back here again after what I just went through to get here”, and she started talking about how it has been frustrating for her to manage a store online and she had to stop altogether! What is lacking here is just the lack of knowledge of how to manage a store front online and she was missing out on online sales for this reason. What we have done is to partner with Google business advisory to help us train our customers on the nuances of online business. They will also be exposed to online tools to optimise business. Our small businesses also have the opportunity of enjoying Google ads to advertise online. Honestly, small businesses have never had it this good and I am excited we are helping making access to digital resources easy. There are digital resources out there in the market, so what about trust issues?  With the rise in the popularity of social media as e-commerce comes the increase risk of fraud. Business identity fraud is on the rise with the use of logos and false pages to appear genuine and defraud unsuspecting potential buyers of funds. With SWIFTPAY, merchants do not have to worry about this because every merchant registered on SWIFTPAY will carry a ‘Verified by Access’ stamp to authenticate the page. So if you don’t see ‘Verified by Access’ on the merchant page or online store, please be careful. Affordability SWIFTPAY is free. The processing charge is discounted up to 15 per cent to ensure you keep most of your earnings, unlike other services, if you sign up to our visa business debit cards. Business owners should worry less about financials and focus on their businesses with SWIFTPAY. You may want to ask how is SWIFTPAY different from other payment acceptance services. We are a bank, your account is already domiciled with us , you don’t have to go through any additional Know-Your-Customer (KYC) checks , your business is verified , we will use your financial records to lend you money . SWIFTPAY is part of a new campaign we have launched -’Your Business Matters’, a campaign to let our business customers know that their businesses matter to us and we will continually work with them to support their growth.   