Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has taunted persons accusing him of concentrating development in Port Harcourt saying he will soon begin commissioning of projects executed by his administration in the 23 local government areas of the state. Wike spoke on Monday during the commissioning of Emeyal, Elelenwo and General Diriyal roads located in the New GRA phase 2 in Obio-Akpor Local Government Area by the Governor of Adamawa State, Ahmadu Umaru Fintri. A statement signed by the governor’s Special Assistant on Media, Kelvin Ebiri, said Wike explained that the expansion and reconstruction of the three roads located in Eligbam and Rumuodalu communities, was part of the urban renewal programme of his administration. He said: “Today, if you come here in the night you’ll think it’s one of the areas in advance countries. So, we are very grateful that the communities gave us the support and gave the contractors the support without any inhibition. This job was done and met the specifications with drainage all through. “Let me warn some of you who have abandoned where there is market and those who say you’re Bureau-D- Change people, nobody must trade along these roads.” The governor said projects had been lined up for inauguration from the beginning of 2021 as a proof that his administration was not tired of working for the state and fulfilling every of its promise. Wike noted that the Opobo -Andoni Unity road would be ready for commissioning in January 2021 to enable the people drive directly to the Island 150 years after it was founded.\ “I hear they are going to celebrate their 150 years as Opobo nation. They have never seen roads in their life. But today, by the grace of God, they are going by road. “And by January, we are going there to commission the road leading to Opobo directly, no more going by water”, he said. Wike said when the street light on the 16km Sakpenwaa-Bori road was switched on Sunday night, people went agog because they were happy, adding that the road had been stretched further by another 20km to Kono Town. He also said his administration constructed a ring road for the people of Akuku-Toru local government area and urged critics of his administration to visit local government areas to verify existence of projects. Inaugurating the three roads, Fintri praised Wike for committing himself to advancing the quality of life of his people through landmark projects. He described his colleague as an irrepressible democrat, who had continued to demonstrate uncommon vision and rare courage in working for the Rivers people as well as advancing the unity of Nigeria. He said: “It is really a rare privilege to commission landmark projects in Port Harcourt, the heartbeat of the South-South. I am here because Governor Nyesom Wike, the irrepressible democrat has demonstrated an uncommon vision and rare courage in working for the Rivers people and advancing the unity of our country. “Nowhere has governor Wike demonstrated this than in the constant and consistent liaison with his fellow colleague governors such as my humble self in the North. Let me assure the government and good people of Rivers State that the difference that Wike is making in Rivers State is unprecedented and can hardly be equalled.”