 LEADER of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) , Nnamdi Kanu, has described as “unguarded and highly provocative,” the comment   by the  Northern Elders Forum (NEF)  that the Igbo are the worst perpetrators of violence against Northerners. He said the allegation was made by NEF  to justify more attacks on  the  Igbo and their interests in other parts of the country. NEF Chairman  Ango Abdullahi had at a town hall meeting in Port Harcourt  with Northerners living in Rivers State, alleged that his kinsmen  and their businesses were the targets of last  October  #EndSARS protests in the state. He specifically claimed that some people ‘’came from the Southeast’’ to attact  Northerners living  in Rivers. State during the protests. But Kanu, in a statement on Thursday by IPOB Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful,   wondered if  the Igbo  were “responsible for the daily carnage and progrom committed by Boko Haram,  killer herdsmen, Ansaru, ISWAP, ISIS and bandits in the North. The statement reads in part:  ”May we therefore, ask Alhaji Ango Abdullahi and his co-travelers: between the Igbo and Fulani jihadists, who are terror inclined? Who among the two tribes have violence, terrorism and killing without provocation in their DNA? “Which of the two tribes harbour and have sympathy for the six most dangerous terrorist groups in the world – Boko Haram, killer herdsmen, Ansaru, ISWAP, ISIS, bandits? Are the Igbo the perpetrators of the daily carnage and pogrom committed by these vampires in the North? “Were the Igbo behind the burning of car shops in Abuja and the looting of Igbo businesses in Lagos during the #EndSARS protests? ” Kanu  noted in the statement  that the evil created by the North to chase former President Goodluck Jonathan out of power has today grown into a monster. “The little snake nurtured by the North in their desperation to blackmail ex-President Jonathan out of power has become a python, and they are now looking for Ndigbo to blame instead of solving the problem they created. “Ango Abdullahi should tell the world how many times any act of terror has been linked to any Igbo or Biafran, whether within or outside Nigeria. Northern elders and their Southern slaves should leave Ndigbo and Biafrans out of their ordeal.” Kanu  described Ndigbo as hospitable people who were unfortunately the most victimised tribe in the country. He added: ”It needs no proof that Ndigbo are the most hospitable, but unfortunately, the most victimised tribe in Nigeria. They are the victims of unprovoked killings and destruction of property in Nigeria often masterminded by the caliphate and their foot soldiers.”  