 Gbolabo Ogunsanwo was a soldier who found an unusual use for his weapon. He was not a conventional soldier, so he had no use for the AK 47, or the grenade. For him, all he needed to fight his battles, sometimes very fierce battles, were words. He wielded them like the Rocket Propelled Grenades, and was thus a terror to the enemy. His enemies were neither Boko Haram terrorists, nor any country threatening his beloved Nigeria’s territorial integrity; they were men in power who sought to oppress the vulnerable. Mr. Gbolabo Ogunsanwo, most renowned for taking the Sunday Times to a height yet unequalled, quietly took his exit from the earth on November 27, 2020. Born on June 28, 1945, he took to writing and speaking very early in life. As a student of Ijebu-Ode Grammar School in the 1950s, he was a notable member of the Debating Society. His love for writing and debating stemmed from the home background as the father was a primary school headmaster, and the mother, a bookseller. He therefore struck friendship with books quite early, devouring them from the mother’s shop after school every day. His first port of call after secondary education was the Daily Times where he was denied a place in the newsroom by the editor, Henry Odukomaiya. Odukomaiya’s reason was that precious Ogunsanwo needed to acquire university education to fit into the Daily Times of the future that Babatunde Jose, the chairman, was about building. Rather, Ogunsanwo was found a place at the library where he again made friends with the books. He was a science student and, thus, his parents nudged him into pursuing a career in Medicine by studying at the University of Lagos. He gained a place at the Faculty of Medicine of the university in 1965. But, he changed his mind. He would not find satisfaction by wielding the stethoscope, so, he opted to study English. The admission authorities obliged him on the condition that he was able to make it. If he failed to pull his weight after two years, he would have to withdraw from the university. He made it, and that was the gain of journalism. Throughout his studies, he kept his love for writing and reporting alive. He maintained a column in the Lagos Weekend edited by Segun Osoba, and thus caught the eyes of the legendary Jose, who immediately had a plan for young men. By 1970, Ogunsanwo had been made editor of Spear, a magazine in the Daily Times Group. Two years later, he was appointed editor of the Sunday Times where he made his mark. Under him, the paper was reputed to have sold a million copies weekly; unprecedented in the history of newspapering in the country. It did not come easy, as the newspaper spearheaded investigation and in-depth analyses of news and events. The Cement armada and the Tarka corruption scandal cannot be forgotten in the annals of reports and investigations of that era. Ogunsanwo was a man of integrity. He was devoted to the profession and would not trade professionalism for a mess of pottage. When the Obasanjo regime took over the Daily Times Group, Ogunsanwo was one of those who took early exit from the organisation, and to a large extent, from journalism. He was a great essayist, social crusader and mentor to many. The circumstance of his death is another indication that leaders of the media industry have a lot to do to make celebrated and devoted journalists like him comfortable in retirement. He had been ill for years and had to resort to seeking help to pick his medical bills. Perhaps if he was comfortable enough to fund early diagnosis of his leg ailment, or the stroke that came later, he would not have lost the leg to amputation, or could have prevented the opportunistic stroke that accompanied that. It is also unfortunate that the ace columnist had to sleep outside a federal hospital where he had to take blood transfusion because there was no bed to accommodate him. This is another testament to the sorry state of our health system. In the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, we hope Nigerian leaders would pay more attention to our health facilities. Mr. Gbolabo Ogunsanwo has played his part. As Shakespeare indicated, the heavens have blazed the departure of this ‘Prince of Journalism’.