 Sir: It is not an understatement to say Katsina State has been ravaged by the activities of rapacious bandits, who have continued to sack villages and abduct poor farmers for ransom on daily basis. While the federal and state governments are doing their best to contain the rising cases of banditry, there are indications that the menace defies lasting solution. In recent times, there have been repeated attacks on helpless rural communities by dare devil bandits and other criminals in the state. While the government is exploring security options  available to nip in the bud the activities of bandits, I have come across an opinion written by Professor Idris Bugaje, Rector of Kaduna Polytechnic published by Daily Trust of 15th December, 2020, entitled “Formula 100: Solution to growing banditry, insurgency in the North.” Professor Bugaje offered take-away solutions to banditry and insecurity bedeviling the North and the country in general. In his brilliant piece, he recalled how Civilian JTF in Borno State assisted the Nigerian Army towards the liberation of many communities that were hitherto at the mercy of Boko Haram and recommended the recruitment of 100 vigilantes in each of the 774 local governments of the country. These vigilantes should be people of good character, exposed to training and armed with modern weapons. They should be directed to go into the nooks and cranny of their respective local government, confront bandits and hopefully crush them. After they might have completed their mission, the government should absorb them into recognized security formations, especially the Nigerian Police Force. Bugaje’s ‘Formula 100’ has taken into cognizance the poor police/citizen ratio in the country and by extension the need for community policing. Our police officers are small in number and overwhelmed by numerous security challenges. The equation of one police officer to provide security to an average of 600 Nigerians is worrisome. Most of the countries of the world adequately fund their internal security. This is done through community policing in which locals who understand the geographical terrain are engaged to provide security for theirs communities. It is cheering news that the Sokoto State government has taken a cue from the Bugaje’s formula and recruited thousands of vigilantes to assist it in the war against bandits. Even before Sokoto State keyed into this noble initiate, South-west states had created their regional security outfits codenamed ‘Amotekun’ to provide security for their people. This is exactly what Bugaje is talking about, with some modifications such as training, funding and re-engagement. I think the Katsina State government which is grappling with insecurity should follow suit by putting in place all the necessary structures for the immediate take up of ‘Formula 100’ as advised by Professor Bugaje.