President Muhammadu Buhari, ex-President Goodluck Jonathan and Northern Governors’ Forum (NGF) have congratulated retired Minister of Defence, Gen. Theophilus Danjuma, on his 83rd birthday. The President’s congratulatory message was conveyed in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Malam Garba Shehu, on Wednesday in Abuja. President Buhari recounted Danjuma’s record of service and dedication to the Nigerian Armed Forces as well as many other fields of endeavour in the country. He thanked the former Army chief for his lifetime devotion to humanitarian causes and kindness to the less privileged in the society. The President prayed the Almighty God to sustain the elder statesman with good health and happiness in the years ahead. The North’s governors, through its Chairman and Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong, saluted Danjuma in a message yesterday in Jos, the state capital, by the governor’s Director of Press and Public Affairs (DOPA), Dr. Makut Machan. Lalong described Danjuma as one of Nigeria’s finest soldiers, a philanthropist and statesman who has done a lot to promote the unity, peace and development of the country. The governor added that the former Army chief, throughout his military career, had demonstrated professionalism, gallantry and patriotism in defending Nigeria’s territorial integrity in the various responsibilities he held. “The celebrant has impacted the lives of many citizens through his business mentoring initiatives and philanthropic lifestyle that had enabled many young people to start businesses and acquire education that has over time helped them to be independent. “His unwavering faith in Nigeria and consistency in offering wise counsel to various levels of government and support to organisations and institutions toward building a united, prosperous and peaceful Nigeria is glaring,” he said. Lalong, who wished Danjuma more years of good health and God’s protection, added that Northern governors would continue to tap from his wealth of experience in tackling insecurity and addressing other challenges in the region. In his goodwill message by the Media Officer of Goodluck Jonathan Foundation, Mr. Wealth Omonibo, the ex-President said: “On behalf of my family, I join your family, friends, and well-wishers to congratulate you on your 82nd birthday. “You are a patriot who has contributed greatly to promoting peace and defending the unity of Nigeria, having served as Chief of Army Staff and Minister of Defence at various administrations in our country. “Sir, I celebrate you for your unwavering passion and commitment to the progress and development of Nigeria. Even at retirement, you have continued to display great passion and commitment to the welfare of the people through the T. Y. Danjuma Foundation. “As you celebrate, I pray for more of God’s glory, strength and peace for you and your household. Happy birthday, sir.”