 His participation in the 2014 presidential primary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) reflected not only his assessment of himself but also his projection of himself.  He said his selling point was “Big Ideas.” “I am not a career politician and I am in politics for just one reason – to make the difference,” he explained ahead of the primary. “We need somebody that will take Nigeria from a third world country to a first world country… That is why I talk about big ideas.” He came last in the contest. There were five contenders, and the winner, Muhammadu Buhari, went on to win the 2015 presidential election, beating the incumbent president, Goodluck Jonathan of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).  Among the five APC presidential aspirants, Samuel Ndanusa Isaiah was the least experienced politically, but he exhibited notable energy and remarkable self-belief. His failure in 2014 may not have killed his presidential ambition. Nda-Isaiah died on December 11, aged 58. He was better known as the publisher of Leadership newspaper.  He studied pharmacy, but found fulfillment in journalism. After graduating from the then University of Ife, renamed Obafemi Awolowo University, in the 1980s, he first worked as a pharmacist. As a columnist for Daily Trust, and editorial board member, he attracted attention with his punchy style.  He later started a newsletter, Leadership Confidential, a precursor of Leadership newspaper. The Leadership Newspaper Group, which he founded in 2005, is a testimony to his crusading approach to journalism. His newspaper’s striking front-page editorial on the eve of America’s presidential election in November, headlined “Donald Trump Is a Danger to Nigeria’s Democracy,” reflected his patriotism and pro-democracy stance.  One account said the editorial attracted the attention of the head of America’s Abuja Consulate, leading to a visit by a team from the US embassy to Leadership’s corporate headquarters in Abuja. Nda-Isaiah was reported to have bluntly told the American visitors that President Trump was setting a bad example for democracy not only in Nigeria but also Africa. His book, Nigeria: Full Disclosure: Selected Writings on Governance, Democracy and Statecraft, May 1999 – March 2004, which he launched to raise funds for his newspaper publishing business, mirrored his focus in journalism.  Significantly, he had introduced a new newspaper called National Economy before his death, which demonstrated his business dynamism. He described himself as “a serial entrepreneur.”  “I have businesses that I started from scratch and have become institutions,” he said. His media business is perhaps the biggest institution he left behind. He showed his progressive orientation by associating himself with Buhari’s presidential campaign and handling its publicity in 2003. This was a decade before progressive political parties in the country merged to form the APC in 2013.  He was in the progressive camp when the historic merger happened, and till he died,which spoke volumes about his political consistency. His participation in the party’s presidential primary in 2014, against Buhari, who he described as his “role model and political boss,” showed his courage and sense of independence. An alumnus of Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy at National University of Singapore, he was passionate about helping to develop his country. He was a member of the Global Institute for Tomorrow, an Asian think-tank in Hong Kong.  His trajectory showed not only his interest in leadership but also his preparation for leadership. Born in Minna, in present-day Niger State, Nda-Isaiah held the traditional title of Kakaki Nupe, the spokesperson for the Nupe people. He was also Aare Baaroyin of Akure Kingdom, another traditional title based on his media accomplishments. His legacy in journalism bears witness to his interest in ideas as well as his concern about the country’s underdevelopment.