 TWELVE members of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) serving in Yobe State  have tested positive for the COVID-19 virus at the ongoing orientation camp at Dazigau. Commissioner for Health Dr. Mohammed Lawan  Gana stated this at the training of civil society organisation (CSOs) and ward development committees (WDCs) in the development of strategies to monitor the provision of essential services for COVID-19 response. The training, which was held at Postiskum town, was sponsored by Lafiya UK Aid Programme. But, the Yobe State NYSC Coordinator, Mrs. Grace Adzer, denied having any case of Coronavirus in her orientation camp. In a short text message, Mrs. Adzer said: “This report is not true. My camp is cleared. All Corps members are negative plus the staff.”  The commissioner, who was represented by the state Deputy Co-Chair of NYSC Rapid Responses, Abdullahi Ali Danchuwa,  also stated that about 15 health workers in the state have also tested positive to the virus. Danchuwa, while giving an update on the NYSC Camp as at December 12, said 678 samples were collected at the camp, with 12 active cases in isolation at the camp. He said: “We have recorded 108 confirmed cases of COVID-19. The problem  is that people shy away from giving out samples for testing . Fifteen health workers have tested positive. Nguru town is leading in COVID-19 cases with 30, followed by Damaturu with 24, Bade (18), Potiskum (seven), Fika (four), Karasuwa (four) and Gulani (three). Yunusari and Jakusko, however, have not recorded any case.” Danchuwa called on the people to join hands with the government to fight the spread of the virus. He urged the participants to partner with the state government to reduce the spread of the transmission in the state. “Together we can reduce this rate and improve the health of our people,” he said. Lafiya-UK aid Programme Public Health Response Officer, COVID-19, Babayo Abubakar Abba, said several known Coronaviruses have been in  circulation in animals that have not yet infected humans.