 THE Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has emphasised the need for better preparedness to wade off  resurgence of COVID-19 and any other potential pandemics. Its Director-General, Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu, spoke on Monday at a Ministerial Health Sector Media Engagement on the Path to Universal Health Coverage (UHC) in Abuja. Ihekweazu said  the nation must adequately prepare to face any emerging disease outbreak. He disclosed a new health security architecture that would be coordinated by the agency to be delivered by states to prevent, detect and respond to disease outbreaks. He suggested  five health security designs that could help boost such preparedness. “They include stronger health security at sub national level and a laboratory network surveillance system. “Improved one health approach for disease prevention detection and response. “Stronger coordinations and collaboration across sectors , government levels, partners. “Stable, substantial and sustainable funding for health security and better preparedness for the pandemic which is to come,” he said. The NCDC boss said the agency’s vision was that every state in the country would have a workable public health laboratory to serve Nigerians. According to him, the mission of the agency is to protect the health of Nigerians through evidence based prevention, integrated disease surveillance and response activities, using a one health approach, guided by research and led by a skilled workforce. “We are working toward a healthier and safer Nigeria through the prevention and control of diseases of public health importance. “A conductive working environment with effective systems, enabling a motivated workforce. “ Accurate estimate of the burden of defined diseases and conditions in Nigeria in order to inform public health response and meet international obligations as member of the WHO. “ A public health laboratory service and network, effective service and network effectively supporting the detection, prevention and responses to infectious diseases of public health importance in Nigeria and contributing to regional public health capacity. “The NCDC’s mission is also to reduce adverse impact of disease outbreaks, public health emergencies and disaster, and create an efficiently managed and evidence based prevention system,” he explained. 