 You have just been reappointed as the APC Chairman in Imo State. This is the second missionary journey in the APC. What are you are bringing into party to make a difference this second time? I feel happy for the privilege of being reappointed. I want to thank the Governor Hope Uzodimma for having the confidence in me and asking me to continue despite what has been happening in the party. Our plan is to bring consolidation, peace into the party and to carry everybody along to make sure the APC becomes a household name in Imo. We will try as much as we can to work for the people. The APC is still in crisis in Imo state. How do you intend to consolidate? Now a governor has emerged; a party chairman has also emerged. We are appealing to everybody to sheathe their swords, forget their struggle for power and work for the common interest of our people. Politics is not war. Yes, we know that even in your family meeting, among your children, there must be some people who will always feel you must do things their way. But, we want to plead with everybody to join hands with the party and President Muhammadu Buhari to move the country forward for the sake of what the nation is going through now. Are you satisfied with the strategy the Buni-led committee has adopted to move the party forward? Yes, the party is moving progressively forward. We have appointed an interim National Working Committee led by the Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni. After evaluating their performance, the leadership felt that they should be given another six months to lead. As I am talking to you, I know that the NWC is reaching out to our people in preparation for the congress. In most cases, we had always put congress very close to the primaries. This has not been healthy. The crisis during congress will then impact on the primaries. This is what we are trying to avoid; so that we elect a national working committee before the primaries. Is this a new strategy adopted by the party? Yes. It will help the party avoid spill over crisis. You were a foundation member of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) before joining the APC. Can you tell us how you started your political career? I didn’t start politics with the PDP. I started my political career with the late Sam Mbakwe. I was his financier at that time during the NPP and NPN era. I was a young man then. I have worked hard to see what we can do to solve the problems of our people. So, my political career did not start in the PDP. As a young man in 1969, I was part of the people that did everything possible to see that the Southeast survived. After that, I had an idea about power and position. If you look at what is happening in the PDP in Imo State where you were two times chairman, it appears as soon as you left the party everything collapsed. What is responsible for this? I don’t think it is true. I am just one person. What happened was that everybody has their own ways of handling issues. Political office is not everything; it is a means to an end and when you are there you have to do everything humanly possible to be honest and straightforward. When you say yes, let it be yes. Some people think politics is a place where you deceive people. No, politics is a place you tell the truth. If you are not honest, you will not gain the confidence of the people. If you deceive people today, tomorrow you won’t be able to do so again because they would have known your pranks. So, I played my part and left the race for others. But, one must have the ability to know when to adjust and carry the people along. It all depends on your intention of aspiring for a particular position. Is it to help your people or it is just an ego trip or you are just interested in playing pranks. It all depends on what you want to achieve. Today, the APC has two governors in Southeast. Do we expect more governors decamping before 2023? If you are to be given power (in 2023) you must be a member of the party. We expect that more governors from Southeast will defect to the APC on or before 2023, so that whatever we are asking for will be justified. Our people have shown enough support, even when they say we didn’t support the APC in previous elections. At least, we stopped the PDP from doing something funny in the region. The emergence of President Buhari had our support, if not the PDP would have overran the whole place. APC members made sure there were no over bloated of figures during the election. Secondly, as the Ebonyi Governor Dave Umahi rightly said, he supported President Buhari as an individual even when he was with the PDP. At least, he gave him the 25 per cent which he needed to win. So, anybody saying that the APC is not in Southeast doesn’t know what he is saying. Umahi said it himself that during the 2019 presidential election that he supported Buhari. This was why he made the required 25 per cent in Ebonyi State. Even in Anambra or Enugu, the president made the mandatory 25 o’er cent votes to win. In fact, we should be given our rightful place for making everything possible to make sure that President Buhari got the required votes in the Southeast. That’s a very big achievement. Are you in support of shifting the president to the South in 2023? Not only to the South, but to the Southeast in particular. I am in support of the Southeast getting a shot at the presidency come 2023. We have a lot of brilliant people who can manage the affairs of this nation very well. Secondly, the Igbo live in every part of this country and have made tremendous contributions to the growth and development of this country. So, they deserve a chance. The APC does not appear to know its candidate for the just concluded bye-election in Imo North senatorial zone. What’s the situation? Well, the APC has won the election. We hope that in the next couple of days now, Frank Ibezim would be declared because that’s the candidate of the party; that’s the candidate of the National Working Committee, the person they forwarded his name to INEC. Senator Ifeanyi Ararume is a man I have respect for. If he has gone through the process and really won the election, there is no way we won’t have supported him. I stood by him during his political crisis. What about the issue of certificate falsification raised by the Federal High Court, Abuja against him? I have known Frank Ibezim since he was a young man; his father was one of the biggest players in the business world. I screened his certificates myself. We went into the computer to check his documents. So, I don’t know what they mean by falsification of result. He has the basic qualification and obtained his West African School Certificate either in 1980 or 1981.  