Agency Reporter Abike Dabiri-Erewa, the Chairman, Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM) has appealed for calm over the arrest of two Nigerian superstars by the Uganda police at the weekend. Two Nigerian musicians, Stanley Omah Didia a.ka Omah Lay and Temilade Openiyi a.k.a Tems were arrested for alleged violation of Ugandan COVID-19 laws. Erewa, who was responding to #FreeTemsandOmahLay, a call by Nigerian artistes and other Nigerians, said in her official Twitter @Abikedabiri that they are making diplomatic progress. “Thank you. Tremendous diplomatic progress has been made and they will be back v v soon by God’s grace. NAN recalled that Peter Okoye, one of the Psquare brothers had tweeted last night @PeterPsquare that he called Abike on the phone who assured him of the duo’s soonest release. Others, who protested the arrest and demanded their immediate release at their various social media pages include Burna Boy, Naira Marley, Don Jazzy, Funke Akindele, Phyno, Davido and Wizkid. The duo were on Monday charged to Magistrates’ Court and remanded in custody for allegedly committing an act capable of spreading COVID-19. It was reported that Tem had been on a hunger strike since their arrest. Omah Lay, a Port Harcourt based Nigerian music singer, on Monday confirmed their arrest in Uganda on the invitation to that city for a show. He alleged that they were handcuffed in Uganda. Oman Lay made this known in his official Twitter handle “@ Omah Lay”, where he wrote “I am in cuffs in Uganda with Tems and they are treating us like we killed someone. “Uganda is not letting Nigeria Ministry of Foreign Affairs step into this? “They have been trying to secure our release to no avail,” he said. According to the police in Uganda, they entertained a huge crowd, after the health authority in that state warned against any gathering to avoid Coronavirus. Oman Lay assured his fans that everything would be fine. “Yes, I’m with the Uganda police something about the show from last night. “Everything would be fine,” he tweeted. The news was broken by Ugandan journalist, Canary Mugume. He wrote in a tweet “Just in: Nigerian Artist Omah lay has been arrested by Katwe police, together with the manager of the venue where he performed from last night. “Dungu Ivan and the Events manager Prim Kasana, all are in custody, a Twitter handle @Lukowoyesigyire confirms.” Public Relations Officer, SP Patrick Onyango also confirmed the incident saying three officers were also arrested for neglect of duty. “They were arrested after a show, where both performed at the Big Brunch, which was held at Speke Resort, Wavamunno Rd, Kampala, Uganda. “The Uganda police confirmed the arrest saying that they were arrested for breaking the COVID-19 protocols. “They are said to be held at Katwe Police Station in Kampala as their files are being processed so that they could appear in court,’’ their statement reads.  (NAN)