A group of billionaires in Anambra state has vowed not to be deterred by what it termed frustrations from the Governor Willie Obiano-led government to its efforts in contributing to the development of the state. The group known as Anambra Progressives and Development Union (APDU), raised concerns over the government’s refusal to give approval for its construction of health facilities in the state. Speaking during the commissioning of an ultra-medical center donated to Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, Chairman of the group in diaspora, Dr. Peter Nwosu accused the state government of denying his organization from establishing a COVID-19 isolation and treatment centers at Nwafor Orizu College of Education, Nsugbe. He said the group had planned to build three hospitals in the three senatorial zones in the state, but regretted that the move was stalled following government refusal to allocate land to them. He said, “The government interference stalled the medical centre for Anambra North we started at Nsugbe with over N10million already committed to the project. Notwithstanding, we’re going on to build the facility at a mission owned property in Onitsha. “Majority of us in the diaspora wish to return home but are not willing due to poor health care in the country. Yet, the government is stopping projects we plan establishing which we believe will be beneficial both to the rich and poor as well as the economic yield to the state.” While dismissing alleged political coloration of the organization, Nwosu cautioned that projects of such magnitude should not be hindered by political interests, including non-allocation of land whether state or federal owned. He added, “We have pledged to fund the establishment of Medical Centers in every local government area of the state if the three established hospitals become effectively functional. We will also partner any governorship aspirant willing to support the progressive move for a better Anambra.” Meanwhile, Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), Nnamdi Azikiwe University Chapter has condemned alleged efforts by the State Government that frustrated plans by the Anambra Progressives to build an ultra-modern medical facility at Nwafor Orizu College of Education Nsugbe. The UNIZIK ASUU Chairman, Comrade Steven Ufoaroh, in a chat with newsmen, accused the state government of playing politics with the health of Anambra people. He described government’s position as an act of lack of concern for the plight of the poor people who could not afford overseas medical trips.