It is no longer news that Nigeria was driven to the brink of another war as a result of the #EndSARS protests and the mayhem that ensued following the “tragedy” at the Lekki Toll Gate. I have taken out time to read diverse versions of the story and glean people’s perception of the entire incident. It is sad to note that some forces have succeeded in turning Nigerians against Nigeria. A fact which I must warn here is the first step towards another civil war. And that negative perception is what made the citizens blind to the half-truths and the lies from both local and international media establishments on the #EndSARS protests. After going through that obverse report from CNN, I wondered what has become of social responsibility which media houses are sworn to. I pondered on the intentionality of that report and asked: what will CNN benefit if Nigeria implodes? Equally problematic is the fact that the government played into their hands by issuing hasty statements primarily driven by panic. For some of us, we saw through the malicious objectives of CNN because we started by looking at the intentions behind that ill-conceived report. There is no denying the fact that the Army were at the toll gate that evening and released shot on that fateful ay. However, I will share below critical areas of misinformation and lies in that CNN report which they put together from the comfort of their offices in Atlanta, United States. CNN titled their report: How a bloody night of bullets and brutality quashed a young protest movement, with a quote, “they pointed their guns at us and started shooting” referring to the Nigerian Army. However, and curiously, there was no mention of the Army in the opening paragraphs of that report. What we see is an eyewitness report that “the “Police” took his (Ibanga) body away”. What I deduced from that eyewitness report is that Ibanga was “killed” by the Police and his body taken away by the Police. The use of the Police here instead of the Army is intended to mislead. While the claim was that the Police took Ibanga’s body away (on line 7 of the report), CNN on line 17 of the same story said that bodies were taken away by the Army. You may wish to note that this is the only reference to the actual death of a protester as what we read subsequently are vague and sweeping statements from CNN. For instance, we read that, “the Ibangas are one of several families…” According to the report, the first use of the term massacre was in quotation marks. This style of writing is used when you choose not to own the information so presented. If CNN is 100% sure of the intelligence they claim they have; they would have removed the quotation marks. But of course, there could not have been a massacre without bodies and the relations of the dead speaking out. Recall that earlier, the CNN through its verified Twitter handle had claimed that 35 people died. The question is, why are they not sticking with that initial report? The introductory part of the CNN report was followed by those initial statements by the government, which to me was a big blunder as it made them lose credibility and pitted the masses against the government. The resultant effect is that the citizens struggled to believe the government, even when they, the government is saying the truth. The entire CNN report was premised on this fact that Nigerians will rather believe CNN (irrespective of what they say) that were nowhere close to Lekki toll gate than the BBC which had a reporter on ground for most of the duration of the protest. To emphasize this fact, some Nigerians believed CNN who relied on eyewitnesses rather than an eyewitness (BBC). This is sad. For most of the report, CNN relied on USG (user-generated contents) videos and audio files and in a specific case, reported, “Verified video footage — using timestamps and data from the video files — shows soldiers who appear to be shooting in the direction of protesters”. This is another statement aimed to mislead. Even with the wealth of evidence they claim to possess, CNN never said the Army was shooting at the protesters. What they said was that the Army “appear to be shooting at the protesters” In Semiotics, those two are miles apart in meaning. This was followed by another piece of misleading information. “Peace Okon, 24, hasn’t seen her younger brother Wisdom, 18, since he went to the protest the night of the shooting”, CNN reported. Again, what this implies is that Peace Okon’s brother is missing. It never said he was shot by the Police or the Army or died at the Lekki Toll Gate. Naturally, the human brain seeks to fill gaps when issues are not noticeably clear. And in this case, the brain simply assumed Peace Okon’s brother was shot by the Army or Police even when CNN never said so. This is another deadly style of writing. This was followed by another piece of information that I consider right: the reasons for the protests, how long it has lasted and government response to the request of the protesters. But again, it ended by telling the gullible masses that this is the fourth time government is disbanding SARS. What CNN also succeeded in doing here is to cast doubt on the credibility of the government. That the Nigerian government is not an institution to be believed and that the protest should continue. This again aligns with the overall plan to widen the fault lines between the government and her citizens. Another section of the report went thus: “Testimony from dozens of eyewitnesses and family members interviewed by CNN and a forensic examination of hours of video and dozens of photographs captured before, during and after the two shooting incidents show how a fledgeling protest movement was all but extinguished by the very thing Nigerians were demonstrating against”. My question is: what exactly did these dozens of eyewitnesses and family members testify to? What can “family members” who must have been at home testify to? Let’s take them one after another. CNN that was never on the ground at Lekki but leveraging satellite imagery reported that “Army Trucks” (plural) left Bonny Camp…” and approached the protesters from both sides and thus barricading them”, but went on to report the following: “Two eyewitnesses told CNN they saw soldiers arriving in a Toyota Hilux pickup truck with “OP Awatse” written on it — the name of a joint military task force that operates in Lagos State”. Note that the eyewitness reported a (singular) Pick Up Truck. CNN never bothered to explain the disparity here because army trucks can never be the same as a Hilux Van. The difference might seem insignificant but in the present situation and scenario, speaks volumes about the intent of the report. Then came the infamous testimony of DJ Switch. She said the military started shooting at the protesters without warning and panic ensued with protesters attempting to escape. However, another CNN eyewitness (Sarah) claimed that the Soldiers fired into the air but also at the protesters. CNN used the terms “terror” and “chaos” to describe the events at the toll gate. What I find curious from the report is that while the shooting was going on, some protesters were chanting, “We are peaceful protesters” and “End SARS, we no go gree”. But most important is the fact that the DJ was so calm and collected amid CNN’s terror and chaos to shoot her video that didn’t tell us anything. This is where I expect Nigerians to use their God-given analytical sense to understand what must have transpired. First of all, the crowd was massive, and as the Army approached, only those in the frow rows would have seen them very well and heard whatever they said. Those at the centre of the crowd might not know what was happening in front. The Army would have warned the protesters to leave which is why the protesters chanted, “we no go gree” (of course, you cannot shout we no go gree to someone shooting at you). As the protesters refused to leave, the soldiers would have shot into the air triggering the panic and stampede from the centre and which would have led to the wounds sustained by some of the protesters. My point is that no one, not even a trained soldier, will stand in the face of gunfire! Secondly, it does not make sense for the soldiers to shoot live bullets into a protesting crowd. If some protesters were seen carrying bodies, it must be of those hurt in the stampede. And if the DJ was that bold to drag and drop the dead bodies of protesters in front of the soldiers, it means the Army never shot at the protesters. And even DJ switch shared videos of a protester being resuscitated which proved that the situation on the ground didn’t warrant that they all scamper for safety. If the environment weren’t safe enough, DJ Switch and Co could not have taken out time to tend to the wounded. And no one (unless you are suicidal) walks toward that enemy who intends to take your life. I can imagine the DJ interviewing a solder in that “terror and chaos” according to CNN report: DJ Switch: “…why are you killing us? Why are you doing this?” Soldier: “I am acting on orders from above.” As far as I am concerned and based on the CNN report, DJ Switch lied. And that was poor reporting from a “world acclaimed news station”. Note that I also saw the picture of dead Mathew as shared by CNN and which they claim they got from Satellite imagery and geolocation. But a second look at that image shows that the body was moved to that location. This is because if Mathew died on that sport, one should be able to see spatters of blood on the floor around him based on the amount of blood on his shirt. So where did he fall, who moved the body, and again, why is the family silent? Another eyewitness, Legend stated: “I couldn’t count how many dead because I was running for my life.” If this is true, where then did CNN get the 35 dead protesters it reported earlier. And the same Legend claimed the shooters were SARS personnel because of their uniform which he could identify easily because his Dad is a Policeman. And I ask, what happened to the Soldiers? CNN eyewitness report claimed that ambulances were prevented from reaching the scene. Meanwhile, the videos they claimed to have analyzed had sounds of ambulances in the background. This is another half-truth aimed to cause disharmony. CNN claimed that bullets used at the scene were manufactured in Serbia, but I read that the Nigerian military locally produces ammunition for their rifles. As a media and communication scholar, I am fully aware of the capabilities of Satellite Imagery and Geolocation on which CNN based their report to a large extent. This technology was utilized fully to show in detail the movement of the Soldiers from Bonny camp through Ozumba Mbadiwe Street, Victoria Island to Lekki Tollgate. What I find curious is why the same technology was “switched off” such that it couldn’t show us the trip back to base (Bonny camp) or to the hospitals where the report claims the wounded were taken to. Finally, I must say here that I am not a technology expert and that what I did here is simply a textual analysis of the CNN report. I condemn the government for the poor handling of communication during the crisis but praised them for the tact they deployed in handling a situation that could have led to a massive uprising and subsequently, to another civil war. I also urge CNN to have a rethink in this practice of instigating crisis across developing nations. The case of Saddam Hussein and Gaddafi, leaders who CNN wrongly branded as evil and who lost their lives as a result, is still fresh on our minds. Such noxious and damaging reportage practices go against all the known principles of ethics and social responsibility.