The Odua’s Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (ODUACCIMA) recently elected a new set of leaders to pilot the affairs of the chamber for the next two years. At the end of the exercise, Prince Kayode Adeyëmi of Osun Chamber of Commerce and Industry emerged as the body’s new President. The position of the chamber’s 1st Deputy is President is Dr. Oluwatoyin Ojelabi, while the 2nd Deputy President went to Alhaji Wasiu Olaleye of Ogun Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Mrs. Dupe Olakunle of Ondo Chamber of Commerce and Industry emerged as the body’s Treasurer. The position of Deputy Treasurer went to Alhaji Olufemi Hassan of Ekiti Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry would fill the position of the body’s Auditor. While the chamber’s immediate past President Chief Kola Akosile would serve as the body’s ex-offico. In his acceptance speech, the new President Prince Kayode Adeyëmi promised to build on the good legacies of the former leaders, thanking members for working tirelessly to keep the South West Organised Private Sector very strong. The ODUACCIMA boss promised to work with other leaders in the region to help revive the moribund industries in the region, adding that he will bring new innovation to the region business community. Adeyëmi said his administration will do all within their powers to take the business sector to the next level, promising to announce the date for the investiture of the new executive by early January of 2021. In his remarks , the former President Chief Kola Akosile thanked all the past leaders and his executive for their support in helping him to lay a sound foundation for the chamber. Akosile pledged to support the new administration to enable them achieve their vision for the business community in the South West region. The Director General Mr David Awotipe, noted that the fisire of the Secretariat is to assist the new executive deliver on their mandate to the business community of the region . Present at the occasion were the were Otunba Dele Oye, the 2nd Deputy President of the National Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture ( NACCIMA) and a host of other Captains of Industry of the Organised Private Sector ( OPS) from the south West Region and a host of other dignitaries.