The Centre for Basic Rights Protection and Accountablilty Campaign (CBRAC) and the Rivers State Police Command, have condemned the killings of one Mr. Jimoh Abiodun, by a policeman. The Commissioner of Police in the State, Joseph Mukan, said the suspect, whose name was not disclosed, had been subjected to psychological evaluation. It was gathered that the policeman killed Abiodun on Saturday around Elelenwo Community, Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of the state for an unknown reason. The father of three children was reportedly killed in front of a police station in the area. The Coordinator of the rights group, Prince Wiro, called on the commissioner of Police in the state to intervene in the matter. Wiro said: “We are calling for a thorough investigation into the circumstances that led to the shooting to death of Mr Jimoh Abiodun, father of three children by a Police Officer attached to Elelewon Police Divisional Police headquarters in the wee hours of Saturday December 19th, 2020 at the front of Elelewon Police Division. “We urge the Commissioner of Police in the state CP Joseph Mukan to ensure perpetrators are brought to book. We condemn the trend of killing of innocent citizens by Police officers in Rivers State and call for an end to the senseless killings.” The State Police Command in statement signed by the Public Relations Officer, SP. Nnamdi Omoni, condemned the killing saying the police had commenced investigations into the incident. Omoni said following the directives of the police commissioner, the suspect had been debriefed, detained and would soon be prosecuted. Omoni said: “The Commissioner of Police, CP Joseph G. Mukan has condemned in the strongest terms, the killing of a civilian by a Police Sergeant serving at Elelenwo Police Station. “The sad incident happened at the Station, where the Sergeant without justification shot the Victim, Abiodun Jimoh who was immediately rushed to the Hospital but later died. His remains have been deposited in the Mortuary. “The incident is being investigated and the outcome will be communicated to the public. Meanwhile the Police Sergeant who carried out the dastardly act is in custody for debriefing and psychological evaluation. His Orderly Room Trial will commence in ernest, for possible arraignment.”