GOING down the trajectory of history, young ones on significant happenings we missed before we were born, Babatunde Fadun, in his memoir, reaffirms to us that history should be licensed and not silenced. It features Fadun’s stories published in major newspapers in Nigeria and America, including ThisDay, Punch, The Guardian, among others, from the 70’s till the new millennium. The book empowers both the young and old with a thorough sense of responsibility to pass the lit torch on to generations, so they may neither falter in their footsteps nor stutter in their spoken words. “Thoughts of Babatunde Fadun” penciled down by former banker and administrator, gives a complete chronology of some “watershed” moments in the Nigerian history, typically based on the experiences and activities of key players who were disruptive and how their examples are resolutely relevant and shaped conversations and consciousness even till date. In volume one,  with the theme: “Awo is 64 tomorrow, published on Daily Sketch, dated March 5, 1973, Chief Obafemi Awolowo’s rise from very humble beginnings to becoming one of the most regarded pioneering figures in politics and education is captured thus: “His (Awolowo) is a unique instance of how a person can rise from very humble beginning to the very top in his chosen field. With father’s death, the ambition that has been planned for Obafemi had failed. Poignantly describing the rise and fall of Richard Nixon in Volume 8, the author recounts that Nixon, a dexterous negotiator with a broad knowledge of world affairs, especially in Vietnam and China. The foreword written by legal luminary, Femi Falana (SAN), describes Fadun’s writing as both universal and nationalistic. “He passionately writes about foreign affairs as depicted in the various chapters, giving us an insight into the depth of the analytic mind of the political thoughts of the author. This makes the book to be proactive in nature as it connects the construction of reality in Nigeria and beyond”. Former President Olusegun Obasanjo is described as “Nurse of Democracy”, whose Obasanjo’s efforts towards peace building, peace keeping and independence of fellow West African countries is commendable. Fadun in his typically expository narrative, describes how globally accepted and the appeal OBJ’s tenure created. “I can recall quite well back in the former University of Ife, now Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife as an undergraduate, the former president was invited to attend a roundtable of the staff club of the university. “While fielding questions from the academics, OBJ was questioned about his involvement in a particularly controversial issue involving workers by a professor who introduced himself as a “professor of flowering plants”.  Obasanjo responded, in a most dismissive manner: ‘Well, I don’t expect much from a professor of flowering plants”. This led to a war of words between the two elders; it took the intervention of the Vice Chancellor, Prof. Bamitale Omole to calm the fractious nerves.”       