A South East group, Igbo Peoples Alliance for Development (IPAD) has flayed the recent media reports suggesting that a frontline candidate for the forthcoming Ohanaeze Ndigbo presidency, Prof. George Obiozor was hospitalized due to severe ill health. The reports, mainly on social media and local newspapers, had suggested that Obiozor slumped and was carried out unconscious during the Ohanaeze meeting at Ime-Obi in Enugu. Addressing a press conference in Owerri, the Imo State capital, the national president of IPAD, Sir Ambrose Obioha, described the reports as fake news and deliberate disinformation, saying the group already understood the circumstances and likely root of its propagation. According to Obioha, there was no such incident during the meeting at Ime-Obi venue, because IPAD, as a group, was on the ground at the said venue and was utterly shocked at the mendacious report in circulation. “We state without fear of equivocation that nothing could have been further from the truth than these tissues of lies. “We categorically state that Amb. Prof. George Obiozor is hale and hearty and there is no cause for alarm. We cannot put such demeaning prank beyond our politicised detractors,” he said. Obioha condemned the failed plot to denigrate the person and sterling stature of Prof. Obiozor by persons who, in a bid to gain mileage in the forthcoming Ohanaeze Ndigbo leadership election, might deploy diabolical and unconventional options. He said, “We state that such willful circulation of hastily contrived gibberish against a global citizen in the standing of Prof. Obiozor, just to score a perceived political point, is mischief taken too far. “The ill intention of those spreading the fake news of the purported hospitalisation of Prof. Obiozor was made rather too obvious by the fact that while Prof. Obiozor was still inside the venue of the Ime-Obi, he was inundated with calls from people who were far from the venue but had also heard the fake news suggesting he suddenly took ill and had to be hospitalized. “Obiozor is already in the race to salvage Igbo land and there is no going back. He is the front runner in this race, with the blessings of Igbo people across the board. “Prof. Obiozor will not go to the gutters with any person or group because of the Ohanaeze Ndigbo leadership election, but would instead pursue his mandate standing firm on his cardinal principles of forthrightness, integrity, peace and brotherlines.”