A middle aged woman, Ifeoma Otubo had reportedly committed suicide in Ebonyi State. It was learnt that she hung herself on a bush mango tree behind her house at Okposi Umuoghara, in Ezza North local government area of the state on Sunday A brother to the diseased, Christopher Oyibo said the 45 years old mother of five, had some time in 2014 attempted to commit suicide because of hardship but was rescued by people who spotted her. Before she took her life at the early hours of Sunday, she had lamented that she was finding it difficult to take care of her five children. Her first child is said to be about 25years. According to a source from the community, the deceased and family were displaced from the Ezza/Eziulo protracted communal war in Ishielu local government area of the state. “She was among the people displaced by Ezza/Eziulo war. She returned to her father’s house having been displaced by the communal war together with the husband and children but since that time, life has not been easy on them. “About five years ago she attempted suicide but was stopped by people who saw her. But this time around, the husband said he entered his room because they were given two rooms by the wife’s family, so he entered his room while she the deceased entered into her room with the children. “So very early in the morning when the children woke up to ease themselves they saw their mother hanging on the mango tree behind their house. “It was said that the diseased during her first suicide attempt gave hardship as reason because before the war they were living well and had a personal business shop she was managing but when they relocated to the fathers’ house at Umuoghara they became small farmers and life became hard.” Spokesman of the Police in the state, Loveth Odah, confirmed the report. Odah, who described the incident as unfortunate, conveyed the CP’s heartfelt condolences to the people. She urged the IDPs not to lose hope noting that the government is working hard to resettle them and better their living. She pointed out that the Ezza/Eziulo crisis has defied many peace processes but the state government is working to resettle the IDPs.