A 20-year old mother, Faith Alhassan has been arrested in Kaduna for killing her one-year-old daughter, allegedly to enable her to marry her former boyfriend who was not ready to accept her with a baby. Faith, who is a Secondary School certificate holder, however, said that, until she carried out the dastardly act and saw the dead body of her daughter, she did not know what she did. Kaduna State Police command disclosed that on 28th December 2020 at about 0700hrs, the corpse of a baby girl was found in a well at Gantan village of Kachia local government area of the State. The police further informed that, upon receipt of the report, an investigation was carried out and it was discovered that the mother of the dead baby girl ‘Faith Alhassan’ was the culprit. According to the police, the culprit went into Gantan village with the baby girl to meet her former boyfriend by the name Dolan Yakubu whom she jilted years back. She equally told the police that it was when Dolan’s father complained of the baby that she quietly in the night went and dumped the baby into the well where the baby died apparently for her to be able to marry her ex-boyfriend. The culprit however denied her earlier statement told the police when she simply said she doesn’t know what came over her when interviewed. Speaking to journalists at the Kaduna State Police Command headquarters where she is currently undergoing investigation, she however denied that she killed her daughter because she wanted to marry her former boyfriend whom she had jilted some years back. The young lady who said she stays with her grandmother, also disclosed she doesn’t know the whereabouts of her dead daughter’s father. When asked why she was at the police command, she said, “I am here because of my daughter that I threw into the well and she died, I don’t know what came over me when I carried out the act”. Asked whether it was because she wanted to marry her ex-boyfriend that she killed her daughter, she said ” I did not kill her because I want to marry, I just don’t know what entered me, I am not happy for doing it” as she burst into tears. Meanwhile, the Kaduna State Police Commissioner CP Umar M. Muri said, she will be arraigned in court upon completion of the investigation.