Respite came the way of no fewer than twelve nursing mothers in various hospitals in Nnewi, Anambra state when a group of Nnewi indigenes resident in Atlanta, United States of America picked their bills. The indigent mothers who delivered babies at the hospitals were discharged but were still in the facilities following their inability to offset their bills. The benefactors stormed the Nnamdi Azikiwe University Teaching Hospital (NAUTH), with huge sums of money and cleared the bills of eight mothers with their newborn babies. Some of the mothers were delivered twins and triplets that were sent to the special baby care unit where they were managed. Representatives of the philanthropists, Mrs. Grace Okeke, a retired Assistant Director of Nursing at NAUTH; Mrs Chioma Egbonu and Mrs Tawa Anigbogu, while moving around the maternal and child care unit of the hospital, said those were the categories the benefactors had more interest in. “We came here on behalf of Nnewi indigenes resident in Atlanta, USA. It has been an annual event because they do send some help to alleviate the sufferings of the indigent patients especially involving the maternal and child care, mother and baby, those that delivered but they cannot afford to offset their bills.  “They are the people the benefactors are more interested in. That’s why we are here to clear their bills. We did so at special baby care unit where we have some of the babies that are ill, premature babies but their mothers are still in line-in wards because they could not afford to pay their bills,” said Coordinator of the team, Mrs Okeke. The team which also visited Immaculata Hospital, Okwuani in the industrial town where four patients benefited from the rescue mission, said the rescue mission was the third in the series. “The first was in 2018, followed by 2019 and now this 2020 edition. The same Nnewi residents in Atlanta during the Covid-19 lockdown sent in palliatives for hundreds of widows and other less privileged in Nnewi to cushion the effect of the lockdown. All the beneficiaries at both hospitals, burst into tears of joy, saying they had remained in a confused state over how the bills would be cleared until the gesture came. Earlier, Deputy Chairman, Medical Advisory Committee of NAUTH, Dr Ezejiofor Ogochukwu on behalf of the management lauded the benefactors for thinking home and enjoined others in the diaspora to emulate them.