A real estate firm, Lifepage Group has rewarded the winners of its Millionhomes bounty offer with cars, apartments, and a trip to Dubai. In commemoration of the nation’s 60th independence anniversary, Millionhomes, a subsidiary of Group, announced a 60 days independence bounty offer where anyone who subscribes to her products with a minimum of N100,000 stands the chance of winning fantastic prizes like a two-bedroom apartment, an all-expense-paid trip to Dubai, home furnishings, and a car. Rewarding the lucky winners, an event tagged ‘the gratitude party’ was held on December 3, to celebrate outstanding clients, members of staff, marketing partners as well as investors. Four lucky winners went home with a Toyota Forerunner car, Home furnishing, an all-expense-paid trip to Dubai, and a 2-bedroom apartment each. Also, four top marketing partners were presented with a 2-bedroom apartment, Exotic cars, while 18 other excellent partners won a couple’s getaway at a resort. Presenting the prize, the Group CEO of Lifepage Group, Oladipupo Clement urged participants to tap from the company’s promo. Clement said part of the company’s long-term goal is to create one million affordable, acceptable, and accessible homes across Africa. “The company will continue to create more platforms to improve people’s standard of living, as well as help to fund their already existent lifestyle with her products and offers,” he said. Managing Director of Millionhomes, Francis Ajilore emphasized that people should take advantage of the opportunities available. According to him, the launch of their latest housing project – ‘Orange Terraces’ in Millennium Estate Gbagada, alongside investment options, with up to 100 percent returns on investment is an offer that has never been heard of before. Reiterating the importance of being a real estate investor, Opeoluwa Oni highlighted that “although people are changing and the market is fast-changing, the demand for real estate will continue to increase.”