A mild drama ensued at the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Social Development Secretariat (SDS) at the weekend when a girl refused attempts to reunite with her aged father. Six-year-old Ufedo Suleiman had been in custody of the FCT Children Home for six months following a custody battle between her foster father, Sule Usman, and family of her late foster mother, Salamatu Suleiman. The woman’s family had petitioned the Gender Department of the SDS to rescue Ufedo from Usman and his biological children, alleging molestation and abuse. It was gathered that the FCT Family Court earlier ruled in Usman’s favour but the deceased’s sister, Ms. Victoria Ekpa, insisted the child will be in danger if reunited into the family. Ekpa, who spoke for the family, insisted that Usman has no right over a child whose adoption he objected. She said the adoption papers presented by Usman were forged to allow him custody rights and, by extension, claims to the landed properties the deceased left for her child. “Alhaji Usman never accepted this child because he said it was against his religious beliefs to adopt a child or even bequest properties to them. My sister however insisted because she wanted a child that will take care of her in old age. My sister went to the City of Refuge Orphanage Durumi where she adopted a child. “She started making plans for her child when Usman’s wives and children started mocking her for not having a biological child of her own. That act made her realise that her child will never be accepted or taken care of after her demise. She bought one of her husband’s properties in Dawaki which she was developing before her death.” she said. According to Ekpa, the family would appeal the judgment and she wants Nigerians to rescue Ufedo from the danger she is about to be sent into. “Releasing this girl to an 82-year-old man is not right. He never accepted this child and now that my sister is late, he is claiming the child because of the properties she left behind. As a family, we are not interested in the properties; all we want is Ufedo’s safety. “I call on Mrs. Aisha Buhari, Minister of Women Affairs and NAPTIP to come into this matter,” she added. But Usman, a retired Assistant Director of Accounts with the Ministry of Police Affairs, said Ufedo’s adoption process was legally followed through. Usman said: “My daughter was adopted seven days after her birth. I took sole responsibility of her upkeep throughout my wife’s life until some months ago when my wife’s sisters came to my house, took pictures of my daughter and manipulated them claiming maltreatment.” The father of 10 described the accusation by his late wife’s family as baseless and libellous; stressing that he is a responsible father who successfully trained all his children.