 Major-General Olusegun Adeniyi has become the latest victim of the social media guidelines as a military court martial found him guilty of violating military guidelines. He was equally ordered to be demoted by, at least, three years. Major-General Adeniyi was the officer formerly in charge of Lafiya Dole. Although the conviction is subject to confirmation by the military council, the mere fact of the conviction sends varied signals to the world. The conviction came months after a video of the general complaining about lack of military equipment to fight the dreaded Boko Haram in the North East of Nigeria went viral. The  general was complaining that the insurgents were better equipped than the Nigerian troops, noting also that the country lacked intelligence and that accounted for the death of some soldiers. He was subsequently removed from leading the Lafia Dole and suspended. Coming on the hills of his suspension was the charge of military social media violations against him. He however denied leaking the video. For an officer that performed creditably at his duty post, it was quite pathetic to see him fall. His military aide, Tokunbo Obanla, was also found guilty and sentenced to 28 days in jail with hard labour. We feel however that the source of the information is not as crucial as the veracity of the story. Was the leaked video the truth? Should the issue be about the source of the video or whether the story was factually correct? The Nigerian military seemed to be adept at begging the questions on such issues in the past, often leaving the substance of the story for more trivial sides. The military ought to know that the issue under reference is like an open secret. It must, beyond punishing the officers involved, spare the people the factual information because the series of dead soldiers are citizens with stakes in the country too. For a very long time, the rumour mill had been agog with the superior fire power of the insurgents and the number of deaths seems to buttress this particular fact. The Nigerian soldiers are no visiting troops from another nation. Some of the dead soldiers have hamilies who value their memories. It would amount to mere denial to say that Boko Haram insurgents do not have better military hardware. However, while we feel the laws of the military must be followed, we are equally glad that we practice democracy presently and  as such the officer ought to be availed all the legal aids he requires, both in the military and the regular courts. Beyond everything, the Nigerian military must work hard to renew the confidence of the troops through adequate provision of weapons. The series of deaths of Nigerian soldiers is an eloquent testimony of the superior military equipment of the insurgents and the series of ambushes that have claimed  several lives of both the troops and  civilians speak to the lack of valid intelligence on the war on terrorism. The strength of a country’s military equally serves as a deterrent to future attackers in any form. We suggest that the government take the fight against Boko Haram more seriously through the appointment of competent men and the provision of adequate equipment. The recent series of the massacre of over 43 farmers in the North East is unacceptable. The people must be made to feel free in their own country. The officer has indicated interest to appeal the verdict. We suggest he must be availed all the opportunities in a democracy to deal with his case and not be compelled to use only the military court martial. The world is watching our idea of democracy and each Nigerian, military or civilian, must be free to choose the best form of legal protection.