A 56-year old man, Mr Dominic Mba has been arraigned before an Onitsha Magistrate Court presided over by Magistrate Nneka Ozumba, on a three-count charge of false information to the Police, defamatory statement and forgery of shop documents against one Chief Ifeanyi Muo Felix. In charge No. MO 499c/2020, Commissioner of Police versus Dominic Mba, the accused pleaded not guilty when the case came up for mention. The charges read in part thus, “That you Dominic Mba, a male of No. 71 school road Iyiowa Odekpe, Ogbaru Local Government Area, on or about March 23, 2018, at Onitsha in the Onitsha Magisterial District did intentionally give information in writing which was forwarded to the Commissioner of Police, Anambra State Command that Chief Ifeanyi Muo Felix is a fraudster. “That he forged some documents which he used to defraud people. This you did which caused the Commissioner of Police Anambra state, a person employed in the Public service to direct Inspector George Onunze and team to use their lawful power as public servants to the injury and annoyance of Chief Ifeanyi Muo Felix, an act which they ought not to have done if the true facts of your information were known to them. “You thereby committed an offence punishable under section 154 (1) (b) of the Criminal code cap 36 vol. 11 Revised laws of Anambra state of Nigeria 1991” That you Dominic Mba of the above-named address, on or about the same date, place and in the aforementioned Magisterial District with intent to expose Chief Ifeanyi Muo Felix, to hatred, contempt, ridicule or injury to his reputation or damage his profession or trade by publishing a defamatory statement that he is a fraudster and that he forged some documents which he used to defraud people, a statement you know to be false at the time of making it. “You thereby committed an offence punishable under section 325 of the criminal code cap 36 vol. 11 Revised laws of Anambra state of Nigeria 1991. “That you Dominic Mba of the above address on or about the same date, place and in the aforementioned Magisterial District did forge some shops documents which you circulated the entire market purporting ownership by virtue of the forged documents thereby using same to be collecting money in the name of rent to unsuspecting persons with the intent that it may be used or acted upon as genuine to the prejudice of Chief Ifeanyi Muo Felix. “You thereby committed an offence punishable under section 443 (3) (e) of the criminal code cap 36 Vol. 11 Revised laws of Anambra state of Nigeria 1991. The matter was adjourned to 23rd February 2021 for further hearing. Speaking shortly, the accused expressed confidence that justice would prevail now that the matter had appeared in a court of competent jurisdiction. “It has been delay upon delay all through by the police to charge the matter to court but I thank God that finally, the matter is in the court, justice will prevail,” he said.