AN intensive care unit nurse in New York, United States (U.S.), Sandra Lindsay, became the first person in the country to receive the newly authorised Pfizer/BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine yesterday. She described it as a sign that “healing is coming” as the U.S. coronavirus death toll approaches 300,000. Lindsay, who has treated some of the sickest COVID-19 patients for months, was given the vaccine at Long Island Jewish Medical Centre in the New York City borough of Queens, an early epicentre of the country’s COVID-19 outbreak. She received applause on a live stream with New York Governor Andrew Cuomo. “It didn’t feel any different from taking any other vaccine,” Lindsay said. “I feel hopeful today, relieved. I feel like healing is coming. I hope this marks the beginning of the end of a very painful time in our history. I want to instil public confidence that the vaccine is safe,” she added. Cuomo tweeted a picture of Lindsay, wearing a mask and staring resolutely ahead, as a doctor injected her in the arm, and said she was the first American to get vaccinated. “This is what heroes look like,” Cuomo wrote. Minutes after Lindsay received the injection, President Donald Trump sent a tweet: “First Vaccine Administered. Congratulations USA! Congratulations WORLD!” Northwell Health, New York state’s largest health system, operates some of the select hospitals in the United States that were administering the country’s first inoculations of the COVID-19 vaccine outside of clinical trials yesterday. The vaccine, developed by Pfizer Inc and German partner BioNTech SE, won an emergency use authorisation from federal regulators on Friday after it was found to be 95% effective in preventing illness in a large clinical trial. The first 2.9 million doses began to be shipped to distribution centres around the country on Sunday, just 11 months after the United States documented its first case of COVID-19. As at yesterday, the United States had registered more than 16 million COVID-19 cases and was fast closing in on the grim milestone of 300,000 deaths from the virus. “It’s been an incredible morning. It’s historic,” said Dr. Leonardo Seoane, speaking over a live stream video yesterday after becoming one of the first Louisiana residents to receive the vaccine at Ochsner Medical Centre in New Orleans, where he led some of the clinical trials for the Pfizer shot. AN intensive care unit nurse in New York, United States (U.S.), Sandra Lindsay, became the first person in the country to receive the newly authorised Pfizer/BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine yesterday.