 Credite Capital Finance and Investment Limited has distributed total dividend of N35 million to its shareholders, including N15 million as cash dividends and N20 million as scrip dividend. At the Third     Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the finance company in Lagos, Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Segun Ogunleye said the company has made commendable progress. He said the company’s recorded a total asset of N1.49 billion for the financial year ended December 31, 2019 as against N1.21 billion recorded in the corresponding period of 2018, an increase of 23.1 per cent. “The report we have presented is the true position of the company in terms of the result and performance and we are on the right path.  We have been able to deploy technology to drive our business to engage in fintech services and to meet the needs and expectations of the investing public, as we identify our clients and carve a niche in our industry,” Ogunleye said. He noted that although this year has been marred with some not too palatable occurrences, it has been filled with opportunities. According to him, even with year 2020 being the way it has been, especially with the impact of COVID-19 and the aftermath of the #EndSARS protest, it is a year that has also been full of opportunities. “This same year, we ventured into public sector lending and the results are looking good. The organisation is also looking at venturing into mortgage bank financing and venture capital,” Ogunleye said. He also spoke on Credite Capital Finance’s progress in its corporate social responsibility (CSR) by engaging with schools, orphanages and people living with disabilities. “We have a programme for them, and even in our immediate environment, we look for ways to add value to the area where the company operates.  We are looking to have a scholarship programme in the near future and apart from the fact that we give money to some schools for their working capital, we give them support for their programmes.  We also have an orphanage that we provide for on a monthly basis in terms of utilities,” Ogunleye said. 