A hotel owner whose identity is yet-to-be unraveled has reportedly been arrested by personnel of 144 Battalion under 14 Brigade Headquarters of the Nigerian Army, Ohafia, Ohafia Local Government Area of Abia State over his involvement in the kidnap of one Mrs. Chinagorom Frank and her son. Mrs. Frank and her son were both kidnapped at Ozata-Etiti Asa in Ukwa West Local Government Area by gunmen operating on a motorbike after an attempt to kidnap her Husband; Frank failed. The Nation had reported that the kidnappers collected N400, 000 ransom before they could allow Mrs. Frank and son to rejoin their family members. Our correspondent gathered that the soldiers have also launched manhunt on other fleeing members of the gang. Sources within President Ebele Goodluck Jonathan’s Army Barracks, Ohafia told The Nation that the hotel owner was arrested based on intelligence and diligence of the intelligence team who worked and processed information that were received regarding the kidnap incident. A source who pleaded anonymity confirmed the arrest of the hotel owner, adding that the suspect has confessed to the crime. “Immediately the incident happened, our men on ground within the area swooped into action. They were able to get pieces of information, studied it and went to action. “The outcome of diligent analysis of the information at their disposal led to the arrest of a hotel owner whose identity I will not be able to tell you now because other members of the gang, who are at large as we speak, are being trailed and I am confident that they will be arrested. “Investigation is still ongoing. The moment we are done with our investigation, we are going to hand him and possibly others to the police for continued investigation and possible prosecution.” The source warned those that want to join or already involved in committing various crimes in the state to desist from such, adding that the (security) agencies would not fold their arms and watch few disgruntled elements threaten the peace and security of lives and properties in the state.