Lagos State Head of Service (HoS) Mr. Hakeem Muri-Okunola has assured public servants of government’s commitment to ensure that life is meaningful to them after retirement. He said this in a statement while declaring open the maiden edition of A- 2 Day training and sensitisation programme organised by the Post Service Department, Public Service Office, Office of the Head of Service, for retired senior citizens. The training was held at Adeyemi Bero Auditorium, Secretariat, Alausa Ikeja. Muri-Okunola said over the years, it had been observed with great concern how many retirees struggled to launch business ventures with little or no success, which sometimes resulted in emotional and mental stress. Speaking on behalf of the Head of Service at the opening ceremony, the Permanent Secretary, Public Service Office, Mr. Samson Ajibade, said the objectives of the programme include creating a mindset change in retirees, exposure to opportunities available in farming, SMEs, export, empowerment of retirees with competencies and innovative skills, mentoring, reduction of physical and emotional stress and ultimately, eradication of poverty. The Director, Post Service Department, Mrs. Bukola Durodola, hailed Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu for granting the approval in anticipation of an insightful and impactful training programme geared toward improving the socio-economic development of the retirees and Lagos State as a whole. “It is against this backdrop that the government thought it wise to introduce this bespoke learning event to ensure that retirees are schooled in the art of running successful profit-making enterprises’’ he said. The HoS said the theme of this year’s event, which is “A start-up guide for a retiring/retired public servant”, is not only apt, but also critical and germane to ensure economic and social relief for retirees, adding that as senior citizens, who have worked to sustain Lagos State as a Centre of Excellence, they deserved the best after retirement. Speaking on behalf of the Head of Service at the opening ceremony, the Permanent Secretary, Public Service Office, Mr. Samson Ajibade, said the objectives of the programme include creating a mindset change in retirees, exposure to opportunities available in farming, SMEs, export, empowerment of retirees with competencies and innovative skills, mentoring, reduction of physical and emotional stress and ultimately, eradication of poverty. The Director, Post Service Department, Mrs. Bukola Durodola, hailed Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu for granting the approval in anticipation of an insightful and impactful training programme geared toward improving the socio-economic development of the retirees and Lagos State as a whole. She said the training was to enlighten the retirees on how to manage whatever business they engaged in effectively and make impact. One of the beneficiaries, Mr. Adedeji Olabamiji, who was trained in soap making and germicide, thanked the Lagos State Government for having the interest of the retirees at heart, saying what he was trained for would be impactful in his life. 