 Inclusive education specialist Mrs Nneamaka Mokwe-Ijiko received a call from a father whose daughter with a development disability needed help. But she was surprised to meet an adult who had spent her entire life in a “special home” and was used to a life of dependence. Mrs Mokwe-Ijiko said: “I got there expecting to see a six-year-old girl. Instead, I saw a 51-year-old woman who could not clean up herself during her monthly flow. “It took us one full year to teach her how to go from her house to her estate gate; how to clean herself up during menstruation; and how to bathe herself and wash her clothes. “During that period, she cried a lot because we were changing her routine.” According to Mrs Mokwe-Ijiko, there are many more Nigerians in the same situation: children who have been rejected or excluded by the society due to their disabilities. “The best way to help children with intellectual and development disabilities (IDD) become useful is to get to get them into a normal school setting,” she said.  Understanding IDD, inclusive education  According to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control (CDC), developmental disabilities are a group of conditions due to an impairment in physical, learning, language, or behaviour areas. These conditions begin during the developmental period, may impact day-to-day functioning, and usually last throughout a person’s lifetime. Some examples of more common developmental disabilities include attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), autism spectrum disorders, cerebral palsy, fetal alcohol spectrum disorders, Fragile X Syndrome, Kernicterus, language and speech disorders, learning disorders, muscular dystrophy, tourette syndrome and vision impairment. However, most children with such disabilities, experts say, can still learn in regular schools and become productive adults. Renowned professor of special education, Florence Banku Obi, writes in the Journal of Education and Practice: “Inclusive education involves bringing together persons with disabilities and the non-disabled to study in the same classroom with adaptable facilities and equipment. “With this arrangement in place, the assistive technology becomes an unconditional requirement for children with special needs. It involves public and private programmes and laws.” According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), one billion people with disabilities in the world have the right to participate fully in their societies. The organisation said the government is obligated to ensure that such children do not suffer discrimination. “All children have the right to education. Clear policies on the inclusion of children with disabilities in education, accessible schools, appropriately trained teachers, specialised support for individual students, and the involvement of families and communities will help improve education for children with disabilities,” WHO said.  The figures  The National Population Commission (NPC) estimated in 2018 that no fewer than 19 million Nigerians live with disabilities. According to a report by EduCeleb.com, Nigeria has only 33,603 primary and secondary schools that can be described as inclusive even though they are not equipped to meet the needs of those with IDD. The report notes: “Describing schools as inclusive here is only because they have some population of special needs children. “It does not mean that such schools have facilities that would take the peculiarities of special needs children into account “Based on our field experience reporting education across the country, we can attest that the ‘good’ classrooms in the Nigerian context do not necessarily take care of the needs of persons with disabilities either.” A diplomat, Prof. Tijjani Bande, in a presentation to a United Nations panel, said: “In Nigeria, more than 25 million people are estimated to be affected by one disability or another, out of which three million are critically disabled. “Extrapolation from this figure for children with special needs will result in an estimated population of 1.3 million, a very high number indeed.” According to the World Health Organisation (WHO) World Disability Report published in 2011, about 15 per cent of Nigeria’s population, or at least 25 million people, have a disability, a figure that may have risen nine years after the report.  Scale of the problem  Mrs Mokwe-Ijiko, who is the Programme Manager at Best Buddies Nigeria and President of Inclusive Education First Aid (IEFA) Africa, said some parents hide their children with special needs due to fear of stigmatisation. According to her, some worry that such children will be labelled “evil” by “our religious society”, especially in rural communities. She added: “There is little or no precise data to show the number of children and adults with IDD in the rural areas but there are many of them. “In the impoverished areas of Abule-Ado, during our IEFA project, we saw some children with Hydrocephalus and other challenges. “In Kano, we visited lots of schools and over a hundred parents who turned up had children with special needs. “When we visited Ekwulobia in Anambra State, we found parents who didn’t know how to help their children with IDD. “At Makoko, parents whispered to us to help them because some weren’t confident bringing their children out.” The situation, according to her, is not much better in the cities. She said: “Most of the parents are overwhelmed. Getting the right resources and therapy do not come cheap, with some families seeking spiritual help, miracles and alternative means to help their children. “Imagine what happens to parents who have children in rural areas. People with IDD in rural communities lack basic facilities for early intervention.”  Abandoned kids  Mrs Mokwe-Ijiko recalled an encounter with an ignorant mother who lost a child. “A parent confided in me during one of our projects that if she had known that there are ways she could help her child, she would not have left him in the village with her mother. “I told her it wasn’t too late and she responded sadly that it was. He had drowned! ‘How? Why? He had cerebral palsy. What was he doing in the river?’ “I was blurting out so many questions at the same time but she explained that it was the belief in her mother’s village that her son was a snake and if left by the river, he would go back to where he came from. “I couldn’t imagine the agony of the little child before he drowned. “There are many children dumped, abandoned, neglected and killed in the rural areas. “That is why we expanded our approach from advocacy to teaching intervention skills. “If parents, grandparents and people in the rural areas are properly educated and shown exercises and interventions, children with IDD would not only survive but thrive,” she said. Asked if she was satisfied with policy implementation on inclusive education, Mrs Mokwe-Ijiko said without hesitation: “I am not satisfied. We can do more.” What exactly needs to be done? “Move children with IDD from segregated classes to inclusive classes,” she said. “Why can’t we give them opportunities to learn socially appropriate behaviours from their peers? “The goal isn’t just inclusion but Belonging – a system that doesn’t need advocacy anymore but recognises that we are all the same regardless of our challenges. “How can inclusion become the norm if the children still experience segregation in a school?” Mrs Mokwe-Ijiko said Nigeria also needs inclusive vocational hubs where adults with IDD can learn various vocations in an inclusive setting. “Imagine what they would learn from their peers.”  Dealing with the challenges  Mrs Mokwe-Ijiko urged the government to intervene to save the future of such children, especially in low-income communities. “We need more schools in the suburbs so that every child with IDD can attend an inclusive school, thereby reducing the number of out-of-school children with special needs,” she said. Caregivers also need a good education. She explains: “A lot of professionals need to move from just the book knowledge to real implementation. “Children with IDD will show you how to help them if only you can observe them and be involved in their daily lives. “Parents who are involved in their children’s lives see faster improvement. “You don’t have to be a special educator to help a child get inclusive education. “All you need is empathy, compassion, integrity and the willingness and determination to see a child with IDD excel; then you can learn from the experts and the child to provide that impact. “The more people in both the urban and rural areas who decide to truly help as volunteers, ambassadors and learning support assistant (LSA) the better our chances of providing effective inclusive education across the nation.” More importantly, inclusive education is critical for when parents of such children are no more, she noted. “I asked an audience of over 3,000 while facilitating during the Global Autism Convention in Bangalore India in 2011: ‘What will happen to your child with IDD when you die?’ “The truth is that your child will learn with pain what you did not prepare them for, so be involved now while you’re alive. “That religious leader, family member and friend who is encouraging you to neglect or pray your child out of the special needs will not help your child when you are no more. Act now,” Mrs Mokwe-Ijiko advised. Inclusive education services provider, Eliakim Global Resources Limited, where Mrs Mokwe-Ijiko is the Chief Executive Officer, has integrated over 300 individuals with IDD. “We faced a lot of challenges from schools rejecting some of our children, so we had to home-school them first, teaching them the appropriate behaviours and basic independence before taking them back to school. “We started by teaching them basic functional life skills first, ranging from self-care to care of the environment, transition skills before soft and work skills. “We realised though that there are many children and adults with IDD who we have not reached and that is why we decided to start the Inclusive Education First Aid to reach the most vulnerable. “We designed the IEFA kit to help their families teach them various communication and behavioural skills. “We need more organisations and individuals with compassion to help us reach out to more out-of-school children with IDD in rural communities. “There are lots of children with IDD who become successful adults through inclusive education,” Mrs Mokwe-Ijiko said.  A success story  One of such success stories is Tobiloba Ajayi, a lawyer and inclusive education advocate. She was told during a university pre-admission interview that she may not survive the system because she had cerebral palsy. Years after graduating with a law degree, she was shocked that children with cerebral palsy continue to be excluded. Determined to help change the situation, she set up the Let Cerebral Palsy Kids Learn Foundation. She told The Nation: “I realised that the school system in Nigeria was actively excluding kids like me from the mainstream education system. That realisation was shocking. “It was scary to see that a condition that is the most common childhood disability in Nigeria was being made a reason to keep a child out of school, especially where the condition is not a cognitive impairment but primarily an orthopaedic impairment. “It was scary for me to see that these children, many like me, were not getting an opportunity to access education. “It was more pertinent that we fixed that system, that we gave children with cerebral palsy an opportunity to have a voice, an opportunity to learn among their typical peers, to be able to dream and envision their future and then have a voice in building it. “It was very important for me because I have seen the power of education in my life. “I started the non-profit in 2017 and so far, we have reached over 380 families directly and enabled about 80 children with cerebral palsy to access mainstream education.”  More funding needed  In the proposed 2021 federal budget, the education sector got one of the lowest allocations in a decade. Of the N13.08 trillion (about $36.3billion) budgeted for next year, N742.5 billion (5.6 per cent) was given to education. The Federal Ministry of Education got N65.3 billion; the Universal Basic Education, which supervises education at the primary and secondary levels, got N77.6 billion; N579. 7 billion was allotted for personnel cost, N35.4 billion for overhead cost and N127. 3 billion for capital expenditure. For context, California’s overall funding for all K–12 (from kindergarten to 12th grade) education programmes is $98.8 billion for 2020-2021, according to the state’s department of education. In 10 years, the highest Nigeria’s education sector got was 10.7 per cent in the 2015 budget. The effect is that due to poor funding of education in Nigeria, not much trickles down for inclusive education. “Go to any government public school that claims to do inclusion and you will be shocked,” said Opeoluwa Alonge, Executive Director of Best Buddies International, Nigeria, which consists of volunteers that create opportunities for people with IDD. To him, inclusive education is in a terrible state of neglect. He said: “Most government inclusive education centres or initiatives are rather seclusion centres. The framework of integration is omitted. “Any attempt or intervention in this space without integration into society is ignorance, ineptitude or share fraud, which are common. “Why educate without a vision of integration? Why empower a man or woman with knowledge, when no provision is made for the usefulness of the knowledge?” Alonge slammed “special homes” who do little to change the fortune of children with IDD. “Many of these so-called plans lack the requite sincerity to create a meaningful impact on the lives of people living with a disability. “A large chunk of them are business centres that require the absolute dependence of people living with a disability within their walls, all for continuous personal survival. “Others are what I usually call human zoos. They display fellow humans to others for sheer envelopes and peanuts so they can satisfy their false sense of ‘goodness’. “Thus, these centres need individuals with disabilities to be perpetually on display in their four walls to continue the business circle,” he said. Executive Director, Centre for Citizens with Disabilities, David Anyaele, also decried the poor funding of inclusive education. He said: “Inclusive education in Nigeria is poorly implemented. In particular, funding of inclusive education in Nigeria is very poor. “This is because states governments do not have value for the education of persons with disabilities. “As such, parents of children with disabilities struggle much more to send their wards to school due to minimal support from the state on inclusive education.” Anyaele said it was as if Nigeria was “founded” on the exclusion of persons with disabilities. This lacuna, he argued, has led to discriminatory practices by institutions of the state. Anyaele added: “Institutions initiate, plan, and implement policies on education with little or no consideration for the education of persons with disabilities. “Federal and state policies on the education of persons with disabilities in Nigeria are not implemented as it ought to be. “As such, the government applies a charity-based approach to the education of those with disabilities. What that means is that whatsoever they give you is what you take. It’s incredibly sad.” President, Association of Lawyers with Disabilities (ALDIN), Daniel Onwe, wondered whether there is even provision for inclusive education in the budgets. “Obviously, funding for inclusive education is not enough, if there is at all,” he said. He urged the newly-constituted National Commission for Persons with Disabilities (PwDs) to do more. “The Commission should do well not to confine its activities to Abuja, but should spread wide its tentacles across the country, including the rural areas,” he said.  Wanted: inclusive education  On January 23, 2018, President Muhammadu Buhari signed into law the Discrimination Against Persons with Disabilities (Prohibition) Act following nine years of relentless advocacy by disability rights groups and activists Ajayi is not satisfied with the implementation of the Disabilities Act. “No,” she said when asked if she did. “We would like to see more done. The Act gives the government five years to fully comply. “I will give them five years to see where they are in 2024, but for now, there is still a lot of ground to cover.” Anietie Ewang, Researcher, Africa Division at Human Rights Watch, believes the enactment of the Disabilities Act is only a first step in the fulfilment of Nigeria’s obligations under the United Nations Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities (CRPD), which the country ratified in 2007. “Authorities should put effective measures in place for its (the Act’s) full implementation to ensure equal treatment and participation of people with disabilities across Nigeria,” she said. Prof Banku-Obi, while delivering the 92nd University of Calabar Inaugural Lecture titled: “From exclusion to zero rejects: a roadmap to inclusiveness,” said the future of children with IDD must be better secured. “The world over, children with disabilities live a life of marginalisation, labelling, discrimination, stigmatisation and exclusion. “They are seen and treated as unfit and the dregs of society. “Excluding children with disabilities from education mean that they have a near bleak future with very restrictive prospects for economic independence, thereby promoting a cycle of intergenerational poverty among millions of these children,” she said. The Lagos State Government says it has earmarked N500 million in its 2021 budget as disability fund. Addressing persons living with disabilities, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu said: “In the budget for next year that the House has just approved, we have earmarked N500 million for the disability fund. “We will sit with the Ministry of Youth and Social Development in the new year and we will agree with you on what areas we should apply the funds to.” Stakeholders will hope that part of the fund will go to inclusive education and that more states will follow suit.