The World Health Organization (WHO) Wednesday stated that Nigeria is well on its way in its effort to providing quality healthcare services to its people with the revitalization of the primary healthcare system and the Basic Health Care Provision Funds (BHCPF). Noting that access to quality health care for all is a major goal of Universal Health Coverage (UHC), the WHO stressed that it is the fundamental human right of every citizen to access quality health services without becoming impoverished. The WHO Country Representative, Dr. Walter Kazadi Mulombo, made this known in Abuja during an event to commemorate this year’s Universal Health Coverage Day, with the theme: ‘Health for all: Protect Everyone’. Mulombo said Nigeria is on track with its efforts at providing quality care to the people everywhere anywhere through primary healthcare revitalization and leveraging on the Basic Health Care Provision Funds (BHCPF) which indeed is one of the nine-point next level agenda of Nigeria. Knowing that health for all requires investments and action by all stakeholders – the WHO urged the government, development partners, civil society organisations, communities, and everyone to rally towards achieving UHC so that all people can enjoy good health and well-being. “At WHO, we are placing emphasis on high impact areas, such as supporting whole-of-system reforms and exploring innovative ways to get more services to people, including using information technology,” he said. In his remarks, the Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, added: “UHC Day reminds us of our most urgent priority: providing quality healthcare services for the wellbeing of our citizens. “It is everybody’s right to have access to quality healthcare, whenever and everywhere. Any country that wants to have a healthy and viable workforce needs to be able to provide quality healthcare as there is nothing as damaging as an unhealthy population especially from diseases that can easily be prevented. “It is based on this that the federal government is striving to rehabilitate and revitalize the primary healthcare as the bedrock of development of the health sector. The newly revised BHCPF Guidelines is expected to be used to establish one primary healthcare centre per political ward where Nigerians will be able to access health services with a reasonable financial implication, he explained.”