A 21-year-old Argentinian hip-hop artist was found hanged inside her home – a death originally ruled as suicide that police now say is suspicious after evidence emerged about her ex-boyfriend, according to a report. Paula Monica Gimenez — known artistically as “Gemma” or “Chiny” — was found with a cable around her neck Christmas Day in the city of Posadas, The Sun reported. The rapper was celebrating the holidays with family and friends in a house across the street, before she decided to return home with her ex, Franco, 21, who allegedly stayed for several minutes before leaving, according to the outlet. Franco claimed Gimenez threatened to hurt herself if he did not return, and said she had sent him. A friend he called to check on Gimenez, a mother of a young girl, found her dangling from the cable, The Sun reported, citing InfoBae. Franco — who was questioned by police and later released — claimed he had not been in a relationship with Gimenez for six months, adding that she had constantly threatened self-harm if he did not return, according to the report. Police originally ruled the death a suicide but have since launched an investigation when alarming social media posts by Gimenez have emerged, stating she “feared for her life” and felt “under threat.” The recent posts included cryptic messages stating she “wanted to be known for music and not for something bad happening to her,” The Sun reported. Some of her neighbors described her relationship with Franco as “violent” and “toxic,” according to local news outlet Misiones Online. The former beau also had threatened Gimenez and her daughter using fake social media accounts, stating: “If I see you close again, you and your daughter will regret it.” Local media reported that a screenshot of WhatsApp messages show Gimenez begging an unidentified man for help. Sir, Franco was at my house recently. He jumped over the gate and banged on my door like a madman,” the message reads. “My dad wants me to put a restraining order on him but I don’t want to do that. But I’m going to ask you to please talk to him,” she wrote. “My daughter wasn’t there today, but if he does that again and my baby is there, I’m going to have to report him. Please I ask you, I don’t want any more problems,” Gimenez added. It is unclear if police officially consider Franco as a suspect as the investigation proceeds. (www.newsnow.co.uk)