  Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu yesterday said the state, under his leadership,  has paid over N25 billion into the Retirement Savings Accounts (RSAs) of 5,819 retirees. Represented by Chairman, Lagos State Civil Service Commission, Mrs. Olubunmi Fabanwo, he  spoke yesterday at the 81st Retirement Bond Certificate presentation to 471 retirees of the state public service in Lagos. He said the retirees are workers in the mainstream, local government, State Universal Basic Board (SUBEB), Teaching Service Commision (TESCOM) and other parastatals of the state government. He said: “I am happy to report that 5,819 retirees are enjoying their retirement benefits under the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) in the past 18 months of my administration. It is gratifying to note that since the advent of this administration, the state government has paid N25.6 billion into the Retirement Savings Account (RSA) of the state’s retirees. “We have also remitted over N2 billion into the respective RSA’s of 471 retirees through the Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) for the month of December. With such commitment and performance, it was not surprising that retiring officers in the state now look forward to retirement with more confidence and joy. “The state has continued to be the leading light, not only in the administration of pension benefits but generally in good credible governance. Let me assure you that the state government through the Lagos State Pension Commission (LASPEC) will continue to ensure that public service retirees not only get what is due to them statutorily.”  He said the retirees will also receive, through other agencies and programmes, additional support and assistance that will add value to their lives in retirement.  “I will continue to run an open government of inclusion that will ensure no one is left behind. We must therefore be determined to contribute to the change that is much expected to bail our country out of her present situation and make life worth living for everyone,” he said.