 Some residents of Rivers State have criticised Governor Nyesom Wike’s threats to lockdown the state again in January over the resurgence of COVID-19. Wike, at a thanksgiving service in Omagwa, Ikwerre Local Government Area on Sunday hinted about the plan to impose the fresh lockdown as one of the stringent measures to curtail the spread of the disease. But, some residents have taken to their different social media platforms and telephone interviews to condemn the governor’s plan. They insisted that what the state needs now is enforcement of the extant protocols of social distancing and wearing of face masks rather than locking down the state again to inflict further hardship on the people. In an open letter by a social activist, Igwe Onyeche Wofurum (a.k.a Humble Lion), urged the governor to revisit the plan, but look at the option of enforcing the protocols. Wofurum said: “I have read with great concern your threat to lock down Port Harcourt this January. This decision, if carried out, will be detrimental to the people of this state. “Please, I am begging you with the name our Lord Jesus to think twice about your decision, for we have not fully recovered from our previous experiences.”  He reminded Wike of the activities already lined up ahead of the local government elections that are due early in the new year and queried what he would do if he locks down the state as he has planned. Also reacting, a former media practitioner, Emeka Idika, urged the governor to use the enforcement of COVID-19 protocols to increase the revenue base of the state by setting up a taskforce and constituting mobile courts that will arrest, try and impose fines against defaulters. Idika maintained that the first lockdown never served any reasonable results, otherwise there would not be the second wave of the infection. He said: “Lockdown is a bad option; it is outdated. It is not an effective measure and should not even be mentioned. What the state government should do is to create a committee to enforce face masks wearing and social distancing. The economy is fragile; there is a recession. The citizens are struggling to live till the next day. This is not a time to add salt to their injuries, but to help them to be victorious over COVID-19. 