The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, has said that the freed 344 students of Government Science Secondary School, Kankara were not kidnapped by Boko Haram. He also said President Muhammadu Buhari did not visit the school because he was busy coordinating the rescue operation. He said no ransom was paid to the bandits contrary to the claim of $5 million. Mohammed made the clarifications at a briefing against the backdrop of the release of the 344 students. “The children were kidnapped by bandits but not Boko Haram. The attempt by Boko Haram to claim responsibility shows how decimated it is and the irrelevance of Boko Haram today. ‘This is the first time Boko Haram has sought to link up with the bandits or accept to take responsibility for such kidnapping of bandits. “Boko Haram was seeking relevance by trying to appropriate to themselves the handiwork of bandits. So, the issue of Boko Haram does not even arise on Kankara issue. “A lot of fake videos were being sent around by Boko Haram to give the impression that they are still relevant. “This is not their first attempt to go and link up with the bandits. They tried before now and it didn’t work. “I don’t have any doubt in my mind that Boko haram is weakened. Boko Haram is seeking for relevance and tried to appropriate and give the impression that they are still relevant. “There is absolutely no doubt that the children were kidnapped by bandits. Secondly, Boko Haram sent that video to give the impression that they were in charge.” Asked to be forthcoming on the actual number of the students abducted in Kankara, he said: “I think even the governor of Katsina on Thursday and Friday said 344 schoolboys have been released. “Don’t forget that there was a lot of uncertainty as to the number of schoolboys that were actually in the school because many escaped and many did not return. But what is very certain is that 344 students have been returned.” Reacting to a question on alleged foreign involvement in the kidnap of the 344 boys, the minister said: “As to whether there was any foreign collaboration, I think I was very clear. I thanked all Nigerians and all friends of Nigeria.” He insisted that the government did not pay any ransom to the bandits. He said: “It is a pity that anytime you hear about negotiation, you hear money. There was no money that changed hands. They were released unconditionally.” On why the President did not visit the school, he said: “He was coordinating the entire operation. I think Mr. President took the best step, which is the most important thing, in ensuring the safe release of these children within the fastest time possible.” The Minister said the government was working round the clock to ensure that no child goes to school with trepidation. He said:  “Let me state here that the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari will do everything possible to prevent a reoccurrence of these school abductions. “But we also make bold to say that we have moved with speed and determination each time we have faced the challenge of school abductions, and the results attest to this. “Each time this has happened, we have always accepted responsibility, rather than being in denial. And that has made all the difference in whether or not the abducted school children have been recovered. ‘We will not relent until all those who remain missing in Chibok and Dapchi are reunited with their families. The Minister warned against politicization of security issues. He added: “Irrespective of the security challenges that we as a nation may be facing at this time, they are not insurmountable. We can only appeal to those who are quick to politicise the issue of security to desist from such. “The reactions in certain quarters to the Kankara incident were shameful. Some Nigerians went as far as denigrating their government and country in the most uncouth and irresponsible manner. They simply threw decorum to the wind and allowed their emotions to take a better part of them. “When disasters and tragedies strike, people come together. We hope the naysayers have learnt their lessons. And we hope those who have started trading and politicking with the hash tag ‘BringBackOurBoys’ can now go home, as our boys have been brought back, even before their dubious campaign could take off.” While thanking the military and security agencies, Mohammed said no country is immune from security challenges. He said: “The Federal Government is most grateful to our security and intelligence agencies for this great feat. We also wish to thank the governments of Katsina and Zamfara states, and indeed all Nigerians and friends of Nigeria. “The release of these school boys is a testament to the importance that this administration attaches to the security and safety of all Nigerians. “There is no government in the world that will not face the challenges of security at one time or another. No government in the world is immune to terrorist attacks. What stands any government out is the way and manner it responds to such challenges. “For example, school shooting has been a recurring challenge in the United States. Between 2010 and 2020, almost 200 school children were killed and many more injured in various school shooting incidents. “Needless to say that the world’s most powerful country suffered a tragic terrorist attack in September 2001 that claimed almost 3,000 lives. In France, between 2010 and 2020, 286 people were killed in various terrorist incidents. “And in New Zealand, in March 2019, 49 people were killed in shootings at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand. I have given these instances to support the fact that no nation, no matter how powerful, is immune to security challenges. “Back here in Nigeria, the abduction of the Kankara school boys marked the second of its kind under this administration, coming after the unfortunate abduction of 110 schoolgirls in Dapchi, Yobe State, in February 2018. “Just like the good news from Kankara, all but one of the kidnapped school girls in Dapchi were rescued unharmed. “And in 2014, 276 school girls were abducted by terrorists in Chibok, Borno State, out of which 112 remain in captivity after this administration rescued over 100 of the school girls.”