 The Chairman, Board of Studies, Eko College and Management Technology,  Ikotun, Lagos, Hon. Segun Oshundairo, has advised Theatre Arts students of the institution to be serious with their studies, stressing that  a career in theatre performance offers a  promising future. He said this at the production of a film  put together by the Performing and Media Art students of the institution recently in Lagos.  The film, entitled:  Trap  which would be premiered soon, had National Diploma I and II students performing. Oshundairo emphasised the  growth of the movie industry and the opportunities it offers  serious, diligent and innovative youths. He noted  that theatre arts  helps  to build confidence, public speaking skills,  and develop critical thinking abilities. “Theatre Arts performance offers  opportunities.Those in digital media are growing faster than  most industries. Most of our youths are interested in the digital media because it has grown rapidly in the information age,” he said. He noted that movie stars like Richard Mofe-Damijo, Ramsey Noah and  Omotola Jalade-Ekeinde were once students who took their studies seriously to get to  where they are today. Oshundairo stressed further that the institute was preparing its students with the right environment to be among top industry leaders in  theatre and movie production. Head of Department of the Performing and Media Arts, Omoba Ademuyiwa Oyebanji, said the students would be involved in  marketing and premiering of the film to equip them with the requisite skills needed for film production.  He said: “The film is a practical aspect of the course run in the school and we believe that their participation in the film production will help them to understand the nitty-gritty of the profession and play actively in the film industry in Nigeria.”  One of the students, Bernard Elizabeth noted that there were  challenges but film production has given her the  opportunity  to learn much about the movie industry and interact with top professionals in the industry.