 WHAT is the problem with the APC in Ekiti? Those who parade themselves as elected executives were not elected. We are in court in respect of that. When we discovered that they were not elected, they tried to suspend some of us who went to court. We have resolved to go to court. As a lawyer of over 40 years, I have never heard of people being prevented from airing their grievances through the courts. Once you have a matter, a course which you want to ventilate, you go to court rather than using cutlasses and guns to sort it out. I have never heard that people should withdraw  matter in court before you go and negotiate. As a lawyer, I know you can negotiate settlement out of court. Whatever is the terms of settlement will be used as judgement of court. It is ilegal to proclaim that people should go and withdraw cases in court. His Excellency, President Mohammadu Buhari went to court. Court is the civilised way of settling disputes. Section 36 of the Nigeria’s constitution is very clear in the determination of civil rights obligations. A person shall have unlimited access to court. Are there steps taken before now to resolve the dispute? We wrote many letters to the former Adams Oshiomhole led executive. The letters were extended to Baba Akande when he was nominated as Chairman of Reconciliation Committee. We have also written to the Buni Committee that things should be done properly. We are not asking for anything. Fayemi has been elected as a governor and nobody is saying he should go but in the organisation of the party, we are saying properly elected or appointed people should be made to manage the affairs of the party in Ekiti. In Ondo State a similar thing happened before the re-election of Governor Akeredolu. Some party members under the Unity Forum said those elected were not properly elected and they went to court. There are ways for sorting out things, During the election of Governor Akeredolu, all party members closed ranks and Asiwaju came in. He reconciled the Unity Forum and those who contested against Akeredolu. That was why the APC victory was easy. Are there any other reason for crisis in Ekiti APC? The only reason for division in Ekiti APC is the improper state executive of the party. They just packed some people who are unrepentant Fayemi supporters. Nobody is struggling for appointment. I am in my law office. Others also agitating have their jobs. We don’t want to bother about lopsided appointment. There were situations were people held two positions. Their so-called chairman was also appointed Senior Special Assistant to the Governor. What we are saying is for the current so-called executive to be dissolved and for a proper executive to be elected to represent all interests. Apart from that, if they are going to do it by consensus, call everybody. I was a serving Senator till 2015. Ojudu is the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Political Matter. Tunde Ojo was in the House of Representatives. You can see those of us they want to push away. Even if it is one that we have important people in our various constituencies. There are talks of plans to hijack party structures ahead of the 2022 governorship election in Ekiti State… It is mandatory in a democracy that each person should control his constituency. Why should Fayemi say those loyal to him should be the executive in my local government? Why didn’t he throw it open? If we are going to adopt the consensus system, we could sit down and bring people from the constituencies. How many votes did Fayemi score in his local government? We can go into records that Ekiti Ikere was where Fayemi got the second largest trunk of votes.  That is my local government. Ado is where Ojudu hails from. Nobody is saying anything about hijack. In some few weeks I will be 70. I don’t want to contest anything. I have made that point clear. What structure? Who has the structure? Does the constitution of the party say it is the governor that must has the structure. It is everybody that must come together. Look at what happened in Ekiti. It is precarious. At the last election, we only defeated the PDP by 19,000 votes and 17,000 votes were cancelled. If they had knocked it off, maybe we would have gone from another round of election. INEC would have termed it inconclusive. Nobody wants to hijack any structure. They are abusing us that we are not resident in Ekiti. Was Fayemi resident in Ekiti when he contested? Was Niyi Adebayo resident In Ekiti? He was in Lagos. I am not contesting and nobody has told me that he is contesting that we will support. When we get to the bridge, we will cross it. What we are saying is for the party to be properly organised. Go and investigate randomly and see if we can say uhuru in Ekiti. Nobody is saying Fayemi should not bring his successor. If the person he supports wins, so be it. We saw the role unity of purpose played out in the Ondo election. Why can’t Ekiti APC come together? It is left to Fayemi and his cohorts. They have been abusing us and saying all sort of things. They will say anything against us. If they think they can do it alone let them do it. I have never decamped from one party to another. I have remained consistent. I believe the group I belong to are the real progressives. If they think they can win let them go ahead. I am not going to participate in any anti-party activities. Nothing stops me from staying at home rather than going to vote. Instead of me mobilising my people to the polling unit, I can stay at home. How will you assess the Fayemi administration? I will not comment on that because of the position I have taken. Let him continue to govern the state as far as his knowledge can carry him. I will not say he has done well, I won’t say he hasn’t done well. We pray for long life, he is the one to be assessed. Why does the APC appears not keen on restructuring? The APC is keen on restructuring. Restructuring is of variable interest. Some people think restructuring is about the Eastern region have five states while others have six states. They said to restructure there must be equality of states in all the six geopolitical zones. We believe the Federal Government should limit itself to Defence, international relations, communications and few others. It is then Nigeria can be properly managed. In education, the Federal Government can limit itself to policy formulation. The rest should be left for the states to manage. More resources should be made available to the states. It should not be the business of Federal Government to construct roads, it should be the business of states. Ever since the days of Abacha we had thought power should devolved to the states. We believe that the resources of the states can be managed by the states. A time was when we had local government police. All these Amotekun now would not have been necessary. We had the local police and federal police. They worked side by side  in maintaining security. It is not by somebody asking for additional state for the South East. When you look at population of some places you will be convinced. Ibadan in Oyo State is bigger, larger and more populated than some states in certain places. Population that votes in states like Bayelsa is not up to certain places in Lagos State. People are now clamouring that there should be regional cooperation to enable people perform rather than saying there should be more states creation. There should be lower cost of governance. If an additional state is created in the South East, there would be House of Assembly and other things. People can agitate deployment of certain functions to states rather than seeking more states. This is my view. I know the APC is not afraid of restructuring. There are fears that APC as a party will collapse after Buhari’s tenure in 2024… That is the perception of Fayemi. We said it a long time ago. We believe the APC will outlive the administration of Buhari. A governor just decamp. Dogara came in and others will join us. If they do not see anything in the APC, they would not come. It is those people that believe that except they are there APC will not succeed. Do you think Nigerians will still vote the APC in 2023 owing to outcome of EndSARS protest? I will not believe that. EndSARS was properly defined. The demonstration was against police brutality. Politicians hijacked it to say Buhari’s should resign.. I heard the owner of AIT talking about it. He is a politician. He was speaking in the angle of politics. That was a voice of a politician. The best administration we have seen, we might be slow, is that of Buhari. Look at the projects in the South East. You can see how Jonathan wanted to build the second Niger bridge but Buhari is doing the project. The country is not as rich as before but Buhari is doing well except we might be slow and that has affected his good performance. There were several suspensions carried out in Ekiti APC… We also suspended them. When we did that the Caretaker Committee said they squashed suspension from all sides. It is very foolish for anybody to say he will suspend those of use that belong to the stakeholders. In politics, you woo people to come and people look up to their leaders. You do not throw people away. When Segun Oni left nobody was happy. Stupidly, their so called Executive said it is good riddance to bad rubbish. How could you throw away somebody that has the capacity to  win votes. That was what led to the fall of PDP. When people left, they said it does not matter. You do not just say people should be thrown away. Politics is a game of number. When elections come you start going everywhere to look for votes. You suspend me and a host of others. Will Ekiti APC afford to go into election as a divided house? Why will we not go to the election a divided party. I won’t subscribe to those who illegally emerged and are abusing us all over the place. If they can do it alone let them do it. I am not hungry. It is they that are looking for something. I built this law office in 1995. They live on politics and not us. 