In his 50th birthday today, President of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) Amaju Pinnick has acknowledged several challenges faced by the football body under his watch. The  Delta State-born administrator now in his second term , however, expressed optimism that the federation would surmount the hurdles in their bid to lift the country’s football  fortune. He said:  “There have been quite a number of challenges, odds, hurdles and obstacles. The important thing is we have remained indivisible, united and committed to the larger cause of the interest of the Nigeria game. Our focus has kept us all on the same page: Congress, the Executive Committee, Management and Staff. “ There have been tribulations and simulated slippery ground here and there, but we have managed to weather it all and stand tall. These trials have not been of our making, but the sincerity of our desire to improve the way things are done for the good of the game has never been in doubt. “I give all glory to God Almighty. It is a milestone and one must look back and reflect on how the journey has been. I am very happy about my journey, which has been mainly about football and business,” he added. Meanwhile, Pinnick  remains confidence that the Super Eagles would berth at  the delayed  2022 AFCON in Cameroun as well as the Qatar World Cup 2022.  “The lessons we learnt against Sierra Leone came at the right time, and will stand us in good stead in the World Cup qualifying series,” he explained.“ If we had thrashed the Leone Stars, there would have been the temptation to take Liberia, Cape Verde and Central Africa Republic for granted in the World Cup qualifiers. “Now, we know we cannot do anything like that. Every game, from the first one, must be approached with the best legs, mind and best attitude. Each of the six qualifying matches will be war and the knock-out games will be greater war.” He,  however,  expressed disappointment over the performance of Nigerian teams at the on-going  continental tournaments with only  a win for  Enyimba : “ I commend Enyimba FC that won away against their opponents in Ouagadougou; that is the way to do it. My challenge to the other clubs is to turn things around in the return legs and qualify for the next rounds of the CAF Champions League and CAF Confederation Cup competitions.” On a personal note, Pinnick who is bidding for a seat in the FIFA Council, said he will not be seeking a third term to lead the NFF. 