 What happens to a soldier who goes to the battlefield without planning his moves?  I guess such should be ready to meet his doom! Moreover, it’s often said that he who comes into equity must come with clean hands. I doubt if any of the  youth who  looted  electronic stores all in the name of fighting for good governance would have the opportunity to get to the corridors of power. If they ever get there, you can be sure they would loot the country blind. It is saddening that current and past administrations have failed us; hence, the need for restructuring. But do we have a veritable alternative? Without  effectively planning restructuring, the current quest and struggle for good governance would  definitely amount to nothing. Youth inclusion in politics is quite important, but do we have credible and trustworthy youths ? It is sad. Charity, they say, begins at home. You can’t give what you don’t have. If we must effect any change out there, then the change should begin with us, right from our respective homes. Often, I have always countered a claim attributing leadership problem to age. Obviously, it is not about age; it all boils down to our mindset and perception of  leadership. What gives us the impression that someone below 50 or 40 years will do better or worse if given an opportunity? Experience? Or good conscience? A 40-year-old man may take over the mantle of leadership today and set this country ablaze within seconds. Why? He lacks the know-how. Effective leadership or representation is not determined by age. Not only that, youths of this generation are worse in attitude and character than the so-called elders of today. We  are masters and experts in the field of corruption, even worse than those who tutored  us. How many youths ever wrote exams  without engaging in malpractice? The fact remains that when citizens do well, the country will definitely do well. We cannot continue all these atrocities while we strive for positive change. To experience a complete turnaround, all and sundry must intensely purge themselves of evil traits and view leadership from the prism of service to humanity.  