Police officers at Ekpan Police Division, Delta State Command have reportedly assaulted a young lady identified as Sonia Ovedje, giving her a bloody nose. The Nation learnt that the incident occurred at about 7 pm, along Jakpa Road in Uvwie council area of Delta State. A friend of the victim, while narrating the sad incident on her Twitter handle, @Th3fOREVA, said Sonia was on her way home in a tricycle when the policemen stopped for routine stop-and-search. She posted a picture of the victim with a bloodied nose alongside one of the tweets. “A lady has been assaulted by the EKPAN police station officers. She was inside Keke going home by past 7 (evening). Police stopped them but they didn’t know it was Police. When they eventually stopped the police started yelling at them that they want to search them. “During the course of searching them, the policemen started shouting that why didn’t they stop as my friend tried to explain they started beating her up #StopPoliceBrutality,” the tweets read. In a subsequent tweet, she disclosed that the officers involved had been identified, while the victim was given the sum of N30, 000 for medical care. “Guys, the officers involved have been identified and to be taken to Abuja for I hope their punishment. They gave her a stipend of N30, 000 for medicals. Will keep you all updated,” she tweeted. Recounting the incident in some video clips viewed by this reporter, Sonia said she was hit on the face with torchlight by one of the operatives. She added that the tricycle operator assured her that the officers were from Ekpan Police Division who usually patrolled the area in a gold-colored Toyota Corolla. According to the clips, she immediately called her brother who joined her at the police station with her bloodied nose to register her complaint.  When contacted on Wednesday afternoon, Sonia stated that she was at the hospital receiving treatment and asked this reporter to call back by 6 pm. Head of the Police Complaint Response Unit, ACP Markus Ishaku Basiran, who was mentioned by a tweet on the comment section has responded to the tweet. Basiran said the investigation will be carried out until the “root (of the matter) is reached”. When reached for comments, the spokesperson of Delta State Police Command, DSP Onome Onovwakpoyeya, insinuated that the matter may have been “settled”, a position that the victim promptly denied. Onovwakpoyeya added that further information should be obtained from the officer in charge of the case, through the victim.  