 BETWEEN the Katsina governor, Aminu Bello Masari, and President Muhammadu Buhari, Nigeria suffers a wild encounter with recurring grief. On their watch, over 300 teenagers and high school boys were abducted from Katsina by the Boko Haram terrorist sect. The kidnappings occurred on Friday, December 14, in Kankara, hours after President Muhammadu Buhari landed in his home state, Katsina, for a week-long visit, forcing state authorities to immediately shut all schools. On that fateful day, the people of Kankara startled by a vicious evil. Around 10 p.m.  Boko Haram terrorists swooped on the town shooting sporadically in the air and afterward the Government Science Secondary (GSS) school, where they abducted students, It’s the worst siege since Boko Haram terrorists stormed Chibok town in 2014 and abducted 276 school girls. About 112 of the captives are still missing and believed to be held by the terrorists. The recent abduction has, however, ignited worry over the country’s security situation. If the terrorists could so brazenly operate in President Buhari’s backyard, kidnapping over 300 boys right under his nose, then Nigeria has great reason to worry. There are fears concerning what devilry the terrorists would subject the abducted boys to, if they are not rescued fast; there is the danger that many of them would end up as child soldiers, suicide bombers, drug addicts, and terror mules, at the behest of Boko Haram. My encounter with a Boko Haram commander, Joseph David aka Ibrahim Al-Hajar, revealed that several young boys are forcibly conscripted into the terrorist group’s bloodthirsty squads. Of course, this isn’t a subtle jab at Christendom given David’s Christian roots. As Boko Haram is in no way representative of about a billion Muslims around the globe, so also is David not representative of Christians worldwide. In an exclusive interview, David disclosed to me that his abductors indoctrinated him with spiritual texts regarded as Boko Haram’s holy grail. This was the prerequisite for training him to use guns and other weaponry. Thus after three months of brainwashing, David was renamed Ibrahim Al Hajar. Afterward, he was transferred to Shababu Ummah. “That is where they train people to use guns. I spent almost four months there, learning to use machine guns and other weapons of war. After that, I passed out (graduated),” he said. Subsequently, he was transferred to “Shababu Ummah,” where Boko Haram trains its soldiers to use guns. David spent almost four months there, learning to use machine guns and other weapons of war. After that, he “passed out” (graduated). For his first assignment, he was given a Hilux truck with an Antiaircraft (AA) machine gun. He was assigned to lead ambushes against Nigeria’s Military Joint Task Force (MJTF). He led his squad of mostly underage boys, “on several successful missions” ambushing the Joint Task Force (JTF) and halting military onslaught against Boko Haram in Sambisa. Today, David has renounced his membership in Boko Haram, claiming that he lives haunted by his past actions, he admitted that most of the child soldiers in his squad haven’t been so lucky. Many have suffered gruesome deaths during anti-terrorism military operations. Many more are still prowling the hills and border towns of the northeast in unflinching commitment to their handlers and commanders. My encounter with the ex-Boko Haram commander revealed that disaffection is often the most feasible rationalisation for Boko Haram’s appeal; the foot soldiers and commanders of the terrorist group are drawn mostly from male segments of the population with little formal education, captives turned soldiers and of course, unemployed northern youth like David. For instance, David, “an undergraduate of the State Polytechnic Yola (SPY),” was wooed by the promise of earning about N250, 000 monthly as an insurgent. However, he got lucky; due to his fearlessness and dexterity at mowing down Nigerian troops, he enjoyed rapid promotion and became a commander about five months into his conscription. Among other perks, he led a troop of 150 to 250 boys and earned over N500, 000 per month as a Commander. The money was disbursed to him and fellow senior officers in Nigerian currency and sometimes, in foreign currencies: Euro, Dollars, or Riyal. With such liquid cash at his disposal, he was influential enough to “marry” three wives. In one year, he forcibly married three abducted teenagers; his first wife, Faridah, was kidnapped from Madagali and the other two, Precious a.k.a Faridah and Elizabeth a.k.a Amina, were abducted from Chibok. Several northern youths would kill for such perks. Many of them live in straitened circumstances, surviving by menial jobs on the fringes of the urban and rustic north. Oftentimes, they are scorned and treated like vermin; many believe that they are lazy and hindered by a lack of ambition. You see them smiling and pleading for alms but deep down, they are very angry. And Boko Haram offers them a corrupted creed and platform to vent their angst. Boko Haram makes them feel loved. Eventually, they are goaded to believe that they are a crucial part of a great cause. A worthy movement geared to topple the “government of the infidels.” “They misinterpret the Holy Quran and use it to justify the senseless murders they commit. Shaytan has whispered into their hearts,” argued Sheikh Mahmud Abdullah, an Islamic scholar, and cleric. Sheikh Abdullah, however, forgot to add that the greatest repositories of Shaytan’s whispers are the hearts and souls of the Nigerian ruling class. Terrorism festered on their watch due to their insensitivity to the people’s needs, abject greed, remorseless corruption, and failure at governance. The northern youth embraces terrorism and kidnap for ransom, having lost hope in their governors’ capacity to lead and foster remarkable progress in their region – a similar situation subsists across the country but the north presents the ugliest conundrum being the hotspot of terrorist activities. Boko Haram’s dogma, like similar groups worldwide, plays a central role in its survival. Its creed of violence and wanton genocide is primed to achieve resonance. And it’s success and appeal among the northern youth is largely based on a combination of persuasive communicators, the compelling nature of the grievances articulated, and the pervasiveness of local conditions that seem to justify the terrorist group’s rationale for deploying violence. Boko Haram and its sponsors, of course, cash in on the situation; they manipulate the impoverishment and sentiments of gullible youth in recruiting them as soldiers. They lure them with food, money, and a passport to paradise; they tell them that their religion is under threat. And in some cases, they simply storm secondary schools and abduct over 300 teenagers and underage boys. The latter’s fate could only be better imagined. It is about time President Buhari tweaked the nation’s defense machinery to contain Nigeria’s security challenges. Until then, Boko Haram will continue to prowl the villages and suburbs of northern Nigeria to abduct school girls and boys. Its teenage “warriors” will hush boys to sleep with bullets in Sambisa, after shooting hot lead into their parents in Baga, Zarbamari, and even Mr. President’s backyard in Kankara.   