 A GROUP among the Tiv people called Jechira said it is their turn to produce the governor of Benue State in 2023. Speaking during an advocacy visit in Gboko town, Convener and President Jechira Gubernatorial Movement (JGM), Comrade Dan Nyikwagh, said all the Tiv intermediate – areas (Political blocs) in the state have occupied the Government House Makurdi, except Jechira. Nyikwagh said he was in Gboko which is the headquarters of Tiv people to plead with them to support their 2023 governorship ambition. He said Jemgba, which comprised Gboko,Buruku and Tarka Local Government area is one of the important political bloc in Tiv land where the late  minority rights activist Senator J.S Tarka hails from ,and during his time worked closely with Jechira prominent sons . The President of Jechira Gubernatorial Movement (JDM) dismissed claims that the late Rev. Fr. Moses Adasu was the governor of Benue state from Jechira saying ‘ it was a military transition under Ibrahim Babangida as head of state , even though his regime was cut short through military coup. “George Akume from Jemgba ruled for eight years under Obansanjo , Gabriel Suwam from Sankera also ruled for eight years  under Yar’ Adua / Goodluck Jonathan ,while Governor Samuel Ortom who is from Minda intermediate area is serving out his eight years under President Muhammadu Buhari, so our contention is that Adasu ruled under military transition and Jechira should be allowed to produce the next Governor ” said Dan Nyikwagh. He also reminded his audience who were mostly youths’ leaders from Gboko, Buruku and Tarka which is called Jemgba that Jechira have qualified governorship candidates that if elected in 2023 will make Benue proud. The meeting cut across party lines as APC, PDP and APGA youth leaders who graced the occasion assured Dan Nyikwagh that they will support Jechira ambition for 2023. Dan Nyikwagh was accompanied to the advocacy visit by the former chairman of Vandeikya Local Government area Benedict Ikume and stakeholders from Jechira political bloc. Jechira Federal Constituency has two local areas (Vandeikya / Konshisha LGAs) in Benue North East Senatorial District and are jostling to produce the next governor of Benue State. Jechira Gubernatorial Movement (JGM) is a consultation group which has been going round the four (4) Tiv ruling houses to lobby for the 2023 governorship seat.