“I will mobilize all Yoruba Leaders, Successful Entrepreneurs to Sustain this Initiative to Bring the Younger generation Out of Hopelessness, Joblessness, Slavery” – Akintoye, Leader, Ilana Omo Oodua. “Our Cardinal Goal is to Raise Innovative Leaders, Revolutionise Development in Yoruba Land through Knowledge-based Entrepreneurship, Agriculture, Research” – Adeleye, YPF Founder Abisola Olayinka Sunday 8th December 2020. Just like the etymology of industrial revivification of South East Asia, a new reality was on Saturday introduced to the advocacy for the development of Yoruba land by a group of young Entrepreneurs who converged under a platform called Yoruba Professionals Foundation (YPF). To YPF, the struggle for liberation and development of Yoruba Land, and by extension, the nations of Nigeria, can never be won without placing a premium on knowledge-based entrepreneurship i.e Sciences, Technology, Research, Agriculture, and Digital Innovations. Speaking during the passing out and products exhibition by Trainees who participated in a one-week free training organized by YPF and Ilana Omo Oodua in Lagos over the weekend, Emeritus Professor of History and member of Second Republic Senate, Adebanji Akintoye said a new reality has been introduced to the Yoruba Struggle for liberation and development, and with the initiatives of YPF displayed before him by the maiden trainees, the panacea to slavery, joblessness and hopelessness among the younger generation of Yoruba People has been unraveled. “This is my message to all Yoruba people. We have reached our destination,” Akintoye, the Leader of Ilana Omo Oduduwa declared. He added “As long as I live, I will mobilize all passionate Yoruba Leaders and successful Entrepreneurs to sustain this Initiative to bring the younger generation within our race out of hopelessness, joblessness, slavery. “I was a youth when I wrote the manifesto of the Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN) ahead of 1979 elections. It could achieve that because Awolowo believed in empowering the younger people. By the grace of God, I will support you all to fulfill your objectives and vision.” Akintoye, said with tears gushing out of his face. The one-week training, with the theme: “Yoruba Nation: Building Expertise in Smart Automations and Solar Technology for Prosperity and Development”, lasted for one week and featured Smart Home Systems, Motion Detection Solutions, Instruction Alarm System, Automated Entrance Solutions, Electronic Fencing, Finger Print Control/Doors, Solar Technology, Business Development, and Customers Service Relations. According to the organizers, the training received support from organizations such as The Elite Creative Solutions, Crystahills Technology Hub, WTL Technologies, Pentagon Movement Group (PMG), Yusop International Ltd, Inovics Digital, among others. The trainees from Smart Automations Class displayed several IT security products to exhibit what they learned during the one-week training. The exhibition, moderated by the Resource Person and Vice-President of YPF, Timilehin Sanwo, was not just beyond the word of mouth, it was full of never-seen-before innovations. First, the trainees displayed a Spy Wall Clock and programmed it. The Spy Clock is used to monitor whatever that is going on internally without living and bedrooms and can be monitored from anywhere in the world so far there’s internet on the phone connected with the wall clock through a mobile application. The Wall Clock contains a memory card, and whatever one is monitoring through his or her wall clock in their houses is also recorded in the memory cards of their phones. The spy wall clock was programmed in such a way that if due to other commitments, one is unable to watch the recordings LIVE, it is saved in the memory card of your cell phone and can be watched anytime one is less busy. Another device, the 360 Eye Camera which can be used by nursing mothers who have kids under the age of 10 to watch over their children in their homes where ever they are in the world was programmed and displayed. Like the Spy Wall Clock, the device contains a memory card, and whatever you are monitoring through the mobile application programmed with the device is also recorded in the memory card of your phone. A security gadget, Global Positioning Solutions was also displayed. It is used to wage war against kidnapping. It can be inserted inside a car or pocket of people traveling to dangerous routes and the movement of such persons is tracked and watched through a cell phone connected with the device from anywhere in the world. It Uses a Sim Card, programmed with a mobile application to be downloaded. The device uses a battery that works for three months. A padlock, programmed with fingerprint was also exhibited by the trainees. The padlock does not use a key, only a fingerprint can open it. It uses a battery that lasts for six months. The fingerprint is programmed with a code that can be provided only by the owners. The padlock can take a maximum of five different fingerprints. The trainees on Solar Technology moderated by their resource person and Director of Sciences and Innovations of YPF, Adeniyi Dada, and the Resource Person for Customers Service Relation, Dr. Samuel Fasanmi, assembled solar and inverter panels and powered the venue of the event to the admiration of the audience. In his remarks, the Founder and President of YPF, Mr. Maxwell Adeleye, said the cardinal goal of his Foundation is to raise innovative leaders and revolutionise development in Yoruba land through Knowledge-based Entrepreneurship, Agriculture, Food Security, and Promotion of Investment Opportunities within Yoruba Land to investors within and beyond shores of Nigeria towards prosperity and development. “We want to banish hunger, poverty, and starvation out of our region. We want to raise a new generation of leaders that will use technology to wage war against insecurity in our region, create jobs, and build wealth for the benefit of our people. “We are building the intellectual wing of our struggle for development. We want to align with the wave of the 21st century. First, on the list, the panaceas to development is technology, sciences, and research. With the support of God and well-meaning Yoruba people, we shall keep the struggle alive and consistent. “With what was displayed today, it has been proven that the cause of security quagmires in Nigeria is not inadequate security personnel but the failure of leadership to adequately deploy technology to tackle the menace,” Adeleye, submitted. Others at the event were Ade Kukoyi, a retired Professor of Romantic and Comparative Literature, Akin Soname, CEO, Financial Spectrum Ltd, Tim Akano, CEO, New Horizons Ltd, Arc. George Akinola, Member, Ilana Omo Oduduwa, former CDHR President, Barr. Olasupo Ojo, former OPC leader, Kunle Adesoka, Dr. Jide Sobanjo, Engr. Ademola Akintoye and members and leaders of YPF.