 For over 15 years, widows and helpless women from all around Lagos have been enjoying the goodwill and kindness of a nongovernmental organisation (NGO), Healing Heart Foundation (HHF.) This year is no exception despite the COVID-19 pandemic and the economic downturn worldwide. HHF is the brainchild of Rev. Mrs. Sophy Mbanisi, a woman with a giving heart that loves to share and see people around her happy. The idea and concept of the NGO were imbibed through her experience while growing up. “I was opportune at an early age to understand what it is to help and make people happy. I grew up in Onitsha with a woman who runs a prayer house where several people throng daily for prayers and support.” She explained, at the house, it is always a merry atmosphere, every day many people are fed and catered for, she concluded. This exposure made her decide to desire to assist helpless and vulnerable people, especially widows. Eventually, she found help through her husband Rev. Ogochukwu Mbanisi, who also has compassion for the needy and supported her desire to run a foundation. HHF empowers widows and is a beneficiary of the Federal Government’s palliatives distribution which she shared among her members during the COVID-19 lockdown. The Foundation also organise and conduct training to widows on sustainable business skills and ideas, they hold these programme every November with startups and grants given to participants to start a business for survival. They train widows skills like decorations, soap making, tailoring, and even farming. Attendance at this year’s Mega Party was low because of the COVID-19 pandemic and government’s directives on social gatherings with about 150 widows from the nine zones all over Lagos State, ‘if not for covid19 and government’s restrictions, we would have had a mammoth crowd here today,’ explained Rev. Mbanisi. She shared stories of how several women prefer collecting hand downs rather than having their own means of livelihood, a particular woman who won a N20,000 grant but preferred to ‘eat’ the money despite her urging her to start off a little business that would sustain her and her children. The story of Mrs. Philomena Ordu is very pathetic, apart from being accused by her in-laws of killing her husband, she was asked to swear an oath but because of her confidence and utterances, the Chief Priest rescinded and eventually, some of her accusers or their children died. To manage a woman group is not an easy task enthused Mrs.Gloria Omoboyowa another zonal leader from Mafoluku-Oshodi, “but the grace of God helps us,” she concluded. Rev. Mbanisi admonished families to take care and responsibility of their widows seriously rather than expose them to suffering. There were several testimonies from. widows of how HHF has impacted not only their lives but their children through various assistance and support programmes. A 72-year-old widow, Mrs. Cecilia Aderemi narrated how in 2012 she came to HHF with just 25 Naira on her, and after several trainings in soap/cream making, she is today a proud millionaire with a brand, ‘Mother and Child,’ to her name. HHF is encouraging Nigerians to adopt a widow, through a campaign titled ‘Adopt A Widow.’ Interested people could contact HHF at their Banex Industries office located on Abimbola Way, Isolo Lagos for details.