Acknowledging the vital need to achieve a knowledge based-economy, a Member of the House of Representatives, Shomolu Federal Constituency, Ademorin Kuye, has empowered over 60 youths in Shomolu and Bariga area of Lagos State. Besides, he explained that the programme is coming on the heels of the federal government’s plan to take over 100 million people out of poverty while also making these youths self-reliant to achieve their aims and aspirations. Kuye who was represented by his Senior Legislative Aide, Him. Mayowa Adeoye, at the skills acquisition and empowerment on ICT/Computer workshop for youths in Bariga and Shomolu Federal Constituency in collaboration with Ogun-Osun River Basin Development Authority, charged the participants of the ICT training programme to leverage on the use of ICT to upgrade their skills to be competitive with their counterparts in other parts of the world. In his words, “My joy is to always look back and see my people grow and perform extraordinarily well in their various endeavours, converting knowledge and skills acquired during my tenure to great wealth in and outside this Constituency.” “Residents of Somolu Federal Constituency would recall that during my campaign, I categorically showed great interest in empowerment and skills acquisition, as that is the only intervention programme that can outlive my reign in office, for sustainable growth and development in Somolu Federal Constituency,” he stressed. “Do not see your participation in this training as an accident, rather a blessing, if you are focused. For businessmen and women amongst you, you should be able to turn ideas and Information into wealth which is the essence of working in life,” he added. According to him, before assuming office, he commenced individual empowerments and educational support programmea by giving free NECO/WAEC and JAMB forms to children and youths, noting that some of the students who benefited from my free JAMB and SSCE forms have already been admitted in various higher institutions. “My administration has within this first 16months empowered hundreds of artisans, widows, youths, teachers. Just last week, at Ayinke Primary School, I was able to facilitate the supply of 600 copies of Mathematics Text Books for Primary 1-6 students; 600 copies of English Text Books for Primary 1-6 students; 52 copies of Phonics Rite Path textbooks; 52 copies of The Spelling Champion textbook; 51 copies of The Heritage Text Book; 14 drawers’ steel cabinet; 58 pieces of pupil furniture. Also speaking, the Managing Director, Ogun-Osun River Basin Development Authority, Olufemi Odumosu, emphasised the need to engage the teeming youths across the Federal Constituency of Lagos State in the acquisition of entrepreneurial skills capable of liberating them from seeking unavailable jobs and unemployment. He added that ICT is a major driver of economic growth as the empowerment programme is centred on ICT skills training for the youths, providing them with the opportunity to specialise in different vocational courses such as Basic computer appreciation, computer graphics design, internet opportunities and exploration, e-mailing focusing on Gmail. “Each youth thereafter would be handed laptop fully installed with necessary applications to enhance productivity in their chosen fields. I hope this skills acquisition programme will also refresh, rejig and rejuvenate participants who are majorly youths and expose them to the unlimited opportunities and windows that info-technology offers despite the challenges posed by the Coronavirus.