 THE infiltration of counterfeit products in the management and control of pests has become a source of worry to players in a sector primed to be a money-spinner, experts have warned. According to the Managing Director, Rotimax Integrated Services Limited, Rotimi Tolulope Caleb, the proliferation of the industry has implications for health and wellbeing. “When you patronise quacks, they can’t give you the best service and you are putting your life at risk because they will not follow the laid down safety measures,” he said. The pest control expert spoke in Lagos at a recent book launch dedicated to professionals and nonprofessionals of pest control across the country. Titled ‘Predictive models for starting and growing pest control and disinfection business in Nigeria,’ the founder of the company,  said the need to write the book arose when he discovered that many young people in the business still have a lot to learn about pest control. “The book exposes and shed more light on the pest control industry. It is not just about fumigation.  Fumigation is a part of the pest control branch and not all of it. In order to correct the wrong impression about the pest control industry and other biases, I was enthusiastic to create awareness about the profession thereby penning my ideas and experiences into a book where readers -both professionals and novice can understand the nitty-gritty of the industry,” he stressed. With a forward written by the Registrar of Environmental Health Officers Registration Council of Nigeria, Dr. Yakubu M Baba and the National President of Environmental Health Officers Association of Nigeria, Dr Samuel Akinghehin, “their endorsement shows that the book will be very helpful to young pest control professionals and even the nonprofessionals,” Caleb enthused. “Job seekers who struggle to understand what skills are in high demand, where and which career paths are most profitable; employers, for them to have a better understanding of sustainability of their business and students at institutions of learning. It will serve as a guide in preparing them for entrepreneurship.” 