A research has established that 97 percent of primary health centres in Demsa and Numan, two urban local government areas near the Adamawa State capital, Yola, lack ambulances. The research, conducted by a Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), Rule of Law and Empowerment Initiative, also known as Partners West Africa Nigeria (PWAN), also indicated that 65% of the centres do not have electricity. The Partners West Africa, with support from the United States Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement (INL), made the revelations at the weekend when it presented the report of its research which it conducted between August and September this year. It explained that it carried out an assessment of the local government service delivery in the areas of health, security, education, and socioeconomic welfare in its bid to get citizens to access service delivery by the Demsa and Numan local councils and to make the councils more conscious of where they need to improve. It said that working through ACCESS Nigeria (II) project, it partnered with Demsa and neighbouring Numan to conduct an assessment of services they delivered to the citizens in the four areas of health, education, security, and socio-economic welfare. The research, according to Tobiloba Adekunle, Program intern of PWAN, covered 91 primary schools, 46 PHCs, and 53 communities. Presenting the scorecard at a ceremony in Numan, Ijeoma Igwe, the program assistant of PWAN, said, “97% of the PHCs admitted to not having ambulance services. It is clear from this that most of the PHCs do not have functional ambulances, thus cannot offer urgent medical services to citizens.” She noted similarly that since the majority of the health centres do not have electricity, it is impossible for them to offer 24-hour services contrary to their claim of nonstop operational hours. She said, “Lighting is the most elementary form of electricity in homes and hospitals, which you can’t get in the 65% of health centres without electricity. One then wonders: how do you provide services at night? Is it with candlelight?” The report also noted that 56.4% of the PHCs do not have toilets, a situation which Ijeoma Igwe said can increase the infection rate of patients that visit the centers. As part of the recommendations, the PWAN Program Assistant advised the Demsa and Numan local governments to contact relevant government and Non-Governmental agencies for intervention to fix the challenges. Specifically, she suggested a resort to solar energy to complement current reliance on electricity from Transmission Company of proof of (TCN), especially as Adamawa State is awash with sunshine. The Chairman of Demsa local government, Chief Elkanah Fwa, who attended the research results report presentation, said the report was an eye-opener for him. He promised to take steps at addóressing the recommendations.