  Perhaps more than ever before in Nigerian history, we live in a society that is aware of its vulnerability, and is deeply worried about it. That is to say, on top of the worries that Nigerians would ordinarily have, our generation seems to worry in a particularly intense way about how things are out of control. The sources of this worry are what novelist David Malouf calls the “two big Es” – the Environment and the Economy. Modern Nigeria is faced with several challenges, which have not been addressed by the current leadership, and this failure further plunges the nation into avoidable chaos. The endemic but grossly unabated corruption, the unchecked activity of Fulani herdsmen and Boko Haram groups have further exposed the current government as a lame duck that lacks venom and aggression desperately required to salvage the country. Nigeria needs a willing and listening government that will prioritise security of common citizens and be proactive in the real sense of the word. We must – as a matter of urgency – invoke the provisions of the constitution to ostracise and punish those who take human life at will. They should be told in a painful way that only the government has the legitimate right to take the life of any convicted criminal and not innocent individuals. Every year, and perhaps every day in the history of our nation brings a new test. Sometimes our strength as a people is tested, and in recent times it has been security, COVID-19 and its attendant impact on the people’s livelihood and wellbeing. Indeed, not just security of lives but of food, jobs and good leadership. Those human rights that are commonly referred to as fundamental are no longer sacrosanct. The right to life has become fearful and dreadful as Nigerians sleep with one eye open.  Surprisingly, the government is in denial, claiming the security of the nation is stronger than before. The inability of the government to quash the menace of Boko Haram and incessant kidnapping in all the nooks and cranny of the nation confirms how disconnected the government is – not just from the yearnings of the people but the realities on ground. We have been worrying about our continued existence as a nation during the last few years, to the extent that a few religious leaders and regional leaders have called upon their followers to carry arm in self defence. The attendant killings and maiming were heights of insecurity in the land. The effects of inept leadership have hit people so hard in the past year, such that Nigerians have nothing good to remember about the present government. It is appalling and dangerous now that gunmen under different guises attack and kill security operatives up and down the country. What a shame that the hunters are now being hunted! Since the nation’s independence and through 2020, we worried so much as nation about the state of infrastructure such that we got used to eating, reading and sleeping in the dark because of continued underperformance of the Discos or NEPA as I still call them. Unfortunately, the privatisation of the power industry has not, and may not ultimately result in improved efficiency as the process was grossly marred by nepotism. The roads are still death traps while education, at all levels, is degenerating. I am not a pessimist, but l can say without reservation that university education would only get worse and eventually die off someday because not even the recent fragile agreement that halted the ASUU strike is able to chart a secure pathway for our education. We can take a cue from what has become primary and secondary education. Those who supposed to ensure funding, compliance and service delivery have all founded private institutions where they reap bountifully and smile to the bank at the expense of the future of our nation. The worries were too many to live with, and these might be the fears of coming years. As we open our eyes to see 2021, there is no shortage of things to be genuinely worried about: we worry about livelihood; whether we will be able to meet our daily expenses in a country where there is no social support from the government. We think so much about our health considering the status of the public hospitals and the influx of improperly regulated private hospitals. The COVID-19 pandemic has exposed the rot in our health and social care infrastructures; we have seen with our own eyes that there are no foundations to build on.  Young men and women of marriage age do not only worry about, but fear relationships. The number of single women who desire marriage is alarming because of lack of wherewithal on the part of the male counterparts to enter wedlock. Married couples and single parents worry about children – and still fear whether they will be able to keep them safe and how they will turn out in life because government, at all tiers,  keeps depriving them of the instruments of leadership such as access to quality education. Parents whose children have graduated fear that they would not get jobs because of cronyism. As it is, apart from the astronomical hike in the prices of food and services as well as petroleum products, we have no idea of exactly what we will experience in 2021. Whatever we think we will experience is only a projection from the awful experience foisted on us without justification by consecutive leaderships who have consistently failed Nigeria since independence. And for the worries of 2020 not to constitute the fears of 2021, there is an urgent need to bring back the tested and trusted security and anti-corruption chiefs who had contained similar security and financial threats in the past because the old broom knows the corners and to my mind will sweep cleaner. Granted the current service chiefs are Nigerians, but they have failed to protect Nigeria.  They must go! To avert a repeat of the #ENDSARS protest, the government should fast-track job creation for the teeming unemployed. The elderly should be supported to live the remaining days of their lives in dignity. National Assembly should enact laws to enable local councils to establish old people’s care trust. The lingering crises in education sector at all levels should be meaningfully and purposefully addressed with a view to bringing back the schools to life and relevance.  If the worries and fears would reduce, government must act fast and create an enabling environment that will give people a better lease of life as against the present the-rich-have –it-all system of government. 