The Lagos State Ministry of Education has called on teachers and administrators in its public schools to apply for the 2020 edition of the Lagos State Teachers Merit Awards which would reward the winners with cars and other mouthwatering prizes. Teachers can submit entries for the awards on lagosstateteachersmeritaward.ng   which opened Monday. As a departure from the norm, this year’s winners will be selected by a group of mostly private-sector educationists constituted by the Education Commissioner, Mrs. Folasade Adefisayo. The committee chaired by the founder of highflying Greensprings School, Mrs. Lai Koiki, has CEO Edumark Consult, Mrs. Yinka Ogunde; administrator, Vivian Fowler Memorial College for Girls, Mrs. Funke Amba; Director, The Foreshore School, Ms. Oyindamola Egbeyemi; CEO, Workforce Group, Mr. Bolaji Olagunju; retired Director of Education, District IV, Mrs. Sherifat Ogboye; Director, Arc-Lights Foundation for Education, Mrs. Abisola Obasanya; and Regional Manager, Public Sector, Ecobank Plc, Mr. Adebisi Adetutu as members. Announcing the criteria for selection at a briefing held at the Lagos State Ministry of Education, Mrs. Koiki said the applicants must show “evidence of outstanding leadership or contribution in improving teaching and learning; evidence of positive holistic impact on students’ learning beyond classroom protocol; evidence of community impact and involvement through their work; evidence of innovation and evidence of efficiency and effectiveness.” She said the teachers would be rewarded under seven categories – best teacher (primary school); best teacher (junior secondary school); best teacher (senior secondary school); best head teacher (primary school); best principal (junior secondary school); best principal (senior secondary school); best principal (senior secondary school). Mrs. Koiki said all teachers and administrators in the public school system were eligible as long as they possessed TRCN number. After the close of entries on January 25, 2020, Mrs. Koiki said the selection committee would shortlist the best for a second stage of applications from which 30 finalists would emerge. The 30 finalists would be invited to a retreat from which 20 winners would emerge. End  