A total of 47 rapists were arrested at different locations and times in Ogun state between July 23rd and December 31st, 2020. A good number of them allegedly engaged in gang-raping of their victims and videoed the victims during the act. The Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, attributed the increasing number of rape cases to the culture of silence and unwillingness of the victims to pursue justice against offenders, explaining that the seeming absence of punishment or justice, emboldens others to see rape as child play and embark on it. Meanwhile, 14 robbery suspects were shot dead within the last six months in separate encounters while engaging operatives of the State Police command in a gun duel even as the sum of N109, 829,935.00k worth of property, including cash were also recovered from robbers. The Commissioner of Police, Edward Ajogun, disclosed this on New Year Eve at the Command Headquarters, Eleweran, while parading 35 crime suspects, including three rapists, cultists, robbery suspects, human traffickers among others. While rendering account of the command’s stewardship, Ajogun added that yesterday, Ajogun 24 suspected kidnappers were arrested within the period under review, explaining that 227 cultists were also apprehended arrested. According to him, 1, 139 suspects are currently undergoing prosecution across the state, “while 57 various types of firearms, 82 different types of ammunition and 31 vehicles” were recovered. Ajogun further noted that the greatest achievement of the command since the 13th of July, 2020 when he assumed office in the command was the way the command prosecuted the #EndSARS protest with minimal casualties. He lamented the loss of a senior police officer to the #EndSARS protest that shook the country in October, disclosing that the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu has since posthumously promoted the late Divisional Crime Officer in charge of Atan/Otta Division, Augustine Ogbechie from the position of the Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) to a Superintendent of Police (SP) alongside other policemen that were injured during the protest. While acknowledging the supports of other sister security agencies, Ajogun however, emphasized that the feats achieved by his command in fighting crimes and criminality in the state wouldn’t have been possible without the supports of the state governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun whom he said assisted in providing the needed facilities for the police. “I must also hasten to mention that we are enjoying exemplary synergy and collaboration of other sister agencies like the Nigerian Army, the D.S.S, Nigeria Security and Civil Defense Corp (NSCDC), Nigeria Customs and Immigration Service (NIS), the Correctional Service, as well as the Ogun State Security outfit; the SO-SAFE, the Vigilante Group, hunters and the traditional rulers among others. To all, we say ‘thank you’ and we look forward to a more beneficial relationship in the coming new year.”