 KIA Motors Nigeria has  launched an innovative and first of its kind, ‘Live Stream Showroom,’ a new online platform in Nigeria, that offers customers access to personalised virtual viewings of their best-in-class cars from the showrooms. The Live Stream Showroom offers a digital, online platform that allows anyone or customers using a smartphone to have a live video session with Kia showroom for a digital experience. Customers will receive a one-on-one consultation with live responses to questions, and explore the design and features of their chosen model, answer to the customer queries and see demonstrations of new technology and functionality on demand. The COVID-19 pandemic has made many firms to adapt and find creative ways of performing everyday tasks, and inspecting a car is no exception to that. The new Live Stream Showroom platform is introduced in Nigeria as part of the boundless initiative of Kia to improve the showroom experience and bring it close to the people at the comfort of their homes. The new platform prioritises customer convenience and ensures a seamless digital experience that is the same as a physical showroom visit. This commitment toward customer value-led innovations come as the company establishes its leadership position globally in the future automotive industry under its Plan S strategy. Kia Motors Nigeria Marketing Manager Olawale Jimoh, said the Live Stream Showroom demonstrated Kia’s commitment to tailoring the car-buying journey and ownership experience to the demands of the customers with virtual viewings. “By launching this new platform, we aim to stay ahead of the curve in digital sales and marketing in this time of transition,” he said. Recent consumer demand, he said, shows a strong indication that customers are looking to take more of the car-buying journey online. According to him, the recent data collected by Kia globally shows that 83 percent of consumers prefer to carry out product research online before making a purchase, while 47 percent of consumers expressed interest in using online platforms for future purchases.