 In the ENGLISH PREMIER LEAGUE, Alex Iwobi has warmed himself into the heart of Everton gaffer, Carlo Ancelotti, and he has now become an important member of the Toffees . He has only missed four minutes of action in Everton’s last three games. With two successive wins against Chelsea and Leicester City, the Blues have returned to the top five as they face struggling Arsenal at the Goodison Park today. Fulham got a morale-boosting home draw against reigning league champions, Liverpool last weekend and followed that up with another draw at the Craven Cottage on Wednesday against Brighton. They will travel to St’ James’ Park to slug it out with Newcastle United tomorrow aware that anything other than a positive outcome could see them slip back to the drop zone. Leicester City inexplicably lost 2-0 at home to Everton on Wednesday but  Wilfred Ndidi is gradually getting back  his groove after  the long term injury he just recovered from. The Foxes face Tottenham tomorrow with both teams needing a positive result after their midweek defeats. Manchester United will host Leeds United tomorrow with  Nigerian Odion Ighalo not expected to play any role. Semi Ajayi will be playing under a new manager tomorrow when West Brom entertain Aston Villa at the Hawthorns after Slaven Bilic  was replaced by former England head coach, Sam Allardyce . In the ITALIAN SERIE A, Simy Nwankwo ‘s  Crotone ended their long wait for the first win of the season in their 4-1 demotion of Spezia and they must be at their best today when they file out against Sampdoria . Kingsley Michael is still playing an understudy role at Bologna and he is expected to be in the squad again tomorrow when they travel to Torino as he awaits his debut. In the SPANISH LA LIGA SANTANDER, Kelechi Nwakali’s SD Huesca eventually got their first victory of the season against Deportivo Alaves after 13 games last weekend. Meanwhile, competition for shirts has intensified at Villarreal with Samuel Chukwueze at the receiving end;  he is not guaranteed of playing 90 minutes in recent times and as they face Osasuna today. Fans of Ramon Azeez were all smiles when the midfielder made the Granada bench for the first time since early October, last weekend against Elche and  would expectedly  to be given some minutes tomorrow when they tackle Real Betis. In the GERMAN BUNDESLIGA, Kevin Akpoguma’s Hoffenheim are on a two-match losing streak after Bayer Leverkusen (4-1) and RB Leipzig (1-0) dazed them last weekend and Wednesday respectively. Can they halt it against Borussia Monchengladbach today? Cologne with Nigerian duo of Tolu Arokodare and Kingsley Ehizibue  are playing away to RB Leipzig today.