Netflix has a reputation for producing some truly great original content. From Stranger, Things to Orange is The New Black some of our favourite shows ever have been Netflix original series. Even more than that a lot of them have been UK based shows, from Sex Education to The Crown, so we are very excited that Netflix has just announced seven brand new UK based original series. Head of the UK content team, Netflix’s Anne Mensah said of the decision: “Setting up a team entirely based in the U.K. was always about being able to better connect to the fantastic program makers we have here; to provide a space for writers, producers, directors and actors that feels local, friendly and familiar but also provides talent the opportunity to make shows that will impact on a global scale. U.K.-made stories really do speak to the world.” “It’s the people – the talent both in front of and behind the screen – that makes us the second-biggest producing territory for Netflix outside the U.S. This was always about building a base and setting up the business in the U.K. for the long term and there is so much more to come.”  Number of episodes: 8 x 30 minutes. Writer/Lead Actor: Richard Gadd (Sex Education). Netflix synopsis: “Based on a compelling true story, the hit 2019 Edinburgh Fringe one-man stage-play Baby Reindeer follows the writer and performer Richard Gadd’s warped relationship with his female stalker and the impact it has on him as he is ultimately forced to face a deep, dark buried trauma…”  Number of episodes: 6 x 60 minutes. Writers: Sarah Dollard (Bridgerton ), Andrea Gibb (Elizabeth Is Missing), Corinna Faith (The Innocents).
Netflix synopsis: “A gripping horror story about two warring sisters – one human, one monster – who must unite to reverse a supernatural pact gone horribly wrong, and with it mend their grief-stricken family. Based on the novel by Frances Hardinge.”  Number of episodes: 8 x 60 minutes. Writers: Joe Barton (Giri/Haji). Netflix synopsis: “Sixteen-year-old Nathan is the illegitimate son of the world’s most feared witch. He’s spent his whole life being monitored for signs he may follow the same destructive path as his father. But as tensions escalate, the old boundaries between ‘good’ and ‘bad’ fray and Nathan will discover what sort of person he truly is. This is an angsty, roller-coaster ride of a young adult show about a troubled kid who has the indomitable will to survive and defy the odds. The series is based on the Half Bad trilogy of books written by Sally Green.”  Number of episodes: 8 x 60 minutes. Writers: Joe Cornish (Attack the Block). Netflix synopsis: “In London, where the most gifted teenage ghost-hunters venture nightly into perilous combat with deadly spirits, amidst the many corporate, adult-run agencies, one stands alone: independent of any commercial imperative or adult supervision – a tiny startup, run by two teenage boys and a newly arrived, supremely psychically gifted girl, a renegade trio destined to unravel a mystery that will change the course of history: Lockwood & Co. A supernatural action-adventure detective series, based on the best-selling novels by Jonathan Stroud.”  Number of episodes: 10 x 10 minutes. Writers: Rowan Atkinson (Johnny English). Netflix synopsis: “Renowned actor and comedian Rowan Atkinson plays a new character in this riotous comedy. A man finds himself at war with a bee while housesitting a luxurious mansion. Who will win, and what irreparable damage will be done in the process?”  Number of episodes: 6 x 30 minutes. Writers: Barney Ronay and Jonathan Liew. Netflix synopsis: “This is a comedy about football, but also not about football. Mainly it’s a story about the people and the surfaces that collide in the orbit of this strange, obsessional world of bluffers, sharks and genuine talent. It’s about friendship, trust and families, in a world where no one is actually your friend, where there is zero trust and where families tend to devour each other every six months.”  Number of episodes: 7 x 60 minutes. Writers: Sophie Petzal. Netflix synopsis: “Adapted from the best-selling, Costa award-winning debut novel by Stuart Turton, The Seven Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle is a truly original, mind-bending murder mystery. All set within the grounds of a sprawling country estate, this high-concept thriller presents an intriguing puzzle – how do you solve a murder when every time you are getting close to the answer, you wake up in someone else’s body?” (www.newsnow.co.uk)