 YES, these are interesting times! Had the situation not been so dire and drastic and the environment charged, I guess this would be such moments where Nigerians ought to recline their seats to watch the farcical show not only playing out as governance but tearing the country apart from the inside. To begin with, so much has been made of our chief steward of state being summoned to parliament to brief members on what his administration is doing to halt the spate of killings particularly in the Northeast; now we are being reminded of the minister-steward in charge, who, being so far removed from the herd, could not be bothered about those minor things that ordinarily trouble the rest of us. And as if we needed any reminders of the thin line between the Divine Rights of the monarchs of yore and the constitutional order that we pretend to embrace, think of that open letter from the chief law officer of the federation – Abubakar Malami, SAN – accusing our esteemed lawmakers of not only parlaying to the mob but exulting in overreach all for the sin of daring to call on President Muhammadu Buhari to come down to engage with the people. To our esteemed Malami, SAN, the law is apparently what he deems it to be. To those who harbour the notion of presidential infallibility as being incompatible with the current constitutional order, they’ll probably need new lessons from the chief law officer of the republic to understand that the king, in the current season, can do no wrong. Now, we know that the “right” of the president to engage the NASS and appear is “inherently discretionary”. How about this one also – that “NASS has no constitutional power to envisage or contemplate a situation where the President would be summoned to explain operational use of the armed forces” – whatever that means! Talk of the same law that could not avail those luckless farmers – 43 of them – butchered on their farmlands by a band of terrorists which our government continues to assure us, have long been decimated? To rub salt upon injury, we are even now been told that the hapless farmers could not be held guiltless since they didn’t obtain relevant permit(s) from the military to harvest their crops! So, the issue is about legalism? When has the practice of throwing in the books ceased to be fashionable for those minded for mischief? To those who do not know, we have a legislation called the NDCC Act. That law establishes the functions of the agency, creates the various offices expected to run it and specifies how the appointees get to serve. The president of course thinks he has a better idea. First, he sends the nominees to the senate for confirmation in accordance with the law. The latter confirms the nominees only for the president, against the dictates of the law, to change his mind just moments after! And the result? Three interim management committees in a row in less than two years! To get back to the issue, if it is any shame that the administration’s points-man couldn’t see beyond the narrow legalism of the moment –thus putting all manners of conspiracy theories into the overdrive –could we put the eerie silence in the corridors of governance to the climate of dissonance under which the disparate parts of the same administration are to be seen doing their parts? Nigerians obviously recognise an alibi when they see one; surely, it is understood that an appearance by the president before the House, for whatever is worth, would have made for good optics. That these now belong in the past only leaves one in the hope that the cost of that botched appearance would not be so grave as to be incalculable in the long run. We are after all, still a praying nation! In the meantime, we can think of a country bleeding profusely from all sides. Whether it is from the Boko Haram and the Islamic State of West African Province (ISWAP) in the Northeast, bandits with their reign terror in the North-west and now far spreading into the North-central and the Middle Belt, or even the endless squabbles between farmers and killer herdsmen, not forgetting the reign of kidnappers across the national landscape. Let’s add to those the travails of the economy; the declining manufacturing capacity, the looming spectre of famine in the coming months as our farmers desert their farmlands to escape being killed by armed gangs. Does anyone still find time to talk of the mind-boggling corruption going on? The rot in the public service, the unbearably high cost of government all of these in the atmosphere of denuded values? Put all of these together side by side with the decline in state capacity, the leadership regression across the board and of course, the absence of an effective, hands-on leadership. More specifically, think of the ruling party –APC that would rather put its internal politics and the associated intrigues first at a time of national upheaval. A party now so consumed by hubris that it has no qualms about foisting its own brand of anarchy on the rest of us; think for a moment of a party that would not hesitate to replace an elected body with a so-called caretaker committee against the express provisions of its own laws – and yet proclaim itself as a party of change. You couldn’t have a better recipe for state failure. From Borno’s Zabarmari 43, to Katsina’s Kankara 333; these are not mere statistics; they sum up to an unmitigated national tragedy the kind that should ordinarily throw the country into deep mourning; in some ways, they represent symptoms of our failures to confront the truth about our leadership and existence; of our penchant to live in denial even when the reality is out there starring us in the face. As for those who make the fancy argument that the country is safer now than pre-2015 simply because the Boko Haram no longer holds territories, one only needs to point them to what is happening along the Abuja-Kaduna corridor – that all important artery that connects the seat of our federal government with the base of the erstwhile regional administration; certainly, one of the busiest highways in the federation – to appreciate how hollow some claims can be! In any case, if there is one thing that most Nigerians have come agree upon, it is that this president, who promised hands-on leadership, has been more of an absentee president. But sincerely, what qualifies a mere mortal like yours truly to so pronounce on our squeaky-clean  Kabiyesi-President of whom it is said, like the Biblical Nathaniel, there can be no guile?