 THE All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State on Tuesday described its victory at the by-elections as a vote of confidence in Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. It noted that since his inauguration, the governor had hit the ground running and faithfully implemented his THEMES agenda. Publicity Secretary Seye Oladejo said in a statement that Sanwo-Olu has also not abandoned the projects inherited from his predecessor. He said the electorate voted for the APC senatorial and House of Assembly candidates in appreciation of the achievements of the Sanwo-Olu administration. Oladejo said: “The commitment to complete inherited projects has been upheld in the successful completion of the Murtala Mohammed International Airport road and the near completion of the Agege Pen Cinema flyover. “The inauguration of 37 newly constructed roads and 500 others rehabilitated by the Public Works Bureau are also noteworthy. “The procurement of eight boats for water transportation and the recruitment, training and deployment of 1,000 officers were geared towards the improvement of public transportation. “The commitment to construct the 4th mainland bridge, which is making remarkable progress with the shortlisting of eight of the 30 firms that expressed interest, will be the legacy project of the current administration. As characteristic of the Sanwo-Olu government, the community engagement to seek support and cooperation has begun in earnest. “The interventions by the government in the health sector by providing diverse free treatment for thousands of beneficiaries and free surgeries in paediatrics, eyes, orthopaedic, nose and dental ailments were most impactful. “The construction of the mother and child hospitals at Igando and Eti-Osa also boosted the health sector. “Undoubtedly, our environment has improved as a result of the re-organisation of the Lagos State Waste Management Agency and the operations of the Private Sector Participation in waste management. The Olusosun landfill site was expanded to 42-acre for ease of waste disposal.”           