A Chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Chief Medical Director, University of Port Harcourt Teaching Hospital (UPTH), Prof. Henry Ugboma, has warned of grave consequences if APC members fail to partake in the party’s membership revalidation exercise. Ugboma appealed to members to prepare themselves to fully participate in the forthcoming programme of the party to avoid losing their membership. Speaking at the formal inauguration of Ugboma Grassroot Initiatives (UGI) in Ndoni District area of Ogba/Egbema/Ndoni Local Government Area, Rivers State, the CMD said the exercise would help to determine the number of real APC members across the country. He also called on the party structures to take the registration of new members seriously to strengthen the APC ahead of the 2023 General Election. “Those, who will want to take the registration exercise and revalidation of membership cards for granted will have themselves to blame because they will not be regarded as APC party members and will not participate in any APC activities and programmes,” he said. He assured the APC faithful in the domain of his readiness to involve them in all activities and programmes of the party. Ugboma vowed to make APC a dominant party in the entire Orashi region and commended the UGI for mobilising party members in the area. In his remarks, the Leader of UGI, Fidelis Alumonah explained that membership of the group was drawn across the 17 communities in Ndoni District comprising the Ase-Azaga, Isukwa, Odugiri, Agwe Obodo, Onikwu and Ase-Imonite among others. Fidelis said that the aims and objectives of UGI was to foster love and unity in Ndoni District and youths, men and women from other political parties to APC. He said UGI would ensure they work towards the success of APC in 2023 by delivering all Ndoni District Units and wards to the party. He commended Ugboma for taking APC to greater height in Ndoni and for positively changing the life of the people, especially his generosity towards widows, orphans, physically challenged, elders, youths and women in the area.