Chinese original equipment manufacturer (OEM), Xiaomi Corporation  at the weekend said it is eyeing between 15 and 17 per cent of the smartphone market share in the country in the medium term and 40 per cent in the long term. Its Managing Director, Dr Seifullah Gaya, who spoke on the sidelines of the launch of Mi 10T pro and Mi  I0T in Ikeja, Lagos said the brand, which was founded in April 2010, has emerged number three globally and in Africa. He said the brand currently has 7.5per cent of the market share in the country. He assured of the availability of the spare parts of the devices in the country. It’s Marketing Director, Somoye Habeeb, said it’s the ambition of the brand to become the country’s number one mobile device choice in the country. He said the flagship Mi IOT Pro takes creating and exploring to the next level with unmatched specs in its class. He said it kept pushing boundaries, delivering top-notch experience for everyone from working professionals to streaming enthusiasts and mobile gamers, adding that the series brings 5G to everyone and offers unparalleled user experience. He said: “There’s no denying Xiaomi’s pivotal role in defining the 108MP camera segment, from debuting the world’s first 108MP smartphone camera to introducing countless photography software innovations in the past year alone.”  Mi 10T Pro continues the brand’s ultra high resolution legacy with OIS and 8K video support. It offers an impressive 64MP main camera. But it doesn’t stop there, both MI IOT pro and Mi 1OT offer triple camera set up with 13MP ultra wide angle camera and 5MP macro camera, equipping it to capture moments that matter.” Habeeb said building on the firm’s existing technology, Mi 1OT pro and Mi 1OT exhibit new and dynamic photography software features which he said included six standalone long exposure modes that allows anyone capture artsy shots from moving crowd which focuses on an idle subject while blurring dynamic sorroundings to star trails which creates swirling starry sky effect. “Photo clones captures four of you in single shot. Plus, Timed burst feature offers endless opportunities for fun, allowing users to set up photos with time gap that can also be converted into video while three new photo filters of cyberpunk, gold vibes and black ice help bring the desired mood to life,” Habeeb said. 