 Farmers under the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme (ABP) have started repaying the loans they secured by submitting produce and cash. The reason for accepting produce from the farmers as loan repayment instrument is to store the produce for future price stabilisation. Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele, made this known in Minna, Niger State during the input distribution flag-off and loan recovery drive under the RIFAN-CBN Anchor Borrowers’ Programme (ABP) Represented by Mr. Edward Adamu, Deputy Governor, Corporate Services of the CBN, he  noted that “despite the devastation caused by numerous floods in the 2018 wet season, farmers have been submitting produce and cash as part of their loan repayment”. He, however, appealed to farmers associations “to intensify efforts in this regard (of repaying loans) in the spirit of the partnership and sustainability of the programme”. The CBN, he said, will continue “to enhance her risk mitigation strategies to guarantee the intended outcomes of the ABP”. The CBN governor said “beyond rice, the Commodity Association Window has been expanded to cover more commodities like maize, cassava, sorghum, soy bean, ginger etc”. The participation of other commodity associations he said “poses a leadership challenge to Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria (RIFAN) to remain the lead association and a role model for others in terms of members’ engagement and loan recovery”. To sustain the momentum of the ABP, the CBN said it is targeting the cultivation of 1 million hectares of rice by 2020 dry season. According to Emefiele, “the target hectarage for 2019 was 500,000 and we hope to achieve 1 million by 2020 dry season”. He noted that “with the deployment of technology which covered farmers enumeration, biometric capture and GPS mapping of farms all embedded to enhance the operational efficiency of the ABP, the 2018 wet season witnessed a geometric rise in beneficiaries”. He then disclosed that, “about 275,000 farmers were empowered to cultivate 220,000 hectares across all the 37 states of the federation and FCT. President, Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria (RIFAN) Mr. Aminu Goronyo said this is the first time they will achieve two dry season cropping in one calendar with the aim of achieving more rice production. According to him, “under the dry season, if you cultivate twice, you will be able to achieve 4-5 million metric tones of rice under the two cropping season so that the difference of what we need to consume per annum will just be about one million or maximum two million metric tons of rice because of our annual consumption of rice is between 7.5-8 million metric tons of rice”. He added that if they “can achieve 5million metric tons under dry season cultivation, under the wet season, which will make it three cropping season, we will be able to achieve another 5 million metric tons. So if our consumption capacity is about 8 million metric tons, it means we have enough to consume locally and export the excess we produce. “That is why the CBN partnered RIFAN to come up with the strategic dry season farming and we can achieve it. In the north, we have longer dry season period of between 7-8 months so we can comfortably cultivate rice twice in one dry season”.