The Rivers State Commissioner for Information and Communications Paulinus Nsirim has described as ridiculous and hilarious an allegation that the state Governor, Nyesom Wike was engaged in a plot to destabilise the All Progressives Congress (APC) through the Rivers courts. A former Publicity Secretary of APC in Rivers, Chris Finebone, in a statement he signed in Port Harcourt alleged that Wike and other agents of the government were planning to initiate frivolous court actions to cripple the APC nationwide. He said the plot was being hatched by Wike, some moles in the APC, and unnamed chieftains of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He said part of the plan was to file all manner of cases against the APC to create a further crisis in the party ahead of the 2023 elections. He said: “On December 3, 2020, after the sitting of the PDP vs Hon. Ephraim Nwuzi court hearing and while still within the court premises, I obtained credible information through my reliable insiders in the State government that Gov. Nyesom Wike and the PDP in Rivers State have hatched a plot to destabilize the All Progressives Congress (APC) nationwide by making available Rivers State courts to enemies of the APC (within and from outside the State) to file all manner of cases against the APC with a view to destabilizing the party as politics of 2023 approaches. “The source disclosed that the decision was hatched at the highest level of government directly involving the state governor and his closest allies in the PDP following the successful defection of Gov. Umahi of Ebonyi State to the APC – an action that pitched the Ebonyi governor against his Rivers counterpart, Nyesom Wike.” But Nsirim in a statement signed by his Special Assistant, Media, Amieyeofori Ibim described the remarks of Finebone as “a more sinister, disturbing template, already deployed in previous circumstances, with the dubious intent to heat up the Rivers polity ahead of the 2023 general elections and ultimately provoke and instigate unnecessary conflict across the state.” He said: “To put the matter in clearer perspective, the statement by Warisenibo Chris Finebone is not only ridiculous in context but hilarious in its contained allegations, especially when placed against the backdrop of a political party that has not only been mired in endless internal litigation but whose key figures have been intent and tenaciously insistent on testing the authenticity of their demands in the court of law, now crying wolf about some external force taking it to court. “In a nutshell, Rivers APC should first remove the massive log in its political eye before accusing any other party or even the Rivers State Government for that matter, of attempting to destablize APC nationwide, using Rivers courts, because the APC itself is the number one client of Rivers courts and has had a chequred relationship with the judiciary, culminating in the autocratic ignominy and impunity which resulted in the dictatorial shutting down of the Courts in Rivers state for months by the leader of the same Rivers APC. “Again, there must be something fundamentally wrong with a political party like the Rivers APC, which nurses a morbid phobia for any attempt to test the legality of whatever decision it’s godfathers and dictators foist on its members, through legitimate due processes. The lame excuse of always alluding to ‘tendencies within the APC in Rivers State that has been working in cahoots with the Rivers State Government,’ jangles like the repetitive chorus of a broken record. “To set the records straight, neither Governor Nyesom Wike nor the Rivers State Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, will waste any time engaging in any legal battle with a political party that has already self-destructed as a result of its own uncontrollable appetite for running to the Courts, to institute diversionary legal processes over every matter, including red herrings and audacious directives.” He further reminded Finebone that the courts belong to the third realm of the democratic system and the APC itself had suffered monumental electoral humiliations nationwide following litigations that did not emanate from Rivers courts. “It is also on record that the APC has enjoyed some amazing, mind-boggling judicial victories, particularly the most recent Supreme Court judgement that imposed a Governor in Imo State. “So, if the APC decides, in its own wisdom, to engage the jurisdiction of Courts in Rivers State to test the mettle, credibility, and authority of actions and decisions within its own internal party structure, then one wonders how PDP and Rivers government can be accused of complicity in such circumstances. “Even as we speak, the confusion in the national APC has deepened further across the country and we do not wish to remind Chris Finebone that while he and his fellow pipe dreamers are busy receiving paperweights and spent forces into their fold and speculating on the next arrivals of political no deliverables, whose value and usefulness have since expired, the PDP has already taken over the entire South-South region, achieved with the considerable astute, strategic contributions of Governor Nyesom Wike and is even now, waxing stronger by the day and embracing solid political figures, whose stature will grow in leaps and bounds as the 2023 general elections draw near. “For the avoidance of doubt, the fate of Rivers APC is already a prophecy foretold by their leader and godfather himself in January 2018. Speaking during a reception organised for him as grand patron of Ikwerre Youth Movement (IYM) in Rivers State, Rt. Hon Rotimi Chibuike Amaechi told his rapt audience of rabid loyalists in his very clear, unequivocal tones, that the 2019 general election in Rivers State will be the party’s last battle.”