WE shall continue our review today on the other aspects of emerging/current tax issues by focusing our discussion on Tax Inspectors without Borders (TIWB) to guide corporate and individual taxpayers of the impacts on their businesses. Tax Inspectors without Borders Introduction Nigeria has been participating in TIWB programmes both as recipient and provider of TIWB assistance. Various reports confirmed that the developing countries have been loosing several trillions of US dollars in much needed revenue to tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance scheme. Tax Inspectors Without Borders was launched as a joint United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) initiative in July 2015, to support and continue to build tax audit capacity.   For many developing countries, this implies strengthening tax and other revenue collection capacities.  TIWB was identified as one of the tools to support developing countries to build the capacities of national tax administration and mobilise more domestic revenues for the sustainable economic development goals. Among the partner administrations in TIWB are those cooperations like Mexico, Morocco, Nigeria, South Africa, Spain, United Kingdom, United States, The Netherlands, Slovak Republic, Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, India, Italy and Kenya. UNDP is a longstanding and trusted development partner in many countries around the world which makes it an invaluable partner on multiple levels including: TIWB is an initiative to facilitate the transfer of tax audit knowledge and skills to developing country tax administrations using a practical, “learning by doing” approach. Experienced tax auditors work alongside local tax officials in developing countries under a TIWB programme on current tax audits and international tax issues, sharing their expertise and skills. Developing country tax authorities request audit assistance, which is matched to appropriate expertise drawn from a pool of currently serving tax officials or recently retired tax officials. TIWB operates a clearing house which matches the requests of developing countries with available expertise from around the world. TIWB programmes are flexible, and tailored to developing country specific needs. They can include pre-audit risk assessment and case selection, investigatory techniques, audit cases involving transfer pricing issues, anti-avoidance rules, or sector-specific issues relating, for example, to natural resources, e-commerce, financial services or telecommunications. It is important to note that the foreign experts are not to be deployed to substitute for local audit staff or to carry out audit work where no local audit personnel are involved, it is about sharing expertise by working side-by-side, building skills through practical, case-based cooperation. There is growing evidence that technical assistance, and other Official Development Assistance (ODA) financed support for tax work, has been money well spent. The IMF, the World Bank Group and bilateral donors have been active in this field for decades. However, developing countries have indicated that there is a gap in the provision of practical audit expertise, particularly concerning the fast moving and complex area of international taxation, including transfer pricing. There is no international initiative dedicated to this kind of hands-on approach gap that TIWB is intended to address. iii. It improves state-society relation where taxation is a founding element of such relationship. Activity such as TIWB accelerate international tax cooperation among tax administrations because they are able to engage in more active partnership with each other.  Activity such a TIWB that promote a common understanding of shared problems will serve the interest of all. The individuals involved are benefitted with a unique development opportunity to share their knowledge in a different environment. We shall continue with the other aspects emerging/current tax issues in the next publication.