Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Minister Mallam Muhammad Bello, at the weekend, stated that enforcement teams would be out on the streets of the territory to ensure compliance from today. Bello, who read the guidelines at a news conference, issued COVID-19 guidelines regulating congregations, work and market places to contain further spread of the virus. The FCT is presently in a crisis of Coronavirus (COVID-19) second wave as cases is getting alarming, it was learnt at the weekend. Director of Public Health and Human Services Secretariat, FCT Administration, Dr. Josephine Okechukwu stated this through a video, which she shared on social media. Okechukwu came down with COVID-19 on December 3 and was discharged from a treatment centre within Abuja on December 19. Bello stated that the FCT administration would be working very closely with the Judiciary through the Mobile Courts System under existing approved laws. He said recorded figures over the last three weeks in FCT have been unacceptably high and there was an urgent need to contain it as much and as fast as possible. The minister, therefore, said that mandatory temperature checks must be carried out on all employees and customers entering office and business premises in the FCT. Bello said all staff members, visitors and customers entering workplaces, shops or business premises must wear a face mask that should cover the mouth and nose. His words: “No mask, no entry, no service. All office and business premises must have a handwashing station with running water and soap or hand sanitizer. “Employees who are feeling unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms, should notify their supervisor immediately, or stay at home and seek medical attention to confirm diagnosis by doing a COVID-19-test. “While the above guidelines regulate formal workplace and business environment, the holiday season demands that we also place special emphasis on market places, places of worship and entertainment as well as recreational centres which traditionally attract large gatherings during this period”. He, therefore, directed the Abuja Market Management and the various market associations to work together to carry out  sensitisation activities and ensure compliance of all extant health protocols.