Sir: Who knows how much and how far a simple kind gesture can go in making a difference? This question is often what I asked myself whenever I see people in need of a shoulder to cry on. Civilisation has perhaps switched us into ‘mind your business’, ‘me and my family’ and individualistic lifestyle. This has dealt negatively with our norm and humanitarian means. A clear illustration is extending a helping hand to someone who stumbles and falls. This is the simplest form of humanity. Service to humanity will in no way harm us. Rather, it creates a strong bond among people. “This should be obvious, but there are so many people out there who seem to forget how much of a difference kindness makes. When people are kind to each other, it’s contagious. Kindness breeds kindness and there’s nothing wrong with that. Humanity is described as state of being compassionate, brotherly love, humaneness, kind-heartedness, consideration, understanding, sympathy, tolerance, goodness, etc. I relate this to what Yoruba call ‘omoluabi’. When a man exhibits humility, kindness, compassion in his character, he’s described as omoluabi. Humanity means helping others at times when they need that help the most, humanity means forgetting your selfish interests at times when others need your help. Humanity means extending unconditional love to each and every living being on Earth. A perfect example of humanity can be demonstrated by the story of a king. Humanity or rather kindness, simply means to help others who are under you in terms of every aspect of life. As history teaches us, for the past three to four decades, the way and manner our elders lived with each other in terms of discipline, kindness and sympathy to each other differs from the way we view things in this modern or technology driven world. Looking at the situation of the country presently, specifically as poverty hits our lives, the haves find it hard to help the haves not. Wealthy individuals failed to be the best set of people their kinds were 30 years back. We are not the same people we used to be, a century ago. Compassion is a concept of mutating, once it is lost there is no claiming it back. Our love for power, fame, money, politics are the main cause we lost our humanity. Somehow, mercy and sympathy have gradually eroded us. That’s why we lost respect for the elders, even some parents have not been receiving parental treatment from their children. You can’t help people when they need the help the most, and when they die you see potential helpers attending the funeral and presenting bags of rice. This is nothing but hypocrisy. I could remember a time when our grandfathers would sit under the shade of a tree in congregation with neighbours and have their lunch and dinner. Every house with its own dish and all would be arranged for feast. He who has no means of feeding was always welcome and would be treated with utmost respect. There was no discrimination as to who was poor or rich. Immediately after eating, chats would follow. Then every child felt his father’s mate as his own father, and every father considered the son of his neighbour as his. Whenever I reminisce over those moments, I am often filled with mixed feelings of euphoria and nostalgia. I think Anne Lamott says it best: “Gratitude begins in our hearts and then dovetails into behavior. It almost always makes you willing to be of service, which is where the joy resides. It means that you are willing to stop being such a jerk. When you are aware of all that has been given to you, in your lifetime and the past few days, it is hard not to be humbled, and pleased to give back”. You can optimise your own life, and encourage others to emulate. Be kind, care about and help others, use every day like it’s your last to breathe and forgive. These can help in restoring the lost humanity.