Greater Heights Academy has called on economic managers to urgently review schools’ curricular by including the ideals of values and moral, noting that moral decadence in the society is edging towards an unprecedented level in the country. Speaking on the sidelines of its 6th graduation ceremony, the Chief Executive Officer, Greater Heights Academy, Mr. Timi Owolabi, emphasised the need to realign the curriculum with value system the nation cherish to churn out students that would benefit the society and Nigeria at large. Represented by the Assistant Chief Executive Officer, Greater Heights Academy, Mr. Tayo Owolabi, said the academic year has been challenging occasioned with the Covid 19 pandemic, urging the federal government to implement policies aimed at encouraging the educational sector. In his words, “No doubt the academic year has been challenging and that is why we chose a topic tagged “The value system and the future of the Nigerian child.” We need to realign our curriculum with our value system, we need to go to civic education and really go back to those values that we cherish and start imbibing them in children. We cannot achieve all of that without inputting it into the curriculum. We need to review the curriculum to ensure that all these values fit in to churn out children with values for the benefit of the society.” He said since primary education is the foundation years during which pupils are nurtured as future leaders, the school puts appropriate measures annually to promote holistic education and self-esteem. On the graduation ceremony, he noted that the move was to celebrate students that have excelled in their academics while also showcasing some of the activities they embark on during the school’s academic year. “This is our 6th graduation ceremony and the celebration of high flyers 2020 which is our annual awards ceremony, but because of the Covid 19 pandemic, we could have had it in July, but we are having it with our end of year party so that we can properly close the last session. This is the highlight for every academic year where we gather to celebrate students that have excelled in their academics and also showcase some of the activities that children do during the school year. It is an opportunity to celebrate the children, the good works they have done and also the teachers. We are having a total of 13 basic 5 students graduating into secondary school and about 25 nursery two graduating class,” he said. Delivering his keynote address, the Chairman, National Association of Proprietors of Private Schools (NAPPS), Ijebu-North Chapter, Rev. Paul Agbaje, said the collapse of value system has a huge effect on education, saying that no society can achieve its target if its values are left at the mercy of the individual’s situation, circumstances and time without everyone playing their roles.
He pointed out that some of the societal and family values that would change the Nigerian narrative include, kindness, dignity of labour, honesty, morality, respect, hard work to mention a few.
“These are the real values that we used to call the “naija” spirit. Where are they now? Ours today is a society is a society that encourages cupidity-get rich quickly and by any means possible. For most Nigerians today, achieving a goal is important rather than how you achieve it,” he said. “The Nigerian child has a very bright future. All stakeholders including parents, government and her agencies, religious organizations must do the needful to birth the required reorientation in our society, so that we can rediscover and redefine ourselves in our walk towards achieving a society and nation that we are proud of,” he added.