 The drive to achieve seamless air connectivity within Africa received a boost at the weekend when Nigeria reactivated its bilateral air services agreement (BASA) with the Republic of South Africa for direct flights between the two countries. Though some Nigerian carriers namely, defunct Nigeria Airways Limited, Air Nigeria, and Arik Air had operated the route, flight operations were halted for sundry reasons. But, relief came for passengers at the weekend when Air Peace kicked off  twice weekly direct flights on the Lagos/Johannesburg route. Though the carrier had been designated by the Federal Government to operate direct flights on the route, the carrier embarked on keen market assessment needs before activating the operations. Investigations show that many passengers had to travel to other countries before they could get direct flights into South Africa. Worried over the trend,  Air Peace, in its desire to block such gap in intra-Africa air connectivity, kicked off the flights, which besides saving passengers travel time, will create a window to lubricate trade relations between Africa’s most populous country- Nigeria and the Rainbow Nation  – South Africa. Describing the flights as a milestone in the airline’s growth and expansion trajectory, Air Peace Chief Operating Officer (COO), Mrs Oluwatoyin Olajide said the service is a solidification of economic and commercial ties the two countries. She described the direct flight operations as the example of a mutually beneficial relationship. Mrs Olajide said: “It is an implementation of our bilateral air services agreement. We are glad this has happened and we believe both countries will benefit hugely from this in the area of employment creation, promotion of tourism, seamless facilitation of people, which is a prerequisite for economic development and other forms of value to be created along the chain.” She said the decision to expand flights into South Africa would deepen the vision of affordable and safe air transportation for Africans and hospitality, connecting cities across the continent, thereby fostering unity and enhancing impactful economic relations. The COO further said: “Our determination to reduce air travel burden of Africans is unwavering. This is the reason we have employed dynamics that are peculiar to the African people. Now that we have started regular flights into Johannesburg, we are promising South Africans, Nigerians and other Africans that the new route we be well served. “We pledge to work very harmoniously with all stakeholders, including the South African Civil Aviation Authority, the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority, airport administrators and governments of both countries to ensure the new route is successfully serviced.” Also, the Consul-General of Nigeria to South Africa, Abdulmalik Ahmed, said the flights would bring economic benefits to both countries because South Africa has remained Nigeria’s biggest partner over the years. The Nigerian envoy said flights by Air Peace into South Africa would help to improve foreign inflows and encourage investment. He said: “I will like to take this opportunity to call upon Nigerian corporate entities to follow the lead of Air Peace and take advantage of the huge investment opportunities in South Africa.” In an interview, the COO, Airports Company, South Africa, Fundi Sithe, commended the airline for flying into its flagship airport, Oliver Tambo International Airport. She said the number of passengers on the return trip indicated that flight operations were much- awaited. She said: “We saw the inaugural flights arrive at Oliver Tambo Airport with huge number of passengers and also returned with greater number of passengers. This is significant and it tells us that there is a level of demand that has not been serviced.” The Airport Manager called for more flight frequencies and direct operations into other South African airports, including Durban and Cape Town. On his part, Chairman of the airline, Mr Allen Onyema, said flights into South Africa being the carrier’s second international route have opened possibilities for intra-continental businesses, in addition to improving bilateral ties between the two countries. He said the feat by the carrier indicated that Nigerian carriers were not push overs and could hold their own in a friendly operating environment. Onyema said the direct flights into South Africa would not only reduce travel time, but also encourage real relationship. He said: “We have chosen to fly twice weekly to Johannesburg as a carefully thought out strategy with the timing that is good for passengers. With time we will graduate the flight into daily operations. “We feel great about this service which allows Nigerians fly direct to Johannesburg ,South Africa and back to Nigeria instead of going round Africa before getting to South Africa. Now in less than six hours you can achieve that feat. “This was our promise to Nigerians six years ago when the airline was launched, that we are not only going to connect cities within Nigeria, but will also connect the country with other nations of the world. Gradually we are getting there. “Everything we said we will do in 2014, we have been able to achieve them and we believe we can do more with articulate planning. So, the era of saying Nigerian carriers are pushovers is gone forever. All we need from the government is an enabling operating environment to enable us perform and I bet you we would perform more than expectations. “We do not want to kid ourselves that we are the only airline on the route now, some other people will want to come, so for us, we will strive to sustain the tempo of whatever we are doing    “We have to pragmatic we have to be strategic in our planning. We have been following our business plan meticulously since 2014.”  