 MAY & Baker Nigeria Plc has witnessed major turnarounds and achievements over the past 10 years and now with a stronger foundation for future growth. Retiring Managing Director of May & Baker Nigeria Plc, Mr Nnamdi Okafor, who took a final look at his tenure at an interactive session with reporters, said the company has moved from a struggling company with negative cash flow to a well-capitalised company with consistent growths in profitability and investments in key production capabilities. Okafor, who was appointed in February 2011, is set to retire by December 31, 2020, after almost a decade-long tenure as managing director and 35 years of service to the company. Okafor’s tenure at the helms of the company was marked with several milestones and further consolidation of the leading pharmaceutical company into one of few Africa’s globally certified centres of excellence in pharmaceutical manufacturing. He noted that the company’s balance sheet had doubled from N7 billion in February 2011 to N14 billion in 2020. “As at February 2011, when we took over, profit before tax was a third of a billion naira and has tripled and now in the billion-naira-profit club. Our balance sheet size has doubled from N7 billion to N14 billion as well the revenue. Also, our total shareholders’ equity has grown by 100 per cent from N2.9 billion in 2010 to N6 billion by 2020. We achieved all these by investing in key infrastructure, research and innovation,” Okafor said. The Board of Directors of the company has notified the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) and the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC), of the impending retirement of Okafor and the commencement of a succession process with the appointment of Mr Patrick Ajah, a vastly experienced pharmacist and business manager of nearly three decades experience, as a successor. Ajah who resumed on December 1, 2020 as an executive director, will work with Okafor for a month transition period and assume the leadership as managing director with effect from January 1, 2021. Okafor noted that net cashflow which was consistently negative in the first five years due to high debts from banks was turned around in the second half of his tenure having paid off the banks and all short-term debts, injecting fresh equity capital through rights issue and accessing longer-term, low-cost debts from Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) intervention facilities. “This has put the company on a solid liquidity position with adequate funds for future growth and expansion projects. We have strengthened the foundation for future growth with investments in new projects, including a billion naira dedicated plant for one of our major product; paracetamol and two new state-of-the-art plants for hand sanitiser and herbal products currently under construction,” Okafor said.  