The Roots Club of Ijesaland has donated delivery kits to maternity centres in the six Local Government Areas (LGAs) that make up Ijesaland The selected maternity centres received 25 kits each containing umbilical cord clamp, suction apparatus, plastic gloves, mucus extractor, catheter, gel, antiseptic and methylated lotions. Members of the Club led by its President, Prince Samson Atayero, handed out the kits on Wednesday during a tour They expressed hope that the donations would help boost safe births and eradicate maternal and infant mortality. The beneficiary maternity centres were in Ibokun in Obokun Local Government, Ijebujesa in Oriade Local Government, Iperindo in Atakumosa East Local Government, Oke-Osin in Atakumosa West Local Government, Ilaje in Ilesa West Local Government and Imo in Ilesa East Local Government. The beneficiaries were charged to ensure that the items were reserved for the use of the indigent, and not by those who could afford the same. At each of the stops, Prince Atayero explained that Roots Club membership cuts across the length and breadth of Ijesa communities. “It is a Club that has a pan Ijesaland membership. There is hardly any town in Ijesaland that is not represented in the Club. The Club is primarily put in place for the development of Ijesaland. The Club has been involved in many relevant and notable projects which seek to uplift the living conditions of our people in Ijesaland,” Prince Atayero said. At Ibokun, the club members were received by Oba Festus Awogboro, the Alademure of Ibokun, his Olori and all his chiefs. Oba Awogboro appreciated the Club’s strong reputation, vis-a-vis providing value to the society in a comprehensive way through their support of the community. Also at Ijebujesa, Oba Moses Oluwafemi Agunsoye the Elegboro of Ijebujesa and Olori Omolara Agunsoye led the Roots Club delegation to the Oke Inisa Community Health Maternity Centre. At Iperindo, Community leaders led by Hon. Cornelius Edewusi and Hon. Femí Kujembola, the Local Government Chairman, received the Root Club’s delegation at the Community Comprehensive Health Centre. At Oke-Osin, in Atakumosa West LG, Hon. Muniru, the Council’s Secretary, represented the Chairman, Hon. Francis Famurewa. At Ilaje, Ilesa West Local Government, Chief Makanjuola Afolabi, the Onilaje was at hand to receive the delegation and Chief Niyi Agunbiade, the Onimo of Imo received them at the newly renovated Imo Public Health Centre. The social club was established 34 years ago.