 IN a country where the odds are typically stacked against the girl-child, that one would come blazing forth with distinctions in nine subjects is ordinarily worthy of celebration. Sylvia Ulan Andrew, the young lady from Bokkos Local Government Area of Plateau State, who scored straight A1 in all the subjects she took in the recent West African School Certificate Examination, is however not just another girl next door. Her’s is but a living example of a struggle – a determination not just to surmount all odds but to succeed in spite of them. Her father had passed on before her birth, leaving her determined mother to take up the burden of raising her alongside her other children. That did not stop her from coming tops in the National Common Entrance as a result of which she got a scholarship from Shell Petroleum Development Company. At Premier Academy, Abuja, where she spent six years for her secondary education, she reportedly smashed available records which she finally capped with her outstanding WASSCE result. Today, a proud Plateau State government has offered her a scholarship to study her dream course of Chemical Engineering in any institution of her choice. We commend the young lady for doing herself, her family and her state proud. We commend Shell for picking her up when it mattered most and thus laying the foundation which she subsequently built upon. The same goes to the state government which is now sworn to see her to the next level. For the young lady, she has provided a worthy example for other girls to follow. Coming from a region where the education of the girl-child is still a big issue, her example should inspire many others, to embrace education and with it the boundless opportunities for self-development, and ultimately to excel. She has truly affirmed those age-long truths about gender being no barrier to excellence. Her performance must be taken as a wake-up call on state governments to take on the issue of quality and standard of our public schools more seriously. Although a child of circumstance, Ms. Andrew could also be deemed a child of privilege. She attended a private school where the learning environment is not only conducive but one with, presumably, or at least comparatively good facilities for Science Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) education. How many girls of similar background and circumstances are that lucky to have been availed such initial lucky break? How many of such schools are available across the country? Minus the Federal Government-owned Unity Schools and the so-called model schools owned by states – most of our public secondary schools – lacking basic facilities – are nothing to write home about. How many of our otherwise brilliant girls have been left out on account of lack of access to basic, quality education? The challenge here is for state governments to ensure opportunities not just for the lucky few, but for everyone. At a more foundational level is the urgent need for state governments in particular to truly incentivise early childhood education to take our 13 million out-of-school kids out of the streets – a disproportionate number of whom are females. In all, to create an environment where the girl-child and her male counterpart have a fair and decent chance at quality education. It involves taking a hard look at such cultural practices such as child marriage which puts the girl-child in undue disadvantage, particularly in the area of education. And the other prevalent practice under which the girl-child is expected to drop out of school following a pregnancy, whereas the male accomplice suffers no jeopardy for basically the same offence. We congratulate Sylvia Ulan Andrew and wish her many more successes in the years ahead.