 FOR those conversant with Charles Dickens, the brilliant mind behind ‘A Tale of Two Cities’, the title of this piece is not unfamiliar. Those familiar with Okinba Launko can also easily relate to this piece’s title because of the writer’s usage of Dickens’ words to breathe life into three of his literary outputs. It is ironic that I read Okinba Launko’s ‘The Best of Times’, a collection of three novellas, at the worst of times, for the world and for our dear nation. As though COVID-19 and recession are not enough, the men in power appear sworn to make us suffer. Poverty seems the legacy they want to leave the majority with. Launko, for those in the literary community, is the same as the highly-revered Prof. Femi Osofisan, whose footprint can never be erased from the sands of time. The University of Ibadan, where he retired, and the world of playwriting have no choice but to defer to him, forever on account of his enormous intellectual contributions. The three novellas packed together in ‘The Best of Times’ are ‘Kolera Kolej’, ‘Ma’ami’ and ‘Cordelia’. ‘Kolera Kolej’ is satirical. It is set in a country where cholera breaks out in its university leading to deaths. The leader of this country, which has the same mannerisms with Nigerian leaders, abdicates his responsibility by granting guided autonomy to the university. Intrigues ensue in picking the pioneer leader for the new republic and all kinds of factors, except merit, come into play. Blackmail is not in short supply in the new republic. In the end, not much is achieved because favouritism, egotism, and many anti-development sentiments dictate the pace. This novella will make you laugh. The ridiculousness of the decisions taken by the leaders of the college and the country displays the lack of foresight and patriotism that many a Nigerian leader is famous for. ‘Ma’ami’, which inspired a film of the same title by veteran filmmaker Tunde Kelani, is about the extent a mother can go to get her child his needs. It is also about poverty and how some see occultism as a way out. Reading the novella makes me feel like seeing Kelani’s cinematic representation all over again. The points of divergence also easily hit me, in the sense that I easily identify the addition to the film version. ‘Ma’ami’, narrated in the first person by the son, is not just about mother’s love, it vividly paints the extent people can go to make money. Imagine a father sacrificing his son for a money-making ritual! It also tells the corruption of government officials who allow extraneous factors in deciding who has a space in the market and who does not. This novella also shows the importance of a father-figure in a child’s life. Despite all Ma’ami does for her ‘Termogene’ of a son, all it takes to test his loyalty is the sight of his father and the evidence of his filthy lucre. ‘Ma’ami’ is filled with drama and the author resolves the conflicts brilliantly. Telling the tale in present tense gives it this immediate presence and I just love it. The end of this story will have you asking yourself questions. You may even reread to get a second opinion. In ‘Cordelia’, romance meets politics, politics of the men in military fatigue with all its attendant dangers. It takes off on a crisis-filled note. A lecturer in a university is disturbed about the state of his marriage. His once-sweet wife has become the devil’s envoy. In the opening pages of the story, we see clear evidence of the lecturer’s state of mind, including his inability to teach his students. One of them later confronts him in his office about his shoddy lecture. Like a typical man, he sees no reason to discuss such a matter, especially with his student. The student in question is accompanied to the lecturer’s office by another student named Cordelia. Unknown to the lecturer, she is about to be at the centre of a major riot in the institution. Cordelia’s father is a minister in the military government. Minutes after the two students leave the lecturer’s office, he is alerted by a colleague to martial music on the radio. This sort of music in Nigeria is associated with a military coup. It turns out there has been a coup and the leader is none other than Cordelia’s father. Before the implications of what has just happened hit the lecturer, Cordelia’s friend rushes back to him, panting. Protesting students are about to lynch Cordelia for her father’s role in removing a government seen as benevolent. The description makes me feel the author is referring to the Murtala Mohammed administration. A drama, however, ensues while Cordelia’s friend is still trying to convince the lecturer to help save her from the mob; his wife comes into the office and accuses him of having an affair with his student. No explanation is acceptable to her. He eventually locks her in the office to go and save the girl in danger. He returns to find out that his aggrieved wife has turned his office upside down. She even tore his research papers and sets him back many years. More drama is to come. Information gets to the military that Cordelia is with him. His house is invaded. It turns out the invader is Cordelia’s in-law to be. She is relieved seeing him and he takes her away. She thinks she is his father’s emissary. How wrong she is. Not long after, another set of military men invade his house and it dawns on him that the men who have Cordelia are keeping her for reasons far from noble. Call ‘Cordelia’ drama upon drama and I doubt if anyone will fault you. ‘Ma’ami’ and ‘Cordelia’ are suspense-filled with each chapter ending with a cliff hanger and thus luring a reader to the next page and, in the process, getting hooked like a hard drug user. This is certainly not easy to pull off. Osofisan achieves this with magisterial competence. ‘Kolera Kolej’ is the icing on the cake for a time such as this. I am made to understand this was written over four decades ago and the afflictions troubling the nation in focus are similar to what still troubles our nation in almost every facet of our public life. This makes one wonder if we will ever get things right by gaining independence from nepotism, favouritism, corruption, political elites’ impunity, and more. My final take: ‘The Best of Times’ is a pleasure to read. But above all, it is a reminder that Nigerians certainly deserve better than the mediocre performance from the political elites. Is asking for good governance too much? It certainly is the right thing. 