  Senate President Ahmad Lawan, on Thursday told airline operators in the country that the National Assembly would work to ensure that the Aviation sector is protected and adequately supported. This came as the Airline Association of Nigeria (AON) lamented that over 50 airlines have been forced to closed shop in the last 30 years in Nigeria due largely to harsh polices if government. Lawan made this assertion when the leadership of the AON led by the Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika visited him in Abuja. The Senate President said for private investors in the country’s aviation industry to survive, government policies must be fine-tuned in a way to help them thrive. Lawan said that the National Assembly would ensure that airline operators are not squeezed out of business. He added that the legislature would look into policies affecting the sector while taking into consideration government’s need for revenue generation. Lawan said: “The policies of government at all times should be in tandem to make life better for citizens particularly, and support businesses to grow. “The aviation industry of course is no exception. Government policies should always be targeted at ensuring this industry prospers. “I followed the drafting of the FIRS Bill particularly, and the aviation sector was missing. We will find out why it was not included. “But I want to assure you that what this Senate and, indeed this National Assembly, would do what is necessary to ensure that you are protected and supported. “Any exemption that would help this industry to prosper and survive, the National Assembly will stand by that. “One thing is very important; we are in a very difficult situation in Nigeria. We need revenue but we also need our government to ensure that in the process of getting more revenue, we don’t kill where those revenues will come from. “So we need to strike a very decent balance of encouraging industries to create jobs and employment on one hand, and also getting revenues. “So, I believe that we should do whatever it takes to ensure that you (aviation industry) survive and also prosper. “And because the dollar rate is changing and especially going up, maybe you require additional expenditures, and that is why government should come in because we shouldn’t allow the burden of this exchange rate to kill our businesses. “I believe that the aviation industry in Nigeria needs some support.” Earlier, the Vice President of the Airline Operators of Nigeria, Allen Onyema, decried  the reintroduction of import duties on imported  commercial aircraft and their spare parts by the Nigeria Customs Service. Onyema who is also the Chairman of Air Peace, revealed that private airlines in the country had planned to suspend services indefinitely last week due to harsh operating environment but for the intervention of the Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika. He lamented that the return of high duties on imported parts has made it impossible for airlines to undertake clearance of aircraft parts at sea ports and cargo sheds, a situation which poses a risk on the safety of air travelers. He, therefore, appealed to the Senate to incorporate President Buhari’s duty waiver on commercial aircrafts and spare parts into the Finance Bill presently before the National Assembly. “Mr. President, it is not something to be proud of, that in the last thirty years of our lives as a nation, over 50 airlines have gone down. The owners of these airlines succeeded in other business, why have they failed in aviation? “It could be traced to so many factors, including corporate governance, but most importantly policies. The policies have not been friendly to the growth of aviation. “The truth is, the President of this country, Muhammadu Buhari, in his wisdom and in his avowed determination to encourage indigenous businesses in this country, decided to grant zero duty to airlines for the importation of commercial aircraft and spare parts. “He equally granted the airlines waivers on VAT for the importation of Commercial aircraft and their spare parts. “In the last six years, this has helped a lot of the airlines in Nigeria and we thank Mr. President for this. “However, just recently, the Customs decided to reintroduce the charges even when Mr. President has not revoked his presidential order taken at the Federal Executive Council. “They have introduced a type of regime that is alien to aviation. I would like to intimate you that this particular regime of reintroducing what the President has granted us has made airlines today to be groaning. “Many of the airlines have their spare parts at the cargo sheds not being cleared because we don’t have the ability to clear them. “We can never endanger the lives of people in this nation by flying aircrafts that are unsafe. So we are pleading with you to look into this. “The Finance Bill is today before you, we will like the intention and wisdom of the President of this country to be Incorporated in the Finance Bill so that it will no longer be at the whims and caprices of whoever takes over some certain government agencies. “All over the world this is what is happening, Nigeria cannot be an exception. “To be honest with you, all the airlines wanted to shut down last week indefinitely, but for the intervention of the Honourable Minister of Aviation, because we cannot continue with this. “We are borrowing money with interest at 26 percent, now the interest rate has come down to 15 percent, which is still very high. We can’t even get forex to do our business. Everything about aviation is imported,” he said. 