 Governor Babagana Zulum, of Borno State, surely has this column’s sympathy over the heightened insecurity in the state he is ignominiously referred to, as the chief security officer. Brave and daring, Zulum has been a zealot in the war against the Boko Haram insurgents. On many occasions, he has put his life forward for martyrdom, visiting very dangerous parts of the state, to identify with the pains of his people. He has boldly confronted the military on some occasions, accusing them of complicity, or incompetence, in the war against terror. At some other times, he has praised the military for their gallantry, wooing them to get even more lethal in dealing with the bandits.  He has also mobilized his citizens, to rise against the evil that has befallen them. Indeed, the so-called civilian JTF, has on a few occasions appeared more daring than the military, because of the encouragement of the governor, who is their own commander-in-chief. Clearly, if Governor Zulum should enter into a contest on effectiveness in the war against Boko Haram, with the commander-in-chief of the military JTF, there is the possibility that he could win a landslide. Perhaps, but for the fact that the two commander-in-chiefs are in the same political party, the governor would have been railing against the other commander-in-chief for incompetence, just like his predecessor, Kashim Shettima, denounced former President Goodluck Jonathan. Amongst other suggestions, Governor Zulum has called for the use of mercenaries to tackle the Boko Haram. Perhaps that is Zulum’s diplomatic way of saying that the Nigerian Army is incapable of defeating the insurgents or a nice way of saying the military’s commander-in-chief and his field commanders have failed in their commanding duty, in the war front. The visibly frustrated governor also suggested the engagement of the army of neighbouring countries, to rout the insurgents. Interestingly, his fellow frustrated brother governors have agreed to the proposals. With the recent senseless slaying of 67 rice farmers by the insurgents, in Zabarmari community of Jere local government area of Borno State, Zulum, is frustratingly flabbergasted. But Zulum, clearly, a proud warrior of the ancient Borno Empire, is more frustrated the law restricts what he can do to help his people confront the bandits. Beyond aggressively expressing his frustration and combatively dealing with the development challenges of his beleaguered state, within limited resources, he is helpless as the state chief security officer. Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State, captured the helplessness of the so-called chief security officers of the states, succinctly, in a recent Channels Television programme. In El-Rufai’s words: “we are all frustrated. We are almost helpless. The #EndSARS protests clearly showed the limits to the control of governors over the police and the army.” I guess what shows more the helplessness of the governors for Governor Zulum, is the insurgency in the north-east, particularly in his beloved Borno State. To make matters worse, while Governor Zulum, may have ideas as to what he can do to tame the savagery of Boko Haram in Borno State, he is incapacitated by law, to do any meaningful thing. He cannot even raise a police to maintain law and order in the civilian environment, so that the army can concentrate on the war front. His, is like the true life story of one Idris Valentine, a condemned prisoner, who titled his new book: Gifted but Caged. Unfortunately, the entire country has become a killing field. While Boko Haram is killing in the north-east, armed bandits and cattle rustlers are having a field day in the north-west. Down the north-central, it is a dangerous brand of herdsmen that have the licence to kill. Until the #EndSARS protest exposed a perfidious brand of SARS, in the southern part, it was some SARS officials that were competing with herders and kidnappers to decapitate fellow Nigerians. Regrettably, after the din over this latest killing, which some sources put at more than 80 persons, government officials will recline to their languid state of stupor. As is their style, even the senate which wields enormous constitutional power to affect a change, are acting timid, as if they can only wring their hands in frustration. Like children, the best they have offered as our country gradually collapses into anarchy, from ravaging insecurity, is to repeat their mantra that service chiefs be sacked. While answering distinguished, they have not distinguished themselves by ensuring the executive act diligently over this tragedy. Either they are playing dumb, or they are pretending not to realise our country could collapse, if no fundamental changes are made to the nation’s security architecture. They pretend that it is sustainable to keep borrowing money, to fight a war that has become a corruption ensemble for the prosecutors. They pretend that the strange security arrangement where a governor cannot muster a police unit, to ensure internal security of the state, even though he answers the chief security officer, is normal. The senate and their brothers in the House of Representatives pretend that they can annually take a large chunk of the national resources, while the university students are languishing at home, because the federal government refused to pay the comparative pittance demanded by university teachers, over the years. In their dumb comfort, the National Assembly believe that if the three arms zone is safe, then the rest of the country does not matter. To add salt to Zulum’s gangrene, Garba Shehu, the presidential spokesman succinctly told the governor and his people that they cannot earn a living, without a farming licence, from the national army. Perhaps out of exhaustion, Garba let out the real feeling of the high command, instead of the platitudes that usually follow the mindless killing of hapless citizens of our country. While agreeably Garba may not wish the farmers death in the hands of Boko Haram, as insinuated, what he offered may still result in death from starvation, should farmers stay at home. With a frustrated Governor Zulum, asking the lethargic federal government to recruit mercenaries to fight the insurgents, perhaps, Nigeria may also consider employing mercenaries to guard farmers, and escort them to the market. Speaking of safety, in the markets, the Sultan of Sokoto recently cried out that armed bandits freely roam the cities of northern Nigeria, demanding fees without any challenge. On his part, the Emir of Kastina, following another round of killings in his domain, where the military’s commander-in-chief hails from, wailed that life in his domain has become short and brutish. What baffles this column, is why the northern political elite, reputed to be more politically savvy than their southern counterpart, would watch idly by, as insecurity is torpedoing the ‘one Nigeria’, they desperately desire.