Conference of Association of Certified Professionals of Traditional, Complementary and Alternative Medicine of Nigeria (ACPTCAM) has called for the amendment of the 1999 constitution to reflect their profession as a standard medical and healthcare delivery system in Nigeria. They also called for the establishment of a Federal College of Traditional Complementary and Alternative Medicine (FEDTCAM) to upgrade Traditional Complementary and Alternative Medicine (TCAM) practitioners to various levels of the qualification they can obtain. The body said this will discourage people from seeking medical care abroad when such help could be rendered in Nigeria. The association, in a communique at the end of a two – day conference in Abuja signs by its Chairman, Prof. Adewale Sunday, requested and pleaded for the appointment of a provost when the College of Complementary and Alternative Medicine is established. It stated that any medical practitioner who is not adequately trained will not be eligible to practice the system not until, he or she is certified and licensed by the proposed Traditional Complementary and Alternative Medicine Council. The association commended the National Assembly for the passage of Federal College of Complementary and Alternative Medicine (FEDCAM) Bill Second Reading, adding that the bill is now awaiting public hearing at the senate. It called for the establishment of Traditional Complementary and Alternative Medicine specialist hospital and department in the six geo-political zones and 36 states of the federation. “We will be glad to see that on successful passage of two bills presently receiving national assembly attention. The head of both organizations be headed by practitioners of Traditional Complementary and Alternative Medicine as it contains in the office of the head of service circular. “With the present development and the interest of World Health Organization (WHO) to support and promote Traditional Complementary and Alternative Medicine of every nation, Nigeria as the giant of Africa ought to set a standard to establish a specialised University of Traditional Complementary and Alternative Medicine; in line of Federal University of Agriculture, Federal University of Science and Technology etc. “We are also appealing to the Federal Government Nigeria to promote and encourage the development of Traditional Complementary and Alternative Medicine at the State and Local Government level.