The Federal High Court in Abuja on Monday rejected a request for an interim injunction to restrain the Ohanaeze Ndigbo, led by Chief John Nnia Nwodo, from holding its forthcoming election. Justice Inyang Ekwo, in a ruling on an ex-parte motion, held that he could not grant the reliefs sought by the plaintiff without hearing from the defendants. He ordered the plaintiff – the incorporated Trustees of Ohanaeze Ndigbo General Assembly – represented by its lawyer, Amobi Nzelu, to put the defendants on notice and adjourned until January 15 for mention. The judge said the plaintiff could apply to the Chief Judge for a hearing during vacation after serving the defendants. The defendants are Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief Nwodo, the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC), the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) and the Inspector-General of Police (IGP). Nzelu prayed the court for an order of interim injunction restraining the first and second defendants and their agents “from conducting any election into the various offices of the first defendant fixed for December 2020/January 2021 pending the determination of the motion on notice filed in respect of this matter.” He prayed the court for an order of interim injunction against them from doing anything in furtherance of the election. The plaintiff also sought to compel the AGF and IGP to prevent the conduct of any election into the various offices of Ohanaeze Ndigbo. The plaintiff is contending the Ohanaeze is an illegal association, having not been registered by the CAC under the Companies and Allied Matters Act (CAMA). It claimed to have been the only association properly registered with the name Ohanaize Ndigbo. The plaintiff, in a supporting affidavit, said: “Despite being an illegal association, the first defendant is still operating and collecting monies from different individuals and politically-exposed persons to conduct the said election. “Being an illegal association/body, the first defendant should not be allowed to operate let alone conduct elections or doing business in Nigeria. “Unless restrained, the first and second defendants (Ohanaeze and Chief Nwodo) will go ahead with the said election.” Also yesterday, the suspended Secretary-General of the Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Uche Okwukwu, said the “current crisis” rocking the association could jeopardise the quest for an Igbo president in 2023.  