Barely four days to the December 5 National Assembly by-election, all roads lead to Sagbama and Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, for a mega rally of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). The rally was meant to hand over party’s flags to its candidates in the by-elections, former Governor Seriake Dickson and for PDP chairman in the state, Cleopas Moses, for Bayelsa West and Central Senatorial districts respectively. Party chieftains and stalwarts that attended mega rally included National Chairman of the PDP, Prince Uche Secondus and Governor Douye Diri. Speaking on the occasion, Secondus noted that the PDP would emerge victorious in the bye-elections that would hold simultaneously in Lagos, Cross River, Imo and Bayelsa states. Secondus also said the need for solution on the issue of the systematic failures of the APC administration to improve security, economy and development would make the people elect the PDP candidates to pass needed laws to salvage the country. He also alleged that the APC would fail on Saturday’s elections because they are seriously fragmented and warned the military to focus on its professional callings rather than being used for election duties. Also Speaking, the members of the state House of Assembly representing constituencies under the West and Central senatorial districts, the members of the National Assembly and political leaders endorsed the candidature of Seriake Dickson and Cleopas Moses. The member representing Sagbama/Ekeremor Federal Constituency in the National Assembly, Hon. Fred Agbedi, said the candidature of Dickson was agreed upon by political leaders of the district. He pointed out that there was an existing rotation agreement between Ekeremor and Sagbama Local Government Area, the two councils that make up the district. He said: “Don’t let them deceive you on the decision on rotation. There is nobody contesting from Ekeremor. It is Sagbama’s turn. We are sending a tested and trusted hand to the Senate and not somebody who does not know legislative business.” The Bayelsa Deputy Governor, Lawrence Ekhujiakpor, who relinquished the senatorial seat of the Bayelsa West, told the crowd of PDP supporters that the existing zoning arrangement between the two LGAs remained a sacrosanct covenant. He said: “The APC senatorial candidate, Perebowei Ebebi defended the zoning in 2015 when Senator Heineken Lokpobiri tried to break the covenant, saying it’s the turn of Sagbama to do their two terms. “It’s unfortunate that, today, it’s the same Ebebi that’s denying the existence of zoning agreement. This goes to show that he is not trustworthy and therefore cannot be entrusted with the people’s mandate.” He called on Ekeremor and Sagbama people to disregard the empty threats being issued by the APC and come out en masse to vote for the PDP senatorial candidates. Also speaking, Dickson claimed that with two existing court judgements ahead of the bye-election in the state, both candidates of the APC were not qualified to contest. He called on President Buhari to caution the Minister of state for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva against perpetuating violence with the military during the polls.