 DESPITE the tumultuous year of  economic challenge for the creative industry, new entrant Art Pantheon presents respite in a debut solo exhibition of artist Dotun Popoola. Titled Metala, the solo exhibition of 13 metal sculptures is coming from Popoola, an artist with the most ambitious dimensions and extremely calculated details. The theme of the exhibition derives its name Metala from the central medium metal used by the artist and Yoruba numerical figure of 13 known as ‘metala’. Significantly, the synergy in rhythmic strength between pieces of welded objects and numerical expression makes Metala a rare exhibition in the genre of metal art. “Dotun is a synergetic metal sculptor who has carved a niche for himself with his hyper-realistic monumental metal sculptures,” stated Nana Sonoiki of Art Pantheon “The exhibition will open to the public on Friday 18th and  continues till December 30, 2020 at The Grandeur Hotel, Block 120, Plot 2, Bosun Adekoya Street, Victoria Island, Lagos from 4pm.” Sonoiki said Metala has been made possible with the support and sponsors from The Grandeur Hotel, Seven Up, Tiger Lager Beer, The Luxury Reporter, Belvedere Vodka and George Osodi. More importantly, the exhibition will be observing the Lagos State protocols on COVID-19 as visitors may get more information from +234 909 227 7008 and inquiries@theartpantheon-ng.com The Metala show, Sonoiki assured, “promises to renew art lovers’ energy and projects amazing possibilities in recycling scraps or what we call useless and not useful objects, but being transformed into priceless luxury art.” Among the works on display is a piece titled Portrait of Irinola, which takes metal sculpture in the depiction of a domestic animal to a fresh high. With his amazing creation from found objects, Popoola in the depiction of dog’s head celebrates the beauty in recycled materials as well as injects aesthetics into mechanical-like textures. Across generations of art appreciations and creations, Eyo as a theme has been widely projected. But in a mixed media of metal and other materials, Popoola explores new aesthetics value as seen in one of his beautiful and elegance piece simply titled Eyo. The artist’s statement on the exhibition include being passionate about touching lives through his artistic and leadership skills; turning trash to treasures, rubbish to rubies. He facilitates art workshops for students, professionals, NGO’s, healthcare institutions, hospices, orphanage homes, rehabilitation centres and schools locally and internationally “It has been a very interesting journey working with Dotun and every step with a peculiar energy released,” Sonoiki recalled her experience of getting the show organised. “The pandemic, as experienced generally by the art world, dealt several blows but this energy kept us going and we stand strong.” 