Nigeria’s local vaccine production company Biovaccines Nigeria Limited (BVNL) has concluded arrangements to ensure that Nigeria is served coronavirus vaccines simultaneously with other parts of the world as soon as the World Health Organisation (WHO) gives its nod for the use of any of the several COVID-19 candidate vaccines. May & Baker Nigeria Plc, which is quoted on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), holds the majority 51 per cent equity stake in Biovaccines Nigeria Limited, a public private partnership between the Federal Government of Nigeria and May & Baker Nigeria. BVNL is partnering with international technical partners, which are currently working to attain WHO’s approval for COVID-19 vaccines. The technical partners will bulk produce for BVNL. To facilitate this process, BVNL is acquiring modular fill and finishing lines for the finishing of the vaccines in Nigeria by way of filling and capping. In readiness for this role, Biovaccines last month signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) for Market Access with the Federal Ministry of Health, which enables it to serve approved vaccines of her international technical partners to the Nigerian market. Speaking at the MOU signing ceremony, Chairman, Biovaccines Nigeria Limited (BVNL), Prof. Adewole Tomori, said the company was satisfied with the cooperation and support it has received from the government. He assured that the local manufacturing of vaccines in Nigeria would materialise in no distant time, noting that BVNL project holds several advantages, including job creation, foreign exchange earnings from export, development of biotechnological base, ability to develop novel vaccines for fighting Africa-specific diseases, security of quality vaccines, dealing efficiently with pandemic diseases and outbreaks, socio-economic development and enduring partnership opportunities. According to him, the BVNL project would help Nigeria to better respond to emergencies like epidemic of Cerebro Spinal Meningitis (CSM), yellow fever and COVID-19 among others. Tomori said the technical relationship with international vaccine producers is a pre-requisite for technology transfer to the Nigerian startup biological company. He explained that the technology partners would work with BVNL to set up WHO-standard vaccine production facility in Nigeria within a short time frame. Project Manager, , Biovaccines Nigeria Limited (BVNL), Pharm. Everest Okeakpu said the company has simultaneously started procurement for architectural, structural and conceptual, basic and detailed engineering services for the construction of a Greenfield. “By the end of first quarter 2021, we would have been done with ground-breaking. For projects of this nature, it would usually take about three to four years to go through faculty construction and equipment procurement; facility and equipment commissioning and qualification; process optimisation and media fill validation; facility certification; process validation and product registration. But, BVNL is working not only to compress this timeline, but also fast-tracking some of them by already importing modular facility to be ready for filling and finishing the COVID-19 vaccine locally,” Okeakpu said.