 With the 2020 Christmas a few days away, Nigerians while putting money away for celebration, may consider saving for the kidnapper. Those who have benefited from the laudable federal Government Enterprise and Empowerment Programme (GEEP), whether through trader moni, farmer moni or market moni, would remain apprehensive, whether they will be forced sooner or later, to part with ransom moni or protection moni, in other to see the New Year. This new challenge is particularly more evident in the rural areas and the highways, where armed bandits freely roam the country side, and maliciously turn humans to merchandise. The recently released over 300 Kankara boys abducted from Government Science Secondary School, Kastina state, bears testimony that a new business may have birthed particularly in the rural northern region. Unfortunate travellers on the highways, even in the southern part of the country bear testimony to this new malaise. So while thanking God for the lives of the Kankara boys, who have been released from captivity, the federal and state governments must seriously worry at the possibility that Boko Haram now operate in the north-west as they do in the north-east. People living in that region must be praying that the video released by Shekerau claiming responsibility for the Kankara boys kidnap and showing boys who claimed to be the kidnapped, remain a hoax. Of course, other parts of our beleaguered country is not safe from the spate of kidnapping. So, every Nigerian, moving from one state to another, must worry at the potential of paying ransom moni. No doubt, many of those who benefited from the farmer moni, trader moni and market moni, may be worse than they were before the federal government largess came their way in 2019. Most of them will not be in a position to repay the loans, as their investments have been swept away by all manner of vicissitudes. Even those who benefited from the Central Bank of Nigeria supported agricultural programmes of the federal government, may not feel safe to near their farm lands, for fear of kidnappers. Part of the alleged sin of the victims of the recent Zabamari massacre, was that they decided to confront, instead of cuddling the Boko Haram bandits with their protection moni. So it is either you pay to be allowed to roam your farm or you pay to regain your right of movement when docked. As President Buhari was celebrating the release of the kankara boys, a top Emir was attacked, even as more kidnappings were taking place in Kaduna and other parts of the north. Those who called the Kankara kidnap a slap on the face of the president, considering that it happened just as he landed in his home state for a week long rest, must worry that the entire country is now at the mercy of armed bandits. The situation is not one of do-nothing, as has been the situation in recent times. The President needs the help of security experts to design measures to contain the insurgency. Otherwise the gains of his presidency will be washed away. The fact that we are celebrating the release of the boys, and not the apprehension of the bandits who carried out the dastardly act, shows that the danger is still out there. For the army to deserve the plaudits showered on them by the president, they have to apprehend the bandits otherwise many would believe it was ransom moni that did the magic. And the security challenge is spicing the economic challenges facing citizens. While many other countries are in recession, ours is made worse by the underlining security malaise. With the second wave of the pandemic birthing, the economic recession may be prolonged, and that will further aggravate a situation that is already very dicey. There are already fears of another national shut-down, for an economy that is suffering the double whammy of insecurity and recession. This column recalls that last year, the trader moni, was a source of hope for many Nigerians, even with the controversy over whether it was politically motivated. In an interview the chief operating officer of GEEP, Uzoma Nwagba had said: “GEEP is a microcredit programme that provides much-needed capital to traders, artisans, farmers, petty traders.” He went on: “it is one of the social intervention programmes of the federal government, and comprises of three products: market moni, farmer moni and trader moni.” Nwagba said it was initiated to capture over 30 million Nigerians who operate at the base of the financial pyramid, and had no access to finance. Laudably, the programme was geared to give this huge number access to capital. One wonders whether that number has not doubled with the sacking of many business by the twin bazookas of insecurity and recession. The Buhari presidency must figure out a way to starve these two monsters, if our country is not to go under. So this Christmas for the majority of Nigerians is a bleak one and the fear of the challenges of the New Year is the beginning of wisdom. With the recession eating deeply into family economies, how on earth will parents face year 2021, with the economic meltdown of 2020? Where will the resources come from to pay school fees, house rents and feeding money? Of course, many have since abandoned the regular hospitals since their costs have gone beyond their reach. Of course, those holding high public offices may not be able to relate to the above challenges, considering the quantum of the resources they have cornered for themselves and their cronies. Just as they cannot relate to the challenges of keeping undergraduates at home, because their children are studying abroad and in private universities, they cannot relate to the economic quagmire of the greater number of Nigerians. Unfortunately, President Buhari who was promoted as a friend of the poor seems to have been transformed by the ambience of Aso Rock. Clearly overwhelmed by the challenges of statecraft, and forces beyond his control, like COVID19, the Buhari era may go down in history as one of the most excruciating period to live in Nigeria. Burgeoned by insecurity and economic recession, and abandoned by government, the poor in Nigeria are now on their own. Many of them who received the trader moni, may become finance sector pariahs, as they will be unable to repay the loan, in other to remain creditor worthy. With the way things are, the trader moni they received may become an entrapment, instead of a lift to economic prosperity. One day, government may wake up to demand the repayment of the trader moni, and their recovery agents would pretend that the reigning economic recession and insecurity never happened.  