Uneasy calm pervaded Warri and other parts of Delta State on Tuesday as the state came to terms with the death of Ogiame Ikenwoli, the 20th Olu of Warri Kingdom. Although The Nation reliably learnt the monarch passed on Sunday, the Warri Traditional Council and the Palace (Aghofen) have denied the report of his death. A statement signed by the Director of (Olu) Palace Administration, Chief Clement Maleghemi, and made available to our reporter in Warri, said he is not dead, but indisposed. It read, “the attention of the Palace of His Majesty, Ogiame Ikenwoli, and the Olu of Warri has been drawn to news/social media speculations announcing the sudden demise of His Majesty.” “We wish to notify the public that His Majesty is indisposed and currently receiving medical attention by a team of qualified medical specialists,” he added. The three-paragraph statement said further development would only be revealed by the Ologbotsere (Prime Minister) of Warri Kingdom, Chief Ayiri Emami. But in Itsekiri enclaves of Ugbori, Ugbuwangue, Ubeji, Omadino in Warri and other communities, the report of the king’s passage generated concerns, debate and postulations. Some indigenes, who spoke with our reporter, expressed concern about what it portends for the kingdom while others are hopeful that the report would turn out as untrue. “Markets are still opened and ceremonies have not been stopped. Those are the signs when a monarch dies,” one of them said. A usually reliable Itsekiri leader, with deep knowledge of the working of the Aghofen (Palace), told our reporter that the monarch died on Sunday in the presence of a notable medical doctor in Warri. Our source said the statement from the palace debunking report of the conformed to the Itsekiri tradition of not announcing a monarch’s death immediately it occurs. The source said, “I am not even aware that the Olu is not dead. In fact, he can never die; he merely transits from one form to the other.” “Having said that let me state that you do not announce the passage of a monarch of the Olu of Warri’s status like that of an ordinary person. There are processes, rites and methods that must be deployed before this can be done, official.” Our source who asked not to be named clarified that it could take up to three months before the death could be announced. “By then, the face of his successor would be clear and all the traditional rites would have been performed or at the process of being performed. This will culminate in the breaking of the hearten pot at Ode-Itsekiri (Big Warri).” A very knowledgeable source in the kingdom told our reporter that one of the late monarch’s son or any of past Olus are qualified to succeed him. “The general family will sit down and pick any of his children, who is qualified, as his successor. If his first son is qualified by birth, he stands a good chance, but it is not automatic,” our source stated. It was further learnt that the family can only present princes born by either Itsekiri or Bini as candidates. “Even after that, the candidate must be acceptable to the oracle before the family presents him to the Ologbotsere and Ojoye-in-Council (council of chiefs) who on their own would also consult the oracle to ascertain his acceptance. “So, you see, it is a very painstaking process that requires patience and care. This is why you do not announce a successor until everything is in place and you cannot announce the death until the family and oracle has chosen a successor.”