 HIS resignation from the Nigerian Army in protest against what he considered a demotion of sorts spoke volumes about how he attached great importance to hierarchy. It reflected his military mindset and sense of professionalism. Domkat Bali’s principled stance brought to an end his 29-year military career in 1990. He died on December 4, aged 80. Explaining his objection in an interview, he said: “My problem was that as a military officer, I was senior to both Babangida and Buhari, but I served under both as Minister of Defence and Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff. I could accept that they were heads of state. You cannot remove the fact that I was a senior to both of them. And when Babangida came, he said, ‘ok, you are no longer Chief of Defence Staff, but Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff.’ If I am not that, then I am also junior to all other military people other than the Head of State, which I would not accept.” He joined the army in 1961, rose to the rank of general, and was both Minister of Defence and Chief of Defence Staff in two military regimes. He was a member of the Supreme Military Council (1984-1985) and the Armed Forces Ruling Council (1985-1990). He was involved in the 1983 coup that toppled the democratic government of President Shehu Shagari, which brought then General Muhammadu Buhari to power, and the 1985 coup against Buhari’s military regime, which brought military president Ibrahim Babangida to power. It was a time the military harboured thoughts of messiahship. His involvement in coups probably suggested he cared about good governance. But there was no excuse for the aberration of military rule. Notably, Bali, as Chief of Defence Staff, announced the execution of some officers found guilty of plotting a coup against the Babangida regime in the mid-1980s.  Prominent among them was Major-General Mamman Vatsa. “My regret is that up till now, I am not sure whether Vatsa ought to have been killed because whatever evidence they amassed against him was weak. My only regret is that I cannot say, don’t do it.’ I am not so sure whether we were right to have killed him,” he said 20 years later in a 2006 interview. His survival in such an atmosphere poisoned by ruthless rivalry and pitiless power play demonstrated the respect he enjoyed in the military. He graduated from the Nigerian Military Training College and the prestigious Royal Military Academy Sandhurst, England. He fought on the federal side and was a regimental commander during the Nigerian Civil War. He was General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the First Infantry Division, Kaduna, and Commandant of the Nigerian Armed Forces Command and Staff College from 1981 to 1983. He also served as Director of Army Training and Operations. Twenty years after he retired from the army, Bali became the Ponzhi Tarok, the paramount ruler of the Tarok people of Plateau State, where he hailed from. His selection for the traditional office in 2010 was an opportunity for him to provide leadership at the grassroots. After the protest that ended his military career, he had another reason to protest when the President Goodluck Jonathan administration listed him for a national honour in 2011. “It makes no sense to me,” he objected. “I saw the recent national merit award given to me as an insult to my personality. They told me the 2011 honour awarded me is Commander of the Federal Republic, CFR. But the Federal Government of Nigeria gave me in the past a higher national merit honour as Grand Commander of the Order of the Niger, GCON, which is the second highest national honour in Nigeria. So what this current government offers me in the 2011 National Merit Award is inferior to what I have before now.” Though he maintained a low profile, there is no doubt he played significant roles in the country’s political history.