 THE federal government announced the reopening of the land borders few days ago after over 18 month’s closure. What has been the impact on the economy and do you think Nigeria has achieved the objective for which these borders were closed? Of course, there have been implications of border closure on the economy. Government gave reasons why they took that action, first of which was to curb smuggling of goods from those neighbouring countries into Nigeria, especially the goods that are produced by Nigerians locally. The government wanted Nigerians to produce more so that the country can be self-sufficient, especially in rice production. The second reason also has to do with smuggling out of Nigeria and that relates majorly to petroleum products. This was happening about a year ago when petrol was still selling little above N100 and the exchange rate the price of petrol was about 40 cents and in our neighbouring countries the price of petrol was above one dollar. So ordinarily, it pays Nigeria oil marketers to sell across the boarders where they will earn over a dollar per litre as against selling at 40 cents per litre in Nigeria. But it’s not that just more profit they are making, ordinarily they are not incurring losses because by selling at 40 cents the Nigerian government is picking the difference in terms of subsidy. So the marketers have made their monies complete. Taking the product out of the shores of Nigeria is like punishing Nigerians. I’m not one of the people who will say border closure stops smuggling because that is like admitting inefficiency. It’s government’s responsibility to police the borders and ensure that they are properly secured. The third reason they gave was security. In fact, it was when insecurity was growing and we know what is happening in the north east where we share border with Cameroon and Niger. So it was a combination of smuggling goods in and out at the detriment of Nigerians and insecurity infiltrating through neighbouring countries attacking Nigerians and running back which made it difficult for Nigerian forces to curb the crime. The worry then was that government took this step about two-three months after Nigeria signed the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) designed to encourage free trade across Africa. Now my calculation was, having signed that, government may have realised that what they are going into, they do not have infrastructure in terms of securing the border to control what will be coming in and what will be going out, so they closed the border. Now that they have reopened the borders, my reaction is, have we achieved the objective for which that action was taken? Have we been able to produce enough rice locally to meet demand? The statistics that I saw suggests that production of local rice is about 3.7 million tones and the demand is about 6.7 million tones. So we are producing about half of the demand. Have we been able to close that gap? Of course, we could ask a question, how can we proof that rice is coming from the Republic of Benin or from anywhere else? The trade statistics from Thailand indicated that Republic of Benin was importing more rice than China, the most populous country in the world. The population of Republic of Benin is about 9.9 million. Nigeria, according to National Population Commission is 206 million. Benin shares border with Burkina Faso which is little above 12 million populations and also shares border with Togo. Now if Benin Republic is importing more rice than China, it’s reasonable to assume that they do not have population to consume the rice and the other neighbours don’t have the market to absorb that. So even if we don’t have the figures in paper, it’s reasonable to assume that the rice finds its way to Nigeria. Not that they cannot come but they are not going to get excess allocation. Government also in terms of fiscal policies, encourage some local production and encourage local markets and increase tariff on a number of items. What was trending then was that the Republic of Benin seems to now have economic policy that was deliberately designed to take advantage of Nigeria’s trade policy. Nigerian Customs reported that Nigeria land borders have over 1400 illegal routes into Nigeria. So these were the issues. The unstable nature of Naira has been a troubling development for key industry players, which experts say will continue to shape and reshape the direction of nation’s economy and businesses. Do you also share the same sentiments? It’s not difficult to project if one understands the way economy was. The role of naira is a function of few variables, our consumption patterns. What do we consume? Do we consume what we produce or we consume what we are importing? If we are importing, we will need more foreign exchange to pay for the imports. So consumption has an effect. Secondly, the availability of foreign exchange itself, what are we earning and what do we have there? The economy we know is a mono product economy. One can reasonably say that the only thing we export is crude oil which accounts for over 90 percent of our foreign exchange earnings. And the price of crude oil is determined by the international market. The only control we have is our membership of the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). At the beginning of this year we experienced battle between Saudi Arabia and Russia, flexing muscle and engaged in price war. This battle between the two countries brought down the price of oil. We also witness what has been happening between Iran and US, and the tension in the Middle East resulting from the US policy on Iran. At some point the price of oil went as low as $28. When the 2020 budget was released in January almost a month later the government has to review the budget. And again in April after the lockdown, government has to review the budget again. The budget was reviewed twice in the first quarter. Even now, the price of oil is trending around $39-40. FX isn’t as available as when oil was selling at higher price. The second variable in the oil revenue is the stability of production. So the truth is that earnings have gone down and our consumption pattern remains largely import-dependent. And so everybody is looking for FX and the FX is not there. The need to diversify the economy has remained a hotly debated issue. Would this bode well for the economy? Any reasonable Nigerian will support the call for diversification of economy. Economy is a value chain. No economic policy apart from monetary policy that can happen overnight. A statement from CBN now can trigger a chain tomorrow. But fiscal policy and all other economic policy is a chain. That’s why economy has short, medium and long term. Take a look at the privatisation of power sector; it has been on for about five to six years. Again the rail system designed to complement the roads. You can’t construct rail line from Lagos to other parts of the country over night, it takes months. I learnt that Lagos-Ibadan rail line is to be commissioned soon; we know it has started since 2018. So it takes time for some of those things to come into fruition. I know that agriculture has moved from where it was some four years ago.  