 There was uproar on Thursday in Iwo town, Osun State, as two unidentified women and a man suspected to be kidnappers were killed and burnt to ashes by angry mob. The Nation learnt that the incident happened around noon when they were caught after allegedly kidnapping a child around the palace of Oluwo of Iwo, Oba Adbulrosheed Akanbi. The incident caused uproar by the residents and they attempted to lynch the suspected kidnappers. However, some residents attempted to prevent the mob to kill the kidnappers by taking them to the palace of Oluwo to decide their fate but the palace gate was not opened. Some of the residents that tried to intervene by preventing them to be killed were attacked. The police who attempted to prevent break down of law and order were chased away by the mob. The two women were stripped naked and beaten to comma before they were eventually set ablaze. Our correspondent also gathered a man who was part of the suspected kidnappers escaped the mob; however, he was chased by Okada riders and killed around Ori-Eru area, Iwo. Our correspondent confirmed that the two female suspected kidnappers were killed and burnt a junction near the palace. The Nation who spoke with the Chairman of Police Community Relations Committee (PCRC), Iwo division, Mr. Ayinla Akanfe, on phone explained that the suspected kidnappers came into Iwo from a neighbouring community. He said, as the chairman of PCRC with some resident tried to stop the mob from killing the suspected kidnappers but they failed. His words: “Those suspected kidnappers came into Iwo from a neighbouring town. We make effort to stop our people from lynching them. In the process of that, I was nearly attacked. We tried to take them inside the palace of Oluwo to prevent them from being killed but the gate was not opened. That was why we leave them. “We are mobilising the Amotekun corps, Vigilante and OPC to save the situation and confirmed if they killed another person at Ori-Eru area. They killed two women suspected to be kidnappers burn them. When the police tried to intervene they were chased back. The police can’t shoot; it will degenerate to another issue. We are still on the matter now,” he ended.