 The Presidential Task Force (PTF) on the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) Pandemic has said it would soon adopt measures in dealing with travels from United Kingdom (UK), South Africa and other destinations currently in infested by the new strain of the virus. Chairman of the PTF and Secretary to the Government of the Federation SGF, Mr. Boss Mustapha, who disclosed this on Thursday during the task force’s media briefing in Abuja, said Nigeria had not gone for outright ban flights from such countries in consideration of the economic and social implications on neighbouring countries. According to him, the Nigerian response to the situation had become a model for other countries where an outright ban on flights from affected countries, saying they had also started adopting the Nigerian pattern. “Similarly, the PTF is aware of the global conversation on the new strain of virus discovered in the UK. We had assured Nigerians that our experts working with the WHO are studying the variant strain and shall make a statement at the appropriate time. “On the international travel especially from the UK, South Africa and some very high burden areas, we continue to evaluate the actions taken by various countries. We note that some of the countries that initially banned flights have now adopted the requirement already in place in Nigeria. “We have also weighed the security, economic and social implications of a full ban especially when we consider the situation in our neighboring countries and the ECOWAS as a whole. “The PTF shall increase measures pertaining to those high burden countries to scale down the possibilities of importation. The National Coordinator will elaborate on this”, he said. The SGF further said that the national response to COVID-19 in New Year would be all about the combination of vaccines and the non-pharmaceutical interventions. He also urged state governments not to shut their various treatment centres, noting that cases are rising, adding that more support should also be given to public sector laboratories. “In 2021, its vaccines plus NPIs. As we make progress on this NPIs +Vaccines phase, I urge the State Government not to close down their treatment centers. Rather they should keep them running efficiently and smoothly because the cases of infections are rising and we must intensify our efforts to support the public sector laboratories with critical reagents and the PTF expects the leadership of all Federal Tertiary Health Institutions to raise their level of testing and turnaround for results,” he said. He vouched the PTF would put the required effort and seriousness into pursuing the remaining part of the national response effort guidelines would be unveiled soon. “As we commence the process of adding vaccines to the task, we wish to reaffirm that all aspects of the pronouncement of the President will be approached with the seriousness it deserves. “New guidelines have been developed and will be unveiled by the National Coordinator. The task is huge but our will is stronger this time. “Accordingly, the PTF is working with the relevant MDAs on regulatory and certification issues before we go further, on the subject of vaccines. “The PTF is working assiduously on the turnaround time for receiving test results. We are working with the NCDC to improve on this. Nigerians should expect improvement very soon,” he said. He said the PTF had been in touch with state governors on the recent instructions issued by President Muhammadu Buhari, saying “you will recall that in line with the authorization of the President, a number of advisories were issued to States on ways to curb the spread of the virus in Nigeria. “As a follow up to this development, the PTF met with the select team of Governors on the platform of the National Economic Council and by extension, the Nigerian Governors’ Forum. “The meeting was robust and the Governors shared their experiences on the implementation of these measures and pledged to push it further. “In his speech, the President made several pronouncements including: Further extension of the mandate of the PTF till March, 2020; Authorisation to ensure that violators of the Travel Protocols are sanctioned; “The plan for a comprehensive health sector reform; and the determination of the government to pursue the issue of vaccines in a safe, effective and cost friendly manner. “For us on the PTF, we thank Mr. President for the confidence he has in our ability to deliver on the mandate and we rededicate ourselves to more work,” he said.  