 Eddie Hearn does not believe Anthony Joshua has anything to fear from Tyson Fury’s punching power in their proposed super fight and feels AJ has all the qualities to dethrone the Gypsy King. Joshua and Fury are hoping to fight next year, with May being mooted as a realistic timeframe for the bout which will crown an undisputed heavyweight world champion. AJ holds the WBA, WBO, IBF and IBO world heavyweight titles, while Fury has the WBC and Ring Magazine belts, and although the WBO may end up spoiling the party by taking their strap away from the contest, it will still be one of the biggest heavyweight contests in history. Fury is the favourite with the bookmakers, but Hearn can see a route to victory for his man and does not see Tyson’s knockout power as a threat. The Gypsy King may have stopped Deontay Wilder in his last fight, but Hearn is looking all the way back to his win over Steve Cunningham in 2013 for the last time Fury produced a decisive knockout, leaving his opponent unable to continue. Asked why Joshua is the man to beat Fury, Hearn told William Hill: “Because he has the technical ability to mix it with one of the best technical heavyweights of our time in Tyson Fury, who is big, awkward and clever. “ “But (Joshua) has the speed on the inside and the outside, he has the jab to match him, he has the fundamentals, but he also has the speed and power to go in there. “I’m not a buyer of Tyson Fury’s power. I’m not saying he can’t punch, but it’s not like this is a devastating puncher that’s been bojo-ing people out of the ring for years and years. “Someone messaged me earlier on Instagram, saying: “Tyson Fury is going to knock Anthony Joshua spark out.” I said: “When was the last time Fury knocked anyone spark out or had them gone?” “But for me, AJ has the speed and the power to get on the inside – and you have to get hold of him and that’s very difficult.” The WBO may look to enforce their mandatory challenger on Joshua – Oleksandr Usyk – before he can fight Fury, but Hearn insists this will not be a stumbling block. 