 Despite the hurdles faced by many insurance firms to meet with recapitalisation, SUNU Assurances Nigeria Plc has completed the first phase of its recapitalisation plan by increasing shareholders’ fund to N6.61 billion in the year from N3.47 billion in 2019, the firm’s Managing Director, Samuel Ogbodu, has said. Ogbodu spoke at a press conference held at the company’s headquarters in Lagos. The increase in shareholders’ fund, he said, represents a 90 per cent growth after share reconstruction and capital injection of N3.01 billion. He stated that despite the challenges, the firm has continued to grow its market share and will close the year  with a premium production of at least N3.15 billion. He said this was against closing year 2019, with premium production of N2.24 billion, which represented a growth rate of 40 per cent due to the restructuring initiatives and strategic business transformation carried out in recent quarters to mitigate the effect of economic challenges. He further stated that the company would close the year with claims pay-out of N1.29 billion in 2020, while its underwriting profit grew to N1.22 billion in 2020 from N781 million in 2019, presenting a growth of 56.2 per cent, which was due to improved technical efficiency in business operations. He said: “The bulk of the claims came from oil and gas and motor. However, due to the firm’s prompt response to claims settlement, old and new policyholders have been flocking to the firm to underwrite their risks. We have continued to focus on our strategic strengthens, centred on our technologically differentiated service delivery and delivery and operation. “We are also continuing to focus our technologically differentiated service deliver and operations. We are also bringing the company more in-like with initiatives that will delight our customers, which are geared towards being a customer-centric company with firm aspirations of achieving sustained and orderly growth in the coming years,” he said. The SUNU chief said the company is embarking on the growth phase while it remains committed to its strategic objectives and core values, which will also guide the future and culture of the company. He maintained that the firm has concluded plans to inject N3.5 billion into its kitties through right issue which will be activated by March, next year. He said business renewal by clients of the company has been awesome, adding that the performance being recorded in the renewal is due to the excellent service offered by the firm. “SUNU Assurances is embarking on the growth phase while we remain committed to our strategic objectives and core values, which will also guide the future and culture of the company. “There is so much to do and the business challenges posed by the second wave of the pandemic might present difficulties and uncertainty in 2021 but SUNU Assurance Nigeria Plc will ensure continuous improvement of service delivery to insuring public and we will come out stronger while the company rounds-up the execution of its recapitalisation plans,” he added.