 Financial inclusion is one area that many banks pay much attention to. But successfully enrolling new customers from all cadres of the society will require huge investments in technology and quality customer services. Although, Access Bank is well known for its customer-centric approach to service delivery, it further stepped up such services using numerous digital platforms, which allowed customers transact businesses from their point of comfort and in the convenience of their homes and offices. For the non tech-savvy customers, the Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD) remains a most convenient and available platform for use. Technology has also supported its quest for enhanced re-skilling of its greatest asset – employees – for the emerging demands and habits of its over 11million (Mobile App) customers during the COVID era and beyond. All these have reflected positively on Access Bank’s unaudited results for the nine months ended September 30, 2020. The bank has not only grown its deposit base, but grew its low cost deposits- current accounts and savings accounts accounted for 62.4 per cent of the deposit base. Savings accounts deposits closed at N1.23 trillion as at September 2020. The bank’s financial review of its unaudited results for  the nine months ended September 30, 2020 showed that its gross earnings rose by 15 per cent to N592.8 billion in nine months ended September 30, 2020. The performance was an improvement compared with N513.7 billion  recorded same period of 2019. Also, interest and non-interest income contributing 63 per cent and 37 per cent respectively. Interest Income declined by seven per cent year-on-year to N375.3 billion as against  N405 billion in same period of last year, largely driven by the falling yield environment which saw income on investment securities drop by 15 per cent year-on-year to N118.8 billion. Non-Interest Income increased by 100 per cent to N217.5 billion as against N108.6 billion achieved last year , largely led by the year-on-year growth in trading income. “Transaction fees, Commissions and Other operating income accounted for 55 per cent and Net trading income the balance of 45 per cent. Included in other operating income are recoveries of N24.8 billion. “We also had strong showing in our Channels and other E-business of N38.8 billion(+105 per cent year-on-year). These gains buttress the resilience of the bank even in these uncertain period,” the bank said. Profit Before Tax (PBT) for the period rose by 16 per cent year-on-year to N116.6 billion as against N100.8 billion, and Profit After Tax (PAT) also grew by 16 per cent  to N102.3 billion from N88.4 billion in 2019, on the back of a 29 per cent yy growth in operating income despite the rise in Impairment Charges and Operating Expenses. Accordingly, Return on Average Equity (ROAE) stood at 21.2 per cent with a Return on Asset (ROAA) of 1.8 per cent in the period. The assets base of the bank remained strong and resilient with Total Assets of N7.93 trillion in September 2020, a growth of 11 per cent year-to-date from N7.14 trillion in December 2019. Net Loans and Advances totaled N3.53 trillion as at September 2020. Customer Deposits increased by 24 per cent year-to-date to N5.26 trillion in September 2020 from N4.26 trillion in December 2019. Capital Adequacy Ratio remained well above regulatory minimum at 20.3 per cent, reflecting the adjusted impact of the International Finance Corporation (IFRS) 9 implementation. Similarly, Liquidity ratio of 48.0 per cent. Non-Performing loans ratio stood at 4.2 per cent as at September 2020 on the back of a N70.1 billion write-off and cautious restructuring in the period. Net Interest Margin of 5.1 per cent in 2020 from 6.8 per cent in 2019, while Average Cost of Funds decreased 160 basis points to 3.6 per cent from 5.2 per cent in 9M 2019. Yield on Assets of 9.7 per cent, down by 336bps  from 13 per cent in 2019. These are on the back of the declining yield environment. Cost-to-Income Ratio declined by 176bps  to 62.1 per cent in 2020, despite the high cost of operation of the enlarged business scale. ‘’We continue to drive our cost transformation initiatives to minimise cost, which will result in improved efficiency ratios’’, he said. During a recent chat, the Deputy Group Managing Director, Roosevelt Ogbonna FCA, said these investments in technology have seen the bank recording continuous sign-on of new customers, thus making it the largest mobile banking network within Nigerian’s banking system, with 11 million customers using its mobile app. The bank is said to also leverage its’ agency banking platform, enabling customers transact businesses within their localities, rather than go far to do so. Ogbonna also confirmed the bank’s growth through the COVID-19 situation with several of its innovations, helping to increase service delivery to the satisfaction of its customers, at this time of experiencing the ‘new normal’. Quoting him, “As we go into the future, more customers will rely on the digital platforms and alternative channels for their banking transactions and business. Access Bank is well resourced with the infrastructure required to serve our customers and help them through the journey to arriving at a very profitable place,” Ogbonna said. He continued that, Access Bank has long come to terms with the fact that change has come in the way things were done, in terms of having big offices and big branches. The world may never go back to the pre-COVID-19 way of doing things. He further expressed that, investments made by banks and other institutions in technology would begin to pay off as the world readies itself for the post-Coronavirus era. Although, branch network would remain relevant, about 70 to 80 per cent of transactions would be done via alternative channels, progressively. “The new normal is here and it is a reality”, he said. “It is about banks and customers seeking out effective platforms that enable them perform their daily transactions without hindrances. As such, there is a channel for every customer depending on the level of security they require, skill and awareness on the adoption of technology”./ In his opinion, banks, especially Access Bank, is ready to provide alternative platforms for all customers to transact their daily business with ease. Speaking further, Ogbonna confirmed that Access Bank has in the past shared with the market, every five years, its plans for expansion for the purpose of achieving its vision of becoming one of the dominant and most respected African financial institutions, as well as the continent’s gateway to the world. In doing so, the bank must remain relevant in the African market. Its current five-year plan is expected to run up to 2022. The plan entails making its presence and operations felt on the continent through involvement in viable markets. In one of such involvements, Access Bank has operated in Zambia in the last 10 years, consolidating its franchise in the East African country. It has also acquired a bank operated in Kenya, with the thinking that in leveraging its global network, it should be able to add significant value to the market in that country.