It’s not a secret to anyone that playing the lottery is a very fun and satisfactory activity, and if you are really cautious, it is totally safe. Currently, many people have been winning the lottery and all of us at some point in our lives wish we could be one of them.  Do you want to play the lottery and win, and not die trying? Check these 10 foolproof tips so you can become a lottery genius and make a lot of money.  This is the first step that every amateur or professional in the lottery world should take into account. Any gambler should meticulously choose a good lottery to play: the draw that offers the best conditions, an inviting jackpot, better probabilities and other aspects that show the benefits we get if we choose them. Some of the most known and reliable are: Mega Millions and Powerball in the USA, Eurojackpot, SuperEnalotto and EuroMillions in Europe, Lotto Zambia: GG World Million and GG World Keno in Zambia. Besides choosing the best lottery, finding a retailer that offers us the best conditions is just as important. This way, you will make the most of the budget and the opportunities. Believe it or not, there is a large number of players that buy countless tickets and forget which lotteries they are playing. It is vital that you have absolute control over all your tickets and draws you are participating in; this will allow you to know exactly how much you have invested and what your performance in the game is. Having control over the tickets you buy will help you keep your expenses low. Like this, as a gambler, you will be able to play in a healthy way and enjoy it to the fullest. One of the characteristics that really successful players have is their ability to plan and use strategies. It is necessary to have a strategic mentality to guarantee success, and be sure about whether you will be a casual player or a regular one. The moment you are introduced to the world of gambling, you must closely study your budget and make sure you do not go over the amounts when betting. One of the ways you can make the most of your budget is to evaluate whether you buy tickets from a famous lottery, which are more expensive, or choose lotteries that are not so popular but whose tickets are more affordable. Most conscious gamblers have something very clear: the lottery is just a game which you have to enjoy to the fullest with the hopes of winning the jackpot one day. As any other game, it is necessary to learn how to play and enjoy it in a healthy way, avoiding reaching extreme levels such as risking personal or family capital. If I told you that will get the jackpot the first time you play, I would be lying to you. Even though it could happen, the odds are low. A quality that a lottery player must indisputably possess is patience. Patience is the perfect ally to face all the disappointments you can feel sometimes when losing. However, if you persevere and never give up, you will be able to see victory. Many people use numbers based on special dates when they play the lottery, such as birthdays and anniversaries. You have to take into account that this method could be very tricky and not effective at all: the number of possible combinations is limited, this is, numbers whose cyphers are above 31 are excluded. If you prefer to play the lottery online, it is important that you always be alert. Pay close attention so you avoid falling into scams and fraud. Remember to always play on pages that are legal and certified by your country’s government. In Nigeria you can play a fully licensed lotteries online organized by LottoNigeria.com: GG World Keno and GG World Million.  Likewise, never access sites by links you receive by email confirming you have won a draw. And, above all, avoid by any means registering on pages that offer combinations based on rituals or miraculous beliefs.  Many people believe there are miraculous methods that lead them to win the lottery. But this really does not exist. The only thing we can tell you is that following some of the tips we have showed you today will surely increase your probabilities to win. 