  ENE: I am Asuquo from Akwa Ibom State. Please, what are the rules and regulations of payment for Federal Government retirees? Secondly, I retired in April, this year, when will my accrued right be paid? PENCOM: The rules and regulation for payment of Federal Government retirement benefits under the CPS starts by participating in the commission’s Pre-retirement verification and enrolment. The prospective retiree/retiree needs to contact the Pension Desk Officer (PDO) of his/her MDA to get the necessary documents for enrolment. He/she is also required to come along with the PDO to the enrolment centre for his/her attestation. After the enrolment exercise, the retirement benefits are determined and paid into the RSA of the retiree based on the information provided by the retiree during enrolment. But please NOTE that retirement benefits are paid subject to release of funds by the Federal Government for payment of accrued rights. FOLOWOSELE: My name is Folowosele. I retired as a civil servant. Please, what documents do I submit to PENCOM to process my pension? PENCOM: He needs to contact the PDO of his MDA to get the necessary documents for enrolment. He is also required to come to the PDO for his/her attestation. OLUSEGUN: Mr name is Ampitan. I retired from service on January 31, 2005. I am not on pension payroll up till date after being verified by PTAD. I did my verification in September 18, 2017, at Rowepark, Lagos. Please save my soul. My gratuity, pension arrears and monthly pension are yet to be paid, while others have been receiving theirs. I started work in December 18, 1972 and retired in January 31, 2005. My claim is CSPD. (Federal Share). I have submitted my documents several times, yet nothing has been done by PTAD on my case. Kindly save my soul. My mother has nine children. I am the only son. I lost all my sisters as I am the last born. I am facing a life-threatening challenge of my life. All my efforts are not yielding results.  Thank you and God bless. PTAD: Pensioner to scan and send a copy of his pensioner verification acknowledgement slip to complaints@ptad.gov.ng to enable us review and update him on the status of his complaint. SUNDAY: Dear Omobola, my name is Fasuyi, a military pensioner who retired in 1979 as Corporal with effective pension date of October 16, 2015. After my verification at Akure Military Barack on the same date, I have not received any money since my retirement. Please I need your help. Do not let me die in vain and suffering after serving my nation with all my mind. I am waiting to hear from you. PTAD: Pensioner is not under PTAD because he said he worked and retired in the Nigerian Army. He should direct his complaint to the Military Pensions Board not PTAD. We contacted the pensioner on his mobile phone to advise him accordingly. OWAH: The Cross River State Association of Retired Permanent Secretaries wishes to bring to your notice that though PTAD verified the state pensioners in February 2017, collected photocopies of our Blue papers for payment of our federal share of harmonised pensions arrears, it has not paid up till date. We addressed a humble appeal dated February 26, 2020 to Dr. Chioma Ejikeme, Executive Secretary, PTAD to no avail. The frequent excuse of non-release of funds (when funds are being provided in yearly budgets) has assumed a toga of inhuman treatment of senior citizens of CRS, resulting to geometric rate of premature deaths owing to illness. Please come to our aid and remind PTAD to redeem its image by paying us. PTAD: Parastals Pensions Department is working to resolve complaints of verified pensioners. However, the pensioner is advised to scan and send his pensioner’s verification acknowledgement slip to complaints@ptad.gov.ng to enable us review and update him on the status of his complaint. He should also provide his contact phone number to enable us contact him. BULUKU: Kindly pursue my federal share of gratuity for me. The amount is N88,833. I am already on the federal civil pension monthly pay roll. I hope you will find more information for me please. I remain your retiree. PTAD: Pensioner to scan and send his pensioner’s verification acknowledgement slip and original stamped and signed bank statement from retirement to date to complaints@ptad.gov.ng to enable us review and resolve his complaint. TAYO: My name is Ojoade, from Ondo State. I want to introduce my father’s case to the PTAD management. My father, Mr Manase, is a retiree from the old defunct NEPA in 1999. His monthly pension salary is regular, but the gratuity and pension arrears have not been paid, despite appearances to PTAD. I want you to use your good offices to investigate the delay. My father is old, let him eat from his labour. I need an urgent reply. PTAD: The Parastatal Pensions Department is working on the complaints of verified pensioners. However, Ojoade is advised to scan and send his father’s pensioner verification acknowledgement slip to complaints@ptad.gov.ng to enable us review and update him on the status of his father’s complaint.