Ango Abdullahi, chairman of the Northern Elders Forum NEF obviously desecrated the sacredness of facts when he claimed that outside the northern part of the country, most violent acts against northerners are perpetrated by the Igbo. Abdullahi who led a delegation of his group to Port Harcourt, Rivers State to interact with his fellow northerners following events of the nationwide #ENDSARS protests made the incendiary comment without adducing facts to support his claim. It is not certain what his kinsmen told him at their meeting. Neither is the objective of such a sweeping and unsubstantiated allegation clear. Whatever the motive is, the statement is as careless as it is irresponsible. Coming from a personality like Abdullahi, one had expected a good measure of caution in dishing out views that have the wider prospects of pitching sections of the country against each other especially when they are not backed with verifiable facts. His unguarded statement amounted to nothing other than preparing the ground for northerners (even as the concept of a monolithic north is an aberration) to attack the Igbo living amongst them, possibly to avenge imaginary infractions. It is indeed a matter of serious regret that someone who lays claims to regional leadership should exhibit such level of insensitivity on an issue that can only further ruffle the tense political temperament of a country that is emerging from the ruins of the last protests. From the little information available, Abdullahi and his group were in Rivers State to gauge the views of their putative constituents on events of the ENDSARS protests. If the statement credited to him represented the outcome of the meeting they had on the nationwide protests; that would indeed be very unfortunate as it is at variance with facts on the ground. Having bandied such a tendentious and potentially inciting allegation, the burden of proof now lies on the shoulders of the leadership of the NEF. Abdullahi has a herculean task to come up with facts and figures of instances where the Igbo have levied violence against northerners or any acts of organized violence in any part of Igbo land against northerners or the non-indigenous population. Where he fails to do so, he should be held responsible for any acts of violence against the Igbo in the northern part of the country. It is not just enough to bandy inciting claims without supporting them with verifiable evidence. It is a huge disappointment on the personality of Abdullahi that he threw caution to the winds in such a sensitive issue especially given the fault lines of our national order. But we are not surprised at the easy resort of politicians to ethnic cards to shore up their waning relevance. Neither are we amazed at the emerging and very curious attempt to blame any and every ill of the Nigerian society on the Igbo race. It is becoming increasingly fashionable for sundry characters to embark on the dirty voyage of criminalizing the Igbo race for offences many other tribes are largely guilty of just to give the dog a bad name to hang it. Otherwise, how do we explain the inversion of allegations on who had visited more violence on the other between the Igbo and northerners? This may not be the best of times to reopen old wounds or trade blames. But since Abdullahi is intent on misleading the country for inexplicable reasons, it bears stating unequivocally, that the Igbo have suffered immeasurably both in human and material capital mostly from the north. The sacred facts are there. Do we talk of the Maitatsine riots of the 80s or other religion-induced uprisings where Igbo lives were lost for no just cause and properties of inestimable value destroyed? What of sponsored and misguided attacks on the same people for events that happened in other countries which some people found offensive to their faith? Or have we forgotten the beheading of Gedeon Akaluka and the unfortunate fate of a pastors wife, Bridget Agbaheme that was killed in a Kano market? What of the culture of issuing quit orders on the Igbo resident in the north on very flimsy grounds by sponsored youth bodies? If the above instances are not enough to put a lie to claims from the NEF chieftain, perhaps he also needed to be reminded of the real victims of the Boko Haram insurgency at the budding stages of their religion-induced campaigns. The facts are also there. It would have been needless going this length if Abdullahi had not made dubious attempts to falsify extant realities. But it must be said that in all these instances, there was no singular occasion the Igbo embarked on a reprisal attack on northerners living amongst them. Neither was there any attempt to compensate those who lost their loved ones and valuable properties to the unprovoked attacks. Even in those occasions the herdsmen invaded Igbo villages leaving in their trail sorrow and awe, there was no incident of reprisal attacks. Yet, Abdullahi had the comfort of mind to stand logic on the head. One had expected a body that claims to represent elders of the north to have been more circumspect and discerning in bandying allegations that have the prospects of ruffling the political temperament in the country. But that was not to be as Abdullahi curiously threw caution to the winds, speaking in such a careless manner that detracts from the credibility that ordinarily should be associated with such regional organizations. Or are we now confronted with a verity of the views of the Special Adviser to President Buhari, on Media and publicity Femi Adesina when he recently said “NEF is just Ango Abdullahi and Ango Abdullahi is NEF. It is a quasi-organization that boasts of no credible membership and its leader is akin to a general without troops? Maybe Adesina was right. It is highly ridiculous that a supposedly credible organization as NEF purports could be credited with views that are at once, direct opposites of subsisting realities. If the truth must be told, the Igbo by the very circumstance of their lives are generally not given to organized acts of violence. The fact of their cosmopolitan nature; living and owning investments in any and every part of the country, does not predispose them to either taking up arms against their hosts or their visitors. By the very fact of this also, they stand the greatest victims each time there are riots, loss of lives and destruction of properties. The recent ENDSARS protests bear this out. In Abuja, the Igbo lost several millions of Naira when their car market was razed down in instigated and unprovoked attacks. That was no all. It was little surprising, the Ohaneze Ndigbo reacted angrily to the allegation with a call on the federal government to order the NEF to recant the inflammatory statement. If the NEF had genuine complaints from those they spoke with, the right approach would have been to take it up with the leadership of Ohaneze with a view to finding amicable solutions to them. But they threw caution to the winds without minding the repercussions of setting groups against the other in a highly volatile setting as the one we live in. In the past, the apex northern organization, Arewa Consultative ACF under the chairmanship of Alhaji Ibrahim Coommasie had met with the Ohaneze leadership of Chief Gary Enwo-Igariwey on ways to move the nation forward. That was when tension and mutual suspicion held sway among the various ethnic divides and the country was edging to the precipice. That is the type of patriotic spirit we expect of the NEF rather than the resort to ethnic bile and cheap propaganda. But more seriously, the message is not lost as to the choice of Port Harcourt for the vitriolic attack on the Igbo race. It fits perfectly into the usual well-choreographed script to perpetually keep neighbours divided especially as the 2023 elections inch nearer. Whether the outcome will be the same this time again, is a matter of time.