Without doubt, there is need to have telephone SIM cards attached to particular National Identification Numbers (NIN), at least for security reasons. The euphoria of Nigeria joining the league of countries having the Global System for Mobile (GSM) communication ought to have been over 19 years after. Yes, we can rejoice that, right from the comfort of our rooms, we can do so many things that peoples in other countries do on their phones, unlike those days when telephone used to be an exclusive preserve of the rich and Nigeria could only boast of a mere 450,000 lines. We now have 198, 961, 361 active telephone subscribers in the country. Not only do we make calls on our phones, countless other applications can be made use of on the phone, such that many of us cannot do without it for a day. It has now come to define the way we live, work and even play. Perhaps more. But the ‘proliferation’, as it were, of telephone lines in the country, just like many other innovations, also came with its peculiar challenges. One of these is security concerns. A lot of crimes had been perpetrated through telephone and tracing the criminals has been difficult because of the lax way SIM cards are issued here. It has probably got to a level that the government can no longer tolerate it. Hence, the need to synchronise SIM cards with NIN. This was the highpoint of the December 14 meeting of key stakeholders in the communications industry, held at the instance of the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Ali Ibrahim (Pantami). It was a follow up to an earlier directive to the telecommunications companies to suspend new SIM registration, which was also sequel to the minister’s directive in September, last year, to the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) to carry out SIM registration audit, following the rising rate of insecurity in the country. They agreed that subscribers have two weeks, that is from December 16 to December 30, to comply with the directive and that any subscriber that fails to comply should be disconnected. The stakeholders also affirmed earlier directive to totally suspend registration of new SIMs. Also, the meeting set up a Ministerial Task Force comprising the minister and all the CEOs, among others, as members, to monitor compliance by all networks. According to them, stiff sanctions, including the possibility of withdrawal of operating license, await violators of the directive. No one who understands the gravity of the security implications of what obtains at present, where anyone can just purchase SIM cards, get registered and start using it would say this is a bad idea. My worry however is that in a country where government at all levels is derelict, the people will necessarily become beasts of burden of such dereliction. That is the problem with NIN here now. Successive Nigeria’s governments have been trying to give Nigerians national identity cards, at least since the Shehu Shagari era in the 1980s. Ordinarily, this should not be a problem. How and why bean cake always becomes bones that we struggle to masticate in Nigeria is what I do not know. There is hardly anything you want to get from government that you get stress-free. From voter’s card to driver’s licence, to even the NIN, you must struggle to get it. Instead of government giving you the original document you want, they first give the temporary version, from driver’s licence, to voter card and what have you. And I begin to ask myself why one can’t get the permanent document since it is almost the same process to get both temporary and permanent ones? Sometimes you pass through hell to pay money into government coffers because government has a way of ensuring that you need one thing or the other that they will make evidence of payment of that money a sine qua non to obtain. My frustration with the ‘no NIN no telephone’ is that the same government that has been struggling with providing Nigerians identity cards for decades with little success (much of the success is only a recent phenomenon) is now giving deadline for people to have NIN linked with their telephone lines or get yanked off from the telephone networks! The issue is not about the deadline, really. It is about its shortness. How can you say millions of subscribers should get this done within two weeks? Even in climes where things work, the governments would not set such impossible deadlines. Not to talk of our own environment where things hardly work. And this is not just at year-end when people are trying to see what they could make of their lives in view of the economic difficulties they are going through, but also one where Nigerians are being asked by governments to observe social distancing because of the second wave of coronavirus? As a matter of fact, the question that came into my mind when I saw the report asking Nigerians to synchronise their SIMs with their NIN within so short a period was: who did we offend that has vowed to make us pay with these punishments called policies that are being imposed on us? Someone just woke up the other day and thought of the idea of making candidates sitting for the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board’s (JAMB) Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) use their NIN as registration number for the exam. Meanwhile, we all knew this was mission impossible given the number of Nigerians already enrolled for NIN at the time. However, I am happy that two civil society groups have done what I wanted to suggest in this piece before I stumbled on their story online. The organisations, Paradigm Initiative and Digital Rights Lawyers Initiative, have asked the Federal High Court in Lagos to stop the Federal Government from blocking SIM cards not linked with NINs. They also asked the court to issue a perpetual injunction restraining Dr Pantami and four network operators from implementing the directive on NIN “until all Nigerians have been conveniently afforded the opportunity to register for and obtain valid NINs and update their SIM registration accordingly.” Other respondents in the suit are MTN, Glo, Airtel and 9mobile. The plank of their argument is that the proposed blocking of SIM cards that are not linked with NIN is an infringement of Nigerians’ freedom of expression. I do not want to dwell much on the second leg of their argument, to wit; “as the directive stipulating the proposed blocking is not a law and that only a law can be applied to limit fundamental human rights in due observance with the provisions of the constitution” because, first, I am not a lawyer; even then, it is only the courts that can make a final pronouncement on such matter. The main plank of the argument that I think should be pushed is the number of Nigerians having NIN, which the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) put at only about 36, 894, 074 as against about 198, 961, 361 active telephone subscribers. Granted that some persons have three or four lines, for me, this is enough ground to nullify the minister’s directive. The Federal Government ought to have been patient to get a substantial number of Nigerians enrolled on the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) platform before giving any deadline for blocking SIMs. Although NIMC’s spokesperson, Mr. Kayode Adegoke, said that government has approved licensing of over 200 institutions to carry out enrolment “of Nigerians and legal residents into the National Identity Database (NIDB) on behalf of NIMC,” including state governments  –  Abia, Akwa Ibom, Gombe, Lagos, Kaduna, Katsina, Kano, Oyo, Ogun, Sokoto and Zamfara states, and public sector institutions such as the NCC, National Pension Commission, Central Bank of Nigeria (through the Nigeria Inter-Bank Settlement Systems Plc), National Population Commission, Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Joint Tax Board and Nigeria Postal Services, this, still, is not enough reason to give telephone subscribers such a short notice. The idea is to increase the number of enrolment centres from the current 1,000 to 10,000. These institutions should have been at work a long time ago if the government wanted the deactivation of the lines to start this year-end. Soon, the typical ‘Nigerian factor’ would come into play. Soon, we will start hearing stories that money for them to take off is hanging somewhere, etc. No government has the right to punish the citizenry for its own incompetence or sloppiness. For how long will officials continue to make Nigerians guinea pigs for the experimentation of unrealistic ideas? It would be interesting to see how the case instituted by the civil society organisations on this matter will end because I doubt if the judge to decide it too has been enrolled for the NIN. Yet it is not for lack of trial, it is because the system (read the government, not necessarily the agency in charge) has made the process so punitive and open to abuse by not playing its own part. Why would government wait this long to let other players come into the enrolment picture to assist the NIMC? If it is just getting serious on this matter, why must Nigerians pay the price for its waking up from its slumber so late? Meanwhile, we wait to see what miracle Minister Pantami wants to perform in two weeks. 