Veteran Nollywood actor and TV personality Richard Eyimofe Mofe-Damijo popularly known as RMD has being named the Brand Ambassador of LG Electronics in Nigeria. At an event to unveil the new brand icon at the weekend, Mr. Hari Elluru, Head of Corporate Marketing Division, LG Electronics West Africa operations, said the brand appointed RMD as its ambassador “for his style and dexterity which resonate with the brand essence of OLED TV.” Also speaking at the ceremony, Mr. Mike Ahn, General Manager Home Entertainment TV Division, LG Electronics West Africa Operations disclosed” LG OLED TVs are better for a simple reason: They light up pixel by pixel. They don’t have a backlight, so when you see black areas of the screen, they’re as black as possible. This means excellent contrast—perfect for darker scenes. “LG OLED TVs have individual self-lit pixels that create infinite contrast and the Perfect Black. You can see the richness in colors, and all the small details and textures revealed in every scene. Self-lit pixels ensure better image quality for HDR gaming, and its fast response time lets you take full advantage of G-SYNC compatibility. “In addition to their stunning picture quality, self-lit pixels offer an equally great view from wide viewing angles. With self-lit pixels, LG OLED TVs come with a slim design that complements every home interior. See the paper-thin, futuristic design that goes beyond all expectations,” he said. Responding, an elated RMD said, he was excited to be the brand ambassador for the company. “I have always admired LG Electronics as a premium brand particularly its series of Television which outsmart other TVs in its category but I never thought I could be a brand ambassador for same TV I admire most. “My job is simple and that is to live the brand and live my life as I have always done. I hope the world will see the brand through me indeed and more so move on to add significant value to LG OLED TV in the coming years,” he submitted. LG continues to establish a strong foothold in the OLED TV Market with impressive sales. LG once again demonstrated its product design prowess with a grand total of 19 accolades at this year’s Red Dot Design Award, including the Best of the Best honor for its 65-inch GX Gallery series OLED TV (model 65GX). 