 Four months after the Federal Government approved N10 billion as bailout for members of Public Transport Owners of Nigeria Association (PTONA), the association has appealed for an urgent disbursement. This, PTONA said, was to save their businesses from collapse. They also called for the re-opening of the land borders closed by government. PTONA members decried what they termed “unfair implementation of the COVI-19 protocol of 50 percent seating capacity which is biased against our branded inter-state buses on various routes nationwide.” These were part of the communiqué issued by the association at the end of the Annual General Meeting (AGM) held at the Sheraton Hotel & Towers, Ikeja, Lagos. PTONA’s National President Isaac Uhunmwagho, and Secretary, Frank Nneji, appealed to the Inspector-General of Police (IGP) and the Chief of Army Staff to immediately remove all the checkpoints on the highways. Such roadblocks, they said, have tripled journey time on various routes, thereby making road transportation a nightmare. The association called on the government to deploy technology in checking the illegal activities of smugglers on the nations land borders. “Stop the unfair policy in implementing the 50 percent seating capacity on our members’ inter-state buses nationwide. This is because it is only our members’ branded inter-state buses that have been observing the social distancing safety protocols on board since the measure was introduced up till this moment.  Other unorganised inter-state buses, airline operators, schools and markets are now operating at full capacity without following the guidelines on social distancing,” they said. Uhunmwagho, who described transportation as the catalyst for economic growth, appealed to the government to release the promised COVID-19 bailout. “We are afraid that with barely few weeks to the end of the current fiscal year, the fund, if not disbursed immediately, could be returned to the treasury by the end of the year. Therefore, we call on the Federal Ministry of Transportation to ensure immediate disbursement of the fund,” he said.  