 IN the last two weeks, Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt.-General Tukur Buratai, has made several statements that may unsettle citizens or cause confusion on matters that touch on national security and democratic governance in the country. In his remarks at the decoration of 39 generals, General Buratai promoted spirituality as a part of professional preparation of military officers of the Nigerian Army: “I must say that the spiritual warfare seminar we had last time helped us during the last #EndSARS protest to the extent that there was no single corpse, but some persons were seeing double at Lekki toll gate in Lagos State.” And in respect of the army’s attitude to democratic governance, Buratai said, “Democracy has come to stay. We will not tolerate any agent of destabilisation. The years of military misadventure in politics have never carried us anywhere. It is over,” adding, “Do not hobnob with politicians…” The COAS made these statements just a few days after tweeting, “There is general misunderstanding of what insurgency and terrorism entail… There is likelihood of terrorism persisting in Nigeria for another 20 years…Citizens responsibility is equally important and imperative. All must cooperate to contain the lingering insecurity. Let there be collective action and responsibility.” The many statements by the army boss touch on important issues of concern to the citizenry: the recent #EndSARS protests; military-civilian relations in a democracy; level of capacity of the military to end the 11-year-old Boko Haram terrorism; and other forms of insecurity across the country. But the contributions of the COAS in the last two weeks to national discourse on security are contradictory and confusing. How wise is it for the COAS to deploy the lexicon of ‘spiritual warfare’ in a country already wracked by a religious war, which Boko Haram and its accomplice, the Islamic State of West Africa, characterise as Jihad? How politically appropriate is it for the nation’s number one military officer to use the concept of spiritual warfare in connection with protests in a democratic polity? How discreet is it for the COAS to use decoration of new generals as opportunity for a preachy speech that smacks of fear-mongering, especially at a time that citizens across the country are becoming nervous about nation-wide insecurity? For example, how constitutional is spiritual warfare webinar training for Christian and Islamic military personnel in a country with freedom of every Nigerian to hold and practice his/her religion freely? Did the army select just officers that are Muslims or Christians, while skipping officers with other faiths in the same army, or did the army subject soldiers with faiths other than Islam and Christianity to spiritual warfare webinar at the expense of tax- payers of all manner of faiths? While the constitution is in support of individuals’ right to carry their faith(s) into any profession in the country, from all intents and purposes, it does not favour compromising religious neutrality of professional practice—be it in the civil service, medical practice, military service, etc. The COAS ought to provide further clarifications on the introduction in 2019 of spiritual warfare training for members of the military. Citizens ought to be reassured by the COAS and the Commander-in-Chief about spiritual warfare training of members of the country’s armed forces. Similarly, General Buratai’s lecture on the appropriate behaviour of the military in a democratic state seems superfluous, two decades after the country’s return to democracy. Warning or threatening military leaders about hobnobbing with civilians on the danger of destabilising an elected government may invoke unguarded fear-mongering among citizens, given the lingering memory of military dictatorship in the country before 1999. Such statements are distractive and can be disruptive at a time that the country is fighting insecurity at many levels. To motivate citizens to be partners of the armed forces to secure the nation, the Chief of Army Staff ought to inspire citizens, not to scare them. The real threat before the country now is finding solutions to its many threats that frustrate citizens across the land.