 THE Year 2020 is a year probably comparable to only one other year, 1918, in human history. They are comparable because of what they have in common. The pandemic, one caused by the Spanish Flu in 1918 and the other brought about by the Coronavirus, (or is it Chinese Virus?), binds both years. Shun of the pandemic, the years have their distinctive features. 2020 has been an extraordinary year for many around the globe. There is no country, group, profession or individual that does not have one thing or the other to remember the year by. It was an unusual year; a year of deaths, destruction, disasters, kidnapping, devastation and the other such words which the ears do not always wish to hear. The media had its own fair share of these maladies. It lost some titans of the profession in the outgoing year. With how to battle the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic the central focus globally, the death of these topnotch journalists came like a bolt out of the blue. It was the last thing those of us they left behind was expecting. We had thought that along with them, we will tell the story of COVID-19 long after it is gone. Here, we are, they are no more, and COVID-19 is still ravaging the world. These journalists were among the best in the profession. They made their names at different times in a trade where no one, especially those who seek your favour while still doing the job, remembers you once you are no longer useful to them. Journalism is a thankless job and this reality is harshly brought home when you no longer occupy an office that can be of benefit to people. Those who died might have experienced this even before their passage. They would have seen how those they thought were friends who were always knocking at their doors for one favour or the other turned their backs on them at the hour of need. Journalism is all about people, whether big or small, and their activities. A big man makes news when caught in an awkward position and a small man makes news when he does something great. These are the people journalists devote their time and energy to, day in, day out. In this regard, Bisi Lawrence aka Biz Law, Gbolabo Ogunsanwo, Sam Nda-Isaiah, Muyiwa Daniel and Soni Ehi-Asuelimen did their bit. Biz Law and Ogunsanwo were far, far ahead of my own generation. Uncle Biz Law was in a class of his own. He was a broadcasting czar who was at home writing for newspapers. Long after he left the Lagos State Broadcasting Corporation as General Manager, he maintained a column in the Vanguard Newspaper in which he wrote on sports and other issues. Biz Law was a sports enthusiast. He loved writing and talking sports. He also taught those younger to him one or two things about sports writing. Little wonder young sports writers were always found in his company, willing and ready to drink from the fountain of his wisdom. He was a father figure and mentor to the end. Ogunsanwo was a wordsmith. The Editor of editors, he used and coined words with ease. He was no longer with theDaily Times when my generation joined that great media citadel, but we were regaled with stories of his exploits. He was larger than life, according to the tales we heard. Nothing escaped his eyes. He read everything that came before him. He was a hands on Editor who did his work with eyes for the minutest detail. Ogunsanwo was the record-breaking Editor of the Sunday Times, which circulation figure hit over 500,000 copies weekly in the early seventies. That record still stands. As a columnist, he wrote with class and panache. His column:Life with Gbolabo Ogunsanwo was a must read for the high and low. Another journalism great and Daily Times alumnus, writing under the pseudonym of Abdu Rauf, in a tribute, said of Editor Ogunsanwo: ”He was a celebrated columnist with a huge following. Readers waited with bated breath for his column. He was fearless; he was fierce, he was severe, yet full of wit and humour. He was impressionistic in his writings, masterly weaving words and sentences , painting pictures and employing imageries…” The writer should know because he was a witness to that  history. In this day and time that the circulation figures of newspapers have dipped, it was no mean feat that Ogunsanwo took the Sunday Times to greater heights, shooting its circulation figure to 532,916 copies from 165,000. My friend and brother Tunde Rahman, in his own tribute, painted the picture of Ogunsanwo as a wordsmith, recalling how the ace Editor coined the famous ”if you Daboh me, I will Tarka you” headline during the altercation between the late Joseph Tarka and the late Godwin Daboh and ”cement armada” during the congestion at the ports under the Gowon administration. Ogunsanwo was an Editor like no other and it is to his eternal credit that the doyen of modern Nigeran journalism, the late Alhaji Babatunde Jose singled him, Vanguard Publisher Mr Sam Amuka-Pemu aka Uncle Sam and the late El-Hadj Alade Odunewu, out for mention in his memoirs: ”Walking a tightrope” for meeting his expectations of setting up the Sunday Times. There goes Gbolabo Ogunsanwo. When comes another in the world of the media? Nda-Isaiah just happened on the media scene and wrote his name in gold. He trained as a pharmacist, but shone like a thousand stars as a publisher. His paper, Leadership, which motto is: ”For God and country” was a paper that gave those in authority the goosebumps. He came into journalism as a columnist with another great paper from the north, DailyTrust. His writings were acerbic, but Nda-Isaiah was ever ready for the fallout. It is amazing that as a pharmacist he could write that well. At a time the world was beginning to appreciate his worth, death came knocking and took him away at the age of 58. What a loss! Like Nda-Isaiah, Daniel and Ehi-Asuelimen were of my generation. Daniel and Ehi-Asuelimen died in their early 60s. Daniel was a sports reporter of repute. Like virtually all sports reporter, he was a lover of football and was at home with Stationery Stores Football Club of Lagos. Did I hear you say ‘Up Super’ as the club was fondly known among its supporters? That did not stop him from covering other sports though. He died during an illness and has since been buried. He was an easy going guy. Ehi-Asuelimen was down-to-earth and unassuming. He spoke frankly and was always ready to stand by the truth. He was a reporter who knew his onions. When he was news editor with the  National Concord, we used to exchange notes about happenings on the news scene. Ehi-Asuelimen knew the media inside out, having plied his trade with some of the best newspapers and magazines around. He worked withConcord, Newswatch, The Punch and National Mirror, among other publications. He was a man-about-town. No wonder, he was a great newsman. For the media, these deaths hit close home. May they all find rest in the Lord’s bosom.