 MTN Nigeria yesterday said it is extending telecoms coverage to millions of Nigerians living in underserved and unserved communities nationwide through its rural telephony programme. Today, over 20 million Nigerians live in areas with limited or no coverage, MTN aims to change this. Through the rural telephony programme kicked off this year, the company has identified over 3,000 locations across the country for a phased rollout, over three years. Thus far, 583 live rural sites have been installed nationwide; more than half of which were installed this year and connect communities such as Kurba, Agbiyi Umuede, Tobolo, Opaha, Tudun Faila, Oguru Uzo Uwani and Sarkin Kaya Rini. Going forward, MTN plans to install more than 1,000 new sites each year in the next few years to cover all the identified locations. To achieve this ambitious goal, MTN has been working with technology partners. Together, they are deploying infrastructure that will accelerate connectivity and aid the consistent rollout of low-cost connectivity solutions in these areas that have non-existence or limited network coverage and broadband services. Its Chief Operating Officer, Mazen Mroue, said: “Our core belief is that everyone deserves the benefits of a modern, connected life. It is driven by an understanding of the potential impact of connectivity on the socioeconomic outcomes of individuals, communities and the country as a whole. This belief drives our rural expansion goals and fuels our commitment to continue pushing until everyone is connected.” MTN Nigeria continues to invest significantly in expanding existing capacity and installing new technologies; thus advancing digital inclusion. It also said as part of efforts to make life brighter and promote the arts, it sponsored Oluronbi, a musical theatre performance by Bolanle Austen-Peters Productions. Oluronbi, an ancient Yoruba folktale, follows the life of Oluronbi, a woman who promised to dedicate her first child as offering to the spirits who cured her barrenness. The musical featured eight performances in four days at Terra Kulture. Speaking at the premiere on December 26, 2020, producer of the play, Austen-Peters said: “We are going to bring you stories that are authentically Nigerian.” She also expressed gratitude to MTN, noting why its contribution was particularly special at a time like this, “I want to thank MTN and all the MTN team. It’s very difficult for anyone to sponsor anything in this season but somehow we all made this work.” Also speaking, the Executive Secretary MTN Foundation, Nonny Ugboma, said: “At MTN, we value arts and culture. This is why we are always willing to support its celebration. We are also keen on ensuring that talented Nigerians have platforms to tell important stories that resonate around who we are. We are honoured to be part of this beautiful retelling of the story of Oluronbi. We are also glad that we were able to make lives a little brighter by collaborating with Bolanle Austen-Peters Productions. We hope everyone who attended is inspired and lifted by the beauty of what they witnessed.” The COVID-19 guidelines protocol issued by the Federal and State governments was strictly adhered to. Attendees were required to undergo a temperature test, wear masks and maintain their distance. They were also required to sanitise their hands before they were admitted.