The Defence Headquarters, Thursday, attributed the prompt rescue of the 343 abducted students of Government Science Secondary School Kankara in Katsina State, to improved intelligence and backing of ‘superior’ civil authorities. It also disclosed that the cooperation of the locals which resulted in the divulgence of the movement of the bandits played a major role in the rescue of operations. Co-coordinator Defence Media Operations Major General John Enenche said the rescue of the students was the first rescue operation without a record of casualty in the history of Nigerian Military. He said the module of the rescue operation will be adopted for future military operations. According to him, “the reason behind the rescue is professionalism. The intelligence aspect was handled very professionally. Our operatives from the Defence Intelligence Agencies working together with the DSS, the Nigerian Police and the vigilantes. Cooperation was at the peak. “So I can tell you that the Intelligence management, the fusion was perfect, The Chief of Defence Staff, Minister others, presented their plan and when they did, it was perfect. But, they cautioned us and said no lives must be lost. So it was the professionalism that boosted all these and saw that these children came out alive. So, the secret is just professionalism. “Also the support of the appropriate superior authority, we got all the support from them and that’s very key to us.” Meanwhile, giving a breakdown of military operations, Enenche disclosed that in the North West, “troops of Operation HADARIN DAJI and other subsidiary operations have sustained their operations in the North-West Zone of the country progressively”. He noted that “these operations led to the rescue of abducted persons, neutralization of criminal elements and recovery of arms and ammunition. Notably, on 17 December 2020, troops of Operation HADARIN DAJI actualized their promise to ensure the safe return of abducted students. As you are aware, all 344 students of Government Science Secondary School, Kankara who were abducted by armed bandits were rescued alive. “Similarly, troops rescued 39 abducted girls who Islaimiya children were returning from Maulud programme, at Nguwar Al-Kasim in Dandume Local Government Area of Katsina State. Also, on 20 December 2020, troops in a swift response to a distress call, with overwhelming firepower, rescued 10 kidnapped victims from armed bandits at Yenyewa Village in Zamfara State. All rescued victims have been successfully reunited with their families.” In the North East, he revealed that “in several land and air operations were conducted by the Armed Forces of Nigeria and other security agencies within the period under review. “Troops of Operation LAFIYA DOLE maintained and sustained continued vigilance and offensive postures through the comprehensive ground and air operations, which yielded appreciable results. “On 17 December 2020, troops of Army Supper Camp II Gamboru neutralized 5 Boko Haram Terrorists (BHT) elements in a fierce fight at Kenuba general area in Borno State. During the encounter, troops destroyed one gun truck and captured an anti-aircraft gun as well as recovered 3 AK-47 rifles from the terrorists.”