 THE activation of Retirement Saving Account (RSA) transfer process will engender competition and improve service delivery in the pension industry, the Director-General, Lagos State Pension Commission (LASPEC), Mr. Babalola Obilana, has said. He spoke at the 81st Retirement Bond Certificates presentation to 471 retirees of the state Public Service in Lagos. He said this would help retirees assert their rights to determine which Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) manages their pension contribution and retirement benefits. While sensitising the retirees about transfer window system, which permits RSA holders to transfer their accounts from one PFA to another once a year, he urged them to make good decision. He however applauded the National Pension Commission (PenCom), PFAs and insurance companies for their efforts to the success of the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS). Obilana said the event was designed as the state government’s special gift for the retirees for the festive season. He enjoined the pensioners to take good care of themselves, as health is wealth. The Commissioner for Establishments, Training and Pensions, Mrs. Ajibola Ponnle lauded Governor Sanwo-Olu for making funds available to the commission for the payment of retirement benefits. She said despite the pandemic and its impact on the economy, the state government has made continuous monthly payments of accrued pension rights into the RSA of retirees a priority to enable them have access to their retirement bond benefits. Mrs Ponnle noted that following the emergence of Lagos as the winner of the PenCom Award for the best complaint state in the Federation consecutively and consistently, the ministry and LASPEC was committed to maintain the rating. She said this would be done by improving on timely payment of retirees’ pensions and other applicable benefits upon disengagement from service. The commissioner congratulated the retirees and advised them to embrace the joy and challenges of their new phase of life. She urged them not to hesitate to contact LASPEC or the Ministry should they require clarification or advice on the modalities for their retirement benefits.