 Ijebu Ode Grammar School Old Boys Association (JOGSOBA) has promised to continue supporting the school’s management aggressively in the pursuit of academic excellence. Towards this end, the association said it would give priority attention to all unfinished projects that would make students of the school attain academic excellence, particularly the Information and Communication Technology (ICT) project. The immediate past president, JOGSOBA, Ebenezer Osoba, an engineer, said this while addressing the  Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the association held at the school’s premises. He described the ICT laboratory as the star project of the old boys association. He said the intention of the old boys was to prepare the school for the technological development of the 21st century in Nigeria. He lamented that the project, which is 40 percent complete, would have been ready in record time but for the COVID-19 pandemic. Osoba listed projects by the old boys to include ultra-modern toilet facility by JOGS 72 Club; rehabilitation of computer laboratory by JOGS 67/71 zet; rehabilitation of science laboratories and annual provision of chemicals for science practicals by JOGS 7479 set; roofing of Osisanya block by JOGS 83/88 set among others. “The spirit of giving back to our alma mater should be enhanced and encouraged in all its ramifications under the umbrella of JOGSOBA,” he said. In a lecture entitled: “Entrepreneurial Opportunities in Agrifood System for Wealth Creation in Nigeria”, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Animal Care Limited, Dr. Olufemi Agbato said it was rewarding to make a career in Nigerian Agrifood system. Agbato, who was represented by Dr. Bayo Kolade, however lamented that agricultural productivity is generally low in the country. He said if the right entrepreneurs were involved, the productivity would be high and compare favourably with the international bench mark particularly in the poultry industry. “We must take agriculture from the present subsistence level to commercial and industrial and it is through entrepreneurial initiatives and involvement of the youths that we can achieve this. “It is the way to go, not just for its value for personal success  and fulfillment but also for the value it has for the nation”, he said. The AGM also featured the election of new National Executive Committee (NEC), including the President, Prof. Adekoya Olabosipo; Vice President Otunba Ayokunle Bolujoko ; General Secretary, Cornelius Onanuga; Assistant General Secretary, Pharm. Osiyale  Olulaanu; Treasurer, Olusanya Gbenga; Financial Secretary,  Dr Osiboye Dare; Publicity Secretary, Amuludu Gbemiga; Social Secretary,  Sule-Odu Olufemi; Ex-Officio 1 and 2, Ebenezer Osoba and Mazi Ajah Monday.