The refusal of the gunmen, who kidnapped the Auxiliary Bishop of Owerri Catholic Archdiocese, Most Rev. Moses Chikwe and his driver, Mr. Ndubuisi Robert, to establish contact with the church and families of the victims three days after their abduction is causing anxiety and disquiet among residents in Imo State. This is just as the Archbishop of the Owerri Catholic Archdiocese; Most Rev. Anthony Obinna has called on Catholics and people of the state to disregard the report that Bishop Chikwe has been murdered by his abductors. Bishop Chikwe was abducted by gunmen suspected to be kidnappers alongside his driver around World Bank Area of Owerri, the Imo State capital Sunday evening with his vehicle being found in front of Maria Assumpta Cathedral, the archdiocesan headquarters in Owerri. It was gathered on Wednesday that the kidnappers were yet to establish contact with the church and even the families of the victims and the situation is causing ripples, anxiety, fear and even rumours among relatives, Catholic faithful and residents. According to a source at the Maria Assumpta Cathedral, there is anxiety among priests and the lay faithful as the bishop is loved by all, while the church is calling for prayers so that the kidnappers would release him and his driver. However, following the rumours of the killing of the bishop on social media, the head of the Owerri Catholic Ecclesiastical Province, Archbishop Anthony Obinna has requested the people to disregard the news making the rounds that Bishop Chikwe has been killed, saying the information is unconfirmed and misleading. A statement issued by Rev. Fr. Nnaemeka Njezi, the assistant secretary to Archbishop Obinna, said, “His Grace, Most Rev. Anthony J. V. Obinna, Archbishop of Owerri hereby requests all Christ’s faithful and people of goodwill at large to disregard the purported news feed by one Useni Yusuf at AJ Press on the killing of the Auxiliary Bishop of Owerri Archdiocese, Most Rev. Moses Chikwe. “This information is unconfirmed, misleading and does not come from the Catholic Archdiocese of Owerri. “We continue to appeal that all join the Archbishop in prayers for the release of Bishop Chikwe and Mr. Ndubuisi Robert, his driver”.