The All Progressives Congress in Akwa Ibom State has accused the state government of sharing Covid-19 palliatives as Christmas gifts, describing the alleged action as an act of impudence. The party, in a press release signed by its State Publicity Secretary, Nkereuwem Enyongekere, on Friday alleged that the Covid-19 food items were donated in July by a coalition of private sector players led by Alhaji Aliko Dangote. The press release reads in part, ”Another end-of-year folly from the administration is its decision to share, as Christmas gifts, the truck loads of COVID-19 food items sent to the state since July by the nation’s private sector coalition led by Dangote Group and other donors. ”The sight of these food items being shared in the country home of the governor’s Chief of Staff, Mr. Ephraim Inyangeyen, to PDP members as Christmas gifts is galling. How selfish, mean and wicked could these people be to have hoarded these items since July, deny Akwa Ibom people of its use during the lockdown, and now turn around to share it to their party members only? It is the height of heartlessness. ”We also recall that the federal government had sent a truckload of rice to the state earlier in the year. The governor had claimed in a radio interview then that the rice didn’t appear good for consumption, and that he was going to send it for laboratory tests. Is the test result out? We are sure that the rice has been surreptitiously distributed to PDP members in the state”. But the state government, in a press release signed by the Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Comrade Iniobong Ememobong, explained that the sharing of the palliatives has nothing to do with the yearly Christmas gifts. ”The State Government had earlier in November this year intimated on the arrival of palliative materials from CACOVID (Coalition against COVID) which is a private sector driven corporate social responsibility contribution to the fight against the ravaging COVID-19 pandemic. It was also announced that when the full consignment from the donors berths in our state, distribution will commence.”