When the Caretaker Committee and Extra-Ordinary Convention Committee (CECPC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) was set up and inaugurated in June, 2020, one of its core mandate was to orgnise an extra-ordinary national convention that will produce a new National Working Committee for the party. Barely one month to the end of the tenure of that Mai Mala Buni led Committee, questions are being asked whether the party will be able to hold the convention as schedule. Tony Akowe and Jide Orintunsin examines the possibility of holding the convention and other issues affecting the party. Will the Mai Mala Buni led Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary Convention Committee (CECPC) of the All Progressives Congress conduct a national convention for the party come December 2020 when its mandate would have expired? This is the question that is agitating the minds of many Nigerians. At the extra ordinary NEC meeting of the party held at the Presidential villa where the National Working Committee of the party was dissolved, the Caretaker committee was mandated to carry out comprehensive reconciliation across the country and conduct a special national convention to elect members of the National Working Committee. Five months down the line, there appear to be no sign of when the national convention would hold and the formula to be adopted for the selection or election of members of the National Working Committee that heads the administrative arm of the party. Article 25 A(i) of the party constitution which provide for the national convention every two years. It states that “the national convention of the party shall hold once in two years at a date, venue and time to be recommended by the National Working Committee and approved by the National Executive Committee subject to the giving of the statutory notices to the Independent National Electoral Commission and at least 14-day notice given to members eligible to attend”. Similarly, article 25 b(i) mandates a quarterly meeting of the National Executive Committee to approve certain decisions of the party which in this case, include the holding of a national convention. Except for an emergency meeting which requires a notice of seven days, a meeting of the NEC of the party is expected to hold after a notice of 14 days has been served. At the moment, there are no signs that the party leadership under Buni has called a NEC meeting to approve the date for a national convention. Rather, the party has ordered a national wide registration of members, a process that is expected to last for at least one month. But it is not certain to what extent the registration is expected to impact on the processes leading to the National Convention. With a 14-day notice expected to be issued before the party NEC would meet to approve a date for convention which will be communicated to the Independent National Electoral Commission and the mandatory 21 day notice to INEC as provided for in the Electoral Act and the 14 day notice to members to attend the convention, it is evident that the Buni-led caretaker committee may not be able to hold the national convention in December as contained in their mandate. The question then is, what option is open to the party? Many have argued that the Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary Convention Committee have been busy plotting an extension of time beyond the December date they were given. This position tends to be buttressed by the new membership registration and validation exercise ordered by the party across the country. Many have argued that the assignment should have been left for the new leadership of the party to handle in view of the complexities associated with it and the yet to be resolved crisis in many state chapters of the party. At the moment, there is a pending case at the Federal High Court in Abuja seeking to stop the caretaker committee from going ahead with the membership registration. Although there has been insinuations that the court has halted the process, Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the party, Yekini Nabena dismissed the claim, but indirectly admitted the existence of such a suit. He said in a widely reported statement that “In respect of the suit: KALU KALU AGU V. APC & ORS, FHC/ABJ/CS/736/2020, a Legal Officer was sent to Court on the 17th of November, 2020 to investigate the purported Court Order restraining the All Progressives Congress (APC) from conducting membership registration. Upon our findings, we discovered that such Court Order was never granted by the Court, as no application was made to the Court to warrant the granting of such Order. The Evidence from the records of proceedings of Monday 16th November, 2020 shows that No Order Restraining the Party from Conducting the Membership Registration was granted in respect of the above suit or any suit relating to the APC. The APC make bold to assert that the purported court order was erroneously reported and urge the general public to disregard. We equally call on our teeming party supporters, members and leaders to ignore the fake news and go about with their good work of repositioning the Party”. Political observers also noted that the mid-term report of the Caretaker Committee recently presented by Nabena further foreclosed the possibility of the party holding the national convention in December as directed by the June 25 emergency NEC meeting. According to him, the priority attention of the Committee now is reconcilation. In the statement he maintained CECPC “is focused on achieving and sustaining true and lasting unity, peace and reconciliation across party ranks and ahead of the planned national convention of the Party.” Instead of reeling out plans for the national convention, the caretaker Committe solicited support of party members, insisting that the party is committed to taking “one step at a time to ensure that the ongoing national reconciliation process being undertaken by the CECPC is sustained, successful and continue to yield results”. Though the caretaker committee claimed to have substantially reconciled various factions in some affected states, viz: Bauchi, Bayelsa, Cross River, Edo, Ekiti, Enugu, Zamfara, Ondo, Oyo States. A claim some aggrieved stakeholders in Ekiti, Oyo and Zamfara States have faulted. Party watchers also said the last week dissolution of Ebonyi State Working Committee by CECPC has further inflicted new wound on the fractured peace in the party, thereby making a mirage of the proposed national convention in December. One of the anomalies in the party that has not been mentioned in the quest to reposition the party is the non-existence of a Board of Trustees which is supposed to be one of the highest organs of the party. Infighting about who should head the body in 2014/2015 put an end to the composition and inauguration of the body. The John Oyegun led leadership of the party made attempts at changing the nomenclature of the body from Board of Trustees to Elders council. However, this could only be possible for an amendment to the party constitution. But, the constitution review report of the committee headed by the former National Legal Adviser, Muiz Banire which would have been adopted at the National Convention that produced the Adams Oshiomhole led leadership was never tabled for adoption. Yet, the board of trustees was never constituted to carry out its assigned responsibility. Section 13.2 (a)(i) of the party constitution empowers the board of trustees to “be the embodiment of the conscience, the soul and the sanctity of the party and shall be the mirror of the highest standard of morality in the party and shall intervene in all disputes and crisis in the party to ensure stability at all times”. It is also empowered by the law to “advise on, and when considered necessary initiate policies for the guidance of the party; act as arbitrators and mediators in disputes and ensure the enforcement of discipline in accordance with the constitution of the party; promote reconciliation, encourage and facilitate the settlement of disputes in an amicable manner among members of the party and ensure that peace and tranquility prevails in the party and when necessary intervene to restore absolute peace” among other functions. With the possibility of not holding the national convention in December as earlier planned when the six months mandate was given to the party Caretaker Committee in June, there are fears that the party may once again sink into another round of litigations, thereby eroding whatever gains the leadership may have achieved in the last few months.