SIR: On December 9, I had just left the hospital where I work after a 24-hour call, when I was robbed of my mobile phone by two men who sped off on okada (motor bike). The phone had a Glo SIM card and an Airtel SIM card. The first thing I did was to go to my bank to have my debit transaction frozen. Then I headed first to Airtel’s office on Oba Akran. When I got there, I saw about 20 people who all had a sullen look, the type of look you see on people who are at a funeral. I asked one man among them if they were being attended to, and he replied that they were told “no network.” But he said I could still enquire from the security man standing there. I did not want to waste time as it was around 2pm, so that I could come back to Airtel before their closing time. So, I headed to Glo’s office on Allen. There I saw only two people, and a security man who had a deadpan look. The security man told me the same thing: “No network,” as if it was a recorded talk. I enquired to know more. That was when he told me that the Nigerian Communication Commission (NCC) had placed an embargo on new SIM registration by telecoms. One Glo staff who attended to me said if only I had my phone I would have seen the message from NCC. But he promised that if the embargo is lifted I will be able to retrieve my line. I later saw the message. It read in part, “In line with the Federal Government desire to consolidate the achievement of the SIM Card registration exercise of September, 2019, the Honourable Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Ali Ibrahim (Pantami), has directed the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) to embark on another audit of the Subscriber Registration Database again. The statement further said, “Accordingly, Mobile Network Operators (MNOs) are hereby directed to immediately suspend the sale, registration and activation of new SIM Cards until the audit exercise is concluded, and government has conveyed the new direction. But the NCC message also added, “However, where it is absolutely necessary, exemption may be granted in writing by the Commission following approval from the Federal Government.” As a doctor, I have not been able to function. I don’t know what is happening in our hospital, I can’t be easily reached. In fact I have been disconnected from the world. The NCC must know that mobile communication and the internet are now part of life and blood of today’s humans, and should not be denied law-abiding citizens for whatever reasons. I implore the NCC to do a rethink and find a way it can carry out its statutory role without affecting the people it is meant to serve.