Operatives of Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) Abia State Command Umuahia have reportedly arrested four persons accused of their involvement in Illegal dealings on Petroleum Products suspected to be Automotive Gas Oil (AGO), popularly known as diesel. The suspects were said to have been arrested on December 4 following what the command described as “Actionable Intelligence”. It was learnt that the act of lifting Petroleum Products through a container body truck meant for the conveyance of Agro-Allied Products was a new tactic by the illegal petroleum dealers to beat security checks. Parading the suspects before newsmen in Umuahia, The State Commandant; Mr. Vincent Ogu said the suspects were arrested along Ubakala Junction of the Enugu/Port Harcourt Expressway while conveying about 50 sack bags of Petroleum Products suspected to be AGO in a truck with REG. NO, MGU7585A. Mr. Ogu further said that the Suspects loaded some bags of “Saw Dust” on top of the truck with the intent to deceive Operatives of the Corps on Patrol. The NSCDC Commandant disclosed that the suspects upon interrogation gave their names as John James (M), Nwile Chukwuma (M), Sunday Mangu (M), and Nwoke Sunday (M). The Abia NSCDC boss added that preliminary investigations revealed that none of the suspects has a license to deal in Petroleum Products. Continuing he said, that the Product has no waybill or meter ticket. The truck has no haulage permit that allows it to be used to convey Petroleum Products. He added that at the end of the investigations, the suspects would be charged to a court of competent jurisdiction for diligent prosecution. The Commandant, therefore, advised Parents to warn their wards to desist from all forms of Vandalism of Petroleum Pipelines and Illegal dealings in Petroleum Products. He further warned that the product being inflammable could cause fire disaster if not properly handled. Mr. Vincent Ogu also seized the opportunity of the Press briefing to shade more light on the progress so far made within two (2) months of being in the saddle as the 10th Substantive State Commandant, NSCDC Abia State Command. According to him “we have been able to take the fight against all forms of vandalism of Petroleum Pipelines, Illegal dealing in Petroleum Products and other Criminal Activities to the doorsteps of the Vandals/Criminals. “Twenty (20) suspects have so far been arrested and arraigned for various offenses while investigations are still ongoing in about eight (8) cases which will also be charged to the court of competent jurisdiction upon conclusion of investigations”. Mr. Ogu who said he has come to the State to work read the “Riot Act” to Criminals in the State to either change, relocate or be prepared to face the music.