Managing Director of The Rural Electrification Agency (REA) Dr. Ahmad Salihijo Ahmad has assured said the agency is working out modalities for state government to access N140 billion loan for the Solar Power Naija. The loan is from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) that component commercial banks will be allowed to draw down on their minimum cash reserves with the apex bank to provide loans to assemblers backed by an off-taker agreement with Solar House System distributors or mini grid developers. But according to him, the agency is also planning to encourage stakeholders including state governments participation in the Programme. Speaking in press conference in Abuja, he urged other stakeholders as donor partners to support REA in its bid to deliver the Progrmamme that is targeted at delivering energy to five million households and 25 million Nigerians. The programme, he said, is planned to create 250,000 new jobs. Ahmad said: “I want to encourage other stakeholders and government agencies and donor partners as well to support us to deliver five million connections to 25 million Nigerians. “In addition, we are opening up for participation of state governments and a framework is already being worked on where state government will also have access to some of this funding.” He noted the firms involved in the manufacturing of the off-grid components are mainly Nigerian- owned just to quicken local productivity. The REA boss said the Solar Power Naija will address the challenge of access to affordable financing the Central Bank of Nigeria facility, which makes available low cost local currency debt to qualified companies. He said it will complement the current programmes that are already being implemented in REA such as the Nigerian Electrification Project, and also the Rural Electrification Fund. The private companies, according to him, will be supported to employ more Nigerians to be able to provide services in the areas of manufacturing, distribution, installation other project management service. It is billed to leverage on the support of the World Bank USAID, and others for in areas of data location, Programme designing, manufacturing framework and quality assurance. Tscheme’s Technical Lead in the agency, Suleiman Babamanu, disclosed that the CBN will fund the Solar Power Naija with N140 billion. The programme, according to him, is in three phases, the first one yeareason, which is the first phase, is 750,000 connections that is expected to create 750,000 jobs. He added that the REA has targeted December 10 for disbursements to the first set of developers and also to do the first connection on December 15, 2020.