 EDO College in Benin, the Edo State capital, is Edo government-owned full-boarding male secondary school, which was founded in 1937. The college’s science laboratories (phase one) were renovated and furnished by the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC), in collaboration with Edo College Old Boys’ Association (ECOBA), Class of 1970-1974, costing over N30 million, with the colourful inauguration done on December 10 this year. One of the Senior Secondary (SS) 3 students of the famous college, Courage Omoruyi, said: “We are privileged to have NDIC and ECOBA Class of 1970-1974 that stood for us, for the renovation and furnishing of our science laboratories. We are grateful to them. “With the renovation and furnishing, the science aspect of Edo College will be at the top. With the laudable initiative, we are going to be having the best SSCE results in science subjects in 2020/2021 academic session and subsequent sessions. We are grateful to NDIC and ECOBA Class of 1970-1974 for the renovation and furnishing of our science laboratories.” While also speaking, another student of the college, Osa-Afe Omoruyi, also appreciated the old boys of Edo College for keeping the students and staff of the school in their hearts, especially for renovating the science block, in association with NDIC, stressing that God made it possible through them. Osa-Afe disclosed that the condition of the college’s science block, before the commencement of the renovation, was not good, while noting that with the help of NDIC and ECOBA Class of 1970-1974, the science laboratories were renovated and furnished, which, according to him, would help them to improve in practicals and teaching, while thanking NDIC and ECOBA class of 1970-1974 for the initiative. The Chairman of ECOBA’s class of 1970-1974, Clifford Enobun, a Quantity Surveyor, in his remarks, declared that the famous secondary school needed help, while revealing that the renovated and furnished science laboratories were in a mess, prior to the commencement of work on the renovation. Enobun said: “This is a very wonderful day for all of us. This journey started in February this year, when we had our 50th anniversary of gaining admission into Edo College. Going round Edo College, we saw that there were many challenges and we knew we had to quickly do something as a class. Edo College is known for science teaching. I want to thank NDIC, its managing director and his team for finding us worthy of the support. I also want to thank the management of the school for cooperating with us. “Prior to the intervention, the science laboratories were in a mess. When we were in Edo College, the students of the University of Benin (UNIBEN) were using our science laboratories. If they were not good enough, UNIBEN’s students and management would not have considered the usage of our science laboratories, but over the years, they depreciated. “Originally, we had seven science laboratories, consisting of three Chemistry laboratories, two Physics laboratories and two Biology laboratories. For the current renovation and furnishing, in view of the cost implication, in this phase one, we took two for Chemistry, one each for Physics and Biology, totalling four laboratories. We are pleading with good-spirited class sets, to also see what they can do to support the school. This class has produced two state governors. The current governor of Delta State, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, is also a member of this class of 1970-1974. Edo College needs help.” The Principal of Edo College, Peter Edomwonyi, earlier in his address, stated that the renovated science laboratories would make the students to perform much better in future endeavours. Edomwonyi, who taught Chemistry in Edo College for a long time, with his then office being in the renovated and furnished science laboratories, urged Edo government and members of ECOBA to continue to add glamour, by providing more infrastructure in the school, while hailing NDIC and members of the class 1970-1974 for the massive support. He said: “This is a college where products of sterling stuff continue to take giant strides in social, political and economic landscape of Edo State and beyond. “Government’s policy of remodelling the college in 2003 precipitated the transformation agenda that revitalised the old core values of the college amid current trends. Perhaps, this college is the first public secondary school to have such a science building of such magnitude. The transformation wheel of government was oiled principally by the intervention of the school’s old boys. “The response of NDIC, in its private partnership with government in education services, especially at a time like this, is quite fascinating, insightful and highly commendable.” The President of ECOBA, Dr. Reuben Osahon, in his goodwill message, described the 1970-1974 class of the school as the most endowed and distinguished set, while urging other old boys to emulate them. Osahon said: “I am very proud and delighted to be part of this celebration. Most of us are passionate about Edo College. The old boys of the school are still contributing towards its progress and development, because most of us who passed through this college have gained immensely and we believe that we owe a kind of debt to the school, thereby paying back and putting back things.” President of ECOBA also stated that more quality assistance from Edo state government was needed, because Edo College is owned by the state government. Osahon urged Edo government to always perform the roles of the proprietor/owner of the school, noting that the state government must lead, for the old boys of the college to follow. The Permanent Secretary of Edo State Ministry of Education, Mrs. Stellamaris Imasuen, in her remarks, insisted that Edo Governor, Godwin Obaseki, remained focused and committed to educational development across the 18 local government areas of the state. Imasuen noted that Edo College had produced many great personalities and that all his sons attended the secondary school, while thanking NDIC and ECOBA for the support. She said: “This is a school that has produced many great men in the society. All my sons went through Edo College, where emphasis is placed on academic excellence, moral values, skills and other competencies. “Sciences hold an important key to our developmental aspirations as a country. Renovation and furnishing of the science laboratories have demonstrated the zeal and determination of NDIC and ECOBA Class of 1970-1974, towards the betterment of the lives of the students and the nation in its entirety.” The permanent secretary equally urged the management and students of Edo College to take good care of the science building and the laboratories, thereby putting them to very good use. The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer (MD/CEO) of NDIC, Alhaji Umaru Ibrahim, stated that human capital must be developed from the foundation, in order to ensure a brighter future for Nigerians and the country. Ibrahim, who was represented by the corporation’s Assistant Director in the Human Resources Department in Abuja, Mrs. Edith Ngene, urged all old boys of the secondary  school to fully support their alma mater, in order to make it befitting, stressing that charity must always begin at home. He said: “Renovating and furnishing the science laboratories (Phase One) of Edo College, Benin City, is in line with NDIC’s vision, to ensure that learning and human capacity development are kept at a high speed. “We earlier did similar renovations in many tertiary and secondary institutions across Nigeria. It is part of our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) to ensure that human capital is developed, even from the foundation, which is in alliance with our vision to be a knowledge and wisdom training institution. So, we thought it wise to renovate and furnish the science laboratories of Edo College to build human capacity and for the flame of learning to continue burning.” 