The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to officially deregister the governing All Progressives Congress (APC). Making the call through a statement in Abuja on Tuesday, the PDP also called on the electoral body to withdraw the certificate of registration issued to the APC at the time of registration in 2013. The statement, signed by the spokesman for the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, said by dissolving all its structures at the national, zonal, and state levels, the APC has exited the nation’s political firmament. The main opposition party also called on INEC to declare vacant, all elective positions presently occupied by APC members at local, state, and national levels. Insisting that the APC no longer has operational structures as required by law, the PDP demanded that seats occupied by members of the APC at State Assemblies and the National Assembly be declared vacant and that INEC should commence the process of bye-election to fill the seats. The PDP said: “Furthermore, government agencies, civil society organisations as well as the international community should immediately gazette the APC as a defunct political organisation in our country. “Nevertheless, the PDP invites all leaders of the fizzled APC to get ready to answer Nigerians for their misdeeds, and not to think they can get away with their atrocities by forming or joining another political party. “The PDP congratulates Nigerians across the country, as their tormentor for five years, the APC, has finally dissolved out of our political firmament. “The APC, being overburdened by the weight of failure, humongous corruption as well as the plagues of economic recession, violence, killings, and hardship it has brought to our people, forcefully exited itself from the nation’s political firmament by dissolving all its national, zonal and state structures. “With this exit, December 8, 2020, has gone into the history of our nation as liberation day, especially given the spontaneous jubilation by Nigerians over this step towards political oblivion by a political party that has brought so much pain on them.”