APIN Public Health Initiatives, a leading non-governmental organization that designs and executes projects to reduce the burden of diseases and public health challenges in Nigeria commission its new corporate headquarters and announce that come January 2021, it will officially commence operations at the new location in Apo Resettlement Zone E, Abuja. Since the organization started as a project of the Harvard School of Public Health nearly twenty years ago, the staff strength and scope of operations have grown exponentially. The new headquarters will provide the much-needed workspace for APIN’s fast-growing team to explore and contribute to current and emerging public health issues. This strategic move will also allow the organization to leverage and build on its experience implementing interventions and projects in thematic areas such as HIV/AIDS and Maternal and Child Health, and pursue a more diverse range of opportunities within the development and humanitarian space. The new headquarters located at Plot 1551, Apo Resettlement Zone E reflects APIN’s innovative work culture and features a modern, spacious design with state-of-the-art, technology-enabled workspaces that will accelerate collaboration between onsite and offsite colleagues, partners, and external stakeholders while allowing further room for growth. APIN Public Health initiatives’ CEO, Dr. Prosper Okonkwo commented, “This strategic move is key to our sustainability and growth as an organization. We remain committed to providing leading technical support and services to our partner organizations and relevant government agencies at all levels to mitigate the burden of diseases and public health issues in Nigeria, and eventually, Africa. Our new location provides a conducive environment for our growing team to better deliver our mandate. We look forward to bigger milestones and greater opportunities in the coming years.” APIN Public Health Initiatives is a leading NGO based in Abuja, with operational locations in Benue, Ekiti, Ogun, Ondo, Osun, Oyo and Plateau states, that addresses diseases of public health importance and mitigates their impact using cutting-edge approaches in public health program management, capacity building, research and health information management in partnership with other stakeholders. More information about APIN Public Health Initiatives can be found at www.apin.org.ng. Our Name: Our organization’s name is written as APIN Public Health Initiatives (in full) or
APIN (as an acronym). We initially started out implementing projects to address HIV/AIDS. Seventeen years later, we have diversified our practice areas to include thematic areas such as Malaria, Tuberculosis, Maternal and Child Health, Nutrition and Primary Health Care System Strengthening. We operate in seven Nigerian states: Benue, Ekiti, Ogun, Ondo, Osun, Oyo, and Plateau states.