Descendants of Makro family, one of the five families that make up the Okere Urhobo Kingdom in Warri, Delta state, have insisted that compliance with resolutions reached by the State Government regarding the installation of a monarch is what will ensure lasting peace in the kingdom. The family, in a communiqué issued at the end of a meeting in Otor-Orere, the traditional headquarters of the kingdom, explained that the Chief Edwin Uzor-led Peace Committee had in its reports advised the five families to work together in the process of selecting and crowning a king. The other four families are Olodu, Itifo, Ighogbadu and Oki The communiqué was signed by Chief Augustine Ighorue, the Owaran of Makro family and Pa Samson Eburu, a family elder, copies of which were made available to newsmen in Warri. A part of the communique read, “Okere Urhobo community must adopt and strictly follow the decision of Delta State Government as contained in the Chief Edwin Uzor Peace Committee Reports that the five families that made up Okere Urhobo must work together harmoniously in unity to entrench peace in the Kingdom”. The family, while alleging marginalization by the kingmakers in the recent installation of a new Orosuen in the Kingdom stated that it was not consulted by the kingmakers before HRM Emmanuel Okumagba, Okumagba ll, was installed. Okumagba ll was crowned on Monday, November 16, 2020 at the palace by the oldest kingmaker, High Chief George Amurun in the presence of traditional chiefs. Until his emergence, the traditional stool was vacant for over one year. Describing the action as one that sends negative signals to Urhobo nation and Delta State at large,” they maintained that the installation of Chief Emmanuel Okumagba was not acceptable to them.” The statement further called for equity and justice in the installation of traditional rulers and distribution of the resources of the Kingdom, to sustain peace and development of the kingdom. The Makro family posited that “for a new king to be crowned to reign over Okere Urhobo, there must be equity and justice” while all eligible families must be accorded the right to choose and to vie for any position, including the kingship and must be consulted when a major decision is to be taken.”