 IF you ask the question why public universities remain shut and the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) crisis yet unresolved nine months on, the answer you would likely get is: it’s complicated! Negotiations between the Federal Government and university teachers on the platform of ASUU have progressed largely by laid-back buck-passing rather than doubling up on concessions in considered interest of students, who are no party to the dispute but who happen to be the most shortchanged of all stakeholders in the varsity system. Bluntly speaking, ASUU is guiltier of this insensitivity. In recent weeks, government and ASUU traded blames on who defaulted on a pact that many had thought would get the varsity system back on stream. Labour and Employment Minister Chris Ngige said the gentleman’s understanding at a meeting with ASUU on 27th November was that teachers would call off the strike they began since March before 9th December, by which time he hoped to secure presidential waiver for the teachers to get paid the remainder of their salaries. He argued that government had conceded much ground already by paying the teachers their salaries from February to June – part of the time that they’ve been on strike; and processed N70billion as Earned Academic Allowances and university revitalization fund among others. ASUU President Professor Biodun Ogunyemi had accused government of not fulfilling timelines agreed upon especially regarding payment of salaries, saying his members could not go back to work on empty stomachs. Government rejoined, however, that it had made good on all its promises except paying salaries for July to October, which is contingent on teachers returning to classes. “Asking government to pay these four months before it goes back to work means ASUU is placing itself above the law of the land, and no government will encourage this as it is a recipe for chaos in the labour milieu,” it added in a statement. Now, ASUU says there was never an agreement on calling off the strike by 9th December. “Whatever comes out of an engagement with agents of the government is an offer that must be taken back to the branches through the various organs of the union. Views and perspectives on offers by governments are aggregated and presented to government agents as counter-offers,” Ogunyemi explained last weekend, adding: “This trade union strategy of offer and counter-offer is continually deployed until the National Executive Council (NEC) of ASUU – consisting of all recognised chairpersons – finally approves what it considers an acceptable offer from the government. It is only then that any strike action by ASUU can be suspended.” For a union expecting all members’ salaries to be paid upfront, including for months they had not worked, the outlined procedure for calling off this strike is extravagantly leisurely. Students have no way of regaining the months forfeited on this strike, hence every further delay is an irredeemable loss. We must spare some thought for them. 