The Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola has refuted speculations that there is a rift between himself and the incumbent governor of Osun State, Adegboyega Oyetola. Aregbesola who served as the governor of Osun State for two terms before handing over to Oyetola in 2018 said that he is not quarrelling with anybody. Aregbesola while answering questions from journalists in his residence at his hometown, Ilesha, Osun State on Saturday evening stated that he was away from the state so that he can allow Oyetola’s government to settle and be focused. He noted that he is back to the state to strengthen the party and make it more relevant saying he will engage people to make the party grow. “I had no rift with anybody. I have been away from here for a while to allow the new government to settle down and with what I have seen I will engage with the people. There is no rift between me and anybody. The party is strong in Osun State. A party must renew itself every time to make it relevant. My coming here is to strengthen the party. My party is my party and I am happy that we are growing.” Also speaking on border reopening, he explained that border reopening is not about movement of people alone but the movement of goods and services originating from the region of West Africa for trading purposes. “Nigeria is a member of ECOWAS. The essence of the sub-regional organisation and the key factor is the free movement of people, goods and services. The passport we are carrying is ECOWAS passport, not even Nigeria passport, what that means is that as a Nigeria citizen we are ECOWAS citizen. Border reopening is not only about movement. Movement is natural which must be documented. “With border closure, we stopped the movement of people, goods and services produced around the West Africans. Now that we have reopened four borders, we have deployed technology called Migration Information Data Analysis System, (MINDARS), with this technology, we will register whoever passes either a Nigerian or none across our borders and once you have registered, it is for life. It will take biometric, photograph, name and other details in a central database. Nobody can now be anonymous through our border posts. He stressed that with border reopening all the banned items are still prohibited, Like poultry, rice and other contraband such as psychotropic drugs, arms and ammunition, money laundering and others.