Sir: I cannot be less proud of being a Nigerian because Nigeria is my country of birth and I am so appreciative of the gifts of God on our land. However, the ways my great country has been managed by our political leaders recently have been sources of concern for me and several Nigerians home and abroad. We are very apprehensive that our generation will not witness any significant development. Your administration, Sir, is the most recent catastrophe that befell Nigeria especially in the area of security of lives and properties. Even Your Excellency knows that the territory of Nigeria is now under the control of the gunmen. On the nights of April 14-15th, 2014, two hundred and seventy six female students of the Government Secondary School, Chibok, Borno State, were kidnapped by the ungodly, deadly, dreaded and inhuman sect (Boko Haram militants) though not under your administration. A handful of the girls are still unaccounted for. Some of them are dead, some married off while some were reportedly used as suicide bombers. As a responsible government, your administration was expected to immediately recover the girls. In fact, on May 8th, 2017, BBC reported that over one hundred of the girls are still missing. For almost two years after the abduction, nothing was heard about the girls until May 2016 when a vigilante found one of the girls. Then, your administration began a negotiation with the terrorists; negotiation that was brokered by the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC). Sir, we experienced the height of this incessant abduction on December 11th, 2020 as Boko Haram militants invaded Government Science Secondary School, Kankara in Katsina state and kidnapped three hundred and thirty three students. For over five days after the abduction, your excellency did not say a word until after the boys were released on December 17, your birth date (sadly enough, that was my birth date as well). I suppose the boys were released as a birthday gift to you sir. Your counterparts in other nations do take the bull by the horns by addressing their people in person and visiting the families of the victims of any heinous calamity. Your Excellency was reportedly seen in a video that went viral on social media visiting your treasured cows. I doubt if the video was doctored. Moreover, you have refused to grant an interview regarding that national outcry. Moreover Mr. President, how on earth could a group of terrorists visit a place inhabited by people and kidnap over three hundred students? How were the boys kidnapped; via a bus, motorcycle or through the air? It was initially reported that the boys were carted away on bikes. Sir, over three hundred pupils kidnapped on bikes without anyone suspecting the abduction? It might not surprise Your Excellency that virtually all Nigerians that voted you as their messiah president now hold high regrets as you have personally disappointed them by your actions and inactions. I am personally disappointed in Your Excellency. I wasted my limited time campaigning and touring states for Your Excellency during 2015 general elections. The purported integrity, doggedness and firm decision-making made me and so many Nigerians believe in Your Excellency. Where are those qualities we so much cherished in Your Excellency? In fact, I now doubt if Vice President Atiku Abubakar would have performed this poorly if elected the president. Sir, I wish to bring to your awareness that the common Nigerians no longer have that love and respect for your personality due to the great disappointment in your inactions. You need to know that the populace of Nigerians that voted you massively is suffering.