A ward leader of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Kampala Village, Bosso Local Government Area, Ahmodu Mohammed and the village Head Of Madaka in Rafi local government area in Niger state, Zakari Ya’u Idris have been killed by bandits. The PDP Chieftain was killed in his home and his three daughters were kidnapped by the bandits while the Village Head was killed a week after he was abducted by the bandits. Sources told The Nation that the bandits have been after Mohammed for a long time before he was killed on Saturday. It was learnt that the bandits were numbered 15 and were armed with sophisticated weapons in which they used to engage the deceased in a fierce gun battle for over two hours. It was also learnt that the deceased was shot several times before he was killed and that this attack is the third time the bandits have been attacking Mohammed. The former Niger state chairman of the party, Alhaji Tanko Beji confirmed the death of the PDP Chieftain and the abduction of his daughters. He said that they are yet to hear from the bandits regarding the daughters. The Village Head of Madaka in Rafi local government area of Niger State, Zakari Ya’u Idris was killed a week after he was abducted. Idris was first abducted some weeks ago and released before he was abducted on Sunday, December 20, 2020, by the gunmen and killed a week after. The Chief of Staff to Council Chairman of Rafi Local Government, Mohammed Mohammed confirmed the murder of Zakari Idris adding that demand of N800, 000 was demanded from the family but was killed before the ransom was paid. Mohammed disclosed that the Council got to know about the death of the village head from other people who were abducted and released after paying their ransom. He disclosed that Idris died while being tortured by the bandits as “they were always beating him”, Mohammed said. The Council Aide said that the Council was told that the remains of Idris has been buried in the bush by the bandits. The Police Public Relations Officer in Niger State, ASP Abiodun Wasiu could not be reached regarding the death of the two deceased persons killed by bandits.