Governor Bello Masari of katsina State has approved automatic employment of first class graduates of the state University: Umaru Musa Yar’Adua University, UMYU, into the civil service of the state. Masari who gave the approval while flagging off the Katsina State sponsored ’’National Talent Hunt, program intended to select young talents held at the conference Hall of Katsina State Local Govt Service Commission, said the future growth and development of the state is in the hands of the youths. He said; “engaging the young and brilliant graduates was aimed at reducing unemployment as well as filling the gaps created by frequent retirement from service. ‘’my administration has accorded top priority in restoring the lost glory in the education sector. ‘’The sustenance of qualifying examination by my administration is yielding the desired results by encouraging our final year students in the secondary schools to excel in public examinations like NECO and WAEC. ‘’In 2019 Katsina state clinched the leading position in the presidential debate and currently the state is taking part in this year’s edition of the competition.” The Governor also commended the youths from Katsina State for shunning participation in the recent nationwide #EndSARS protest, saying they made the state proud as the most peaceful and full of hospitality He charged the organizers of the Talent Hunt competition to be fair and strictly adhered to the rules by identifying the best among the contestants. Earlier in an address of welcome the state Deputy Governor Alhaji Mannir Yakubu assured that the present administration in the state will continue to support youths by formulating policies and programs that will be of immense benefit in building their capacity. The Special Adviser to the State Governor on Higher Education Mall Bashir Usman Ruwan Godiya assured that those who emerged as the best one hundred winners by taking first, second and third positions would be rewarded alongside with some others closed to them. He disclosed that all entries must be submitted before February 8 2021, when the actual competition is expected to start.