 NO fewer than 476 health workers, including doctors, nurses, pharmacists, laboratory staff, drivers and other auxiliary personnel, were infected with the Coronavirus (COVID-19) since the first case was recorded in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), it was learnt on Tuesday. Anthony Ogunleye, Chief Press Secretary to the FCT Minister Muhammed Bello, stated this in a statement.  Of the figure, he said four doctors succumbed to the disease, the latest being a female doctor. He also said despite the challenge of the virus in the FCT and Yuletide, all its hospitals are operating at full capacity, including emergencies for adults, children, delivery and maternity services, 24-hour theatre service and other services. Ogunleye said: “There has not been any other recorded fatality of health personnel over the last one week. It is important to mention that these fatalities did not in any way affect the quality of services rendered in hospitals and most certainly not to the point of rendering skeletal services.” He stated that the FCTA had since the beginning of the pandemic been in the forefront of the fight against COVID-19 and remained as committed as ever in efforts to contain the spread of the virus. Ogunleye also said the FCTA had continued to place a lot of emphasis on testing and was the first sub-national tier to reach the testing target of one per cent of its population as recommended by the NCDC. The statement reads: “The attention of the Federal Capital Territory Administration has been drawn to a newspaper publication saying that FCT hospitals are presently rendering skeletal services due to the death of 20 medical doctors of COVID-19. “This figure which is very far from the truth was credited to Dr. Enemo Amadu, the President of the FCT chapter of the Nigerian Medical Association. “Dr. Amadu had since said that he was misquoted, as the 20 fatalities he gave was the national figure of doctors who died of the disease, cutting across the 36 states of the federation and the FCT. “It is still pertinent that the FCTA sets the records straight in view of the fact that public confidence in public health institutions is very essential in the face of the current public health emergency orchestrated by COVID-19. “While there had been incidences where COVID-19 positive patients had infected some medical personnel, these personnel and indeed the patients had been treated and discharged and the affected hospitals fully decontaminated.” Head, Media and Public Enlightenment of the FCT COVID-19 task force Comrade Ikharo Attah, who issued the two choices while monitoring compliance in some shopping malls and business premises across the city, advised them to abide by the rules. Ikharo warned that the FCTA would “not hesitate to shut down shopping malls, Maitama farmers’ market and business premises in the city that fail to comply with the COVID-19 protocols and guidelines. “From what we observed, there is high compliance by costumers and visitors to these malls and business premises. Sadly, same cannot be said of the workers and operators of shops and other businesses in the malls. “A situation in which owners of shops and their workers believed that the guidelines and health protocols are for costumers and visitors is highly unacceptable. The health protocols are for all to observe.” 