 IT had all the trappings of a celebrity wedding last week at the Shelter of Glory Church Makurdi, Benue State where screen siren, Patience Yisa, tied the knot with her secondary school classmate, Oche Peter Itodo. The white wedding was held at Hallyday’s hotel, Markurdi with several dignitaries, politicians, celebrities, icons among many others in attendance. The dignitaries that attended the wedding ceremony were led by the Governor of Benue State, Samuel Ortom, who was represented by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Terver Akase, former Senator Iyochia Ayu; Head of Service, Asaba, Mr. Bayoko Reginald; Commissioner for Culture and Tourism, Mrs. Ngunnan Adingi; Permanent Secretary, government house, Tivlumum Nyiste; Professor Agbo Madaki; Chairman, Slize entertainment, popular actor, Sam Obiagu aka Daddy Sam, Klint Da Drunk; Moyo Lawal; Juliet Njemanze; Slizeboy Ability and Francisca Ordega (Super Falcon player). Speaking about her she met her hubby with relish, Yisa who was a former beauty queen said: “We were classmates in secondary school but never said a word to each other. I used to be the front seat student while he was a backseat student. We left secondary school and never spoke a word to each other till five years ago when he contacted me through Facebook and I was ‘forming’ for him till last year when I fell. I fell hard because he’s the most incredible human being on earth. He came with a full package and he brought God too.” Continuing her love story, she said, “Few months into our relationship he didn’t make move to have sex with me, I was worried if he has a health challenge. He kept on telling me he is okay that he wants to wife me and not just interested in just having sex with me but I was still worried because we sleep in the same house and sometimes and he will refuse to touch me. I opened up to my friends and they advised me to seduce him. I tried seducing him one day he stood up, held my head, and started praying for me. I was embarrassed. That was how I gave up until one day when he finally gave in. That was the best sex I ever had. After the experience, I slept like a drunkard for two days because all my nerves were so relaxed I couldn’t just wake up. That day, I confirmed that he was okay and was only trying to be Godly and do the right thing before sex. My respect for him grew exponentially from that day. Long story cut short, we are now happily married. And I am grateful to God.”