Chaplain of Aso Villa Chapel Pastor Seyi Malomo has cautioned Nigerians against being carefree as they celebrate Christmas in the wake of the second wave of the Coronavirus pandemic (COVID-19). Malomo, who spoke with State House correspondents yesterday in Abuja, urged Nigerians to observe all the COVID-19 protocols and avoid unnecessary movements during the Christmas season. He expressed optimism that God would see Nigerians through the second wave of the pandemic. Malomo, on behalf of President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, wished Nigerians a merry Christmas and prosperous New Year ahead. “With the second wave, we have to follow the protocol by the Presidential Task Force because they have a global view and monitoring of all that is happening with COVID-19. “So, we should not lower our guard; the Lord helped us; we are very proactive; and God Almighty gave us the Grace to overcome the first wave. “I believe the same God who was with us when we overcame the first wave will be with us and we will overcome the second wave; if there is a need third, we will overcome in Jesus name. “But we must not lower our guard; the Bible says that it is the Lord Almighty that watches the city or they watch in vain; so we still need to watch but we have to depend on God to watch. “So, we still have to wash our hands as have been told; do not be far from your sanitiser; be it in your offices or anywhere you are, try to maintain social distance. “Reduce non-essential movement; and then ensure you wear face mask; it is not a political thing; it is not a religious thing; it is something that is for everybody, and it is for protecting us.’’ He said the Christmas Carol was held as it had become a tradition to reminisce on the joy that came to the world with the birth of Jesus Christ. According to him, one of the best ways to express joy is through singing as the carols and the Presidential Praise Concerts are all about singing. “We did the Christmas Carol in closed doors because the Presidency must set an example that this can be done virtually. “We can still maintain tradition while we are observing COVID-19 protocols, and I believe everybody that watched it, and enjoyed it,’’ he said.