The rising cost of cement is taking its toll on the construction sector, with work on some sites stalled. Developers are also reviewing cost of project. However, stakeholders have warned of dire consequence for the industry if the brakes are not applied on rising cost of cement. OKWY IROEGBU-CHIKEZIE reports.  It remains a critical component of construction so much so that it accounts for 40 per cent of the cost of building construction. For this reason and more, the sudden hike in its price by almost 55 per cent, a fortnight ago, caught developers and project managers napping. The price hike  also led to what economists call “artificial scarcity”. Observers say the price hike is a direct response to market demands, especially when it is considered that the price hike coincided with the announcement by the Federal Government that waiver for goods like cement had been granted to Dangote Group and BUA Group, exempting them from the ban on trans-border trade being implemented in Nigeria. Nigeria shut her borders against trade with her neigbouring countries in August 20, 2019. Indeed, the construction sector has been bedeviled with challenges and is yet to come to terms with high cost  of cement. Reacting to the development, the President, Nigeria Institute of Building (NIOB), Kunle Awobodu, warned that the igh cost of cement would have dire consequences for the industry. He said his company had to discontinue a project in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital, when cement price rose to N4,000 from a little over N2,000 earlier. He said it made nonsense of their projections, Bill of Quantities and costing. He said though he could not see any reason for the increase, it may have been exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic which was made worse by the #ENDSARs protest. Awobodu said the rise has implications for the sector that include compromise in the use of the material with some people disregarding the cement, sand and water mix ratio to keep a construction going. Canvassing the need for government to intervene urgently on this, he said in the long run it may lead to building failure. “Construction sector is a huge employer of labour and anything that would upset the sector should be avoided. This rise in price can lead to building failure as some may compromise on the cement ratio in order to complete a project as a result of cost. When the youth are not engaged they become a willing tool for violence and the construction sector is a good sector that absorbs youths,” he said. According to him, the rise in cost is unexplainable as nothing supports the wide margin of increase. A distributor, Onyemechi Iyamah, said he almost ended in court with some of his clients who deposited money for cement that he was not able to fulfill. He said at a point the price difference  between what was deposited by his customers was about N700. He claimed that he learnt that a certain cement manufacturer had an issue with manufacturing at a point which led to downtime and subsequent backlog of demands that was  manipulated by distributors which led to the scarcity of the product. Iyamah said he paid for over 600 bags of cement and got 150 despite that it took over 30 days to supply. He lamented that they were at the mercy of manufacturers and truck drivers, who see it as an avenue to make quick gain to the detriment of the businessmen and users. He regretted that while cement price was on the increase in Nigeria, it was at the rock bottom price across the borders. He called on the government to save small businesses to thrive and not to be stifled in the market. Asked which brand of cement is culpable, he responded that all of them are culpable as they all increased their prices. He called on government agencies such as Consumer Protection Commission ( CPC ) and other Ministries , Departments and Agencies (MDA). A developer, Adeniyi Adeleke, lamented the high cost of cement. He lamented that his clients are refusing to pay the rising price variation. He regretted that he would be forced to compromise just like others in his shoes which may have dire consequences of building failure as a result of inappropriate mixture of the elements of cement, sand and water in a particular building project. He called for investigations to know what exacerbated the rise in cost of the product even as construction is at its lowest ebb as a result of the pandemic and #END SARs demonstration. Alhaji Ismail Oni also lamented that he had not been able to take delivery of the cement he paid for in the last 60 days. According to him, he has laid off  three of his sales executive as most of his customers have left their sites trying to renegotiate with their clients. He asked that the government investigate this and sanitse the market. He wondered for how long he would stay without a buyer walking into his warehouse. Another developer and Managing Director AIMART International, Mrs. Bukola Iluyomade who plays in the lower and middle class property market, harped on the need to use alternative building materials. She said in all their sites, they use pre fabricated components to build houses with minute cement component. He advised that developers should embrace alternative building material to deliver affordable housing.