 HONESTLY, it is beyond me how Nigeria’s political elite, especially politicians in power and those aspiring to grab power from them, interpret information, including critical advice. Ever since the Financial Times used the words “failed state” in its advice last week to the Nigerian leadership to reset priorities in order to avert failure, politicians have been rolling over themselves, either in condemning the FT or in supporting it over its statement on Nigeria. Unfortunately, however, neither side appears to have thoroughly grasped the full import of the FT statement. Defenders of the ruling All Progressives Congress have been quick in condemning the FT for describing Nigeria as a failed state. Members of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party quickly jumped on the statement to declare that the President Muhammadu Buhari-led APC government has failed. The truth really is that there is nothing to condemn in what the FT said about Nigeria in the statement, just as there is nothing there to make the opposition trigger-happy against Buhari. In fact, the FT does not describe Nigeria as a failed state. Not at all. Beginning with the title of the statement and running into what could be regarded as a subtitle, the focus is on advising the Nigerian government to avert failure. Here’s the title of the statement: “Nigeria is at risk of becoming a failed state”. This is not a categorical statement that Nigeria has failed. And here’s its subtitle, which appears directly below the title: “With kidnapping and insecurity rife, the government needs to restore trust”. This is an invitation to the government to reset the clock. The first half of the piece outlines the risk factors. One is insecurity, typified by kidnapping, banditry, extortion, and topped by the Boko Haram insurgency. A second risk factor is poverty. According to the FT, “Nigeria has more poor people, defined as those living on less than $1.90 a day, than any other country, including India”. It then goes on to add that “in non-Covid-19 years, one of every five children in the world out of school lives in Nigeria, many of them girls”. With a population now over 200 million, and “growing at a breakneck 3.2 per cent a year” to double at 400 million by 2050, the poverty and children-out-of-school rates are a ticking time bomb. A third risk factor is the economy, which, according to FT, “has stalled since 2015 and real living standards are declining”. It goes further to predict a shrinkage of 4 per cent in the economy after Covid-19 dealt a further blow to oil prices. This is a bad omen for an economy currently propped up by heavy borrowing. The second half of the statement, which most politicians have ignored is FT’s recommendations on how to avert failure. First, the FT suggests that the government “desperately needs to put its finances … on a sounder footing”. Second, it recommends that the Buhari-led administration must “redouble efforts to get a grip on security”. This has been the persistent cry of the Nigerian mainstream and social media for years, especially since 2014, following the abduction of the Chibok girls. Third, the FT advises the government to restore trust in key institutions, especially the judiciary, the security services and the electoral commission, which will preside over the 2023 elections. This recommendation must have been informed by the escalating security problems in the country and the possibility of using the 2023 election as cover to sew chaos. Fourth, the FT recommends the “R” and “D” words, but without overtly using them. I mean “restructuring” and “devolution” of powers . Here is how the FT puts it: “A new, slimmed-down state – ideally one with fewer, bankrupt regional assemblies – must concentrate on the basics: security, health, education, power and roads”. Finally, the FT draws the government’s attention to the youths. This is necessary because Nigeria has one of the youngest populations, with over 50 percent of the population below the age of 35. With the population doubling by 2050, those born today will only be about 30 years old by then and most of the present political elite, overfed on state resources, would have naturally bowed out. This is why the FT emphasises the need to put necessary public goods in place so that Nigeria’s young people can turn the country round. Here, the FT piggybacks its hope on the ray of optimism provided by the broad coalition that found political expression in the #EndSARS protest against police brutality. Against the above analysis, I doubt if Nigerian politicians crying foul over the FT statement actually read the statement critically enough. I also doubt if they have been reading Nigerian newspapers in the past five years in which numerous editorials and columns have highlighted even more than what the FT has said. More importantly, I wonder what Nigerian politicians would say when they study the recent report on Nigeria in the 2020 Fragile States Index (formerly Failed States Index). After ranking 178 countries on 13 factors, Nigeria emerged as the 14th most fragile country in the world. Nigeria shares this shameful bottom ranking alongside countries, such as Haiti, Burundi, Zimbabwe, and Afghanistan, not far from the bottom five of Yemen, Somalia, South Sudan, Syria, and the Democratic Republic of Congo. Whither the Giant of Africa!? A brief look at the factors considered shows that this ranking is not a fluke. They are grouped under four major indicators: COHESION (security apparatus, factionalized elite, group grievance); ECONOMY (economic decline, uneven economic development, human flight and brain drain); POLITICAL (state legitimacy, public services, human rights and rule of law); and SOCIAL (demographic pressures, refugees and IDPs, external intervention). An objective appraisal of Nigeria on these factors will have a hard time giving Nigeria a pass mark. This, however, does not mean that the country has failed. And it does not mean that the Buhari-led administration is doing nothing. The truth, however, is that the government is not doing enough and it appears overwhelmed. Nigeria, and any country in its present situation, can fail, if nothing is done to reverse the present trend. The trend cannot be reversed by word of mouth. Not by TV appearances. Not by rebuttals of the FT statement or the Fragile States Index in newspapers. But by political will, policies, relevant projects, and actionable implementation. 