A 24-year old man, Chiemezie Aligu narrowly escaped lynching for allegedly snatching a motorcycle from the owner at gunpoint in Okpuno Otolo in Nnewi North Local Government Area of Anambra State. The suspect, a native of Ebonyi State but resident in Abubor Nnewichi in Nnewi, was reportedly beaten to stupor by an angry mob before he was rescued by the police and taken to the hospital for treatment. The Nation gathered that the suspect was arrested by Police operatives in conjunction with a vigilante group in the area. The Police spokesperson, Haruna Mohammed, confirmed the incident, saying one English made Baretta pistol with breech number 941396, one motorcycle, and two assorted phones were recovered from the suspect. He said an investigation has commenced after which the suspect would be brought to justice. He said, “On the 7/12/2020 at about 9:am, there was a distress call that suspected armed robber allegedly snatched a Honda CUB50 at Okpuno Otolo in Nnewi North LGA of Anambra State. “Following the distress call, Police operatives attached to Nnewi Area Command and Otolo Division in conjunction with Egbumuenem vigilante group Otolo quickly mobilised to the scene and arrested one Chiemezie Kenneth Aligu ‘m’ aged 24years of Ebonyi State but resident at Abubor Nnewichi in Nnewi North LGA. “Meanwhile, one English made Baretta pistol with breech number 941396, one motorcycle, and two assorted phones were recovered from the suspect and registered as exhibits. “In a related development, on 7/12/2020, Police Patrol Team attached to Aguata Division received a distress call that two men went to a filling Station to refuel with ash-colored Highlander Jeep with REG.No AAA-625-ES. “Shortly after refueling, the occupants of the jeep refused to pay the fuel attendant his money. Instead, they threatened to shoot him with a gun. “On sighting the Police patrol team which responded promptly, the suspects fired a gun and escaped, but were forced to abandon the jeep which was reasonably suspected to have been snatched at gunpoint after a hot pursuit. “The vehicle was recovered and upon searched, a plate number with REG NO.KTU-314-EV was found inside the vehicle. An investigation is ongoing and effort is being intensified to apprehend the fleeing suspects in order to bring them to justice. “In view of the foregoing, you have kindly requested to disseminate this message through your medium to enable the owner of the stolen jeep to come and claim his vehicle at Aguata Division or contact PPRO Anambra State Police Command through GSM no 08060970639.”