 RIVERS State Commissioner for Information and Communications Paulinus Nsirim has described allegations that Governor Nyesom Wike is plotting to destabilise the All Progressives Congress (APC) as hilarious and ridiculous. Former Publicity Secretary of APC, Chris Finebone, had said Wike and other agents of the government were planning to initiate frivolous court actions to cripple the APC nationwide. He said the plot was being hatched by Wike, some moles in the APC and unnamed chieftains of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). According to him, part of the plan was to file all manner of cases against the APC to create further crisis in the party ahead of the 2023 elections. But Nsirim, in a statement by his media aide, Amieyeofori Ibim, described Finebone’s accusations as ‘a more sinister, disturbing template already deployed in previous circumstances, with the dubious intent to heat up the polity ahead of the 2023 elections, and ultimately provoke and instigate unnecessary conflict across the state’. The statement reads: “Finebone’s statement is ridiculous in context and hilarious in its contained allegations, especially when placed against the backdrop of a political party that has mired in endless internal litigations, and whose key figures have been intent and tenaciously insistent on testing the authenticity of their demands in court. “Rivers APC should first remove the log in its eye before accusing any other party, or even the government, of attempting to destablise it. There must be something fundamentally wrong with a party like the APC, which nurses a morbid phobia for any attempt to test the legality of whatever decision its godfathers and dictators foist on its members, through legitimate due processes. “The lame excuse of always alluding to ‘tendencies within the APC in Rivers State that have been working in cahoots with the state’ jangles like the repetitive chorus of a broken record. “Neither Governor Wike nor the PDP will waste time engaging in any legal battle with a party that has already self-destructed because of its own uncontrollable appetite for legal battles.” The APC has vowed to sack the PDP ahead of the 2023 elections. Caretaker Committee Chairman Isaac Abbot-Ogbobula spoke at the weekend in Port Harcourt when he inaugurated the party’s caretaker committees in the 23 local government areas. Abbot-Ogbobula said he was inaugurated as state caretaker chairman by the National Caretaker Committee following the dissolution of all party structures. He described the development as a new foundation to re-launch the party, and urged the local government chairmen to inaugurate a similar structure at the ward levels. Abbot-Ogbobula said: “I urge you to abide by the party’s constitution in the discharge of your duty. Be firm and do not perform your duties with favour or prejudice. You are required, directed and mandated to go back to your councils and swear in caretaker committees. “There is no crisis in APC Rivers State. We are together under the leadership of Rotimi Amaechi. We have disagreements, but we don’t have crisis. We have just one APC in Rivers State and one APC in Nigeria. “The party will take over the Government House in 2023. The APC will produce the next president of the country come 2023. Igo Aguma is inconsequential. There is no faction in APC…”