 ARMED men, who claimed to be policemen from the Force Headquarters, Abuja, have killed the traditional ruler of Oruku community in Nkanu East Local Government of Enugu State, Igwe Emmanuel Chidiebere Mba. The purported policemen, led by one Inspector Danladi, took away Mr.  Agozie Ani from Oruku town hall where the deceased monarch addressed the indigenes at a meeting. The gunmen, who invaded the venue of the meeting in a Sport Utility Vehicle (SUV) and a Sienna bus about 2pm on Boxing Day, according to an eyewitness, moved into the hall and sought to see the royal father. The armed men were reportedly escorted to the town hall by three indigenes. They came and left in the same vehicles that brought the armed men, the eyewitness said. It was learnt that when the traditional ruler, who presided over the meeting, was identified by the three indigenes, one of the ‘policemen’ immediately shot him on the thigh and he fell down and bled. The Nation gathered that pandemonium ensued after the royal father was shot, as the indigenes ran helter-skelter amid sporadic shooting by the armed men, who made attempts to arrest some of the indigenes. The source said the bleeding royal father and Mr. Ani were taken away by the armed men to Parklane Hospital, Enugu, but Igwe Mba could not be admitted due to lack of bed space. They were reportedly referred to the National Orthopaedic Hospital, Enugu, but on arrival, doctors at the Emergency Unit confirmed the monarch dead.  It was learnt that the royal father, who was elected by his community on December 26, 2019, reportedly bled to death before he could get medical attention. His body was deposited at the hospital mortuary, while the whereabouts of Ani is unknown. The FORD Pick-up van driven to the aborted meeting by the deceased royal father, taken away by the team, is yet to be found. Checks by leaders of the community at the police command headquarters to ascertain the identity and motive of the “invading policemen” proved abortive, as they were told that there was no such entry made at any police station to that effect. Following the incident, the aggrieved members of Oruku community reportedly regrouped last Saturday evening  and attacked the homes of some indigenes believed to be behind the murder of the traditional ruler.