 House of Representatives member from Epe Constituency, Olawale Raji, unveiled two pet projects, the Epe Federal Constituency Traders Support Initiative and Elders’ Welfare Scheme, to support his constituents. He said N28m will be expended on the projects. The event, held at the Epe Local Government Council secretariat, Ita-Marun, was attended by Speaker, House of Representatives, represented by House Committee Chairperson on Women Affairs, Adewunmi Onanuga; Adeyemi Ikuforiji; Tunde Balogun; Tokunbo Abiru, APC candidate for the Lagos East senatorial by-election, Chief Shakiru Akanni Seriki; royal fathers from Epe Constituency; Chairman, Epe Local Government Council, Adedoyin Adesanya and his counterparts from Eredo and Ikosi-Ejinrin Local Council Development Area (LCDA), Saliu Rasaq and Samson Onanuga. Raji, noted that the projects being unveiled were meant to his journey, if impact lives. He said: “Since my election to the House of Representatives in 2015, I have paid attention to the socio-economic challenge of our people”. Raji added: “My first motion on the floor of the House, in 2016 was on the electric situation in Epe. I am glad that the problem is been addressed with the commencement of work on the Omotosho-Epe-Ajah power project which is progressing”. “Also, my intervention in the abysmal state of our roads has yielded great fruits with the on-going rehabilitation of the Lekki-Epe expressway and Itokin-Epe road”. “Equally, the issue of overcrowding in our schools is attention with on-going construction of blocks of classrooms in the following schools, Army High school; L.G. primary School, Oriba; Odomola Secondary School; Agbowa Community Senior Secondary school. Additionally, I commissioned the ground-breaking of a fully equipped ICT centre, in Epe Girls High School, on Friday, 27/11/2020”. “All these interventions notwithstanding, I am very much glad that I have been able to add value directly to the quality of our people’s lives, both openly and behind the camera, through my numerous social investments”. Kazeem Jimoh, Chairman, Committee on House Services, said that since the outbreak of the novel Covid-19 pandemic, the world has been experiencing turbulent times; for almost a year, governments have been shaking, businesses dying and people clinging under the harsh bites of the outbreak. He said a lot of people and businesses need financial assistance to solve a mirage of needs arising from loss of livelihoods and breakdown of businesses. Raji said: “As God has helped me, I have decided to raise the bar of my empowerment drive to specifically include two sets of vulnerable citizens of the Epe community-the grassroot traders and aged elders”. “With these two initiatives, I hope and pray that lives would be touched and improved maximally. To these end, I have painstakingly selected 1100 grassroot traders across all wards, to receive cash grants of N25,000 each for scalling-up their businesses”. Also, 100 people, aged 70 years and above, who lacked means of livelihood or financial support, have been carefully chosen accross all wards in Epe Federal Constituency to receive a constant monthly stipend of #10,000 each”. The lawmaker admonished the beneficiaries of the trade cash grants to invest the funds in their businesses and manage the proceeds prudently, so that they can be economically more stable, grow more profitably and become contributors to economic growth through payment of taxes in the near future.  