Northern Governors’ Forum (NGF), governors of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) across the country, members of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) as well as Labour and Employment Minister Chris Ngige have felicitated with President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday’s celebration of his 78th birthday. In a congratulatory message by its Chairman and Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong, the NGF said its members have continued to enjoy the support of the President in serving the nation as well as meeting the aspirations of their people. The forum noted that President Buhari’s undeniable commitment to the transformation of Nigeria through the various change initiatives have yielded positive results in various sectors, including critical infrastructure, anti-corruption, agriculture, human capital development. The APC governors, under the aegis of Progressive Governors’ Forum (PGF), described President Buhari as a role model and a source of inspiration to the nation. In a congratulatory message yesterday to the President, the forum’s chairman and Kebbi State Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu said the nation was proud of the patriotic leadership of the President. “…We acknowledge and commend your leadership, vision and commitment to a united prosperous Nigeria. Recognising all the difficult period we face as a nation, we are confident under your leadership that we will be able to resolve our national security challenges and restore peace in every part of the country. “As we wish you a happy birthday and say a big thank you for your selfless service to our dear country, we reaffirm our commitment to work under your leadership with the abiding faith and belief that the initiatives of our APC Federal Government will meet all the expectations of Nigerians. We are very proud of your patriotic leadership. You are our role model and a source of inspiration.” FEC members, in a statement by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr. Boss Mustapha, said God specifically blessed Nigeria with President Buhari at a time the nation and the world are in need of focused leadership. “On behalf of members of the Federal Executive Council (FEC), I wish to felicitate with President Buhari on his 78th birthday. “We also wish to thank the Almighty God for endowing you with wisdom and good health to steer the ship of the Nigerian state, especially at this time the nation and indeed nations of the world need purposeful and focused leadership, which you have consistently provided. “It is our sincere prayers that under your leadership, Nigeria shall continue to enjoy stability, remain united and indivisible, because you have committed to the objective of nation building.” In a goodwill message he personally signed, Ngige described the President as “a quintessential leader whose passion for the greatness of Nigeria is unmitigated and whose legacy of massive infrastructural renaissance, in the face of teething challenges of dwindling national resources is unequalled in our recent history.” He added: “Your emergence at the crossroads of our national history is one great awakening on the psyche of a despaired nation. You restored hope as you unveiled the three core agenda of security, economic revival and zero tolerance for corruption. “It was tough as the harsh reality of a nation on a cliff dawned on the new government in 2015. But your honest and committed leadership succeeded in pulling the country back to safety. This is unequivocal and unequaled and Nigeria owes you a debt of gratitude.” Also, Senate Chief Whip Orji Kalu said: “Mr. President is a shining light beyond the shores of Nigeria, having sustained credible leadership and good governance in Nigeria. “The laudable and giant achievements of the President Buhari-led Federal Government are highly commendable and worthy of emulation,” he said. Niger State governor and Chairman of Northcentral Governors’ Forum, Abubakar Bello, said: “Indeed, your leadership style and interest in improving the living standard of the Nigerian people are becoming legendary, thereby transcending the country’s image beyond its borders.” In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mrs. Mary Noel-Berje, the governor said President Buhari’s genuine compassion for the people and concern for the development of the country had manifested in his dogged patriotism and desire to make Nigeria great again. Imo State Governor Hope Uzodimma described the President as a patriotic and focused leader.  He noted that President Buhari’s zeal for service to the nation and humanity was legendary and urged other leaders who are sincerely interested in rendering service to the society to emulate him. Nasarawa State House of Assembly Speaker Ibrahim Balarabe-Abdullahi said: “Nigeria is a great nation. Let us continue to support and pray for President Buhari to succeed.”