 NO, people, the line in the title is not original to me, I borrowed it from somewhere; and oh yes, problems can have colours. For instance, when the pocket is empty and the bank account is reading zero, don’t panic, it is only the colour red showing. That is when the radiogram will croon to you, ‘I’ve got the bluuuez baby, I’ve got the bluuuuez’. When there is no food in the house, though, then you are in colour grey. That is when all the edges of life are fuzzy and you find yourself shrugging, then waxing philosophical and finally finding that it is true what they say, life is not all black or white. In between, there are various shades of grey, and there ain’t a single thing you can do about the grey areas. However, should Junior make the mistake of taking the car out illegally in his youthful exuberance, then the family is catapulted into the red zone because Daddy can see only red. Everyone had just better scatter; things will get very rough indeed. So, yes, problems have colours and the colour of Nigeria’s problems since I have been privileged to know her has been perpetually false. True, her flag may be green and white but believe me there’s nothing green about the way her leaders are bleeding her dry. They are right knowing ‘uns. Why, for instance, should it take an entire country so many decades to realise that it is not good for the presidency to hoard TEN (10) aircraft in its fleet all to itself? What kind of country is this? Tell me, IS THIS FAIR?! No, and again, I say, NO when little ol‘ me has NONE! From the time I heard the piece of news that Nigeria has about ten aircraft in the president’s fleet, I just thought, no, it is not the president who needs them. My suspicions were turned entirely elsewhere. I have been sneakily wondering though just what has been going on in the mind of all our presidents’ men from the time of Christopher Columbus down to the present. Normally, the president’s men are carefully chosen to reflect the crème of the crème (never mind that sometimes the crème is quite sour) in their profession who would work assiduously to make sure the president did not get into trouble, and also that the country did not get into trouble as a result of the president getting into trouble. You get that, don’t you, because I don’t? So, the president’s men would make their efforts as concerted as possible to be frugal in their praise of the president (so he does not get so swollen-headed that he gets out of their control) and be equally as frugal in their methods of extracting him from any hot soup he finds himself in. From our records of the Nigerian scene, it appears that all our past presidents’ men have not been frugal at all. They have insisted on lapping up all the praise themselves. Lucky devils, they have been riding around in presidential jets! Ordinarily, and I think this is what happens in saner climes, the saying is if it’s broke, fix it. Around here though, the saying is if it’s broke, get a new one. And this is how Nigeria came to own 1, 2, 3, 4, … 10 planes in the presidential fleet when countries such as rich, rich Britain has none. No, it is not that they cannot afford one, it’s just that they have found that the wiser thing to do is to hire because it is so expensive to actually keep one. Seriously, our humour is too black in this country; and some would go so far as to say we have no humour at all, and that is even blacker. The typical Nigerian attitude to public utilities does not do credit to our intelligence. Again, some would even say we have none of that either. Well, I say we have a sense of humour. Just look at our leaders at every level from the local government councillors to the legislative house and the executive. That should send you into paroxysms laughter. Hem, hem. This is no time to laugh though. And yes, we do have some intelligence. Just look at newspapers when our leaders are having their annual spats and spits. Delightful, isn’t it, to hear the fire crackling and the fireworks just going in every direction. So yes, I’m not sure but I think we have some intelligence. The problem though is that this nation prefers to keep what little intelligence it has under wraps. So, all our public stadia go to waste without any input of intelligence to keep them in good shape; all our national fleet of ships, planes and vehicles get to sit out their days under the stars, sun and moon just because we have too little intelligence to spare. Oh yes, and all the presidents’ planes get their early retirements just because we cannot get the intelligence to get the mechanic to go take a look at them. After all, there is always a ready answer: yes, you got it, GET A NEW ONE. The most painful part of all this is that there are other Nigerians who desperately need the money used to buy these things to sustain their lives. Thirty minutes’ drive from where I live, there are people who have no electricity. There, we are not much different though. Half the night and all day through, I hardly have any electricity myself. They also do not have water. Again, we are not much different there. I also do not have water from the public utilities in my house. Then, they do not have schools. Now, the similarities begin to end. Anyone can do without water or electricity or food but not schools. This is why I think the money spent on accumulating airplanes is being wasted. Please Mr. President; these monies are needed to sustain schools in these villages so that people who do not have a present can at least have a future for their children. It does not much matter that they do not have much food to eat; they really do not mind at all. But I have heard them plead passionately that just one school in their village would go a long way in ensuring the continuity of their lives where food could not do it. This is why I think we should begin to change the colour of our problems. The colours we have been used to as a nation have been the colours of joy where we have gone to the big markets of the world and thrown up fistfuls of foreign currencies to the delight of those nationals while keeping our own nationals on starvation lines at home. Unfortunately, those foreign nationals have merely looked at us, smiled, shaken their heads from left to right and walked away. And we thought they were enjoying the show. How were we to know they were shaking their heads in cynical pity?! So, I think we should change that colour to black: it is the universal sign of mourning: we need to mourn the loss of intelligence in the land.  