First City Monument Bank (FCMB) has opened an ultra-modern cash centre at New Ipaja road, Lagos. The location takes into consideration the convenience of residents and businesses in Ipaja and environs, including the popular Iyana Ipaja, Egbeda and Abesan areas. The development is in line with the commitment of FCMB to bring financial services closer to the populace to promote financial inclusion. The cash centre, which has commenced operations, is powered by solar energy and is also equipped with traditional and digital banking infrastructure, including Automated Teller Machines (ATMs). The  Managing Director, Mr. Adam Nuru, said: “We consider our presence at Ipaja as another veritable opportunity to further cement our relationship with Lagos and, in turn, drive development in this part of the state. Ipaja is one of the most strategic and populated parts of Lagos. As an inclusive lender, we recognise that the only way we can succeed is when we engage and support our customers to succeed.” We are committed to scale our operations, build the requisite capabilities and deploy the best ways to simplify banking for our array of customers to fulfil their personal and business aspirations’’. Also commenting, the Divisional Head, Service Management of FCMB, Mr. Oluwakayode Adigun, said, “a unique feature of our new Cash Centre at Ipaja is the installation of solar technology, which is a clean energy solution that is non-pollutant and friendly to the environment. This is part of our commitment towards promoting a cleaner and greener environment through renewable energy. Customers are also assured of excellent service delivery. We urge existing and potential customers to take advantage of the benefits which the cash centre offers by banking with FCMB to further enjoy the valued-added offerings which the Bank has been known for since its establishment 37 years ago”. FCMB, as a foremost financial institution in Nigeria, has continued to blaze the trail by re-engineering its processes and leveraging on emerging technologies to offer seamless customer experience at all channels. This is in line with its values of Execution, Professionalism, Innovation and Customer-focus (EPIC)”. With its more than 6 million customer base, over 200 branches spread across Nigeria and upward growth in overall performance, the Bank has consistently proved its mettle as a resilient and dominant player in the Nigerian financial services industry. These strides have earned the Bank several accolades and awards. The Bank recently emerged as winner of the prestigious award of Best SME Bank in Africa at the Asian Banker Middle East and Africa Regional Awards. In 2019, the lender was conferred with the award of “Most Business-Friendly Bank” at the BusinesDay Banking and Finance Awards. It equally bagged the award of “Excellence in Customer Experience” at the Finnovex Award held last year. In addition, FCMB was rated as the number one for SMEs in Nigeria, courtesy of the Nigeria Banking Industry Customer Experience Survey report by KPMG. With a clear understanding of its market and environment, FCMB is well positioned to continue to create value by delivering exceptional services, while enhancing the growth and achievement of the personal and business aspirations of its customers