 His out-of-this-world goal at the 1986 World Cup against England, voted “Goal of the Century” by FIFA in 2002, defined his phenomenal ability. His feat involved a spectacular run that covered more than half the length of the field, and 11 touches that saw him dribbling past five players before beating the goalkeeper and netting the ball. It was pure magic. This beauty redeemed the scorer who had four minutes earlier scored a controversial goal by cunningly using his hand. The unpenalised handling foul became known as the “Hand of God,” after he described it as “a little with the head of Maradona and a little with the hand of God.”  He ultimately admitted that he had cheated. These two goals won the quarter final for Argentina as the country progressed to win the World Cup in Mexico that year. Maradona, the team captain and magnetic motivator, was unanimously voted the best player of the tournament for which he won the Golden Ball. Maradona was the first player to win the Golden Ball at both the FIFA U-20 World Cup (1979) and FIFA World Cup (1986). He played in four FIFA World Cups, 1982, 1986, 1990 and 1994. He had one winner’s medal and one runners-up medal in the World Cup. After the glory of 1986, Argentina placed second in the 1990 World Cup in Italy. Winning the “FIFA Player of the Century” award in 2000, jointly with the equally legendary Pele of Brazil, established Maradona’s acclaimed soccer wizardry. After Maradona’s death on November 25, at the age of 60, Pele in a tribute described him as “incomparable.” In a 21-year club career as an attacking midfielder and second striker, he played for Argentine clubs Argentinos Juniors, Boca Juniors and Newell’s Old Boys, Spanish giants Barcelona, Sevilla also in Spain, and Napoli in Italy.  He played for Argentina’s national team for 17 years, from 1977 to 1994. Maradona set the world record transfer fee twice, the first player in football history to do so, when he transferred to Barcelona and then Napoli. He electrified Napoli, leading the club to heights it had never attained.  With the Maradona magic, Napoli won its first Serie A Italian Championship in 1986-1987, and won a second league title in 1989-90. Magical Maradona also inspired the club to win the Coppa Italia in 1987, the UEFA Cup in 1989, and the Italian Supercup in 1990. He was deified at Napoli. After his death, the club renamed its stadium after him as a gesture of profound appreciation. His last international game was against Nigeria at the 1994 World Cup in America. He had a decisive influence on the outcome of the match which ended 2-1 in favour of Argentina.  He later failed a drug test that not only ended the tournament for him but also ended his international career. He became a coach, but coaching did not bring the success he had achieved as a player. He coached Argentina’s national team from 2008 and took the team to the 2010 World Cup in South Africa. He coached the Argentine club Gimnasia de La Plata from September 2019 until his death. Maradona struggled with demons till he died from cardiac arrest.  As his stature rose in soccer, he became addicted to cocaine. After he retired from playing, he also had problems with alcohol and pills. However, his addiction battles did not diminish his stardom.  His death attracted emotional tributes worldwide. In his country, where he had also attained the status of divinity, his body drew numerous worshipful admirers as it lay in state at the Presidential Palace. Diego Armando Maradona was not born great.  He achieved greatness. He soared above the poverty of his early years to become a prosperous celebrity. But he never forgot his poor background.  “If each one of us gives something to someone else, no one in the world would be starving,” he preached. 