“We can’t continue to live like animals. Everyday I receive reports of kidnapping and killings from district heads. It is very unfortunate. I have not seen this kind of country before. How do we live like animals? Nobody is safe now… wherever you are”. – Emir of Katsina, Abdulmumini Kabir Usman   In this  last month of a year multi- award winning journalist, Olatunji Ololade of this newspaper, has appropriately dubbed the ‘Year of The Funeral Pyre’, Nigerians have again  just been treated to President Buhari’s usual absurdities: sending condolences to bereaved families to which Nigerians now hardly pay any attention, and giving orders to  the security forces to fish out   killers long after the deed has been done and the killers have dissolved into thin air. So many, and horrifying, have these incidents become that even normally reticent royalties from the North, are no longer restrained in  speaking truth to the  President, some of whose personal choices have led Nigeria to the present quagmire. Take for instance, the President’s insular appointments, disdain for his  party leaders, and his  near total reliance on his North- dominated kitchen cabinet, all of which have rendered his decision making process monocultural; a culture that uncritically treats  leaders  like god – no questions asked – or what in Hausa is called, ‘rankadede’, and the President has, inadvisedly chosen  to deny himself the profundity which would have, otherwise, enriched his actions. Also, when exactly did the President wean himself  of the mindset that once saw him defend Boko Haram on a Liberty Radio Guest of the Week programme, during the Jonathan era, equating them to Niger Delta militants, and proceding, therefrom,  to say that an attack on them is an attack on the North? If  he no longer believes that, how come President Idriss Deby could lead his small Chad to deal a devastating blow on Boko Haram but Nigeria cannot? Why has he not fought insurgency the same way he is taming Covid -19? Governor Zulum of Borno state  recently suggested that mercenaries be hired  to help as they once did  but were Nigerians ever told why they were summarily sent packing last time even when they were allegedly achieving results? Nigerians will come to know, one day, the full story of a war that has seen thousands of Nigerians  killed,  more rendered  homeless, and  turned into refugees in their own country. That is not to mention the fortune being consumed. Things are not different when it comes to the Fulani herdsmen, who not only  rape, but  kidnap and kill as, and when, they choose. A Yoruba Oba was recently shot dead in his own domain, an abomination,  while another, His Royal Highness,  Olu Falae, of Ilu Abo, Akure, has become a target of their evil infantuation. I recall once telling some friends who, on learning about a year ago that there are over a thousand Fulani settlements in forests in the Southwest, suggested the use of drones to locate them since these settlements are where their mayhem is planned , that even if drones located the settlements,  this government will never go after them. Now state governors have raised the alarm about the likelihood of insurgency spreading beyond the  Northeast and the Northwest to engulf others; no matter where located in the country. What will then become of the country, as well as President Buhari’s legacy as President of Nigeria? This, unfotunately,  is another consequence of  his poor management of Nigeria’s diversities, and nobody can, as yet, say how far, on the wrong course, his personal preferences will take Nigeria. The lietmotif for this write up is the shocking slaughter of about 76 farmers on  rice farms in Borno State this past week. This has naturally provoked both His Eminence, the Sultan of Sokoto,   Muhammadu Sa’ad Abubakar , CFR,  and the Emir of Katsina, Abdulmumini Kabir Usman, to come out of their usual reticence to  weigh in on a spate of insecurity which, if it continues unabated,  may very soon turn Nigeria  to a real  hell on earth. While the Sultan has severally inveighed against the fact of the entire country  being  turned to a literal killing field, the Emir of Katsina  has fulsomely said the words quoted at the very beginning of this essay. Whoever  has been following events in Katsina state in the past 2 or 3 years will not but  feel the Emir’s pain, especially given the fact that the state government has chosen to repay blood letting with granting amnesty to bandits. So overawed has the state government become that it can no longer think beyond giving  paliatives to the  bandits who have, in turn, shown no signs  that they will stop their rampage. Nor is the state  alone in this thoroughly dispiriting atmosphere in which life in Nigeria has become so short and brutish that a frustrated governor Zulum of Borno state,   himself alive today only by the grace of God, has now publicly advised the President to consider hiring mercenaries to assist the country in confronting a multi faceted insurgency the military no longer seem  like being able to solve, despite its truly heroic  efforts. This government was apparently  deceived by its initial successes when its spokespersons spoke glibly about degrading Boko Haram. And lest this be mis -construed as a slur on the military, let it be said, that our fighting forces have given of their very best , despite the military  being  spread  thin,  deployed to the many theatres of the mayhem, now consuming the country. Many  have, indeed,  paid  the supreme price and it is our prayer that the Almighty God will grant them eternal rest. Same goes to the service chiefs who should now be allowed to go and rest, not because of nonperformance, but rather,  because you cannot be doing the same thing, over and over, and  expect to have a different result. This is why it is time the President now  yields to the several calls, the latest coming from the  National Assembly, to let the Service Chiefs go and have their well deserved rest. I have  personally once argued on these pages that the President might be more concerned with  regime security, and so decided to retain trusted aides, but now in his  sixth  year in office, his confidence should be a lot higher even though his excruciating experience after the coup that ousted him as Military Head of state could not have been treated with levity. However, the sheer weight of  daily killings  in the North, and the country’s general insecurity,  should  now  trump such fears; even  if  some people chose to misdirect themselves into thinking that the #ENDSARS protests were concerned, even remotely, with regime change. The stories coming out  of the state judicial  panels of police brutalities ought, by now, to have blown off such shibboleths. So what is the way out of  this excruciating insecurity that has put Nigeria in the class  of Syria, at the height of its war with ISIS, South Sudan, during  its war of independence and with  a Somalia, perpetually at war with itself like Nigeria is? I think it will be apposite here, to bring in a friend of the President who is himself  battling insurgency on all fronts,  and is, therefore, in the eye of the insecurity storm. Enter the Kaduna state governor, El Rufai who  has, of recent, suggested some practical , non sectional, ways to stem insecurity in the country. I quote  him: “Restructuring is a pragmatic imperative for a more efficient governance structure in our country. It will enable a departure from excessive centralisation, re-balance the federation and locate power and responsibilities in the tier of government best able to effectively discharge them”. My take away, apart  from the word ‘restructuring’, in that quote is: “locate power and responsibilities in the tier of government best able to effectively discharge them”. What then is the primary responsibility of government other than securing the life and property of the citizenry? Any government that  fails in this has failed, dismally and abysmally. It is for this reason that President Buhari must completely rejig the underpinning philosophy of his government which has pointed mainly, and unambiguously, in the direction  of satisfying only a part, and certainly not all parts,  of the country, while believing, and taking for granted, the ruse that the country’s unity is cast in stone. Yes, unity is such a good thing especially in  a country as diverse, and blessed, as Nigeria, but only equity, inclusiveness and justice, not the mere say so, or any  military might, can ensure it. It is no ancient history that as recent as ’99, former President Olusegun Obasanjo ordered the police to shoot unruly OPC members at sight.  His words:”The police have acted according to the instructions they have been given – that any criminal should be shot at sight…anybody who calls themselves OPC…should be arrested or if he doesn’t give himself to arrest, should be shot at sight.” Therefore, to meaningfully, and successfully, fight insecurity in Nigeria, Nigerians must be treated equally, irrespective of where they come from, or their religious  affiliation. It must not be the new normal that a Divisional Police officer (DPO) must promptly release a Fulani brought to his station for  committing one crime or another even before diligent investigation as has been severally alleged while differently handling cases involving other Nigerians .  Only equity, and fairness, will solve our national challenges.