The entire landscape was in shock on April 17 with the official announcement of the death of the Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, Abba Kyari. His death reportedly from COVID-19 infection had jolted the entire populace to the grim reality of the deadly Coronavirus pandemic. He was believed to have contracted the virus while he was away in Germany on official assignment. He was aged 67.  The entire nation was thrown into mourning on July 14, 2020 with the news of the death of Tolulope Arotile, a 25-year-old flying officer reputed as Nigeria’s first female combat helicopter pilot in the 55 years existence of the Nigerian Air Force (NAF). A native of Iffe in Ijumu Local Government Area, Kogi State, her brilliant career was halted when she was inadvertently hit by the reversing vehicle of an excited former Air Force Secondary School classmate while trying to greet her in Kaduna, according to a release by the NAF. An official release by the NAF says as at October 2019, the late Tolulope had acquired 460 hours of flight within her 14 months of flying a helicopter.  Mallam Ismaila Isa Funtua, a former president of Newspapers Proprietors Association of Nigeria died on July 20 after a brief illness. Born in January 1942, the Second Republic Minister of Water Resources and member of the Constitutional Conference convened during the regime of the late Gen. Sani Abacha, was said to have driven himself to the hospital before he gave up the ghost. Until his death, he was reputed as one of the most influential politicians and businessmen in the country. He founded The Democrat, a Kaduna based authoritative newspaper on political matters, and also owned a construction firm renowned for building the magnificent office of the Civil Service of the federation. Former governor of Oyo State, Senator Abiola Ajimobi departed the world on June 25 after weeks of his rumoured battle with COVID-19. Aged 70, he was said to have died from multiple organs failure following complications from coronavirus infection. He was on the verge of assuming office as the interim national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) at the time he died.   Second Republic Attorney General and Minister of Justice, Chief Richard Akinjide was among the prominent Nigerians who succumbed to the cold hands of death in the outgoing year. He was 89, died April 21. The spokesperson of the family, Abayomi Akinjide, said the former AG was buried in line with COVID-19 protocols.   Hon. Tunde Buraimoh, who until his death on July 10 was the Chairman of the Lagos State House of Assembly Committee on Information and Strategy, was one of the prominent politicians the state and the rest of Nigeria had to mourn during the year. He was said to have died in a hospital around Ikorodu. Details of the cause of his death were sketchy, but reports said he had been absent from plenary for about two weeks before he passed on. The representative of Kosofe 2 Constituency was reputed as an active and eloquent member of the House.     Ibidun Ighodalo, wife of the flamboyant pastor of Trinity House church Itua Ighodalo, died in the early hours of Sunday, June 14. The family, however, was not forthcoming on the cause of her death, saying that they would appreciate some privacy as they mourned her death. She was the founder of Ibidunni Ighodalo Foundation (IIF), non-profit making organization she started to raise awareness about infertility and provide grants for couples requiring fertility treatments.   Billionaire businessman and member of the 8th Senate representing Ogun East, Chief Esho Kashamu popularly called Buruji Kashamu, is among the prominent Nigerians who have died of complications from COVID-19 infection. Breaking the news of his death on twitter on August 8, Senator Ben Murray-Bruce said Kashamu died at First Cardiology Consultants, Lagos at the age of 62.    A day after Ibidun Ighodalo’s death, the news also broke of the death  of the senator representing Lagos East, Senator Sikiru Osinowo. Osinowo was said to have died on June 15 at First Cardiology Consultants after battling with an ailment associated with coronavirus. He was aged 64.    The entertainment world was thrown into mourning in early June with the death of Nigerian reggae star, Majekodunmi Fasheke popularly known as Majek Fashek. According to his manager, Omenka Uzoma, the  ‘Rain Maker’ died in his sleep in New York, USA.      The Emir of Zazzau, Alhaji Shehu Idris, passed on September 20. He was until his death one of Nigeria’s most influential traditional rulers. He was aged 84.     All things considered, it has been a very tough year for former Cross River senator, Victor Ndoma-Egba, with the death of his wife in a multiple accident in Ondo State on November 20 weeks after his house was looted by hoodlums who took advantage of the EndSARS protests. Amaka Ndoma-Egba was said to have died alongside six others in the deadly auto crash involving a truck, a commercial Toyota Avensis bus, a Honda car and a Toyota Coaster bus. Eight others were said to have sustained varying degrees of injuries in the accident.   The media industry was thrown into mourning on December 11 with the death of the publisher of Leadership newspaper and one of the presidential aspirants of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2015, Sam Nda-Isaiah. A report in Leadership newspaper quoted his family as saying that the serial entrepreneur and politician died after a brief illness   In early June, the news broke of the death of former secretary of the Dangote Group, Chioma Madubuko. The woman of substance died at Reddington Hospital, Lagos after a long battle with multiple sclerosis. She served the Dangote group for 12 years.     Industrialist and elder statesman, Aminu Adisa Logun was until his death in July the Chief of Staff to Kwara State governor, Abdulrahman Abdulrazak. A statement issued by the Chief Press secretary to the governor, Rafiu Ajakaiye said the late Logun died of complications from COVID-19 infection, only a few hours after the result of a test carried out on him turned out to be positive. He was aged 73.  Former Minister of Science and Technology, Maj-Gen. Sam Momah was one of the celebrities who passed on during the year. Gen. Momah died on July 29 from what was believed to be complications from diabetic issues. He was aged 77.   Veteran Nollywood actor, Kayode Odumosu popularly known as Pa Kasumu died on March 1 after a brief illness. Before his death, he was said to have battled ill health for a while. His health had become a cause for concern for members of the public when a video of his frail state surfaced online last year. He had previously admitted battling a partial stroke that affected his left side and his sight.  Chief Ayo Fasanmi, a prominent leader of the Yoruba socio-cultural group, Afenifere, died on July 29. The nonagenarian was said to have died in Osogbo, Osun State capital, after a brief illness. He was aged 94.   Popular on air personality, Dan Foster a.k.a. the Big Dawg succumbed to death on June 17 after he reportedly contracted COVID-19. He was until his death was one of the most prominent online personalities in the country. He was said to have died after respiratory complications from COVID-19.    Former Minister of Defence and member of the Supreme Military Council (SMC) between 1984 and 1985, and the Armed Forces Ruling Council (AFRC) of 1985 to 1990, General Domkat Bali, passed on December 4. Bali reportedly died at the age of 80. He will be remembered as the chairman of the military panel that sentenced Gen. Maman Vatsa and others who were said to have participated in an attempted coup against the Babangida administration in 1986. 