 There were certain habits that held sway in the past, things like celebrations at festivals, be it religious or traditional, birthdays, marriage ceremonies, family reunions and what have you. Some of these events and outings were taken for granted in the past, because as it were, resources were readily available for such merry-go-rounds. It was unthinkable and never imagined that at Christmas, any Igbo family would be restrained from making a joyous trip to the village, any journey to the east is classified as going to the village, notwithstanding the size of the place. It was equally not in reckoning that there would be any family where at least two fowls would not lay down their lives in aid of the Christmas celebration. What of the ceremonial visits undertaken by children to families, to pick up some gifts, money, and as well partake in the sharing of food and all such pleasantries. Did you look out for such things, or allowed your wards stepped out in search of such adventure, fantasies this time around? Wouldn’t others have thought you sent your kids out because you couldn’t provide food for them? What was a common and regular part of life and fun years ago, is fast becoming history on account of the signs of the time. Many things are fast receding into oblivion, including, regrettably, the will to live. Many are just hanging on to life because the things that give value and meaning to life and living to which people have built their hopes and aspirations, most especially a viable, sustainable economy are fast waning and disappearing by the day. Any wonder then that celebration time is gradually going out of reckoning!The economy is the wheel that every facet of activity in a nation revolves, be it in industry, manufacturing, agriculture, transportation, commerce, communication, research and development. The economy acts as a gauge of the buoyancy, or otherwise of the state of the nation. A weak economy will reflect and impact on the consumption and buying power of the citizens. Such an economy will leave the government with a low revenue base as Value Added Tax (VAT) receipts and other taxes will have thinned out. Among symptoms of a weak economy are unemployment manifesting in joblessness across sectors, poverty, collapsed infrastructure, inadequate healthcare provision resulting in pervading spread of sickness and diseases, illiteracy and social menace, just to mention a few.  Inklings of troubled economy With Nigeria experiencing its second wave of recession just five years after the first (2016), the fear is already being expressed that the  economy is not far from being classified as  weak and seriously encumbered. The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) and experts, among others, have attested to this. LCCI, the biggest organised private sector body in Nigeria, has expressed deep concern over the state of the economy. Reacting to the 6.1 per cent contraction in the economy in the second quarter 2020 GDP report, the Chamber said 46 sectors in all were impacted. Specifically, it said 19 sectors contracted; 14  in recession, 1 expanded, and two others reported slowdown in growth. According to the trade sector group, “the economy contracted by a record 6.1 per cent in the second quarter, and this marks the steepest quarterly contraction in Nigeria’s recent economic history. The contraction in Q2-2020 also ended the three-year trend of marginal but positive growth era the Nigerian economy had after exiting recession in Q2-2017’’. The economy, it continued,  “is currently in dire straits’’. Apart from the urgent need for policymakers to reflate the economy, it is critically important for policymakers to also tackle the twin challenge of rising inflation and unemployment rates,” which stands at above 14 percent and 27.1 per cent respectively. The LCCI quite recognised the imbalance COVID-19 caused the economy and the various fiscal and monetary measures the authorities have taken and implemented to mitigate the adverse impact of the COVID-19 shock on the economy and business environment. One of such steps identified by LCCI is the Nigerian Economic Sustainability Plan, which proposes a N2.3 trillion stimulus package, equivalent to 1.5 per cent of GDP. The International Monetary Fund (IMF), the global financial intermediator, also warned of gloomy days ahead for the economy. Predictably, according to the IMF 2020 latest World Economic Outlook report, the  economy in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, is certainly not giving economic commentators much cause for joy. For the sub-Saharan African region, the IMF report projected a contraction of -1.6 per cent, with Nigeria topping the chart with a negative growth of -3.4 per cent, indicating a looming recession for Africa’s largest economy that is barely recovering from the 2015 to 2016 recession . The IMF hinged that anticipated negative growth on plummeting oil prices and food inflation. The global spot oil prices have somewhat stabilised and are already looking up. Have we then turned the corner? Certainly not. Economic pundits like Bismarck Rewane, see the measures in place, though substantial as being inadequate, taking into cognisance the severity and depth to which the economy has sunk. Given that we are in a recession, implying negative growth, an aggravated inflation and unemployment conservatively put at 28 per cent, and an unresolved currency exchange challenge, Rewane, who is also a member of President Muhammadu Buhari’s Economic Advisory Team, said  although the NBS report was concerning, but it was “not quite alarming at this period,” adding, however, that the government’s plan and the stimulus package for the economy was inadequate to cover for the shortfall recorded. “The truth is that the economy had its pre-existing conditions in first quarter and the lag between the slow down and the contraction was underestimated by all analysts. We have N2.5 trillion equipment to fight a N12 trillion contraction, so the limitations and inadequacies and inappropriateness of the tools, compared to the problem we have, is stacked. So, we are saying that the move from a slowdown into a contraction was more than we expected. The tools that we have at our disposal are inadequate. The stimulus that is required to take us out of this equation is going to be much more than we expected. And we are going to have to take some measures,” Rewane stated.  Further measures When the NBS announced the second recession last month, the Federal Government rushed to announce some measures which it claimed will see the economy recovering even as early as Q4 2020, only just a few days away today. Some other senior government officials later reconstructed the narrative by pushing the recession exit date to Q1, 2021. Even more disturbing is that some of those measures are yet to find expression by way of implementation. Going forward, the government can actually push the economy on the path of recovery and reflation by addressing the core issues of power generation and making electricity available to the system in sufficient quantity. The reopening of the border was good, but it took too long in coming. It will take the government sometime to explain to Nigerians the necessity for more than a year border closure. There are serious issues with Nigeria’s debt level. The country has added over $11billion to its debt stock this year alone. The time should be rife for Nigeria  to craft a debt exit plan. There is also a serious concern about budgetary funds allocation in the system. In the 2021 budget, Nigeria will be spending as much money to service debts (not debt repayment) as it would in capital expenditure. Should the Federal Government give more thought to cutting cost of governance, stop being dismissive of the massive sleaze in the system, address the degenerating security situation, seek to hold government officials accountable for their actions and make everyone equal in the eye of the law and walk its own pronouncements, then it can be said that it is a matter of time before the economy rebounds and the good old days may yet resurface again. Otherwise! 