 A GROUP of millionaires in Anambra State called Anambra Progressives yesterday donated an ultra-modern medical centre to the Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, Anambra State. Speaking during the event, the convener of the group, Senator Ifeanyi Ubah, said the choice of the fully-equipped medical facility was occasioned by the importance the group attached to health, stressing that “health is wealth”. He said the project was part of the group’s strategic implementation mechanism focused on world-class healthcare delivery for improved medical tourism and health insurance with qualitative and affordable health services. Ubah regret that that of Anambra North earlier started at Nsugbe with about N10 million already committed was stalled following state government interference, but stressed the group would not be deterred by such action.  The senator said: “The project was accomplished through the positive response of progressive-minded noble citizens of Anambra, including those in the Diaspora, who raised the sum of N479 million for the building of world-class medical centre in three zones of Anambra North, South and Central. “That of Nnewi Medical Centre had earlier been commissioned while this one at UNIZIK will take care of any emergency situation and at the same time handle effectively any case of COVID-19 infection in Anambra. “We are also embarking on other projects geared towards creating a strong economy in Anambra and agricultural revolution through the setting up of industrial clusters, inland ports and large-scale farming in different parts of the state.” Vice-Chancellor, Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka Prof. Charles Esimone expressed appreciation to the sponsors of the project for the gesture, promising judicious utilisation of the facility. “We must commend your team spirit and progressive minds, which is instrumental to the actualisation of the project. We encourage you to continue in the path of greater future for the state and the benefit of its citizens,” he added. 