 THE Federal Government said on Monday that the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic has presented the opportunity to  rebuild the country’s health system. Minister of Health Dr. Osagie Ehanire stated this on Monday at the Ministerial Health Sector Media Engagement on the Path to Universal Health Coverage (UHC) in Abuja. He added that the outbreak brought resilient health systems to their knees. Ehanire said President Muhammadu Buhari had in his second tenure set a nine-point health sector next level agenda that would propel the country toward the attainment of the UHC for Nigerians. The minister noted that the National Health Act (2014) established the Basic Health Care Provision Fund (BHCPF) as one of the key drivers to attaining equitable health for all Nigerians. “Access to quality health care by all is a necessity for any nation that wants to tap the full potential of its people. “Under the administration of President Buhari, the BHCPF implementation began with the appropriation and release of at least one percent of the Consolidated Revenue Fund as provided by the Act. “This has set in motion the mechanism to fast track achieving UHC for all,” he said. Ehanire noted that the ministry was responsible for the national health system and its performance. “The Federal Ministry of Health ( FMOH) is working to strengthen accountability and transparency with the establishment of Electronic Medical Records (EMR) at Federal Tertiary hospitals for efficiency and accountability in service delivery. “It provides strategic support to states, local government areas, the private sector and development partners.’’ According to the minister, the event is for the media and other stakeholders to get the chance to support and contribute toward a greater health sector in 2021. “We all need to come on board as active partners to the deliverables of this federal government’s health agenda,” he said. Ehanire  said the occasion further provided the opportunity to begin the roll-out of the roadmap so that Nigerians would be part of its successful implementation. According to him, a lot of efforts have gone into the activity and it will be first of many such activities going forward. Also, Senator Ibrahim Oloriegbe, Chairman, Senate Committee on Health, said the challenges of COVID-19 were well-known. “Let us take this opportunity to demand for more funding for our health sector. We need to do more for Nigerians,’’ he said. Dr. Peter Hawkins, United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), Country Representative, said the event played a critical role in achieving UHC to all Nigerians, regardless of where they lived. Also speaking on behalf of Civil Society Organisation (CSOs), Prof. Oladipo Akinkugbe, said healthcare delivery must be focused on prevention, rather than cure. Akinkugbe added that health for all must fulfill the Abuja Declaration and reach the point of putting up to 15 per cent of the budget into healthcare. Permanent Secretary, FMoH, Mr. AbdulazizMashi Abdullahi  said the event gave the media the opportunity to tell Nigerians what the ministry was doing  toward the goal of achieving improved health  and UHC in Nigeria. 