 Agriculture has recorded steady growth and supported macroeconomic stability against a backdrop of volatility in the global oil market. Against a backdrop of increasingly severe and financially straining climate events,  the agricultural sector has played an important role in maintaining and improving output. This year, the Federal Government announced plans to develop 142 agro-processing centres across the six geopolitical zones in the country. The projects will be funded by the “Green Imperative” programme, a $1.2 billion joint Nigerian-Brazilian agriculture development scheme. The Minister of Information, Lai Mohammed and his Agriculture counterpart, Saba Nanono announced the implementation of the scheme. The $1.2 billion programme is to be implemented over a period of five to 10 years with finding from the Development Bank of Brazil (BNDES) and Deutsche Bank with Insurance provided by Brazilian Guarantees, Funds Management Agency (FMA), Islamic Corporation for Insurance of Export Credit (ICIIEC) of the Islamic Development Bank (ISDB) and coordinated by the Getulio Vargas Foundation. The agro-processing centres will manufacture the equipment required for processing, drying, packaging, storage and marketing of agro commodities, as the government aims to revolutionise the agricultural sector. The programme is expected to create five million jobs and inject over $10 billion into the economy within 10 years and impact 35 million persons nutritionally and economically, according to the Minister. The Green Imperative programme was launched by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo in 2018. It was influenced by the More Food International Programme of the Brazilian Government to maximise productivity of smallholder farms with the provisions of tractors. The African Development Bank (AfDB) also approved a $500 million loan for the development of four agro-industrial zones across the country. Its President, Akinwunmi  Adesina’s representative made this known during a visit on the Chairman Senate Committee on Local and Foreign Debt, Clifford Ordia, in Abuja. Adesina, represented by his Senior Special Adviser on Industrialisation, Oyebanji Oyelaran-Oyeyinka, said discussions with the Federal Government started in April, last year on the loan. Known as Special Agro Industrial Process, it would be similar to the free trade zone, where thousands of direct and indirect jobs would be created for Nigerians across the country. The idea of the zone is for dedicated agribusiness. Africa is lagging behind in value extraction from its agricultural business. Farmers work hard but get very little.Agricultural processing zones will help farmers to extract more values from their produces. The AfDB has advanced $500 million to beef up these zones in the next few years. The private sector and others are pledging support. These funds will be used to provide roads and other infrastructure. Economic headwinds refocus attention on agriculture The sharp fall in global oil prices in early 2020 saw Brent crude trading at $33 per barrel on April 12. However, at the same time, these economic shocks have opened up an avenue for renewed discussion on policies to ensure food security and boost agricultural production. Chief Executive Officer, Multimix Group,    Dr. Obiora Madu noted that the COVID-19 pandemic reshaped the economy. Madu said for the economy to grow, such efforts must be put into  developing  the competitiveness of local  firms and the country at large in the export market. According to him, one of the strategies to drive up trade is to work on added value but this requires removal of bottlenecks that constrain exports from Nigeria as a whole,  such as logistics infrastructure. There is the need for further integration of public and private sector actions to achieve this. Madu said Nigeria has a competitive advantage in many high-value products, that can be leveraged in agri-business for either export or domestic consumption.  He said there was the need to deploy strategies to ensure food security in the coming months. Yet, given COVID-19 pandemic challenges facing the world, he said  partnerships and cooperation  were necessary to increase food production sustainably and efficiently. Though agricultural production across  the country  helped to  feed Nigerians, the pandemic raised concerns about food security for many. It  exposed  food insecurity, and related economic challenges Nigerians were facing. Chief Executive, BROTE Urban Vegetable Farm & Processing Limited, Innocent Mokidi noted that   the country could face acute food insecurity by  next year, despite efforts to pick the economy from the  impact of the  pandemic. Founder & CEO Farmcrowdy, Onyeka Akumah noted that despite the challenges predicated by the pandemic, his organisation has taken steps to drive advancements in agricultural technology, productivity and safety, which have positioned the country to effectively manage through the crisis and prepare for a post-pandemic future. He said what Nigeria needs to do is to establish itself as one of the main players in farming through longstanding investments in small and large-scale agricultural innovation,  tapping  into the entrepreneurial spirit of farmers across the country. Country Manager, HarvestPlus, Dr Paul Ilona  said there was the need to strengthen supply chains which  grappled  with the COVID-19 to  help the  economy rebound from the pandemic. According to him, the  economic effects of the pandemic sent clear messages about the importance of resilient, robust, reliable and secure supply chains.  The pandemic, however, disrupted supply chains within countries and across borders, while it also disconnected  agricultural supply chains to important sectors of the economy. He stressed the need for the government to establish mechanisms for addressing supply chain issues on a regular basis going forward. The overarching goal should be to make  the nation’s supply chains more secure, reliable and competitive. New cassava varieties Five new cassava varieties developed with support from NextGen Cassava  were approved for release in Nigeria. This was led by NextGen Cassava Breeding Project, an international partnership led by Cornell University, United States. The next generation varieties deliver promising options for smallholder farmers in resisting cassava diseases and marketing their crops to consumers. The new varieties were named Game-Changer, Hope, Obasanjo-2, Baba-70 and Poundable. The varieties were approved mid December 2020 by Nigeria’s National Variety Release Committee. “The five next generation varieties feature high yields and robust disease resistance important for farmers and characteristics sought by consumers,” NextGen Cassava Breeding Project  stated in its recent report. The report noted that “Poundable” is the first fresh market variety released in Nigeria, while ‘Hope’ and ‘Baba-70’ have excellent gari and fufu quality to address the processed food market.  ‘Game-Changer’ and ‘Obasanjo-2’, have high and stable starch content, which is desired by industrial processors for flour, starch and ethanol. The  releases by the National Root Crops Research Institute (NRCRI) in collaboration with the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA)  were  the first varieties released using the modernised breeding technologies supported by NextGen Cassava. Increase in food items prices The National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) stated that prices of some food items have increased in recent period. The NBS stated this in its ‘Selected Food Price Watch’ data for the month. The bureau said the average price of one dozen ‘agric’ eggs, medium size, increased from November 2019 to November 2020 by 6.64 per cent, while it increased by 1.42 per cent to N494.72 in November from N487.81 in October 2020. In a similar manner, the average price of 1kg of tomato also increased year-on-year by 25.86 per cent and month-on-month by 2.77 per cent to N316.16 in November from N307.63 in October. Also, the average price of 1kg of rice, imported high quality sold loose, increased year-on-year by 23.46 per cent and month-on-month by 3.71 per cent to N549.98 in November from N530.32 in October 2020. Similarly, the average price of 1kg of yam tuber increased year-on-year by 16.26 per cent but decreased month on month by -2.72 per cent to N236.25 in November from N242.87 in October. The NBS uses field work for its extensive data gathering, involving more than 700 NBS staff in all states of the federation and supported by supervisors who were monitored by internal and external observers. While the government has continuously reiterated its supports for the development of the agricultural sector, the year 2020 brought home the urgency of addressing the country’s self sufficiency in food production and enabling of the sector for massive job creation. 