The National Pension Commission (PenCom) Tuesday disclosed that due to the COVID-19 pandemic, it was unable to carry out the annual physical Verification/Enrollment exercise of employees of Treasury Funded MDAs of the Federal Government that are due to retire from service between January and December 2021. It, however, stated that it has begun the process to automate the verification/enrollment process, with prospective retirees choosing between the self-assisted or the Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) assisted option. Disclosing this in a statement in Abuja, the Management of the Commission added that the exercise is scheduled to commence within the first quarter of 2021. It said, “This is to inform employees of Treasury Funded MDAs of the Federal Government that are due to retire from service between January and December 2021, that the National Pension Commission (PenCom) is unable to conduct the annual physical Verification/Enrollment exercise this year due to the Coronavirus pandemic (COVID-19). “However, the Commission is putting an automated process in place that would ensure seamless conduct of the annual verification/enrolment exercise. This new process has two options for the prospective retirees, namely the self-assisted or the Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) assisted option. “The self-assisted option entails a prospective retiree scanning original copies of all relevant documents required for the exercise and uploading these documents to the Enrollment web portal located on the Commission’s website (www.pencom.gov.ng). “After carrying out this process, the retiree is required to visit his/her PFA for the verification and validation of the submitted documents. “If a prospective retiree chooses the PFA assisted option, he/she is required to initiate and conclude the Verification/Enrollment process by visiting his/her PFA to verify and validate all relevant original documents to enable the PFA to upload these documents to the Commission’s Enrollment portal on behalf of the prospective retiree. “This exercise is scheduled to commence within the first quarter in 2021. Details will be published in the national newspapers and on the Commission’s website on or before 31 March 2021. The Commission assures prospective retirees and the public of its commitment to excellent service delivery.”