 “DEMOCRACY prevailed”, President-elect Joe Biden declared with a passion that he rarely displayed during the election season. It was the appropriate feeling. After a baseless and dangerous assault on democratic institutions which have been the pride of a nation for more than two centuries, righteous indignation is warranted. The assault was not unanticipated. A candidate refused to commit to accepting the results of the elections even before the first votes were cast. It wasn’t the first time. In 2016, the same candidate refused, suggesting at a point in a debate that he would accept, before completing the sentence dramatically with “if I win.” That should have been a signal for every democracy-respecting politician regardless of party affiliation. They should have raised their voices to stop the demagogue from debasing the pride of the nation. But they didn’t. He won then, and the losing candidate called to congratulate him in the middle of the night, and conceded publicly within twenty-four hours, pledging her support for the new administration. That was the norm and the expectation. Until now. A maverick candidate with a resolve to shatter norms appealed to the worst instincts of his fellow human species with bitterness eroding their sense of right and wrong, and rammed his way through a political party which sells itself as a conservatory of norms and values. Many in the party saw him for what he was then, and they knew that he had displayed the essence of who he is. They characterized him in unflattering terms. But he won fair and square. Then each of them was transfigured from critic to sycophant, abandoning their brand which has now been all but ruined. What, however, is the beef? What is the complaint of the loser-in-chief? His campaign lawyers insinuated voter fraud in the court of public opinion. But when they had their day in the court of law where it mattered for their case, they avoided the language of voter fraud because they knew it can’t be proven. Thus, out of the 60 court cases they filed, they lost 59 and won 1. Not a bad statistic for democracy! The one they won had to do with the counting of a few late votes in Pennsylvania, which had not been counted anyway. It didn’t change the outcome of the state election. Still, what was the basis of the allegation of voter fraud in the court of public opinion? This election year has been an enormous challenge. Coronavirus pandemic which was downplayed by the administration has killed more than 300,000 Americans to date and infected more than 16 million. States and local government officials faced a daunting task of conducting elections in a pandemic-ridden environment with the potential of risking the lives of poll workers and voters. In their wisdom, they decided to expand their mail-in voting capacities. Strangely, one candidate saw this as a fraudulent option, and endlessly railed against it. Voters defied all obstacles including the fear of Covid-19 infection. In record numbers, they took advantage of legal mail-in voting, in-person early voting, and in-person Election Day voting, shattering previous records by huge numbers. The tirade against mail-in voting didn’t deter them. Neither did the threat of Election Day intimidation by “poll watchers” stop them from exercising their right. Some state legislatures and county board of elections, obviously being clever by half, instituted policies that prevented mail-in ballots from being counted earlier than in-person Election Day ballots. Thus, in some states and counties, Election Day ballots gave the appearance that the Republican candidate was winning because Republicans largely voted in-person on Election Day while Democrats mostly voted by mail or early. But when election officials started to count mail-in ballots, the result shifted significantly in favor of Biden. This is where the allegation of fraud and mysterious ballot dumps came from. All the efforts of the president’s lawyers have been directed toward throwing out these legally counted mail-in ballots. Election officials, having authorized mail-in voting and other precautions for safe election, not ready to compromise their integrity, stuck to their decision and refused to budge despite pressure from the highest office in the land. Even the closest allies of the President became his staunch enemies in the process. The Attorney-General who didn’t refrain from doing anything no matter how compromised for the President, was forced to resign because he declared that his department found no voter fraud. The Cyber Security Chief was fired by the President for declaring that the election was the most secured ever. And the President has all but declared his ally, the Georgia State Governor, a one-term governor for his stand on the election. None of the three Supreme Court Justices appointed by the President supported his lawsuit against the results. Same with all his appointed lower court judges some of who dismissed his lawsuit with prejudice. But as the President-elect noted on Monday, the outrage in all of these is that more than half of the Republican elected members of Congress and Attorneys-General from at least 17 states signed their names to a frivolous lawsuit which they must know won’t succeed. This suggests that these so-called leaders are weak in character. But for the strength of the institutions and a few men and women of sturdy character, American democracy would have been irreparably damaged. And so, democracy prevailed because some chose to serve with conscience as my friend put it in a recent exchange. And here is the special lesson from the American election. The issue is not just about the outcome of the election, as important as that is. Surely, there are many who support the policies of the Trump administration, including its inward-looking America First agenda. There is nothing wrong with that. Election has consequences and a president must be seen to be committed to the mandate given him or her. But the absence of values of decency and honesty is distressing for many, including members of the President’s party, especially the Lincoln Project sponsors who battled him to submission. Yet, that’s not all the lesson. If the president and his team had their way, their goal is the disenfranchisement of millions of black and brown voters who live in battleground states and counties where their votes were instrumental to his loss. Democracy is a game of numbers. But the lesson this trite axiom should teach politicians is the need to multiply their numbers. Unfortunately, it appears that the lesson Trump and his allies learnt is to subtract rather than add, to divide rather than multiply. They would rather disenfranchise black and brown voters rather than enact policies that would attract them to the Republican Party. That, obviously, is not a smart strategy. In the final analysis then, to survive the weakness of human nature and thrive, democracy depends on strong institutions and some honest brokers who believe in its ideals. We have no assurance that there will be no rogue actors and chaos agents every now and then. In a long time, America has not had this kind of disruptive agent on the national scene with such a herd following. As many smart commentators have suggested, it is how fascism begins and triumphs. What this means is that even the oldest modern democracy is not immune from the threat of fascism. This time, the dedication of a few patriots saved the nation. Nigeria is a baby democracy with severe teething problems not least of which is the tendency toward authoritarian dictatorship with a cat and mouse relationship between the elite and the masses in both private and public sectors. Whereas American democracy has created strong institutions and has produced some committed institutionalists ready to defend the system against attack, Nigeria has not even started that task. Egoistic human nature still runs through the veins of many citizens and leaders. “What’s in it for me?” is their philosophical posture and their assumption is that everyone has a price. If no one is ready to defend the system, and there are rogue agents waiting in the wings to game it, we cannot count on it sustaining itself. This is our stark reality. 