A top-of-the-table clash takes pride of place on the final weekend of Bundesliga action in 2020, with Leon Bailey’s in-form Bayer Leverkusen looking to hold off the challenge of Bayern Munich and the irrepressible Robert Lewandowski at the BayArena tonight. With RB Leipzig heavy favourites to beat FC Koln at home on Matchday 13, both sides require a win to be assured of occupying top spot heading into the winter break. Leverkusen sit at the top of the Bundesliga table, one point ahead of second-placed Bayern Munich. Players like Nadiem Amiri and Lucas Alario have impressed, and some talented youngsters, including Florian Wirtz and Moussa Diaby, have done well with the opportunities given to them. Bayern Munich, on the other hand, look tired. They continue to get results, and the return of players like Joshua Kimmich from injury will be key for manager Hansi Flick. The Bavarians are the favourites once again to win the Bundesliga, and have the resources to do so. With victory in the Rhine Derby against Cologne in midweek, Leverkusen have their end-of-year destiny in their own hands, as they look to head into the winter break at the top of the pile. The Werkself can underline their authority in the most unequivocal of ways by beating Bayern. Impressively, Peter Bosz’s side are the last remaining unbeaten side in the Bundesliga after 12 matches. No side has ever gone unbeaten for an entire season in Germany’s top-flight, but Bosz will certainly not be allowing his players to think of that at this early stage of proceedings. However, having narrowly missed out on a Champions League qualification place last season, Leverkusen look every inch a top four side this campaign. Mitchell Weiser and Moussa Diaby both struck within the opening 10 minutes in Cologne, with the hosts not even managing a single shot on target in the entire match. Patrik Schick showed signs of returning to his best with another goal in the second half, before 17-year-old Florian Wirtz scored for the second successive match. The midfielder is already some player and will no doubt be firmly on Leverkusen’s forthcoming opponents’ radar, both in terms of shutting Wirtz down on Saturday and signing him in the future. Indeed, with Joshua Kimmich, Leon Goretzka and Javi Martinez all out injured for the Bavarians at the moment, Hansi Flick would dearly love to have a midfielder of Wirtz’s talent and potential at his disposal. The 55-year-old deployed an incredibly attacking 4-1-4-1 system against Wolfsburg on Wednesday, with Serge Gnabry, Thomas Muller, Leroy Sane and Kingsley Coman all lining up behind Robert Lewandowski. It would be fair to say Corentin Tolisso has had more comfortable nights at the base of the midfield. However, Flick’s side showed precisely why they are reigning domestic and European champions, ending their opponents’ unbeaten record this season by grinding out a hard-fought 2-1 victory. Lewandowski’s brace either side of half-time were Bayern’s only two shots on target across the entire 90 minutes, which was in stark contrast to Wolfsburg’s tally of six including Maximilian Philipp’s early opener. However, with a world-class striker like the Poland international on the pitch, not as many clear-cut chances are generally required to be created in order to win games. Flick will be hoping this is the case today  to ensure his side head into the New Year at the top of the league. This could be a very difficult match for the Bavarians as Leverkusen have won two of their three most recent Bundesliga meetings with Bayern, and have lost just three of their last 11 home league assignments against them (three wins, five draws). In 33 previous encounters between the two sides, Bayern hold the clear advantage. They have won 21 games, lost six and drawn six and the two clubs last faced each other in the final of the DFB-Pokal earlier this year, with Bayern Munich beating Bayer Leverkusen 4-2, a Lewandowski brace and goals from David Alaba and Serge Gnabry; Sven Bender and midfielder Kai Havertz, now at Chelsea, scored the goals for Bayer Leverkusen. While Alario is Leverkusen’s most potent attacking threat this term with eight league goals in just eight games at a rate of one every 70 minutes; Bailey has nine goals from his last nine competitive outings. He’s also hit four goals in nine meetings with Bayern. Bayern are not quite at the peak of their powers at present,  having conceded first in their last six Bundesliga matches, albeit fighting back to get a result in all of them with three wins and three draws. Leverkusen is one of the only sides in the league who can match them for possession in midfield, particularly given the absence of Goretzka and Kimmich and Lewandowski has only scored four times in 17 Bundesliga games against Leverkusen, and just twice in nine for Bayern. Bosz will be unable to call upon the services of young Brazilian winger Paulinho, Argentina international Exequiel Palacios and right-back Santiago Arias, who are all injured. Defender Sven Bender and Chilean midfielder Charles Aranguiz are also still recovering from injuries. Meanwhile, Bayern Munich will be without young centre-back Tanguy Nianzou, and veteran Spain international Javi Martinez. There are also doubts over the availability of German midfielder Leon Goretzka, France international Corentin Tolisso, Spanish defender Lucas Hernandez and versatile player Joshua Kimmich. *With agency reports.