The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ebonyi State are in a war of words over the recent violence in the state. Nine persons have been killed in what the police and government described as ‘cult-related’ killings. A statement by the PDP Acting National Vice Chairman (Southeast), Ali Odefa, accused APC of orchestrating the murder of two party members. He said: “The PDP notes with serious concerns the ugly developments in Ebonyi State in the last few weeks, which has led to the death of many innocent people. “On November 27, Governor David Umahi made wild allegations against our party leaders, saying ‘I needed to raise an alarm because lives will be lost’. True to his threat, barely three days after that televised threat, a loyal member, Shedrak Nwode, from Umuezoka, Ezra South council, with his fiancée, were killed by a senior official of Umahi’s government. “The late Nwode’s crime was refusing to shout ‘APC –Change’ at a wedding. Three days after Nwode’s death, on December 4, three prominent supporters of our party in Ugwulangwu community were arrested on trump up charges of sponsoring cultists and the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB). It took serious interventions, including a threat to protest naked in Abakaliki by old women, for them to be released. “…our members yet again suffered injuries with cars vandalised and many of them lost their valuables.” Odefa also accused security of being passive and seemingly unconcerned. But the APC debunked Odefa’s accusations. Acting Chairman Stanley Okoroemegha said the nine persons were killed in cult clashes. According to him, the governor has given ultimatum to arrest and prosecute the culprits. Okoroemegha, who is also Commissioner for Internal Security and Border Peace, said the Umahi-led government believes in freedom of association. He said: “It is a wrong accusation. There is freedom of association. In fact, Ebonyi remains the number one place where it is being practiced.”