Country Director, ActionAid Nigeria, Ene Obi has urged people with disabilities to embrace the teaching profession as a key to overcoming stereotypes and stigma and providing support to children with disabilities coming through education system. She made this known during an event organised by ActionAid Nigeria in partnership with Human Development Initiatives Lagos,in commemoration of the World Disability Day with the students of Ajasa Odo Alabe Community Junior High School,Ajasa,with the theme:”Building back better: towards a disability inclusive, accessible and sustainable post COVID- 19 World. She stressed that the organisation wouldcontinue to advocate the rights of persons living with disabilities,push for their inclusion, support the development of policy and budget for inclusive education in Nigeria. The Executive Director, Human Development Initiatives,Olufunso Owasanoye said the Lagos State Government has established the Office of Disability Affairs and has made deliberate efforts in ensuring that the new public facilities meet the needs of some persons with disabilities. “We commend the governor and his team for their active collaboration with civil society and private sector in making these happen,”she said. Actress and ActionAid Ambassador,Hilda Dokubo  encouraged the pupils, saying they   could achieve anything they put their mind to. Her words”You are not disabled,you are just challenged,we are all challenged because there is no human that has everything complete”. According to Head, Education Committee,Joint National Associated of Persons With Disabilities (JONAPWD),who also works with the Deputy Director of Lagos State Ministry of Education, Rita Boyo, urged the pupils to work to achieve greatness in life. “I am also a visually impaired person,so if someone like me  could pass through the level you are passing through and I’m up to the task,I know you children too can work and be greater people in the state”she said. The Principal of the school,Mrs Ogunleye A.O,represented by the Vice Principal,Mrs Oshileye O.I  said: ”A child with disabilities could be more mentally sound and brilliant than a child without any disability.” The school authority and the students appreciate ActionAid Nigeria for their love and support. ActionAid Nigeria has committed to supporting Ajasa Odo Alabe Community Junior High School with the commissioning of a ramp.