  The General Officer Commanding 6th Division, Port Harcourt, Rivers State, Maj-Gen. Johnson Olu Irefin, has reportedly died of complications associated with the Coronavirus pandemic. The sudden death of Irefin, who assumed the command of the division in July, replacing Maj.-Gen. Felix Agugo, was said to have thrown the army into mourning. The Army Public Relations Officer, Maj. Charles Ekeocha, kept mum over the development, but a senior military officer  confirmed it. The senior officer said: “One of our fine officers is dead. He is the GOC 6th Division. He died in Abuja after developing complications caused by the Coronavirus pandemic.” Prior to assuming the command of the 6 Division and Land Component Commander Operation Delta Safe, Port Harcourt Barracks, Irefin was the immediate-past GOC 81 Division, Lagos. However, the ongoing Chief of Army Staff’s Conference yesterday came to an abrupt end after one of the participating senior Army Officers, suspected to be Gen. Irefin, tested positive for COVID-19. All participants were mandated by the Army command to immediately proceed on self-isolation. Also, the guests earlier invited for the wedding of the son of the Chief of Army Staff, Mr. Hamisu Tukur Buratai, have been pruned down with the exclusion of all the officers, who were at the conference. According to a statement by the Acting Director Army Public Relations, Brig.-Gen. Sagir Musa, “the Nigerian Army wishes to inform members of the public that due to resurgence of COVID 19 Pandemic in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja in what appears to be a second wave of infection cycle and the unfortunate incident on Tuesday, December 8, 2020, where an officer participating in the ongoing Chief of Army Staff’s Annual Conference 2020, here in Abuja tested positive to COVID-19. “The remaining activities of the conference have, therefore, been immediately cancelled. All the participants have been mandated to immediately proceed on self-isolation in line with the Federal Government’s protocol for COVID 19 and to prevent any further spread of the disease.” A separate statement, also signed by Musa, said: “Due to resurgence of COVID-19 Pandemic in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja in what appears to be a second wave of infection cycle and the unfortunate incident on Tuesday 8, December 2020, where  an officer participating in the ongoing Chief of Army Staff’s Annual Conference 2020 here in Abuja tested positive  to COVID-19, the Chief of Army Staff Lt Gen TY Buratai wishes to inform all dignitaries and other invited guests that activities earlier scheduled for the wedding of his son Mr. Hamisu Tukur Buratai will proceed as arranged albeit pruned down without the participation of all those who were at the conference.”