That in a nutshell is how Nigerians feel in 2020. In January, little or nothing forebode misery in the year. But before the first quarter was done, misery had crept in through COVID-19, that most debilitating of diseases that dispatches with unabating fury, that most cavalier of plagues that humiliates the rich and the poor, and levels the mighty and the weak. By December, well into its second wave, a recrudescence foretold by scientists and epidemiologists, it had become the most veritable Grim Reaper the world has known since the world wars. But nothing in COVID-19 prepared Nigerians for the march of the other Reaper, banditry, or cast such an overwhelming sense of helplessness, hopelessness and despair as insecurity. Month after month, and week in and week out, mass murder is committed all around the country on a scale that has paralysed and stupefied the nation. The country’s unending troubles began almost inauspiciously as insurgency some 11 years ago, but were limited to the Northeast corner. In 2009, a group of zealots protesting the socio-economic condition of the country, which they viewed through their extremist religious prism, banded together under the banner of Mohammed Yusuf’s Boko Haram and took Borno State by storm killing, maiming and pillaging. At first, they received favourable hearing from a number of people hungry for religious purity; but the state quickly realised that the movement had some definite political undertones, especially considering their avowed objective to overthrow the decadent old order. In addition to a hated government holding the reins of office in Abuja during the Goodluck Jonathan presidency, sections of the populace saw and embraced the revolutionary potentials of Boko Haram until it grew into a full-scale insurgency that began to consume sympathizers and financiers of the movement. Somehow, some parts of the North, particularly the Northwest and North Central, sequestered the insurgency in the Northeast and deprived it of the oxygen of martial and ideological following. Even then, the country was being bled relentlessly, and that bleeding has continued till today regardless of what form the bleeding takes. When the authority of the state is challenged so flagrantly in any corner of the country, if it is not quickly controlled, it is bound to spread to other parts in one form or the other. It did not come as a surprise then that insecurity has spread like wild fire all over the North in the form of banditry and kidnapping. As far as measurement goes, no one is sure today which is the more pernicious of the two evils, or whether more blood is shed through insurgency or banditry. Both evils have defied the state and dared the rest of the country, exporting their extortionate methods and nihilistic ideology to far-flung and previously peaceful states. The bandits were youths alienated and dispossessed; now they are wreaking havoc on the country and exacting revenge on a society that humiliated and scorned them. Boys schools are raided for ransom and recruitment of child soldiers; and girls-only colleges are raided also for ransom and sex slaves. The insurgents and bandits no longer rally under any plausible religious banner; they have become purely mercantilist and predatory, pursuing and sating their fleshly desires with reckless abandon. No one believes or even cares about their occasional gestures to religious ideals. In 2014 they raided a girls-only secondary school in Chibok, Borno State, and carted away 276 students. In 2016 and 2017, after humiliating negotiations, the government paid ransom and retrieved some of the girls. As a sign of the country’s and leaders’ impotence, the other schoolgirls have not been heard from till today. But in Nigeria, lightning strikes the same place twice. In February 2018, the same Boko Haram forces which perpetrated the Chibok abductions, attacked and carted away 110 schoolgirls  from Government Girls Science and Technical College, Dapchi, Yobe State. After a panicky and clumsy negotiation, all the girls but one, Leah Sharibu, were released in March of that year after a humiliating procession through Dapchi by the abductors. As a mark of the incompetence of the state, not to say the vacuity of the leaders, Miss Sharibu has been abandoned and betrayed. Village after village in the Northeast has been pillaged by the insurgents. And now, because of unrelenting banditry, many states in the Northwest have become fragile and insecure under the weight of banditry. Governors and traditional rulers have cried out in frustration, and the highways have become so unsafe that travelling at certain times of the day has become an ordeal. Years of uncontrolled population growth, inattentiveness to regular, vocational and technical education, and corruption have bred an angry and impatient youth population. No one disputes the enervating reign of violence and evil in the region; what is in dispute is how to rein the vices in. Indeed, it seems that the state governments themselves have resigned to cohabiting with the evils, only fretful when the evils combine with a crisis like COVID-19 to create a lethal mix of troubles no one seems to have a clue how to resolve. Unsafe in the cities, unsafe in the highways, and unsafe in their homes, the people are in a quandary what to make of their lives and living. But while COVID-19 was unanticipated, and its panaceas largely left to scientists to figure out, few expected that the government would resign to fate over banditry and insurgency. Sadly, the government has been as nonplussed as the people. In the case of the Chibok abductions, it negotiated half way, paid ransom, got back some of the girls over a two-year period, and then gave up altogether, perhaps overwhelmed by the cost of doing much more than it already did. In Dapchi, it also paid ransom, but for inexplicable reason it won’t disclose, it left a schoolgirl behind. And despite promising to get her back, the government has done nothing. Miss Sharibu has reportedly been married off to an insurgent commander. The government has accumulated military hardware, has superior number of troops, has a far bigger budget than the insurgents, yet a sizeable part of the Northeast has remained unsafe, and insurgents have easily penetrated and despoiled anywhere that catches their strategic fancy. If they wish to abduct any group of people tomorrow, they can easily hatch the plot and execute it with aplomb. If the government’s response to Boko Haram has been desultory and largely ineffective, its response to banditry has been much worse. Boko Haram made the tactical mistake of fighting pitched battles and holding territories. They have suffered terrible losses so bad that they can hardly hold any territory today. They now limit themselves to terrorizing large swathes of land and exerting deeply injurious influence over many local governments. This tactical change borne out of necessity has served them well just as holding territories had been gratifying but tactically costly. Worse, the change has frustrated government forces and demoralised the people. Bandits, unlike Boko Haram, have been highly mobile, effective and incomparably lethal, in fact cheekily making certain highways inaccessible to travellers. Once their location is bombed, they move out, only to return a little later. Government forces have been unable to hold territories from which bandits were neutralised, and indeed have sadly reduced themselves to sharing with bandits control of the highways for certain hours of the day. Appallingly, the federal government has had only one ace to play: military option. But that option is a failed option, a tactical manoeuvre that has proved predictable, beatable and unsustainable. There are no other options. Consequently, apart from planting themselves in obvious locations and camps, most of which are circumvented by the bandits, government forces have reduced themselves only to responding to attacks and picking up corpses. Banditry has, therefore, proliferated, as witnessed by the December 11 daring Kankara, Katsina State, abductions in which about 344 students were carted away almost unchallenged in landlocked terrains. The young schoolboys were recovered after ransom was paid, with the government waffling over the meaning of ransom and the identity of those who carried out the negotiations. Had the abduction been organized by Boko Haram itself, instead of its affiliates, the story would have been different. The country now seems fated to pine away between the anvils of Boko Haram and bandits, much of the crisis playing out in the North, but a lot now manifesting even in the South. Since there is little coordination in the federal response to the country’s existential problem, the nihilists are likely to be more emboldened to organize and orchestrate more attacks. With each attack, more territory is yielded to the anarchists, while the country is left smothered by unhappiness. The question is not whether the insecurity crisis would ever be resolved, but when it would come to a head in an endgame that seems fated to tip the country over the precipice. The only option left unexplored is for the Muhammadu Buhari administration to ask for help; but those who have hijacked the administration lack both the competence to tackle the grave existential crisis confronting the nation and the wisdom to recognise its limitations and the need to ask for help.