The Olu of Warri, His Majesty Ogiame Ikenwoli, has reiterated calls for the resumption of works at the multi-billion dollar Gas Revolution Industrial Park (GRIP), Ogidigben in Warri South West council area of Delta State. He has also appealed to the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, to “complete the process of dredging” the Escravos Bar for Warri and Koko ports in the state. The traditional ruler made the calls while presenting an address during his 5th coronation anniversary held at the palace in Warri, at the weekend. Recall that the GRIP project and dredging of the Escravos Bar were parts of demands issued by the Movement for the Development of Itsekiri Oil/Gas Communities (MDIOGPC), alongside other groups in Delta State, to the Federal Government five months ago. Commending President Muhammadu Buhari for his commitment towards peace and development of the Niger Delta region, he stated the need for key ongoing or abandoned projects across Warri Kingdom to receive government attention. The monarch explained that the GRIP project is “very dear” to the people of Warri kingdom and emphasised that on completion it will be of enormous benefit to the nation at large. “When the groundbreaking ceremony was done in January 2015, our hopes were very high for the nation at large. Since then, however, not much has been done,” Ogiame added. HM Ikenwoli also renewed appeal to the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs to fund the Koko-Ogheye Road project, which he inspected in September, pointing out that on completion it will open the Benin River corridor, which links down to Lagos, to development. Speaking on the COVID-19 pandemic, the traditional ruler urged Nigerians, especially the people of the kingdom to continue to take all precautionary measures as advised by the Federal Ministry of Health. Prince Yemi Emiko, who spoke on behalf of the Olu-in-Council noted that the people of Warri Kingdom are “happy” to celebrate yet another “significant” year with their king. Some dignitaries present are Dennis Guwor, Representative of Warri South constituency at the Delta State House of Assembly, the Delta State Supreme Council of Islamic Affairs, led by Alhaji Abdulrasheed Ajisafe, members of the Warri Progressive Society and the Itsekiri Congress, United Kingdom. Others are the Warri traditional council of chiefs led by the Ologbotsere of Warri Kingdom, Chief Ayiri Emami, the Warri Ladies Vanguard among several other sons and daughters of the kingdom.