Nimble Solicitors in Lagos is seeking the help of the Commissioner of Police (CP) in Lagos State Hakeem Odumosu, to quell alleged intimidation, harassment and attempted land grab at Oworonsoki Residential Scheme by a chief in the community. The piece of land at Block 6 Plot 19, the firm said, belongs to its client, DBSPS Ltd. In a petition by its principal partner, Tijani Opeyemi, the firm alleged that the chief forcibly took possession of its client’s property at Oworonsoki, and deployed thugs and miscreants to harass the lawful owners. The land, the firm said, was bought from someone who purchased it from the Lagos State government. “The said piece of land is part of a Lagos State Government Scheme and never belonged to any individual or family but the state government. It was initially allotted by the Lagos State Government to Mr Ogunbayo Olalekan Mumuni. The said Mr Ogunbayo subsequently assigned the said property to one Mr Akingbola from whom our client purchased the property,” Opeyemi said. He stated that on December 17, his client was alerted that the said chief had begun to erect a fence on the land and placed thugs on it to fend off any person who interfered or attempted to stop the workers. The matter, he explained, was lodged at the Oworonsoki Divisional Police Station after several attempts to enter the property were denied. Opeyemi said: “Impressively, the Divisional Police Officer interceded in the matter and directed all parties to submit their respective documents and claims to the property latest by December 24. While we promptly complied by submitting ours, the said chief refused to show up at the station and till date neither tendered any document nor gave any legal reason why he should enter our client’s property to take possession. “However, despite the Divisional Police Officer’s best efforts, including calling the said chief and his thugs to order, the said chief has refused to desist from his actions on the absurd grounds that all lands in Oworonsoki belonged to his ancestors and that he has the right to enter upon any property he deems fit. “Our client, being a law-abiding citizen who does not wish to engage in self-help and jungle justice, therefore, implores you to use your good offices to intercede in this matter and bring the said chief and his thugs who have denied our client access to its lawful property to book.”