 Asking President Muhammadu Buhari to act on the growing insecurity in the land is analogous to asking couples not to forget their conjugal obligations. Yet, we may need to do this because security of lives and property is the major function of any government. And the Buhari government has scored an abysmally low mark in this all-important aspect. Indeed, that the sanctity of life no longer has meaning in the country is exemplified by the gruesome murder of 43 farmers by the Shekau-led militant Islamist group, Boko Haram, in Zabarmari village, Jere Local Government Area of Borno State on November 28. Thirty-five more decomposing bodies were discovered on November 30, bringing the casualties to 83. The faction also claimed responsibility for an attack that killed 22 farmers last month. Governor Babagana Zulum who by now must have been weary of receiving condolence missions said the state residents are faced with desperate choices. “In one side, they stay at home they may be killed by hunger and starvation; on the other, they go out to their farmlands and risk getting killed by the insurgents,” he said. President Buhari described the gruesome killings as “insane”. This is what we already know. Or, how else would one have reacted to human beings slitting the throats of fellow humans just to avenge the arrest of one terrorist and his being handed over to the security agencies? But presidential spokesman Garba Shehu rubbed salt on the injury when he blamed the farmers for not getting clearance from the military before venturing to their farms. Perhaps it did not occur to him that this was an indictment, sort of, of their government’s war against the bandits. Was it farmers who should seek clearance from the military before going to farm, or the military should give 24-hour cover to people engaged in farming, if only to avert food crisis? It is this serial goofs, especially in recent times by officials of the Federal Government, that began to give meaning to the impetus of spiritual dimension to explain the turn of events in the Buhari presidency offered by someone with whom I was discussing the country’s pitiable state last week Monday. Indeed, after several attempts at trying to find out how Nigerians have come to this sorry pass, it becomes somewhat difficult not to see some sense in the fellow’s argument. It is the kind of thing that happens when all else had failed. And, as we all know, religion is not just the opium of the  people, it is also the opium of many of our leaders. Many of them have had cause to ask us to pray our way out at critical junctures of our nation’s history, even if their hearts are far from God. As we all know, the talk of the town where two or three are gathered in the country today is the state of the Nigerian nation. We are barely 19 days to Christmas and 26 days to another year. Yet, all the tell-tale signs that usually herald the coming of these events are conspicuously missing. The Christmas lights, the Christmas songs, the hustle and bustle that are usually noticed in the markets in this season are yet to surface. This is a year that rams, goats, turkeys and all will give glory to God because of the economic adversity which would make it impossible for many Nigerians to make effective demands for them, to celebrate the end of year festivities. Even fowls can seize the opportunity to defecate in pots because many of them are not likely to rest in this their usual resting place (the pots) this year because of the economy that is not responding to stimuli. As a matter of fact, the butt of jokes all over is that this year, many people who cannot kill rams to celebrate the festive season should kill fowls and those who cannot afford to kill fowls should ‘kill’ fish. Yet, those who cannot afford to ‘kill’ fish should buy fish that had been killed and frozen, popularly called Oku Eko (referring to imported frozen fish, some of which have this not-too-funny appearance of staring at visitors even in death (Tejumalejo). Virtually the living standard of millions of Nigerians has fallen drastically such that almost everyone would drop several steps backwards from where they were last year and the year before. We can only imagine the extent of deprivation and trauma on the part of Nigerians if we add the growing insecurity to all of these. The person who took my mind to the religious dimension on the Buhari administration said he had been consistent that Nigerians should not expect much from the administration. As a matter of fact, he said he always had heated arguments with Buhari’s supporters in the build-up to the 2015 election. But he said he would have been happy if the government had rubbished his prognosis by performing because that would have meant better life for millions of Nigerians, including himself. He then likened President Buhari’s case to that of the Iaraelites who insisted on Samuel giving them a king, without asking whether that was God’s plan for them. They eventually got the king, since they kept pestering the prophet for one, but the aftermath was not palatable. In the same vein, he said thrice had Candidate Buhari contested for the presidency; and thrice had he missed it, despite securing millions of votes that could not translate to the presidency because of constitutional stipulations of spread and geo-political balance. At a point, the then General Buhari wept, ostensibly over Nigeria’s problems, but shortly after losing the presidential election in 2011, swearing that never again would he contest for the presidency. At another, he threatened that blood would flow if he was again out-rigged. When God saw the level of desperation, He caved in, the fellow said. Presidency Buhari wanted; presidency he got. But first, He allowed the then President Goodluck Jonathan’s government to make corruption a way of life, perhaps as never witnessed in Nigeria’s history, thus paving the way for the then General Buhari to win the election, having been assisted with oxygen that gave life to his millions of otherwise ineffectual votes. More than five years in power, this is where we are as a nation. Tongues are now wagging that General Buhari would have been regarded as the best president Nigeria never had if he had not returned to the country’s seat of power that he earlier left in 1985. This, evidently, is not a good epitaph; it is scary indeed. Scary because the prayer of most people is that their end should be more glorious than their beginning. This is why I am once again appealing to the president and his government to change gear. That Nigeria is not working is very clear to us all and I want to believe the point has been well taken even by the government’s spokespersons. At least none of them is pouncing on critics as they were doing before. None of them is telling us again that we are the largest producer of rice in West Africa or wherever, when the price of the staple has tripled in the last two or three years. Some of the country’s former leaders criticising the government might have their own flaws, but what is important is their message, which should be distilled from their person. As a matter of fact, this should be the right attitude to criticisms. Moreover, you don’t know the information at the disposal of such former leaders. The former leaders-turned-critics know that should the unexpected happen, they too are not likely to escape unscathed. Imagine the scenario if the #EndSARS protests had escalated beyond where it got to? So, a sitting government that has an adversarial disposition to such people might be shooting itself in the foot. More than five years after, no one is interested in what Jonathan’s government did as excuse for the way we are any longer. This is much more so when we see the present government’s policies and raise the alarm early enough that the policies would not go far only for government to insist that is the way it would go. We cannot be going in circles on a matter as crucial as security. The same Chief of Army Staff, Lt-Gen. Tukur Buratai, who had been assuring us that Boko Haram would soon fade away has just released a new album, that it would take us about 20 years to wipe out the sect. For how long would we continue to shift the goal post in the middle of the game? When are we going to put an end to this fast-growing terrorism industry? When things are not working in government, the cabinets are reshuffled. But it would appear President Buhari has sworn not to rejig his cabinet despite massive criticisms of non-performance, including on the part of his security chiefs. No one takes delight in seeing people lose their jobs. But it gets to a point when that becomes inevitable, at least in the larger society’s interest. President Buhari has himself said he has given his service chiefs all they require to fight the insurgency that has dogged the country in the last decade or so. I can understand his reluctance to change his service chiefs if his Muslim conscience convinced him that he had not done the needful to make them deliver value for the money Nigeria has committed to the insurgency war. But if he had done the needful as a general, and what we have is the present result, then the president needs a general cabinet reshuffle. We cannot keep saying Boko Haram has been degraded only for it to be claiming lives at the rate it is, as if those lives were mere statistics. The situation in the country now is such that everybody that matters is now an expert in the art of commiserating with victims’ families. Indeed, the number of people giving excellent graveside orations keeps multiplying because, as soon as one chapter of such opportunity closes, we wait for the next that is surely lurking somewhere and we are cocksure would come to pass sooner than later. Like some of my friends would say, this is bad at all at all.