 ON August 1, 2014, the Exam Ethics Marshals International (EEMI), with the support of the United Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) distributed 1,350 Safe School kits made up of a safety manual, video DVD and audio CD on security tips, and a bottle of hand sanitizer to 114 schools and related agencies in insurgency-prone Borno, Adamawa and Yobe states. The event held in Abuja also featured a safety workshop during which teachers from the schools, officials of the State Universal Basic Education Boards (SUBEB), emergency responders, and the like were exposed to training on safety and security skills already detailed in the kits. They learnt about what was required to assess risks the schools may be exposed to, audit threats, design emergency response plans, and establish emergency response teams in the schools. Founding Chairman of EEMI, Mr. Ike Onyechere, said the design of the kits, which had started four years earlier as a result of research, was necessitated by the need to prepare schools for crisis such that they would be better equipped to weather whatever storms they faced. Prior to the distribution of the kits in Abuja, some schools had been attacked by insurgents – the most notable of which were the attack on the Federal Government College, Buni Yadi in Yobe State where about 59 boys were killed on February 25, 2014; and the kidnap of 276 female pupils of the Government Girls’ Secondary School, Chibok in Borno State on April 14, 2014. The gravity of the attacks on the schools reverberated round the country, causing concern about safety of children in school.  Prof. Hassana Alidou, Director, UNESCO Regional Office, Abuja, who was represented by Mrs Ifeoma Amanze, head, Education Desk, UNESCO, said the agency supported the training and distribution of the kits because of the need to intervene in the emergency created by the insurgency in the North. However, six years down the line, another attack on a school has taken the nation by unawares. Over 300 pupils of Government Science Secondary School, in Kankara, Katsina State are still missing since unknown gunmen attacked their school on the night of December 11, 2020. Between 2014 and last Friday, students have been kidnapped from at least four schools in various parts of the country. When contacted, Mrs Amanze said she was under the weather and could not speak on how far the school safety initiative had gone since then. However, Onyechere told The Nation that, since then, EEMI had organised safety conferences annually, but that private schools had showed more seriousness about issues of safety than their public counterparts which are more prone to attacks. Onyechere said public schools were still vulnerable because government officials had not been responsive enough to help them get prepared. “We launched the kits on April 1, 2014 at the National Universities Commission (NUC).  We developed what we called the safe school empowerment toolkit – something that would help schools make a risk assessment – know how secure their schools are. There is a diagnostic tool in it.  And we used it for a number of institutions.  Unfortunately, private schools took it more seriously than government schools maybe because of funding. “The unfortunate aspect is that a lot of the people in leadership positions, a lot of people in the ministries and so on, they don’t show the kind of responsiveness that they ought to show. And it is only when something happens that people will start running around.  Just today I have received three enquiries about the safe school kits,” he said. During the safety programmes organised by EEMI, Onyechere said school leaders analysed attacks that occurred in the past with security experts and learnt from them. “We also had an annual Education Leaders Safety Consultative Forum.  We collaborate with all the security agencies to look at the lessons schools have learnt from recent incidents.  All the attacks on schools in the past one year for example – not just in Nigeria or Africa but across the world – we analyse it, look at it and say this is the loophole and so on. It was a very popular programme and we get the support of Nigeria Police, Civil Defence, Fire Service, and Nigerian Army,” he said. To be prepared for emergencies, Onyechere said schools must do risk assessments. His words: “First and foremost, schools should jettison the attitude of ‘it can’t happen to me”.  There has to be an attitude of ‘it can happen to anybody’.  The moment they have that, they become safety conscious.  We have articulated 100 items they have to look at. “First of all, you have to do a risk assessment – what we call a risk, threat, and vulnerability assessment of your school. There are factors that you look at and you know that this school is vulnerable to this kind of risk.  Why the risk assessment is important is that the risk a school in the Northwest is exposed to is not the same risk a school in the South is exposed to; it is not the same a school in Lagos is exposed to.  The risk factors are different but there are some common ones. If you do a risk assessment, if your school is on a major road, or at a junction or near a night club, or a flood-prone area, you can see that it is not just the risk of terrorists or armed robbers or kidnappers. If you use the risk assessment tool kits that we developed, it will tell you the specific areas of risks you are prone to.” Onyechere said school leaders needed to study school attacks so as to learn from them. On the need to provide security support for schools, safety expert Ugochi Obidiegwu, who is popularly known as the Safety Chic, said schools in violence-prone areas should have more security agencies covering them. “Collaboration with other security agencies to increase school safety is very important, most especially schools that are in very high risk areas – areas that are really prone to violence, abductions, armed robbery and the like. “When we do our research and see that schools in certain areas have a higher risk as opposed to other areas, then those schools in that area must have higher security attached to them. And security now is not the basic security that we have in our school; no.  They need support of security agencies to ensure that there is a balance. Because if you are working with basic security personnel that provides security to schools, when they are faced with people with better weapons, there is really nothing much they can do,” she said. Ms. Obidiegwu also underscored the need for funding of security agencies so they are able to offer protection. “I can also see claims of our military being underfunded, not having enough resources.  That is another issue.  Because the people that we are sending to protect the regular security do they have enough to protect the children they are sent to protect? “Collaboration is really important; funding is really important.  And now when they are funded we must ensure that the materials get to where it should get to.  We do not want to hear that funding is being released but the people on ground are not seeing the tools they need to work; they are not seeing the weapons they are going to use to defend as and when the need arises.”