The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has asked Nigerians to hold officials of the Presidency and the All Progressives Congress (APC) responsible for the festering violence, killings and terrorism in the country. The PDP said the confession by the Buhari administration that the nation, under its watch, is at the mercy of terrorists was an indictment on the administration. But, Minister of Information Lai Mohammed, who was  quoted to have made the statement, denied it. In a statement on Thursday by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, the PDP accused some unnamed APC leaders of giving overt and covert support to terrorists for their selfish interests. “The PDP recalls how the APC, as opposition, went on propaganda war to frustrate government’s effort towards procurement of weapons to fight terrorists, with some of them, who are now governors and ministers, accusing the Federal Government of seeking to use the weapons to kill opposition members. “The role played by APC leaders to frustrate the purchase of weapon through South Africa connection is still fresh in the minds of Nigerians. “Nigerians can also recall how the APC deployed negative propaganda to scuttle efforts by the Jonathan administration to bring in mercenaries that would have assisted in the anti-terrorism war. “Nigerians would also recall how these APC leaders truncated the training of the elite troops in Belarus by claiming that they were being trained as snipers to kill opposition members before the 2015 general election. “Our party also recalls how, ahead of the 2015 elections, the APC leaders encouraged hoodlums to fight against the system, with one of them, who is now a minister, emboldening hoodlums and insurgents to resist our security agencies with machine guns. “Even in government, the APC administration has failed to effectively equip our security forces, as recently confirmed by its officials, thereby jeopardizing the lives of our gallant troops fighting in the fronts, while the Commander-in-Chief, who promised to lead from the fronts, continue to issue unhelpful rhetorics from the safety and comfort of the Presidential Villa. “The public can recall how the APC Federal Government and APC governors have been making excuses for terrorists, negotiating with, and even paying and pampering the killers of our compatriots. “Nigerians also know how the APC administration had declared these marauders and bandits as deserters from Gaddafi’s army and yet ask Nigerians not to fight back but accommodate them as neighbors.”