A police station in Igboukwu in the Aguata Local Government Area of Anambra State was on Wednesday set ablaze by angry youths over alleged killing of a commercial motorcyclist by a Police officer in the area. The irate youths reportedly took to the major streets, making bonefires and barricading the ever-busy Nnobi/Igboukwu/Ekwulobia road over the alleged shooting to death of a commercial motorcycle operator by the police. The Nation gathered that hell was let lose as the news of the alleged killing at about 10pm Tuesday filtered into the ears of the youths who waited until the early hours of Wednesday before taking laws into their own hand. A resident of the area, who pleaded anonymity, said “the bike operator was riding on his bike at about 8pm when he was flagged down by some policemen who questioned him on why he was riding the bike when there was an order that they should not ride once it is 9pm. “He told the policemen that it was just past 8pm and his response did not go down well with the police who attempted to confiscate his bike while the man put up resistance. “Meanwhile, passers-by who had sympathy with the man intervened which led to heated argument between them and the police, resulting in the shooting to death of the bike operator by the police” “The news of the killing spread like wild fire and in the early morning of the next day, Wednesday, our youths mobilized, made straight to the police station and set it ablaze in retaliation.” Police spokesperson, Haruna Mohammed confirmed the incident, saying the Commissioner of Police in the state, John Abang, had ordered the arrest of the cops, while appealing for calm. He said,” On Tuesday at about 10.30pm,there was an altercation between police operatives and motorcycle riders over some impounded motorcycles as a result of the recent restriction on movement of motorcycles beyond 9pm in the State. “The situation degenerated into a chaos which led to an accidental discharge that hit one motorcycle rider and burning of Igboukwu police station by irate youth. “The Commissioner of Police John Abang is deeply saddened by the unfortunate incident and has ordered for detention of the policemen involved and full scale investigation into the matter. “The CP further appealed for calm and assures the public that justice would be done in the case and the outcome of police investigation shall be made public in due course.” Meanwhile, motorists plying the Nnobi/Igboukwu/Ekwulobia road have been compelled to take alternative route to avoid being touched by the mob who vowed to also set ablaze the Police Area command at Uga.