Kapish- Osarenren John Ogbebor’s K-Live entertainment has repositioned by floating a clothing line nine years after it berthed with a record label. The addition to the K-Live brand is known as the K-Live clothing line. The clothing line joins other arms of the brand that include a thriving artiste management outfit and a record label. Speaking on the new move, Ogbebor said, “Our fashion sense, K-Live creating a fashion brand started in 2013/2014 when we first launched our clothing line using the mainstream and social media to run public awareness campaign by distributing our clothing merchandise for FREE (none was for sale) to create awareness with hundreds of thousands of fashion-lovers wearing our fashion product in different styles”. “Following the success of what has started years ago, we are so delighted that the K-Live brand is now a name to be reckoned with in the fashion industry with higher expectations to rise above average distributing our fashion merchandise to the world following the success of our online store which gives lovers of fashion from any part of the world to simply order our fashion products and accessories from our website with just one click to varieties of our products,” he stated. Continuing, Ogbebor said, “The K-Live Brand has been a jet flying across the globe since the brand was launched in 2011 and registered in England and Wales on February 1, 2016, providing unique products, services, offers and amazing discounts connecting its targeted market/Audience to the brand products and services. Over the years we have been consistent enough to identify who we are, what we are and the solutions we offer our diverse clients – We have the know-how you need. “K-Live Entertainment/H.I.T Promo Ltd has always been diving deep to discover, develop, and maximize the talents of every talented individual under the label. K-Live Records is simply best known for signing artists from the grass root and nurturing their talents to stardom. K-Live has always been the plug for many music artists to succeed, her track record of past and present artists under the label are doing extremely well-selling hit records and touring the world with their music.”