The Sir Ahmadu Bello Memorial Foundation has said the rising insecurity in the North has tendencies of becoming a serious threat to Nigeria’s stability. The foundation, in a communique by its Managing Director/CEO, Abubakar Gambo Umar, after the 22nd Joint Meeting of its Board of Trustees and Advisory Council in Abuja, urged the Federal Government to find an enduring solution to the challenge. It expressed concern over the deteriorating security and socio-economic challenges in many Northern states, especially the recent killing of 43 rice farmers in Borno. The foundation said relevant security agencies must immediately adopt measures to forestall future occurrence of such dastardly acts. ”The current insecurity situation, especially the escalating Boko Haram attacks on innocent citizens in the Northeast, armed banditry in the Northwest and kidnapping and other forms of crises all over the North, if not adequately addressed, could escalate to undesirable dimensions and with serious consequences on the nation’s political stability,” the foundation said. According to Gambo, who is also Secretary to the Advisory Council, “members of the Board of Trustees and Advisory Council of the Sir Ahmadu Bello Memorial Foundation jointly met and examined the current challenges of insecurity and other problems presently affecting the country. After exhaustive deliberations, the joint meeting, resolved to issue the following statement: “The Foundation commends the efforts of the Northern states governors in taking the much-needed proactive measures in curtailing the menace and spread of looting and carnage occasioned by #EndSARS protests and urge them to act fast in compensating the victims to ameliorate their untold hardship. ”The foundation appreciates the roles of traditional rulers in containing the menace of #EndSARS protest in the North. The foundation supports the call for constitutional provision of roles for traditional rulers, to reposition them as agents in maintaining peace and harmony in their various domains. “Members condemn in totality, the gruesome killings of more than 43 innocent rice farmers of Zabarmari village in Jere Local Government Area of Borno State, and call on all relevant security agencies to immediately adopt measures to forestall future occurrence of such dastardly acts. “The meeting also noted and condemned the spate of ethno-religious conflict in Southern Kaduna and calls for cessation of hostilities and restoration of peace and tranquillity among residents. The meeting commends the efforts of Kaduna state government towards restoration of peace in the area. “The foundation also condemns the attacks on people of Northern extraction, who are pursuing their various legitimate businesses in the Southern parts of the country and calls on respective governors of those states to take measures in addressing the situation promptly to avoid possible escalation. “The meeting recommends that the security agencies should be adequately repositioned with adequate manpower, training and reward systems to motivate security personnel to ensure efficient and effective delivery of services. “The foundation noted that in view of the direct correlation between insecurity and the collapse of social norms and moral values provided by the public educational system, governments and key stakeholders must take concrete measures and steps to remodel the educational system – in form and content –for economic and political integration of our societies. “The Foundation also appreciates the level of engagement and consultations between the Federal Government and ASUU, and therefore calls on the government to further push for amicable resolutions to enable students resume their normal studies. The foundation appeals to leaders at all levels to have the interest of the nation at heart in their conduct and lead by example in the promotion of peace, security and progress of the North and country at large.”