 Nigerian equities closed weekend with net capital gain of N1.04 trillion for the week.The benchmark index showed average gain of 5.42 per cent for the week. This pushed the average year-to-date return so far in 2020 to 44.55 per cent, ahead of 42.3 per cent in 2017. When adjusted on the basis of the benchmark index, the average return of 44.55 per cent implies net capital gain of N5.77 trillion so far in 2020. As it was in 2017 when Nigerian equities’ return led the comparative global equities’ returns, most indicators point to another world-leading return in the year, with expectations that a symbolic Santa Claus rally will push the benchmark index higher. Santa Claus rally is the tendency for stock prices to go up in the last week of the year mostly in anticipation of expected positioning for dividends by the first month of the New Year. With a quarter-to-date return of 27.09 per cent and month-to-date return of 10.72 per cent, the Nigerian stock market has defied the cash squeeze associated with economic recession, benefitting from the rate crash at the fixed-income market.  World-ranking return Through the lockdowns and disruptions occasioned by COVID-19 pandemic, and later the unrests due to protests against police highhandedness, the stock market braved the odds of hyperinflation and economic recession to sustain and build up attractive return since the second quarter. While a steep decline of 18.75 per cent in March 2020 had driven the first quarter to a negative return of -20.7 per cent or net loss of N2.68 trillion, the market recovered in the second quarter with positive average return of 14.12 per cent or net capital gains of N1.656 trillion. It continued its rally with average return of 9.61 per cent or net capital gains of N1.23 trillion in third quarter 2020. The All Share Index (ASI)- the common value-based benchmark index that tracks all share prices at the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), closed weekend at 38,800.01 points. It had opened the year at 26,842.07 points. Aggregate market value of all quoted equities at the NSE crossed the N20 trillion mark to close weekend at N20.279 trillion. It had opened the year at N12.958 trillion. The additional increase in value of market capitalisation, above the ASI percentage change, was due to additional or supplementary listing of shares during the year. The recovery at the stock market was against the background of negative performance in recent years. After posting a world-ranking return of 42.3 per cent in 2017, the market had reversed to negative in 2018 with average full-year return of -17.81 per cent.  In 2019, investors suffered net loss of about N1.71 trillion with negative average return of -14.60 per cent. Prior to 2017, the stock market had been on a losing streak since 2014. Investors lost N1.75 trillion in 2014 and followed this with another loss of N1.63 trillion in 2015. Against the general expectation that political transition and new government will quicken a rebound, equities closed 2016 with a net capital loss of N604 billion.  Above inflation With inflation rate at 14.89 per cent, yield or coupon or interest rate at the fixed-income market ranging from less than one per cent to a little above one per cent for one-year instrument to some seven per cent yearly coupon for two decades and a half instrument, Nigerian equities are the most attractive instrument and the only positive-yielding assets in 2020, even when adjusted for inflation and cost of capital. The secondary market performance also reflected on the primary market. Nigerian governments and companies raised more than N2.2 trillion in new capital from the capital market in 2020, with the market providing readily available financial buffers against global economic disruptions and adverse impact of COVID-19 pandemic. Official data indicated that the capital market provided critical funding in debts and equities to governments and companies. A breakdown of the fund-raising entities showed five broad categories- Federal Government, state governments, quoted companies, fund management finds and special purpose vehicles (SPVs). The Federal Government, which sustained a monthly savings bond issuance alongside mid to long-term general bond issuances, dominated the capital raising. The issuers or fund-raising entities included sovereign issuances by the Federal Government of Nigeria, sub-national issuances by the Ondo State Government, debts and equities raising by several quoted companies including Dangote Cement, Flour Mills of Nigeria, Consolidated Hallmark Insurance, Coronation Insurance, formerly Wapic Insurance, International Breweries and Golden Guinea Breweries. Other corporate issuers included Abbey Mortgage Bank, C & I Leasing, UACN Property Development Company (UPDC), United Capital, AIICO Insurance, Red Star Express and Interswitch Africa One. Investment management companies such as ARM Investment Managers and Meristem Wealth Management also launched new collective investment schemes. The market particularly provided innovative finance through SPVs to support key infrastructural development and corporate restructuring. These included issuances such as Axxela Funding 1, LAPO MFB SPV, FBNQ MB Funding SPV and Primero BRT Securitisation SPV.  Landmark transactions There were also many landmark transactions during the period. Nigeria’s largest quoted company and Sub-Saharan Africa’s largest cement company, Dangote Cement floated its maiden bond, a N100 billion bond, the largest single corporate bond issue in the Nigerian capital market. The utilisation of the fund was symbolic of the general support of the market to corporates. Dangote Cement indicated it would apply the net proceeds of the bond to refinance existing short-term debt previously applied towards cement expansion projects, working capital and general corporate purposes. Dangote Cement also kickstarted its share buyback programme, another major initiative for the market. Also, International Breweries, the Nigerian subsidiary of Anheuser-Busch InBev (AB InBev), raised N164.39 billion through a rights issue, reported to be the largest right issue and a major indirect capital injection by a foreign investor in a Nigerian company. The fast-growing Nigerian alternative finance and the collective investment markets were also deepened during the year with the launch of the nation’s first designated mutual fund for Sukuk. Sukuks are non-interest, alternative finance bonds, mainly based on the concept of Islamic finance, and they invest in assets or projects. The NSE also formally activate its new listing platform known as ‘growth board’, creating a new window of supports for small and medium enterprises (SMEs). The figures also underlined major changes and resilience of the regulatory, infrastructural and general framework of the capital market. The market started the year with the introduction of a special insurance cover to mitigate operational risks that may arise from infractions by capital market operators and their products and services. This special comprehensive insurance provides coverage for investors who have suffered pecuniary losses as stipulated in Section 198 of the Investment and Securities Act 2007 (ISA).  A virtual market With the national economic lockdowns occasioned by coronavirus, and later the unrests that led to shutdown of major economic centres, the capital market leveraged on its cutting-edge technology to sustain uninterrupted year-long trading. The stock exchanges transited to full remote trading, with all stockbrokers and investors trading real time online from the conveniences of their locations. The regulatory functions and other ancillary market activities, including investors’ relations, also adapted to the virtual “new normal” with regulatory filings, complaints, circulars, meetings, presentations and consultations remotely conducted through existing or new channels. Given the dominant influence of COVID-19 pandemic in global and Nigerian economic themes in 2020, the ability of the Nigerian market to sustain unbroken activities is a major highlight of the year. The tech-driven adaptation also saw the onset of virtual general meetings by shareholders of quoted companies. The launch of online public offering platform earlier this month also strengthened Nigeria’s leadership, in terms of infrastructure, in African capital markets. The first of such initiative in Africa, the launch of the global virtual public offerings subscription’s platform, known as X-PO by the NSE, will allow investors to conveniently subscribe and make payments for Nigerian public offers through the web and mobile (USSD), from anywhere in the world. The portal is expected to significantly transform the primary market segment of the capital market, removing the hassle of physical completion and submission of public offering applications forms, visiting bank for payment, delay in offering and allotment period and overall cost of issuance. Besides, the demutualisation of the NSE and the demonopolisation of the market reached a crescendo in 2020 with the approvals for the conversion of the NSE to a share-based public limited liability company and the creation of more capital market infrastructure entities. Nigeria’s second depository, FMDQ Depository Limited, a member of FMDQ Group, successfully onboarded two corporate and government bonds worth N200 billion to its platform to formally launch active operations in 2020. FMDQ Depository was licensed by SEC in June 2019. Demutualisation, which was first approved by members of the NSE in 2017, crossed major hurdles and reached its final stage in 2020, signaling the impending transition of the 60 years old Exchange. With this, the NSE will change from a non-profit, member-owned mutual company limited by guarantee to a public limited liability company with issued share capital and shareholders. After the approval of the scheme of arrangement for the conversion in March 2020, the Federal High Court sanctioned the scheme in May 2020, setting up the process for the final review and approval by Nigeria’s apex capital market regulator, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and corporate entities’ regulator, Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC). Both SEC and CAC had earlier given preliminary “No Objection” to the conversion documents and processes. Under the approved scheme of arrangement, the NSE will transit into a holding company, Nigerian Exchange Group (NEG) Plc, which will be the parent company for the Nigerian Exchange Limited, the successor that will carry on the securities trading business of the Exchange, and other subsidiaries. Shareholders will own shares in NEG Plc while NEG will own the main company and other subsidiaries. There were also major changes in the leadership of the market. After several years without a substantive management, the Federal Government in 2020 reconstituted the substantive management of SEC with the appointment of Mr. Lamido Yuguda as Director-General. The Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS), the main body of operators in the capital market, also appointed Mr Olatunde Amolegbe, as its President and Chairman of Governing Board. The death of Albert Okumagba, a former president of CIS, diminished the rank of astute Nigerian investment bankers but it also brought a reminder of the vicissitudes of the market and its self-protective regulatory system with zero tolerance for infractions. While foreign portfolio investors (FPIs), riled by foreign exchange (forex) management, continued to show less enthusiasm for the Nigerian market, domestic investors appeared to be filling the gap, albeit slowly. The negative FPIs, increase in transaction costs due to changes in government policies, the controversial plan of the Federal Government to expropriate unclaimed dividends, estimated at about N200 billion and delisting of some companies were the shortfalls of the market during the period. Overall, 2020 is the year of the bulls.    