 Plateau State Governor Simon Bako Lalong has signed into law a Bill to effectively tackle criminal activities in the state. The new law encompasses kidnapping, land grabbing, cultism, among others. Women in the state have praised the governor for signing the Bill into law. The women, who are mainly mothers operating under the aegis of Forum of Plateau Mothers (FOPLAM), sought adequate funding of security agencies to make the law achieve its objective. In a statement yesterday in Abuja, FOPLAM urged Lalong to complement the efforts of the Federal Government by supporting the security agencies in the state to crush all criminals. The forum’s Chairperson, Mrs. Rebecca Pam, praised Operation Safe Haven (OPSH), among other security agencies, for restoring peace on the Plateau. She expressed happiness that some areas in the state, which were hitherto known for crises, had embraced peace. “We wish to strongly commend the Executive Governor of Plateau State, Simon Bako Lalong, for taking the bold step by signing into law the state’s Anti-Kidnapping, Anti-Land Grabbing, Anti-Cultism and Other Related Matters Bills passed by the Plateau State House of Assembly. “This is the sure way to start dealing with the menace of kidnapping in some areas of Plateau State. The death sentence for kidnapping is a welcome step and must be commended by all. “However, we appeal to the governor to massively scale up his support for security agencies to enable them defeat this monster called kidnapping that is threatening Plateau State at the moment. “Our findings have regrettably shown that our security agencies don’t have sufficient vehicles, telecommunications gadgets, close circuit cameras to police the forest, drones and even finances to buy fuel to respond to distress calls.  “We are, therefore, appealing to the father of state and peace lover, Governor Lalong to save the residents from kidnappers and other criminalities by providing logistics to our security agencies.” Expressing its support for the state’s security outfit, FOPLAM said: “We wholeheartedly and emotionally commend Operation Safe Haven (OPSH), the special military task force set up in Plateau State for internal security operations – and other security agencies – for working so hard to restore relative peace in the state and environs. “This is so dear to us as mothers because of the so much trauma occasioned by the loss of lives, maiming, raping and others we have experienced in our communities in the past.” It added: “Though these have been very challenging. However, starting from May, this year, relatively peace has fully returned. “There is no major incident in our communities except for some criminal activities which we view not to be peculiar to our state and region. “The deliberate attacks and killings of our people by criminals in our communities in the past have been drastically reduced due to the concerted efforts and commitment of officers and men of Operation Safe Haven. This feat we cannot take for granted. “As an association, we have been in the forefront of criticising the STF whenever they went wrong, hence we must also commend them when they perform well. “We are happy with them and we will continue to pray for them and share intelligence with them.” 