 Fidelity Bank Plc has announced the appointment of three Non-Executive Directors and retirement of four. The bank yesterday appointed Mrs. Amaka Theodora Onwughalu, Nelson Chidozie Nweke and Chinedu Eric Okeke as Non-Executive Directors (EDs). The appointments of Onwughalu and Nweke have been okayed by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) while that of Okeke is awaiting approval. The bank also announced that Mrs. Aku Odinkemelu, the Executive Director of its South Directorate, who was appointed to the Board on August 4, 2014, would be retiring by December 31, 2020. Aku played a major role as a member of the transformation team in Fidelity Bank over the last six years. A Non-ED, Chief Charles Umolu,  completed his tenure and retired from the Board on December 16, 2020. He served on the Board Risk, Credit, Finance & General Purpose, Audit and Corporate Governance Committees and chaired the Board Credit Committee. Michael Okeke, also a Non-ED, completed his tenure and retired on December 18, 2020. He was a member of various Board Committees, including the Board Corporate Governance Committee, which he chaired from October 2018 to last December. Another Non-ED, Alex Ojukwu, will complete his tenure by December 31, 2020. He serves on the Board’s Credit, Risk, Audit and Corporate Governance Committees and chairs the Board Risk Committee. The Board expresses its appreciation to the outgoing Executive and Non-Executive Directors for their impressive contributions to the growth and development of the bank. Chairman, Fidelity Bank Plc, Mustafa Chike-Obi, said: “Fidelity Bank is privileged to have benefited from the combined experience and expertise of these very accomplished lady and gentlemen. We thank them for their service to the bank and wish them the very best in their future endeavors.” Mrs. Amaka Onwughalu has over 30 years’ banking experience, including over 10 years in Executive Management in various financial institutions, with proven expertise across diverse segments, including Commercial Banking, Retail Banking, Treasury Management, Banking Operations and Corporate Banking. She is the CEO of Blueshield Financial Services Limited and holds a BSc in Economics from the University of Buckingham, an MSc in Corporate Governance from Leeds Metropolitan University, United Kingdom and an MBA from the University of Port Harcourt, Nigeria. Nweke, currently serves as the Managing Director of Neilville Nigeria Limited and had an extensive career in the financial services sector, rising to the position of Executive Director at legacy Intercontinental Bank Plc. Okeke is the Managing Director of Azura Power West Africa Limited, an infrastructure development and operating company with special focus on emerging markets in Africa, including Nigeria. The Board is pleased with the appointments and confident that the new Directors will bring their considerable experience to bear in the bank’s growth trajectory. “We are very delighted to welcome the newly appointed Directors to the Fidelity family. These appointments end the on-going board realignment, occasioned by the retirements that had to happen, in line with our governance policies. We look forward to leveraging on the multi-disciplinary experiences of Amaka, Nelson and Chinedu in executing the next growth phase of Fidelity Bank”, stated Chike-Obi.