Shareholders of Cutix Plc have approved the appointment of Mr Ariyo Olushekun, Mrs Ijeoma Ezeasor and Mr Ike Okonkwo as non-executive directors of the company. At the annual general meeting in Otolo-Nnewi, Anambra State, shareholders passed resolutions endorsing the appointment of the three new directors, after consideration of their profiles. Chairman, Cutix Plc, Ambassador Okwudili Nwosu, said the board had screened the three new directors in line with the criteria for appointment unto the board and found them all to be worthy. Citing their profiles, Nwosu said the directors were recommended for approval of the shareholders having considered the strong ethical and governance standard of the company. He assured shareholders on the future prospects of the company noting that the company would be aggressive in taking advantage of emerging opportunities. According to him, Cutix has been diversifying its product range and capability by introducing new cable and non-cable products. He said the company would continue to maintain financial discipline in its investment decisions while also ensuring high standards of corporate governance, transparency, strong commitment, sustainable business policies and effective management of risks. “We will thus maintain our pledge to you to continue to pay you dividends regularly, award bonus issues as promised and increase market value of your company. We remain convinced that our company company’s core business remains strong and through the effective integration of the Adswitch acquisition, the combined business will have greater scale and value creation opportunities as the investment case for the company remains compelling,” Nwosu said. Olushekun,  a fellow and former president of the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS), is a frontline Nigerian investment banker. He is also a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN) and Institute of Directors (IoD). He is an Authorized Dealing Clerk of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) and NASD Plc. He had served on the National Council of the Nigerian Stock Exchange. Olushekun is the founder and chief executive officer of Capital Assets Limited, a leading investment banking group. He is also on the boards of many companies including Central Securities Clearing System Plc, NASD Plc, Unity Registrars Limited, Co-Link Investment Management Limited and Applied Logic Limited. Okonkwo, an astute marketer, project management expert and accountant has a long standing relationship with Cutix. He is an associate member of the Nigerian Marketing Association and the Nigerian Institute of Management. Ezeasor is a policy analyst with vast technical competence in industrial and economic policy. She is currently pursuing a doctorate degree (Ph.D) at the University of Nigeria. She is a member of various organisations. 