Gambling has existed since the dawn of man and is now a common and well-regulated pastime in most corners of the world. In 2020, the global gambling market had an estimated size of $443 billion. That is about $50 billion more than Nigeria’s gross domestic product, and it should rise by $200 billion in the next seven years. So, to say that gambling is a popular activity would be an understatement. Due to outdated legislation, Africa’s betting markets pale in comparison to those in other continents. Online gambling is a booming segment that should soon become the industry’s dominant sector, but due to weak internet penetration (18%), African countries trail behind the rest of the world. However, in recent years, massive strides have been made, and Nigeria is now a rare example of a nation where players can enjoy sports betting at both foreign and local operators. South Africa is the current continent leader due to its robust land-based industry, which overshadows all others on the thirty million square kilometer stretch of land. Nigeria is in second place, and it could soon be vying for the top spot. First off, we have to mention that gambling is legal and illegal in Nigeria, depending on the location and the type. At the end of the 1990s, the Nigerian government legalized specific forms of this activity to generate new tax revenues. These legal provisions got included in the Criminal Code Act, found in Chapter 22, section 236. There are four cities with gambling facilities in the country, and a total of nine gaming venues exist in Nigeria. The National Lottery Regulatory Commission regulates this activity, and betting on the internet is gaining popularity even though there is no specific federal regulation regarding it. Though, some states like Lagos do regulate it. Research claims that about 60 million Nigerians like to bet. A NOIPolls analysis claims that gambling is especially prevalent in the South-West and the South-South geopolitical zones of the country. To be precise, the South-West area recorded the highest prevalence with 92%. The reason is the lax stance regarding the activity in Lagos. It is home to the largest casino in the country and numerous sports betting parlors. Agents working for 1960Bet Company, which has over 5,000 shops in Nigeria alone, estimate that around 300 bettors visit their Lagos establishments per day when top European leagues are active while about 150 people wager daily during the off-season. Recently, Lagos passed legislation allowing online betting, and it, along with Ogun, is home to some of the largest players driving the online betting industry in the country. Anambra is a South-Eastern state that is also contributing to this trend. The Northern part of Nigeria seems less interested in gambling, as the prevalence rate in states such as Adamawa, Gombe, Taraba, Yobe, Sokoto, and others is around 50% to 60%. The North-Central part has the highest prevalence in the region. Nigerians that like to bet on sports and casino games are typically males between 18-40-years-old. Also, most of them (53%) bet daily. Those that fall in the age group between 18-35 are most likely to gamble. Those above 60 years old are the least likely to wager. Responders featured in the above reference NOIPolls survey stated that the main reason they bet is the quest for money. Sports parlor employees claim that the typical bet size falls in the range of $5 to $25. A 2014 research published in the International Journal of Mental Health and Addiction surveyed 189 Lagos residents between the ages of 18-32, which averaged an age of 25-years-old, and the majority of the participants expressed a strong propensity towards gambling. More than half admitted to betting three or more times per week. A 2019 study by Mustapha and Enilolobo titled – Effects of Gambling on the Welfare of Nigerian Youths, revealed that even though Nigerian males are way more likely to gamble than females, qualitatively, female gambling participation has increased over time, particularly concerning online betting. According to the study, only 10.3% of Nigerian internet bettors are female, but their participation is slowly rising year-on-year. Gaming market intelligence and consultancy firm H2 Gambling Capital estimated that the African online market was worth four million dollars’ shy of one billion in 2019. They also predicted that the African iGaming sphere should likely double in the next four years, hitting more than two billion dollars in annual revenues by 2024. BtoBet believes that Nigeria will be at the forefront of this digital revolution. Kenya, Uganda, and Ghana will follow it. Nigeria and Kenya stand out from the rest due to their higher mobile subscriptions and internet penetration rates. In 2020, the internet penetration rate in Nigeria was 42%. Globally, most online casino revenues come from real money online slots. The percentage ranges from platform to platform but is usually around 70% to 80%. In Nigeria, playing online casino games has taken a backseat to sports betting, as spinning digital reels and virtual card action is way less popular than wagering on sporting matches. Local online betting operators can provide such games to patrons. However, if you open Nairabet and other similar sites’ casino sections, you can see that the slot offer is super-limited, as is the table game one. Top industry providers do not supply their titles to the few Nigerian operators that offer such games. Thus, Nigerian players who are slot connoisseurs or like to play blackjack or baccarat against software or a live-dealer prefer to do so at foreign sites such as 888 and JackpotCity Casino. The game offer at these platforms is far more robust and of better quality than what is available at local operators. Nigerians are free to play at offshore sites without any fear of legal penalties. Nigerians love sports, and they especially adore football. A recent survey claimed that over 70% of males in the country are fanatic about it, and the majority of gambling activity is on football matches (over 70%). According to analysts, most sports bettors in Nigeria do not like to bet on their football league, as they deem it too predictable, and most operator odds reflect that. Thus, they prefer to wager on matches from top European competitions, such as the English Premiership and the Spanish La Liga. Interestingly, in Nigeria, betting parlors still have a slight edge in activity over internet betting sites. Nevertheless, due to the 169 million mobile subscribers and 100 million internet users in the country, the tide should shift soon, as the online sphere should begin to dominate. A 2018 market research estimates that Nigeria, Kenya, and South Africa, have a combined sports betting market worth close to $40 billion. Naija has more than a few local betting companies. Some of the most well-known ones are Naijabet, Bet9ja, Sportybet, Skybetnaija, Merrybet, Surebet247, 1960Bet, 360Bet, Parknbet, Plusbet, 9jadollarbet, Visabet, and many more. Without a doubt, Bet9ja is the top site in the country, and it pulls in monthly revenues of about $10 million. However, the same as with online casinos, residents prefer to bet at offshore sites due to the higher quality of service these foreign platforms provide. 888 Sports and Betway are the two favorite choices. The first has sponsor deals with Cardiff City FC and Birmingham City, while the latter sponsors West Ham United and Levante UD.  The average Nigerian bettor spends about $8 per day wagering on sports. Established via the National Lottery Act of 2005, the National Lottery Regulatory Commission regulates lotto draw activities in Nigeria. Their headquarters are in the capital of Abuja, and it has a staff of over 1,600 employees. According to a 2016 estimate, close to 7.5 million Nigerians like to play the lottery. The National Commission predicted that profits from the promo lottery could be around $150 million. Furthermore, they believed that the SMS lottery could generate around $380 million in revenues. However, the industry has not been able to reach these numbers. In the past few years, several lottery companies have gained licenses to operate in Nigeria, such as Western Lotto. Many of these companies are trying to introduce pari-mutuel gaming and add some diversity to the market. Popular online lotto draws available to residents include The Lotter, Lottoland, Jackpot.com, and Lottomania. Undoubtedly, the land-based sector will plateau in the coming decade as betting through mobile apps and on websites will become the norm. Nigeria currently ranks second in Africa in terms of gambling revenues. Naija has greater economic power than all others on the continent, and it should soon overtake South Africa and become the gambling mecca of the region. Sports betting is the favored Nigerian betting option, although casino games are gaining popularity, as more and more players are experiencing top quality slots at foreign platforms. Expect to see the Nigerian gambling industry boom as legalization regarding online betting grows laxer and specific online gambling laws get passed.