The General Superintendent of the Holy Spirit Mission (aka Happy Family Center), Bishop Charles Ighele has advised leaders in Nigeria to emulate the virtues of service and humility as exemplify by the birth of Jesus Christ, the reasons for the Christmas season. Ighele said this in his Christmas Carol nights recently at the church in Akonwojo, Lagos. The event featured Christmas songs, drama and many types of holy amusements. He said that the need to save and serve Nigerians is what Nigerian leaders across board should learn from the lessons of Christmas. He said “for those who understand the true meaning of Christmas, Christmas is a special season to celebrate and enjoy the season the Lamb that was needed for the sacrifice of the redemption of mankind was provided through the virgin birth. Ighele noted that the need to save and serve lost humanity was what made Christ to come to the world by being put into planet earth through a virgin. He left His glorious throne to save and serve humanity. He lamented that many typical Nigerian politician, clergy, traditional rulers, business leaders, husbands see leadership as a sign that they have arrived. “They therefore see themselves as big men to be respected and served. They see themselves as people to be adored”. Ighele explained that unfortunately, many citizens see themselves like Frans Fanon’s “wretched of the earth “whose only reason for being alive is to take the crumbs that fall from the masters’ table. He noted that instead of using leadership to lift up the common man the way they would do to their own children, they use their positions to lift up their loved ones and children and have perfected the knowledge of the crumbs that will make the politically illiterate masses to be happy. He asserted that the best way to celebrate Christmas is for our hearts to be full of thanksgiving to God for providing us with the offering needed to reconcile us to God and make us sons of God again. He said it is a pity that a second wave.