The Ebonyi state chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has accused Governor Dave Umahi intimidation and threats to the lives of some of its prominent chieftains in the state. At a media briefing in Abuja on Saturday, members of the executive committee of the chapter, said the governor started threatening and intimidating key PDP chieftains in the state shortly after his defection from the PDP to the All Progressives Congress (APC) on November 17. In an address read by the Publicity Secretary of the chapter, Silas Onu, on behalf of himself and others, the politicians raised the alarm that the governor’s threats and and intimidation might reach a dangerous climax during the holiday season when most politicians spend the period in constituencies. They accused Governor Umahi of stockpiling arms in different locations in the state, with the aim of using such to attack opposition elements through his agents. According to them, the governor has particularly been targeting prominent PDP in the states that refused to join him in defecting to the APC in the hunt. The politicians said they might be forced to seek the intervention of the international community, particularly governments of the United States, United Kingdom and Canada over the alleged threats. They also called on the Federal Government and the international community to pay more attention to developments in the state, with a view to calling the governor to order before things get out of hand. Silas Onu said: “The Federal Government and the international community are called upon to pay a closer attention to the developing rate of intolerance in Ebonyi State and call the Governor to order immediately before things get out of hand. “The PDP is not interested in violence even as we engage in our political activities and will not be deterred by open acts of intimidation, violence and threat of it by the government or its official and unofficial agents. “The British High Commission, Canadian High Commissioner and the Ambassador of the United States of America are called upon to take a special interest in Ebonyi State as the government have continually resorted to uncivilized methods for political engagements. “Our petitions will be sent to all High Commissions and Embassies to draw attention towards this inhumane leadership style that cares less about human lives. “His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari is also called upon to impress it on the Governor to lead in the interest of all as the chief security officer of the state. “No one is concerned or threatened by the political identity of the Governor, but his desire to paint a picture of overwhelming love and support in Ebonyi State is driving him into despondency and hatred towards those who disagree with him. “We want peace and will work to achieve it. However, the decision to maintain peace and security at all times is in the hands of the Government and the Governor must discharge this duty responsibly.”