The President’s wife, Hajia Aisha Buhari, has advised wives of governors to mobilise and engage fellow women and youths for peace-building, conflict prevention, management and resolution at the grassroots. She spoke at a seminar with the theme: Mobilisation of Women and Youth for Peace-Building, Community Conflict Resolution and Resilience in the Post-COVID-19 Era. Mrs. Buhari, who was represented by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Administration and Women Affairs, Dr. Hajo Sani, stressed that the COVID-19 pandemic has created a global crisis, as evidenced in the anger, protests and demonstrations around the world, as well as the violence to mostly women and youths. She said young people and women are particularly vulnerable to the disruptions the pandemic has caused since many of them are at the risk of being left behind in education, economic opportunities, health and wellbeing during a crucial stage of their lives. According to a statement at the weekend by the Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity (Office of the President’s wife), Mrs. Buhari said: “We, therefore, have a duty to mobilise women and youths for peace-building, community conflict resolution and resilience. This falls more appropriately upon those in positions of authority, such as the first ladies.” Minister of Women Affairs, Dame Pauline Tallen, who was represented by her Special Assistant (Technical), Princess Jummai Idonije, said women cannot be silent when all around the world people are hurting and crying out. She noted that women’s sense of justice will continue to drive them to advocate for a better world. The ministry, she said, will continue to provide the enabling platform for the creation of a society that is fit for all. Tallen urged Nigerians at individual and group levels to always emphasise the education of the girl-child and promote second chance education to address societal vices. The keynote speaker and wife of Ekiti State governor, Erelu Bisi Fayemi, highlighted the role of governors’ wives across the states. She advised them to take the lead during crises by creating a network of allies as well as using their voices and presence to communicate with a sense of urgency. Mrs. Fayemi urged her fellow governors’ wives to be informed on important issues at all times, set timely targets for action and create time to manage them. Other speakers at the event included Chairperson of African Foundation for Development (AFFORD, UK),  Ms. Ndidi Njoku; MP, UK Trade Envoy to Nigeria, Helen Grant and Chairman of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM), Mrs. Abike Dabiri-Erewa.