Borno State Governor Babagana Zulum on Tuesday, visited headquarters of 151 battalion at Banki junction in Bama, and he announced a Christmas package for each of the over 700 soldiers and their officers, for being undefeated by Boko Haram. Zulum on arrival went into a closed-door meeting with the commander of the 21 Special Armoured Brigades, Brig. Gen Waheed Shaibu and commanding officer of the 151 Battalion, Major A. A Umar, after which he addressed the troops. “Based on fairness, I treat everyone or group on their merit. While we have challenges in some areas, we have successes in others, and one of those areas is this 151 battalion because you have never been defeated by the Boko Haram since formation. This battalion has largely stabilised all the areas under your jurisdiction here in Bama. I am principally here to on behalf of the Government and people of Borno State, once again, to register our appreciation as I have done here before and as often do to other battalions and their brigades across the state. All of you have been very gallant and patriotic. We acknowledge all your sacrifices and we also know that you all operate under difficult conditions in different operational locations. We came with our widows might. Food will come your way and I have given a message to your commanders which will reach each one of you. Nothing can compensate for your sacrifices. We are grateful and we pray that Allah continues to protect all of you here and all our troops and volunteers and sustain your strength to remain undefeated. May God grant us permanent peace in Borno and Nigeria in general. God bless you all.” Governor Zulum alongside commanding officers of the battalion also inspected Gurusoye, a village behind the battalion’s headquarters, where Boko Haram destroyed during their occupation. Zulum directed the building of 200 new homes in the area for resettlement purposes and to create aesthetics that will attract productive population for social and economic restoration. “We acknowledge all your sacrifices and we also know that you all operate under difficult conditions in different operational locations. We came with our widows might. Food will come your way and I have given a message to your commanders which will reach each one of you. Nothing can compensate for your sacrifices. We are grateful and we pray that Allah continues to protect all of you here and all our troops and volunteers and sustain your strength to remain undefeated. May God grant us permanent peace in Borno and Nigeria in general. God bless you all.” After leaving the headquarters of the 151 Battalion, Governor Zulum alongside commanding officers of the battalion, inspected Gurusoye, a village behind the battalion’s headquarters, where Boko Haram destroyed during their occupation. Zulum directed the construction of 200 new homes in the area for resettlement purposes and to create aesthetics that will attract productive population for social and economic restoration.