 A former Publicity Secretary of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) Abuja branch, Mr Silas Joseph Onu, has asked the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) to dismiss a defamation suit filed against him and another lawyer by Kaduna State Governor, Nasir El-Rufai. Governor El-Rufai filed the suit marked CV/3133/2020 against Onu and Auta Nyada alleging defamation of character following his dis-invitation to speak at the 2020 Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) Annual General Conference (AGC). But in his statement of defence filed by his counsel Mr Edwin Inegudu, Onu described the suit as “frivolous, baseless, vexatious and…a vindictive exercise” and prayed the court to dismiss same and award substantial cost in his favour. Denying all of El-Rufai’s averments, Onu said he never published any malicious, unlawful, unjustified, false and unwarranted defamatory statement against the Claimant. Relying on the defence of justification, Onu said the Claimant was not a peace-loving and law-abiding citizen, “as it is on record that he threatened foreign election observers with death, and being carried back home in body bags.” He faulted the claimant’s press freedom and freedom of expression credibility. According to Onu, the over 17 civil cases instituted in Courts do not show that the Claimant is committed to the rule of law.  He averred that “The Claimant, as a Governor and Public Officer, has not shown any regard for the fundamental rights of others. The Courts have held him liable for breaching the rights of Ms. Gloria Ballason and Mr. Audu Maikori, both lawyers… Onu also relied on defence of absolute privilege. He said, “the Correspondence of 19 August 2020 from the Open Bar Initiative to the NBA was written on occasions of absolute privilege.” According to him, the object of the Open Bar Initiative is to ensure the adherence to the motto of the NBA, which is “promoting the Rule of Law.” and “that Open Bar Initiative has a duty to inform the NBA of the tendencies of persons to whom the NBA’s platform are given at its annual conference. “The Open Bar Initiative has a duty to bring to the attention of the NBA, its findings about the incongruity of persons who seek its platform, with its motto of ‘promoting the rule of law.’ “The NBA is a closed association and the Claimant is not a member, and therefore not entitled to any privilege.  “The National Executive Committee of the NBA met and reviewed the contents of the correspondence dated 19 August 2020, and in agreement with the content, voted to de-platform the Claimant. “The contents of the correspondence to the NBA, were derived from Newspaper reports, opinions, statements, the Claimant and his Children’s tweets, which are all in the public domain, and accessible to all members of the NBA, and the public at large. “The statements detailed in the correspondence of 19 August 2020 are fair comments by the Open Bar Initiative in its contribution to the planning and organization of the NBA Conference 2020.”