  PwC, a  world’s leading professional services firm, estimates that Nigeria would need about 28.3 million metric tonnes (MT) of fresh cassava roots planted yearly on about 1.2 million hectares to meet its demand for cassava by-products and derivatives. In its publication, Harnessing the Economic Potential of Cassava production in Nigeria, the global firm said the demand for cassava and its constituents is high in the domestic economy. However, the supply has been unable to meet the huge demand. For instance, the supply-demand gap for High-Quality Cassava Flour stands at about 485,000 MT yearly while the gap for cassava starch is about 290,000MT. Despite being the world’s largest cassava producing country, Nigeria imports derivatives that can be produced locally from cassava root. And while its cassava sector is the most commercialised within Africa, industrial demand still accounts for only a small fraction of total cassava output. The country’s long-standing high-quality cassava root flour (HQCF) industry and recently emerged starch processing and ethanol factories, suggest strong potential for Nigeria to further industrialise its cassava production. To  boost  production,  the Sustainable Trade Initiative (IDH)  has developed the block farming model to improve livelihoods of smallholders while creating sustainable supply chains. The block farming model is a structure used to manage supply chains in an inclusive and sustainable way, with a block farm as the focal point of production. A well-implemented block farming model programme has the potential to provide a sustainable supply of raw materials to the processor, improve income and livelihoods for smallholders, and support local economic growth through the promotion of small-scale sourcing among multinational food firms. The block farm is a dedicated land under the control of the processor that achieves the goal of smallholder inclusiveness in supply chains. Each smallholder is allocated appropriate land area for cultivation and provided with a range of technical services including training, inputs and extension services. The range of services are to grant farmers access to credit, improve productivity and achieve food security. These range of services are a bouquet provided through a service delivery model. Outgrower schemes involve interdependent relationships through which processing firms offer technical services to farmers in return for guaranteed access to their produce. The block farming model is designed to tap into smallholders’ unused potential, removing the barriers that typically exclude them from accessing companies’supply chains. It does so by providing a guaranteed market through an off-taking agreement, access to affordable finance, training on good agronomic practices, as well as opportunities to improve product quality. With support from the Rockefeller Foundation, Psaltry International Limited (PIL) is one of the beneficiaries of a fund set up by IDH to establish a sustainable and inclusive supply chain through an Outgrower project using the Block Farm Model. PIL established in 2005 as an agro-based firm, has a 50MT/day factory to process cassava into food grade cassava starch. It has expanded its operation to construct a 30MT/day Sorbitol plant in 2019, which is the first cassava-based sorbitol factory in Africa. As the demand for cassava derivative is growing in Nigeria, PIL was unable to meet the demand of buyers, due to a shortage of raw materials caused by the low yield from farmers’ farms, an unorganised and inefficient supply chain, and inadequate funds to cultivate required land size for production. The challenge of inadequate and, untimely, supply of cassava is the main limiting factor most cassava processors face, thereby limiting the full utilisation of production capacity. PIL had issues with the consistent supply of cassava to its factory. It was not able to meet the demand of its buyers despite the abundant opportunities, potentials and plant capacity. It could only meet around half of its major buyers’ demand for three years in a row, due to scarcity of cassava tubers. The supply system, which was put in place to source cassava tubers accounted for just about 30 per cent of the total supply in 2016. This mainly because of low productivity, which eventually, impaired the consistency of supply, flexibility in pricing, and the quality of supply (starch content). As part of the IDH Cassava programme, PIL benefited from the IDH Technical Assistant (TA) intervention. This facilitated the establishment of the Outgrower project, on the company’s controlled farmlands, which aimed at building a sustainable and inclusive supply chain for PIL to achieve 100 per cent  production capacity. The project’s goal is to increase the productivity of the farmers through training and provision of technical services that will result in improved livelihoods for the farmers while meeting the raw material capacity of the company. A farmer in Oshoogun Village, Iseyin Local Government, Oyo State, Mrs Margreth Awolere, said her farm was mainly for subsistence purpose. “When the company introduced the IDH bock farming to us and gave each farmer 2ha, I was afraid of how to handle it. But to my amazement, we were given fertiliser, agrochemicals and sufficient financial support to hire farm labour. We were also trained on how to produce cassava better than through our traditional ways. ‘’My greatest surprise was when they harvested my block farm and they credited me with an amount of money I never made in farming all my life. Now I work two days and can rent machines with other farmers to do some of the work. ‘’That same year, I built a shop where I sell soft drinks and farm input (fertiliser and seeds) in the village and my livelihood has improved permanently. Through the IDH block farming, we were given land, helped to cultivate the land, given money to manage the farm, given input and at the end our harvest was purchased at a price better than market price. This program has driven poverty away permanently from our village.” An improved cassava industry can encourage youths to stay within the community, sustaining the local economy rather than leaving for urban hubs.