Until he rolled out an empowerment scheme for his constituents penultimate weekend, you almost never knew Senator Elisha Abbo, representing Adamawa North, had other sensitivities besides physically asserting his ‘bigmanity’ against perceived affront. The 42-year-old senator, reputed as Nigeria’s youngest in the hallowed chamber, has been famous for what in local lingo they call ‘dirty slaps.’ It was only in September, this year, that a Federal Capital Territory (FCT) high court slammed a N50million bill on the senator to pay as compensation for assaulting a nursing mother, Osimibibra Warmate, in an Abuja sex toy shop in May 2019. Warmate got in line of his slaps after she pleaded with him not to manhandle another lady operating the sex toy shop whom he had accused of insulting him by calling him a drunk. Whereas the police bungled a one-count charge of criminal assault they filed against Abbo at a magistrate’s court in Zuba, which was dismissed, Warmate took her fate in her hands by filing a fundamental rights suit at the FCT high court, which was decided in her favour. Abbo recently appealed the high court judgement, arguing that the N50million sum is excessive and a disproportionate penalty for his offence. The senator freshly outed with dirty slaps in a video that went viral two weeks ago, where he was caught on camera treating a young fellow to that specialty in his hometown of Mubi, Adamawa State. In the incident said to have occurred on 13th November, Abbo, could be seen angrily cursing the youth and dealing him a slap to the cheek, screaming: “You are very stupid!!” Not done with the physicality, the senator alighted from his car and dealt the fella another whack in the face. This attracted people nearby who gathered around the scene and made tame attempts at calming down the big man. In his own account of the incident, Abbo said all he did was disarm the young man who attempted to shoot him after he refused to part with N2million at a rouge roadblock while on his way to a cousin’s wedding in Mubi. He argued that the fella headed a group of youths extorting money from road users with guns, adding that he (Abbo) acted in self-defense and was the victim on the said night. Abbo cited poverty as the motivation for the rascally conduct of young ones, saying: “Most of the youths are pushed into this, wasting their talents by doing something bad to the detriment of themselves and the society at large.” It is curious that the senator preferred manhandling the youths rather than invite the police, especially as community safety was being hazarded with guns. But the good thing is: he moved to empower his constituents, so to dissuade them from poverty-induced criminality: he initiated a skills training programme for women and youths backed up with seed capital of N200 thousand each. It was a humane side of Abbo that was lost in his slapping sprees.