 SOKOTO State Governor Aminu Tambuwal has presented a budget of N176.7billion for the 2021 fiscal year to the House of Assembly, with a resolve to focus more on infrastructure. The highest sectoral allocation of 22 per cent at N38.78billion goes to Education. Also allocated top share are Agriculture, N20.77billion; and Health, N17.91billion. The budget, with capital expenditure of N95.53billion and recurrent at over N81billion, indicates an increase against the outgoing fiscal year budget tagged: “Budget of Sustained Socio-Economic Development and Inclusiveness”, which was appropriated at N202,345, 425,942.68 and subsequently reviewed downward to N164 billion, to cushion the effects of COVID-19 pandemic. Presenting the budget on Thursday named: “Budget of Consolidation and Economic Emancipation”, before the Assembly, with Deputy Governor Muhammad Manor Dan Iya, Sultan Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar, members of the Executive Council, other top government functionaries and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) stalwarts in attendance, Tambuwal said 2020 was quite challenging not only in Sokoto, but also in Nigeria and the world because of the COVID-19 pandemic. He added: “Despite the gloomy picture, Sokoto State performed well, even in the face of insecurity occasioned by banditry, cattle rustling, kidnapping and armed robbery.” The governor said his administration had laid a responsive emphasis in curtailing the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. He said Sokoto is one of the states adopting the principles of transparency in the processes of achieving an all- inclusive budget appropriation, to ensure  human oriented legacy projects in all spheres of its drive for food security through irrigation and dry season farming, among other critical areas of benefits to the people. Tambuwal said his administration would prioritise welfare packages to cushion the effects of the economic hardship. Speaker Aminu Muhammad Manya Achida, who assured the governor of a speedy passage of the budget, noted the transparent nature of the budget, which took consideration of the priority needs of an average citizen. He said: “We will not relent in ensuring timely passage of the budget proposal to enable the people-oriented government consolidate on its journey towards developing the state.”  