President Muhammadu Buhari on Friday admonished the 344 pupils of Government Science Secondary School Kankara rescued from bandits to forget about the incident and face their education. Buhari who met and sympathised with the students also assured them that their future is bright. He told the students who he met at the Presidential Lodge, Government House, Katsina: ‘’The future belongs to the youth, especially those who are educated, as well as those who are in the sciences which your school specialises on. ‘’I have gone through boarding school like you as a young boy, and education was what made me what I am today.’’ Buhari described the students as lucky for going through such a harrowing experience at the hands of gunmen but coming out unharmed.  He said: ‘’You are lucky. Your school focuses on the sciences and sciences are part of modernisation which allows you to secure good jobs.’’ “The future is not for those that read English Language or History but for those that read the sciences. I hope you will forget what happened to you and focus on your education instead. ‘’Some of my relations who didn’t acquire education are now paying the price as their animals and land have become less productive than before. “I have relations that are not educated and their cows have finished while their lands are not as productive as before. “It is because I acquired education that I am where I am today. Therefore, try your best to acquire both western and religious education so that you become what you want in life.’’ The president used the occasion to call on security agencies to diligently work at weeding out the bad eggs in the society, and to remember that they would give account of their actions before God. He said: “I call on all security agencies, the military, police, DSS, to continue to do their work in the fear of God by rooting out the bad eggs amongst us.” He added that the security agencies should not “forget that we will all face justice at the end of the day, whether we like it or not.” The president, who had been in the state since Friday last week, was flown back to Abuja from the Umaru Musa Yar’Adua International Airport.