The Lord Bishop Diocese of Lagos West of the Anglican Communion, Dr. James Odedeji, has urged the Nigerian Christians to pray more for those in positions of authority and a united Nigeria. The cleric made this call at the centenary celebration of the St. John’s Anglican Church Iju Ishaga, an Archdeaconry under the Diocese of Lagos West. In his words: “I believe so much that if Christians can pray Nigeria will not be where we are today. “So Christians should be Christians not only by mouth but by our righteous living, by our fruit-bearing attitudes, by our being accommodating believing that others should also survive and this is what the Bible tells us as Christians.” Bishop Odedeji also charged stakeholders and members of the Archdeaconry, to harness the huge potentials for better projection of the Anglican communion within its vicinity. Venerable Taiwo Arolowo, the Vicar of St. John’s Anglican Church Iju Ishaga, elated by the 100 years attainment of one of the oldest churches in the Diocese since 1920, ascribed all glory to God who made it possible, citing the ordeals of COVID-19 as a trying moment for all. On the second wave of COVID-19, the Vicar charged every Nigerians to adhere strictly to the stipulated guidelines for safety and prevention of the further spread of the virus. “I think we need to follow government directives, in my hands now I hold face masks that is to tell you that I encourage all our members and Christians generally to follow the directives of the government because we all have seen and heard about it and we pray that it will not be our portion in Jesus name but they have given us this opportunity that we should use our face mask. Mr Olatunji Aina a member of the Church since 1995, cited the commitment of erstwhile leaders of the church as a cardinal for the progress made thus far. “Here God has been with us, we have moved thrice before having this structure which took us nine years to complete, from a mud house to this edifice, leadership has been playing a very vital role here. “You see when you have a good leader, followers will be good, and that is what has been helping the Church right from the time I joined. Mr. Funsho Odusanya and his wife Mrs Adetoun Odusanya,who were recipients of award for service in the vineyard as members of CBSociety of Saint John Anglican Church Iju Ishaga Lagos, restated their zeal for God without expecting any rewards. “I never expected this award and I feel highly honoured and grateful that I’m still in existence to see today and also receive an award. “Youths should be truthful, bearing in mind that only God can do anything and that there is nothing you asked from God that he will not give you but we have to be faithful and truthful to him. “My advice this yuletide is that people who are blessed should consider the less privileged and give them gifts in the memory of our Lord Jesus Christ. “They too will feel happy and feel belonging that they are still in existence and people do recognize them. It is not good for people who are well to do to hoard things whatever anybody has in this world is from God”. Mr. Adefolaju Soetan, the Chairman of the centenary planning committee noted that the founding fathers had a vision that the place will be for evangelism. “A place where the whole of Iju Ishaga will be evangelised. Till date that aspiration and goal is still being pursued vigorously we thank God for all those who had served in one capacity or the other as clergy or laity in this Church.”