The Federal Government has said secondary and tertiary health facilities in the country are overstretched. It said they provide services to 70 per cent of the population, while the Primary Health Care (PHC) system is underutilised. The government also said PHCs, which are designed to cater for at least 70 per cent, are most times moribund and only provide services for only 20 per cent of the population. It announced plans to revamp and upgrade PHC infrastructure and provide well-trained health workforce from 2021. The Executive Director/CEO of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA), Dr. Faisal Shuaib, spoke at a Ministerial Health Sector Media Engagement and unveiling of the revised implementation guideline for the Basic Health Care Provision Fund (BHCPF). He said: “The current state of primary health care system is underutilised and there is a significant burden that has been transferred to other tiers of the health system, mainly the secondary and tertiary health systems. “Tertiary healthcare is designed to cater for only three per cent of the population. Secondary healthcare is designed to cater for at least 27 per cent of the population; however, in reality, it caters for over 70 per cent. This tier is overburdened. Primary healthcare is designed to cater for at least 70 per cent but only caters for about 20 per cent. Most times, it is moribund, which causes the burden on the secondary health care. “Primary healthcare is supposed to be responsible for at least 70 per cent of the needs of the populace. But because this is not happening, you find that almost 70 per cent of the care is at the secondary level and even much more at the tertiary level. “In the end, this will lead to what we have right now – a weak health system with resultant poor outcomes and indicators of up to 30,000 maternal deaths every year and up to a million under-five deaths annually.” Shuaib added: “In collaboration with the Federal Ministry of Health, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, the Presidential Task Force and all the critical stakeholders that moved towards the plan and the whole of society response to the COVID-19 response, NPHCDA actually played a very critical task with training over 220,000 health workers at the facility and community level to make sure that primary health care workers had the right knowledge about how to manage COVID-19 cases, and also took part in risk communication at the community level. “In the future, from 2021 to 2030, the vision of the Honourable Minister of Health is that in collaboration with states, local governments and critical stakeholders and, of course, other agencies, NPHCDA will be focusing on the Four-Point Agenda: to fast-track progress towards the achievement of universal health coverage (UHC) by upgrading PHC infrastructure and availability of well-trained health workforce; leverage technology to strengthen data management, supply chain and remote access to health services in order to achieve equitable and increased coverage of traditional and new vaccines – Rota, HPV, Meningococcal, among others. “Increase health promotion, behavioural change communication and demand for PHC services; and harness polio eradication resources and experiences to rapidly reduce maternal and child death.”