Just like all leagues around the world, the UEFA Champions League has taken a hit due to the lockdowns and other protocols forced by the Covid-19 pandemic. Most of the matches at the group stages were played behind closed doors and all hope is that most of these restrictions will be lifted going into the knockout stages. Even behind closed doors, the intensity has remained high in the matches and the cream in every group has been identified. Champions Bayern Munich remain strong favorites to retain the title. The German giants will be up against Italian side Lazio, and on paper, this looks like a mismatch, with Bayern expected to sail through with ease after winning five of their six group matches. Lazio’s main man going to this fixture will be Ciro Immobile, who had a short unsuccessful stint at Borussia Dortmund, but returns to Germany a better player and could singlehandedly cause havoc. The pick of the round from the draws will be French giants PSG against Barcelona. For these two clubs, it has been a shaky season so far. At Barcelona, with a new coach, it has been tough in La Liga, but some respite has come in the Champions League though the 3-0 defeat to Juventus on Match Day 6 will cast some doubts. As for PSG, they have not dominated Ligue 1 as they did in previous seasons, and had a few shaky moments at the group stages too. Star forward Neymar suffered an injury in the crunch match against Lyon and everyone will hope he is back by February, and in time for the knock out stage. Battle hardened Atletico Madrid will once again tour England, this time to face Chelsea. The two managers in this tie are a big contrast; Atletico’s Diego Simeone has built a strong side and is well versed with such matches while Frank Lampard, a great player in his time, but very inexperienced in matters management. However, their clubs had contrasting fortunes in the group stage; Atletico staggering to the knockouts as Lampard’s side easily rode its way to the second round. Another interesting game will pit Liverpool against German side Leipzig, who for the first time in history reached the Champions league semifinals last season. Leipzig will be hoping to go a step further but that is still a long way out and first they need to handle the immediate former champions of Europe. Liverpool are also billed among favorites to win the title and will hope to avoid the mistakes as they were eliminated by Spanish side Atletico Madrid last season. Real Madrid and Atalanta had shaky runs at the group stage but managed to squeeze through, Real top of Group B and Atalanta second in Group D. They face off in the next round in one of the clashes toughest to call. Both sides possessed good attacks and catastrophic defences and the two legs when they face off are expected to be goal fests. From Match Day 1 to 6, it has indeed been a long towards the final in Istanbul and the info from the group stages to the round of 16 can be found here: https://www.sportytrader.com/en/betting-tips/football/europe/champions-league-8/ Full draw: The first legs of the second round will take place between 16-17 February and the second legs between 9-10 March.