SIR: On December 5, the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, organized bye-elections across the country. These elections are quite significant because it is the first election held after the #ENDSARS protests and therefore it was anticipated that the elections will be a referendum on the present political class. These expectations were however dashed as the election results became more of a reaffirmation of status quo. The Lagos East bye-elections was held in a state which was the epicentre of the #ENDSARS protests. The elections ended with the ruling APC polling over 80% of the votes and a disappointing show for the opposition PDP with many lessons to learn. It can’t be gainsaid that the less than 10% voter turnout is no doubt disappointing and a proof that a vast majority of the electorates do not take elections seriously and are exhibiting a dangerous form of political apathy allowing politicians voted in by meagre percentage of the eligible voters to run away with the mandate. Beyond this, however, it is also a reflection of the weakness of our political parties. History has shown us that the greatest political movements succeed because of their ability to mobilize voters who beforehand have always shown apathy to the political process. The ability to meet and organize voters have always been crucial to populist political movements. Our political parties should move on from the era of long talk no action political rallies filled with rented crowd and political sycophants. It is time to go into grassroots mobilization, meeting the voters one on one without the throngs of sycophants singing your praises. Contestants must get closer to the voters and have personal connections with them. The unprecedented voter turnout in the U.S elections was a result of the serious mobilization efforts by American political actors and their army of volunteers to get eligible voters to vote. In the 21st century, large crowd at campaign rallies no longer inspire voters, if you are a political party guaranteed of victory in elections, you can continue with status quo, however, if you’re an opposition political party far behind and eager to uproot an entrenched political structure, there need to be a change of strategy to get voters out in their numbers to vote you. Another lesson which is vital is that protest against a government or its policy doesn’t translate to higher voter enthusiasm and elections are not a function of social media popularity.  At the height of the Black Lives Matter protests in the USA, an onlooker will be pushed to think that the Trump administration has become so unpopular that his supporters are now ashamed to associate with him. Despite this, 74 million Americans voted Trump in the presidential elections. Beyond the minority who make the news and make the loudest noise on social media, there is the silent majority many of whom are not even on social media with their own political views. It is therefore pertinent to reach out to the silent majority. Conversations have to move from bullying people with contrary political views to engaging the street where the silent majority are located. Abusing and bullying people have no effect on the political momentum because most of the politicians or sympathizers abused on social media have more political value than their bullies as they can connect to the real voters. Finally, as INEC plans to resume Continuous Voter Registration next year, political parties must see it as an opportunity to bolster their political base by actively encouraging more people to register and following them up to cast their votes in the next elections. The opposition must recognize that abusing or mocking people who didn’t vote them when a government policy goes wrong can never be a strategy; rather active engagement and education of the populace. 