 FLOODS have killed 68 persons this year, the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) has said. The flooding, which affected 35 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), led to the displacement of 129,000 people, the agency added. NEMA’s Director General Muhammadu Muhammed announced this yesterday in Abuja at the 2020 flood after action review technical meeting with stakeholders. He said: “The devastating impact of 2020 flooding killed 68 people, affected 35 states, including the FCT, 320 local government areas and over 129,000 people. It led to loss of lives, destroyed houses and washed away farmlands across the country, thereby having negative impact on food security. “Before the 2020 flooding occurred, the whole world was experiencing the COVID-19 pandemic with lockdown and restriction protocols to contain the spread of the virus. After the release of the Seasonal Rainfall Prediction by the Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMet) and the Annual Flood Outlook by the Nigeria Hydrological Agency (NIHSA), our worst fear was confirmed with the devastating flood disaster within the pandemic.” Muhammed said the technical meeting was planned to review various activities carried out about 2020 flood preparedness, mitigation and response. Also, the director general has advised disaster managers across the country to brace up for likely disasters during the Yuletide. The NEMA boss spoke yesterday in Owerri, the Imo State capital, while addressing stakeholders at a retreat for disaster managers.  He said there was need to remain alert all the time as the season of high emergency risks draws closer. Muhammad, who was represented by NEMA Coordinator Imo/Abia operations office, Mr. Evans Ugoh, tasked disaster stakeholders on readiness and productivity. “This meeting was organised to foster collaboration among response agencies. It also intends to harness expertise and bring together different response preparedness plans. “We are already in the season of emergencies, which if we are not proactive, may result to name calling by the populace,” Muhammed said.