The Directed General of the National Institute of Policy and Strategic Studies, Kuru, Jos, Professor Habu Shuiabu Galadima, has died. A statement by NIPSS Secretary/Director of Administration, Brig.-Gen. C. F. J. Udaya (retd.), said: “On behalf of the Board of Governors, management and workers of the National Institute, we regret to announce the sudden demise of the Director General/CEO of NIPSS, Prof. Habu Shuaibu Galadima, which occurred this morning, December 20, 2020, after a brief illness. “He will be buried according to Islamic rites.” President Muhammadu Buhari and Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong have expressed sadness over Galadima’s death. In a statement on Sunday in Abuja by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, the President described the late NIPSS director general as an intellectual colossus who stood tall in the field of scholarship and knowledge. “Galadima was an eloquent and remarkable intellectual whose contributions to scholarship were vast and remarkable, and Nigeria will continue to remember him for these contributions,” the President said. In a statement yesterday in Jos by his Director of Press and Public Affairs, Dr. Makut Simon Macham, the governor said Galadima’s death was a great loss to his immediate family, NIPSS, Plateau and Nasarawa states, the nation’s academic community and the entire country. “Since assuming office over one year ago, Prof. Galadima has injected a fresh impetus in the management of the nation’s apex policy and strategic institution by introducing new concepts that made research seamless even under the current COVID-19 pandemic. “He also did a lot to improve the physical infrastructure of the institution while strengthening the academic experience for all course participants. He will be greatly missed,” the statement said. Also, President Muhammadu Buhari has commiserated with the family, friends and associates of Professor Dotun Philips on the death of the distinguished development economist. A statement on Sunday in Abuja by his Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, said President Buhari noted the contributions of Professor Philips to the proper formation of the Nigerian civil service. The President also condoled with the academia, government and people of Ogun State, saying: “Nigeria has lost a brilliant economist who for decades made his wealth of knowledge and experience available of several students, researchers and governments at all levels.”