  Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has reiterated his administration’s commitment to developing the grassroots because it is central to his ‘Greater Lagos’ initiative. The governor spoke at the third Echonews Newspaper award ceremony held at Ejigbo. He was represented by Commissioner for Information and Strategy Gbenga Omotosho. In his address ‘Managing our Communities for Security and Prosperity’, the governor noted that his development agenda is driven by the spirit to build a ‘Greater Lagos’ that is liveable and conducive for the growth and development of enterprise. He said: “For us, the dream of a ‘Greater Lagos’ is not exclusive; it is predicated on the principle of inclusiveness by which development is not considered as satisfactory until it has addressed the yearnings of the greatest number of the people who contribute to the commonwealth. “Therefore, as part of our commitment to transform Lagos, we have been initiating and implementing programmes and projects to improve the lives of people living in the rural areas, and to reverse the rural-urban migration problem.  “Latest of such initiatives is the construction of 377 projects across the state, including the construction of 257 community roads and drainages; rehabilitation of 86 public buildings and the installation two jetties, nine water projects and 23 power projects across all wards. These projects underscore our commitment to ensuring that the ‘Greater Lagos’ vision is well on course. “When community management is effective, there is less crime, less disparity between citizens, better jobs, a more talented workforce, and less issues that impact residents. A well-managed community system reduces problems and increases opportunities for growth. Without community development, both economic and business development suffers greatly.” Host and publisher of Echonews Newspaper Kehinde Bamigbetan appealed to the people to take responsibility for COVID-19 and not blame the government. According to him, it is the people’s responsibility to curb the virus’s spread before the government is forced to impose a lockdown. He said: “Let us do the right thing because it’s about our life. Let’s obey rules, wash our hands regularly and mask up. We do not have to record deaths, or put government in panic mode to hinder our freedom and exercise of our rights. I appeal to Nigerians to take responsibility by adhering to COVID-19 safety protocols.” 