 In what appears like a playback of the recent youth uprising, #EndSARS protest, residents of Ajaganabe Square and the adjoining Apena/Oloye Street, Epe, Lagos State did not allow INEC ad-hoc officials to set up their equipment and do their job. Their reason is that they were not given some money by the various political parties like in the past. A group of middle-aged women who spoke to our reporter summarised the situation this way: “We did not allow them to sit down and do their job because we have not been settled. It is not just the boys that drove them away; the entire community rose in unison and sent them away.” The women who spoke in Yoruba added: “Kosi owo, kosi ibo (no money, no voting). Once they have been voted in, you cannot approach them any longer and they will not cater for the interests of the people. There is no job for the people and things are getting more difficult for us.” At about 12.30pm, after the police were called in to provide security, the voting process eventually began at Apena/Oloye Street. But the same thing cannot be said for Ajaganabe Square because the electoral officials were nowhere in sight.  Governor of Plateau state,  Simon Lalong  has expressed optimism that the All Progressives Congress (APC) will emerge victorious in the ongoing  Senate by-election for Plateau South. He said this in Ajikamai polling unit in Shendam local government after casting his vote alongside his wife Regina at 11: 40 am on Saturday . Lalong also expressed satisfaction with the security measures  put in place. According to him, the party has continued to remain intact in the state and the leadership steadily delivering on its campaign promises and rescuing various sectors of the economy which, he said,  would give his party the needed advantage in the election. The Governor, however, described the ongoing by-election in the Plateau south as peaceful, pointing out, that the turnout has been impressive. It is still early, but compared to previous elections in Epe, the ongoing Lagos East senatorial by-election appears to be experiencing low turnout. Apart from the huge crowd observed at the deputy governor’s polling unit, people appear not interested in coming out to vote. INEC ad-hoc officials have been idle because prospective voters are coming out in trickles to exercise their franchise. For instance, at Zumratul Islamiyah Primary School, Epe, which houses two polling units, the officials were not not attending to anybody when our reporter visited the complex. Assistant Presiding Officer II, Omolara Adeola said in her unit (PU 48, Ward 5) only 50 persons had been attended to by 11.00am when our reporter visited the complex. Five hundred and sixty-eight persons are registered at the unit. In 2015 when this reporter covered the election in Epe the school complex was thronged by prospective voters at same time. Ayeola said it is probably because only one position is at stake. “Otherwise, the exercise has been smooth and orderly so far, ” she added. The story is the same at virtually all the polling units visited in town. At Polling Unit 003, Ward 5, Ajaganabe registration area, Rasheed Ganiyu, a resident of the area, an engineer, also attributed it to the single position being contested for. Ganiyu said: “Perhaps it is because only one elective position is at stake. When it comes to general elections, people tend to show more interest, especially at this polling booth. This time around, the turnout is low. “It may also be attributed to the EndSARS protest. People may be afraid that there may be violence. I was the first person to vote here this morning. After I voted, the officials waited for over 30 minutes without seeing any other prospective voter.” By Kolade Adeyemi, Jos   The All Progressive Congress Candidate  for the Lagos State of Assembly, Kosefe Constituency 11, Hon Femi Saheed voting at Agiliti 003, Ward.Photos: ADEOLA OGUNLADE   11:10 AM   10: 55 AM  10: 50 AM  10:40 AM Impressive turnout of voters have been reported in Mikang, Shendam, Wase and Langtang North Local Government Areas in the ongoing Plateau South Senatorial by-election. Many voters had formed queues in several polling units as early as 8.15 a.m. At Piyapum polling unit in Mikang, Zomo and Piapun voting started as early as 9.00 a.m. Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC),
in Plateau state Hussaini Halilu Pai, who addressed newsmen in Shendam said that the polls have commenced and that there had been no hitches. He said voters without face masks would not be allowed to vote in the Plateau South Senatorial by-election. He also said that the Commission has made adequate preparation for free, fair, credible and transparent election. In his words “Wearing of face mask is compulsory at the polling units and all election locations. Voters, party agents and other stakeholders will make provision for their face masks. Any voter without a face mask shall be turned away from the Polling Units. “Voters were brought into the voting area periodically to prevent overcrowding.” He said that the Commission has approved the introduction of new steps to further strengthen the election management process and enhance the transparency of the system.     The voting process is gradually taking off in Epe, Lagos East Senatorial District. Residents of the town are taking their time to come out. The atmosphere is calm and people are going about their businesses normally. But, for the restriction of vehicular movements, today would pass like any other Saturday. Commercial motorcycle operators are busy ferrying people from one location to another. As at 0900am, INEC ad-hoc officials have already set up their equipment in most areas visited by our reporter. At Polling Unit 002, Ward 4, near the Central Mosque, Oke Balogun area, where Deputy Governor ‘Femi Hamzat is registered to vote, for instance, at large crowd is already on ground as at 0900am and going through the process of casting their vote.   