Oyo State Government has set aside N732million in next year’s budget to cater for community development capital and recurrent expenditure projects, under Community and Social Development Project (CSDP). Governor Seyi Makinde made this known at a six-day CSDP management retreat and review meeting, held at the Premier Hotel, Ibadan. It was attended by the coordinators of CSDP from 32 states, who have subscribed to the intervention programme such as Oyo, Bauchi, Plateau, Edo, Ekiti, Ondo and Kwara states among others. Makinde, represented by his Special Adviser on World Bank Intervention, Mrs. Aderonke Adedayo, said the fund was to replicate the efforts of CSDP in the state, alongside the COVID-19 Action Response and Economic Stimulus (CARES). He said the state had 175 community development plans that had been approved with 788 micro-projects that were completed and functional, adding that the Community and Social Development Agency (CSDA) had recorded success in its projects with support from financial institutions as well as Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs). “It is gratifying to note that as CSDP is faring well in Oyo State, the state is already mainstreaming community-driven development approach strategy into the government policy. Consequently, N732million has been considered for capital project and recurrent expenditure for the state agency in the 2021 estimate by the governor.” “This is targeted at CSDP replication in the state, which is expected to be implemented simultaneously with the CARES programme. At this juncture, given the readiness of the government and high level expectations of communities, I am informed that over 500 community development associations (CDAs) have submitted their expression of interest forms for them to benefit from the project.” The National Coordinator of CSDP, Dr. Abdulkarim Obadje, appreciated the governors who have subscribed to the project, especially Governor Makinde, for his administration’s support towards the success of CSDP. Welcoming the visitors to Ibadan, the Chairman, Oyo State Community and Social Development Agency, Mr. Babatunde Eesuola, hailed the choice of Oyo State capital for the meeting. He told the national office of CSDP and other states that Oyo was faring better than others in implementation of strategic intervention projects.   