 For years, diaspora remittances beneficiaries have little or no say on what currency their funds should be paid. They dare not ask the International Money Transfer Operators (IMTOs) commercial banks at the centre of the transaction to credit their domiciliary accounts with the dollar inflows. But today, the game has changed. The funds beneficiaries can decide how he/ she receives the funds and the currency of choice. This followed a  new Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) policy given diaspora remittances beneficiaries the option of deciding how they want their funds paid. The policy which has taken off, ensures that diaspora remittances beneficiaries can receive their forex in dollars, have unfettered access and utilization to foreign currency proceeds, either in forex cash and/or in their domiciliary accounts, in line with CBN policy. There are over 1.24 million Nigerian Migrants abroad and 50 per cent of them lives within the African neighbour hood, and the figure is expected to rise in the coming years. The migrants’ cumulative  remittances figures into the Nigerian economy by the World Bank estimates indicated $22 billion in 2017, $23 billion in 2018 and  $24 billion in 2019. CBN Governor Godwin Emefiele said the new policy measures in the country’s remittance programme are designed to boost and facilitate an efficient flow of remittances sent home by Nigerians in the Diaspora. These changes are as a result of the apex bank’s  internal review of the operations of IMTOs in the country and the potential impact improved flows could have on the economy. Emefiele explained that given the estimated annual remittance inflow of close to $24 billion, which could help in improving Nigeria’s balance of payment position, reduce dependence on external borrowing and mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on foreign exchange inflows into the country, the CBN sought to find ways to support improved remittance inflows into the country through official channels. Based on this premise, the apex bank analysed data on IMTO inflows into the country over the past year, and through investigations discovered that some IMTOs, rather than compete on improving transaction volumes and create more efficient ways for Nigerians in the Diaspora to remit funds, resorted to engaging in arbitrage arrangements on the naira-dollar exchange rate, which to a large extent resulted in a significant drop in flows into the country. It also encouraged the use of unsafe unofficial channels, which also supported diversion of remittance flows meant for Nigeria, thereby undermining Nigeria’s Foreign Exchange management framework. World Bank Group President David Malpass, said remittances are a vital source of income for developing countries. The ongoing economic recession caused by COVID-19 is taking a severe toll on the ability to send money home and makes it all the more vital that the bank shorten the time to recovery for advanced economies. He explained that remittances help families afford food, healthcare, and basic needs. Also in 2021, the World Bank estimates that remittances to low and middle-income countries  will recover and rise by 5.6 per cent to $470 billion. The global average cost of sending $200 remains high at 6.8 per cent in the first quarter of 2020, only slightly below the previous year. Sub-Saharan Africa continued to have the highest average cost, at about nine percent, yet intra-regional migrants in Sub-Saharan Africa comprise over two-thirds of all international migration from the region. Besides,  90 per cent of the total World Bank estimate  of about $18 billion is trading outside the official window while majority of the registered International Money Transfer Operators (IMTOs) partronise the informal market because of the higher margin and post funding settlements method of the unlicensed agents. President, Association of Bureaux De Change Operators of Nigeria (ABCON) Aminu Gwadabe  said the apex bank has broken the monopoly in the remittance market, which will hale save the naira. He said those hoarding the dollar and causing unnecessary volatility in the market will incure major losses going forward days. He listed importance of migrant remittances to the economy to include serving as a lifeline for the recipients small house hold in the economy and used for health, nutrition, education and societal needs. The remittances are also higher than both Foreign Direct Investment and foreign aids flow to the economy and still, are cheaper sources of funds. He said that remittances can be used for infrastructural developments as seen in India and Lebanon while in the Dubai UAE, the remittances are stable sources of liquidity in the Market. The remittances, he added, can also serve as excellent  source of investments funds in the economy. Managing Director, Ecobank Nigeria, Patrick Akinwuntan, said Ecobank is taking steps to see the immediate implementation of the CBN policy. He encouraged Nigerians in the diaspora and their loved ones here in Nigeria to take advantage of the policy by opening the Ecobank domiciliary account or reactivating their inactive domiciliary account with the bank. “We are leaving no stone unturned to ensure that our customers instantly receive their transfers as cash (USD) or transfers into their domiciliary accounts. Our customers have the flexibility to choose the mode of receipt that suits them. It is strictly on their terms.” he said. He went on to say “Our proprietary money transfer platform, Rapidtransfer, available on the App Store and Play Store, makes it possible for Nigerians abroad to remit home instantly at very affordable charges. We have also just launched a new version, Rapidtransfer International, specifically for Nigerians living in Europe. The functionality of both apps is being enhanced to meet this new requirement.” Ecobank also stated that it is collaborating with other remittance partners (Western Union, MoneyGram, Ria, Small World etc.) on this new development in a bid to deliver maximum value to its customers. Head, Consumer Banking, Ecobank Nigeria, Olukorede Demola-Adeniyi, said the Nigerian diaspora community makes significant contribution to the economy and Ecobank is committed to supporting them by providing advisory services, remittance solutions, investment options and financial planning.  Review of IMTOs operations in Nigeria  According to the Emefiele, a review of the history of IMTOs in Nigeria along with the policy actions that have been taken in the past by the apex bank showed that in 1996, following the promulgation of a new law which exempted remittances from taxes, the first remittance programme by an IMTO was launched in Nigeria. The apex bank boss said the private arrangement, with limited involvement by the CBN, was between an IMTO, Western Union and First Bank of Nigeria, which was then the only Western Union agent. “Indeed, I am aware that at that initial stage, Western Union dealt with only First Bank directly, while First Bank of Nigeria, in turn, had other banks as sub-agents. This programme enabled recipients of remittances to receive such funds over the counter in foreign currency, amongst other options. Following the successful launch of this programme, other money transfer organisations launched similar initiatives to provide services to the growing number of Nigerians in the Diaspora who were keen on remitting funds back to Nigeria,” he added. However, due to issues around dollar cash availability, some of the remittance operators working with the commercial banks decided to remit funds to recipients in naira, at an agreed exchange rate between the banks and the IMTOs. In 2016, the CBN, in an effort to increase remittance inflows and improve the number of formal channels under which Nigerians in the Diaspora could remit funds, launched a licensing regime to guide the conduct and operations of IMTOs. As a result of this new policy measure, 65 IMTOs were licensed by the CBN for inbound remittances. In an effort to boost remittance inflows and foster an environment that would enable faster, cheaper, and more convenient flow of remittances back to Nigeria, the CBN , recently announced a new policy initiative, which would help to support these objectives.  Understanding the new policy measures  In an effort to liberalise, simplify and improve the receipt and administration of Diaspora remittances into Nigeria, the apex bank directed that beneficiaries of Diaspora Remittances through IMTOs shall henceforth receive such inflows in foreign currency (US Dollars) through the designated bank of their choice. Such recipients of remittances may have the option of receiving these funds in foreign currency cash (US Dollars) or into their ordinary domiciliary account. Emefiele explained that these changes are necessary to deepen the foreign exchange market, provide more liquidity, and create more transparency in the administration of Diaspora Remittances into Nigeria. In addition, these changes would help finance a future stream of investment opportunities for Nigerians in the Diaspora, while also guaranteeing that recipients of remittances would receive a market-reflective exchange rate for their inflows. “All Authorised Dealers and the general public should note that beneficiaries shall have unfettered access and utilisation to such foreign currency proceeds, either in forex cash and/or in their domiciliary accounts, in line with approved guidelines,” he said. In the course of following up on the implementation of the aforementioned new policies, the CBN observed some pushback by some of the IMTOs who were bent on undermining the new policies. CBN Director, Trade & Exchange Department, O.S. Nnaji, said the new policy is expected to  liberarise, simplify and improve receipt and administration of diaspora remittances into Nigeria. According to Nnaji,   recipients of such IMTOs remittances have the option of receiving these funds in foreign currency cash or into their domiciliary account. “These changes are necessary to deepen the foreign exchange market, provide more liquidity and create more transparency in the administration of Diaspora remittances into Nigeria,” Nnaji said. “In addition, these changes would help finance a future stream of investment opportunities for Nigerians in the diaspora, while also guaranteeing that recipients would receive a market reflective exchange rate for the market.” In another circular to authorised dealers, the CBN clarified that following different interpretations on the operationlisation of domiciliary accounts and to ensure the stability of the foreign exchange market, export proceeds domiciliary accounts will continue to be operated on existing regulations. The regulators allow account holders use their funds for business operations only, with any extra funds sold in Investors’ & Exporters’ window. Also, where domiciliary accounts are funded by electronic transfer or wire services, account holders will be allowed unfettered and unrestricted use of the funds for eligible transactions. It said that where accounts are funded by cash deposits, existing regulations will continue to apply. “These clarifications are necessary given the vastly improved capabilities of the Central Bank of Nigeria to monitor transactions, forestall money laundering and prevent adverse effects of dollarization of the economy, adding that Bank Verification Number will be used to enforce compliance,” the apex bank said. The CBN has asked banks to close all  naira general ledgers through which the naira remittances were hitherto being carried out. To ensure  smooth implementation, the apex bank engaged with the commercial banks and the IMTOs to ensure that recipients of remittance inflows are able to receive their funds in the designated foreign currency of their choice. Emefiele assured Nigerians both at home and in the Diaspora, that all the IT systems of these IMTOs (Western Union, Moneygram and Ria services) and the commercial banks have been properly configured and have commenced remittances. “These new policy measures would help in providing a more convenient channel for Nigerians in the Diaspora to remit funds back to Nigeria, as well as ensure that these funds can contribute to the overall development of our economy,” he said.  Diaspora remittances policy flouted  Despite the gains of implementing the new policy, some IMTOs are flouting the new rule by continually paying beneficiaries in naira. In a statement , the apex bank said few operators continue to pay remittances in local currency contrary to regulatory directive. The apex bank therefore issued a new directive, where it mandated that Switches and Processors should immediately cease all local currency transfers in respect of foreign currency remittances through IMTOs. It also directed that all Mobile Money Operators should immediately disable wallets from receipt of funds from IMTOs. Again, Payment Service Providers are directed to stop integrating their systems with IMTOs going forward and must prevent combining  remittances  with other legitimate transactions. According to the apex bank, all IMTOs are required to immediately disclose to beneficiaries that they exercise discretion to receive transfer in foreign currency cash or directly into their domiciliary accounts. The apex bank has also instituted a central reporting portal for all foreign remittances to be managed by the Nigeria Interbank Settlement System (NIBSS), which is under development to improve visibility of foreign remittances flow. “All licensed institutions are required to comply with the new guidelines as contraventions will attract stiff regulatory sanction including revocation of license,” the apex bank said. The apex bank said it remained committed to promoting transparency in the administration of Diaspora remittances into Nigeria and will continue to enforce policies that will stabilise and deepen the Nigerian foreign exchange market. The CBN also warned the general public to beware of two firms: Azimo, Transfer Wise which are operating as IMTOs. According to the apex bank,  the two firms are not licensed to carry out the business. It said: “ Our attention has been drawn to the activities of Messrs. Azimo and Messrs. Transfer Wise, both of which are purportedly transacting business, albeit un-authorised, as International Money Transfer Operators (IMTOs)”. “The CBN wishes to notify the general public that neither Messrs. Azimo nor Messrs. Transfer Wise is licensed by the Central Bank of Nigeria to operate as an International Money Transfer Operator (IMTO)”. “The Public is therefore advised to beware of the activities of Messrs. Azimo and Messrs. Transfer Wise and desist from patronizing the companies forthwith. Anyone who patronizes the unregistered companies, does so at his or her own risk”. Finally, crude oil has for long, remained the mainstay of Nigeria’s economy. Although it accounts for over 90 per cent of Nigeria’s foreign exchange (forex) earnings, the unpredictability of oil prices raises the risk of relying solely on it for Nigeria’s revenue. That explains why the CBN’s new policy is timely and expected to help  attract more Diaspora remittances and other foreign capital that will not only deepen the market, keep the naira stable but also supported beneficiaries’ families. Analysts insist that the CBN’s new policy would  also  harness remittances into generating capital for productive investments for the growth and development of small and micro-enterprises, which will in turn, create employment was required. In addition, remittances can be deployed toward philanthropic activities which can serve as solutions for specific deficiencies in the local infrastructure such as schools, hospitals and roads. Indeed, remittances are on track to become the largest source of external financing in developing countries and Nigeria cannot be left behind. 