AS the long-running battle between the Federal Government and the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) continues, one wonders when the strike will be suspended. However, it is not even just about ASUU calling off the strike anymore, it is now a question of whether the universities would be willing to put in place machinery that would facilitate mental rejuvenation and revival for students upon resumption. Again, it is not solely on the resumption of students, it is about  ASUU putting a stop to incessant strikes and abrupt disruption of academic activities.  It is now an important decision to be made to avoid the usual occurrence of such disruptions in future. Although the strike had been unexpected, students have been advised to engage themselves in acquiring at least a skill or handiwork for added knowledge in the future. Of course, no one knows the future, but as students/youths in this era, one’s  educational certificate will not automatically help you achieve your dreams and aspirations. Importantly, this new generation of youths  do not need to seek a  high-paying job after another without satisfaction.As it stands,the standard of living remains abysmally low in the country and the jobs are not even there. We need to change our perception about certificates as the all in all. The generations before us had a fair share of certificates,but not anymore.The world has moved on from that. Being self-employed is the new normal. Acquiring skills helps to establish dreams and perhaps certificates  rarely do. Let’s stop the rat race, running and falling back to regret it afterwards. Why not let’s make it right from the beginning and be employers of labour. Choosing the right machinery for such purpose, aiming for growth and at the same time essential evolving stability is quite crucial. We do not need to always clamour often for everything we need, when our needs are obviously clear. We do not need to rustle still waters or walk down every corners of earth before we get our desires. We do not need to shout with our veins visible on our neck and tears meandering down  our face before we are handed our inherent and constitutional rights. We have the powers, as youths to be trail blazers!  