 NOLLYWOOD star actress, Stella Damasus Ademinokan, has returned to contest for the award for the Best Actress in a leading role in the 2020 AMAA. Damasus is up against Ghanaian star, Joselyn Dumas, in the race for the 2020 AMAA Best Actress in a leading role. Damasus’s performance in the Daniel Ademinokan directed ‘Between’ has earned her a nomination alongside seven other actresses from Ghana, Nigeria, and South Africa for the category. Other actresses slugging it out with Damasus include Joselyn Dumas, Mary Twala Mhlongo, Meg Otanwa, Zenobia Kloppers, Elvina Ibru, Girley Jazama, are Kelly Khumalo. Dumas was nominated for her role in ‘Cold Feet,’ Khumalo for her role in ‘Zulu Wedding,’ Ibru for her role in ‘The Bling Lagosian,’ Jazama for her role in ‘the White Line,’ Kloppers for her role in ‘Fiela’s Child,’ Otanwa for her role in ‘For Maria: Ebun Pataki,’ and Mhlongo for her role in ‘This is Not A Burial, It’s a Resurrection.’ For the 2020 AMAA nominations, Jahmil X.T Quebeka’s ‘Knuckle City’ came strong with 12 nominations including the Best Film, Best Actor, and Best Director categories. Nigeria’s ‘The Milkmaid’ directed by Desmond Ovbiagele follows with eight nominations and Akin Omotoso’s ‘The Ghost and The House of Truth’ with seven. In the same vein, Ramsey Noah’s ‘Living in Bondage: Breaking Free’ picked six nominations. ‘Living in Bondage: Breaking Free,’ was nominated for ‘Best actor in supporting role’, ‘Best First Feature Film by a director’ and ‘National Film and video censors board award for Best Nigerian film’. Swanky JKA was also nominated ‘Best young promising actor’ as the film got listed in the ‘2020 Award for achievement in visual effect’ and 2020 Award for achievement in the soundtrack, respectively. Organisers of the Africa Movie Academy Awards (AMAA) released the much-expected nominees’ list for the 2020 edition of the awards on Monday evening, November 30. For the 16th edition, actors and filmmakers from Namibia, South Africa, Uganda, Nigeria, DRC, Senegal, Egypt, Kenya, United States, Mozambique, Germany, Cote D’Ivoire, Ghana, Sudan, Burkina Faso, Togo, Ethiopia, and Canada will slug it out at the prestigious African Oscars. The 2020 edition of the awards ceremony will be broadcast live from Lagos via zoom and cable TV.