 The original contract for the construction of the Lagos-Ibadan Standard Gauge rail line (now known as the LOT II of Lagos-Kano standard gauge rail construction) did not include a branch line into the Apapa Ports Complex; the addendum was to harness the full potentials of the railway, especially, the western line, (arguably the nation’s most lucrative), into a full mixed line for passenger and freight services. But as the project itches to the finishing line with the passenger component already flagged off last Monday, the freight component, which ought to begin from Apapa, may be stunted, unless the government applies the will and rein in tendencies primed to derail it. One such tendency reared its head penultimate week; with the APM Terminal the largest container operator on the Apapa complex, alleging the contractor’s wilful damage of its property an act it described as a threat to the nation’s economy. The Netherlands based firm had come short of accusing the China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation  (CCECC), of stalling its business.  The allegations  Pointedly, APMT alleged that the CCECC, handling the track construction, demolished penultimate Wednesday, its trucks exit gate and some structures within its terminal, thereby disrupting its operations. It further alleged that the demolition was carried out without any prior notice, thereby hampering its operations. Being the peak of clearing activities APMT insisted that such might have a major impact on container clearing. It hinted the nation’s economy may be at risk as the release and exit of containers at the seaport may be stopped. “This is terrible. I have never seen this kind of thing before in this port. There was no warning, no prior notice from the railway contractor. They just brought their heavy-duty machines today and blocked everywhere,” one of its officials said on the heels of the blockade, adding: “Port operation was stopped and everything was at standstill. It is total chaos. Everywhere is blocked,” he said. A customs agent, Babawale Busari, accused the rail project contractor for being insensitive to port operation and the economy, warning that the blockade of West Africa’s largest container terminal would harm Nigeria’s economy. “The rail project is a good idea but the way the contractor is going about it is very wrong. You don’t paralyse port operations. Trade must keep flowing, but it does not appear they understand this at all. Now they have mobilised to site without allowing us to make necessary alternative arrangements for delivery of containers. The President of the Nigerian Importers Integrity Association (NIIA), Godwin Onyekazi, described the government’s desire to link the seaports to the rail network as salutary. “This is the peak season for importation. More goods are coming into the country and this disruption will mean that these goods will be stranded at the port. “Importers will be worse hit because their goods will be trapped inside the port and they will not be able to take them to the market in good time. Also, they will end up paying more demurrage and storage charges.” Onyekazi appealed to the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi and the Managing Director of Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) Hadiza Bala Usman to allow cargo deliveries to continue alongside the rail project.  The APMT Games  But port authorities say the APMT has been less than charitable by blaming the contractor, accusing it of deliberate plots to stall the project. An NPA top shot, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said NPA had bent backwards several times just to accommodate all the APMT’s grievances. According to him, as the largest terminal operator, APMT has been in the picture over two years ago. He added that the NPA, the Federal Ministry of Transportation, the TEAM engineers have held several meetings with the APMT and all other terminal operators on the workflow for all to ensure the removal of all hindrances to the project. He said: “As a civil servant, I would not have so acted if not on the orders of my Managing Director, Hadiza Bala Usman, who also would not have acted unless directed by the Federal Ministry of Transportation acting as directed by the Federal Government. He said the NPA as Federal Government’s agency and landlord, gave the contractor approval to move to site and to commence operation, in compliance with the directive of the Minister of Transportation whose desire it is to hand over the project in January 2021. Wondering why the terminal operator would resort to cheap blackmail, the NPA official asked why the operator would heap all the blame on the contractor, knowing it could not have acted without NPA’s approval, acting on behalf of the Federal Government, the owner of all the land within the complex. He accused the Dutch company of actions capable of derailing the nation’s match on inter-modal transportation and the integration of rail transportation systems in freight operation. Setting the records straight, the official said the NPA authorities had more than 12 meetings with all operators, where all issues regarding the construction of a speed train corridor into the port complex were trashed, and had held more than six separate meetings with the APMT where further assurances had been given and engineering designs had been severally altered at the instance of the operator. “NPA had bent several times backwards for APMT, we have had to do at least four engineering designs of the project because, at each point, the company will come up with an excuse and request that the drawings be redrawn. At the last count, they had requested we shift the alignment of the track close to the fence, and even when this was done, they still came up with a series of other excuses just to put a wedge on the construction and the delivery of the project.” Another NPA official, Mr Dasaolu Oladimeji, urged all terminal operators to cooperate with the Federal Government in achieving a rail system into Apapa as it would have a tremendous impact on freight and cargo operation and relief the roads within Apapa and Lagos environment of traffic congestion and attendant gridlock. Oladimeji, an architect, said the NPA has been fair to all terminal operators, adding that the least expected from the operators is their cooperation to ensure the delivery of all mandates given to the agency on behalf of Nigerians. He said the construction has been designed in such a way as to have the least impact on their operations, adding that the track laying is such that it could be completed in phases and executed and delivered in record time. He, therefore, appealed to the APMT to support the project and stop being a cog in the wheel, as the project is topmost on the agenda of the government for delivery to Nigerians. “I just want to appeal to the APMT to join other terminal operators and permit the work to go on unhindered because it is a project dear to the Federal Government of Nigeria.”  CCECC is executing orders  The Chinese contractor insisted that it never invaded and impeded operations of the terminal operator. CCECC said it has the authority of the Federal Government through the NPA to move to site and continue to work, adding that nothing was ever done without the knowledge of the NPA, the supervising authority of the port area. One of its officials, who have attended several meetings at the instance of the NPA, either with all the terminal operators or with the APMT said all issues would always appear set only for the APMT to throw a cog in the works at the point of execution. A supervisory engineer with CCECC, Jimoh Abdulwakeel, told our correspondent that one such meeting was held on October 8, this year, wherein it was agreed that the contractor can move to site, while the ROW within the APMT was marked under the supervision of the APMT Safety Officer. He said a letter ref: LIRP-APMT-S1-2020-081 dated October 27, titled notification on the removal of structures was sent to the APMT General Manager, and the following day a letter ref: LIRP-NPA-S1- 2020-082 titled removal of structures on ROW in Apapa port was sent to the NPA. On November 5, the contractor also forwarded to APMT cross-section and other drawings and on November 16, the Gantt chart construction activities was forwarded to APMT and on November 20, the CCECC, together with APMT, FMOT and NPA had a meeting to strategise for site mobilisation inside the APMT conference room, and thereafter had another site inspection wherein the APMT officials promised to get back to NPA. Abdulwakeel, who supervises the track construction from Ebute Meta to Apapa port complex, said: “We blocked the exit gate just to draw their attention.” He said despite all agreements, APMT was yet to remove all impediments still on the right of way of the project, without which work cannot begin. He said CCECC was ready to go full blast once these are removed.