No fewer than four houses have been reportedly destroyed in Nawfia community in Njikoka Local Government Area of Anambra State following crisis allegedly instigated by certain influential members of the community. People of the community have called on the state governor, Willie Obiano and commissioner of Police, Mr John Abang to investigate the crisis to ensure appropriate punishment were metted on the pepetrators.
A member of the community, Chibuzor Onwujekwe, whose house was invaded, alleged that the destruction was carried out by some youths in the village who were being sponsored. He said, “The invaders planned to kill me, but I was lucky to be away that fateful day. They destroyed my house totally and looted everything in it. “Since then, I have been moving from one hotel to the other. I am not the only one affected, there are other indigenes, whose houses were also destroyed.” Counsel to the community, Barr Mike Ikegbunam, in a ‘Save Our Soul Message’, petitioned Governor Willie Obiano; Police commissioner and others to intervene in the crisis. In the petition made available to our correspondent, Ikegbunam listed Chibuzor Onwujekwe, Ogochukwu Okonkwo, Dinobi Chukwuebuka and Chief Gabriel Okonkwo as some of those whose houses were destroyed in the crisis. He alleged that the President General community, Mr Nathan Enemuo was among those behind the crisis. He said, “The problem started on October 18, 2020 when armed bandits mobilized and led by the duo (Nathan Enemuo and BIE Nwofor) stormed Chief Gabriel Okonkwo’s house with assorted weapons, and right in the presence of everyone, they beat him mercilessly with a view to killing him. “They beat him until he fainted, and believing him to be dead, they now swooped upon his house and destroyed every valuable in it. In view of this ugly incident, we are calling on you (Governor Obiano) to as a matter of urgency investigate Nawfia Town Union led by Nathan Enemuo and his cohorts. “We demand for the suspension of the illegal group referred to as taskforce, being used by the town union to rain terror on the people. Reacting, President General of the community, Mr Nathan Enemuo denied intimidating the people with any village militia. Enemuo who declined further comment on the matter, claiming to have been advised by his lawyer not to speak, however admitted having a running battle with Chief Okonkwo, who he said was bent on tarnishing his image.