The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has said the gale of defections from the opposition parties into its fold has confirmed the party as the choice of progressive-minded politicians. It maintained that the mass defections into the party signposted the democratic and progressive environment the party’s Caretaker Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) had created in the last six months. A statement at the weekend in Abuja by CECPC Secretary, Senator John James Akpanudoedehe, said this while welcomed House of Representatives lawmakers who recently defected to the ruling party. The statement recalled that on Wednesday, Aliyu Yako, representing Kiru/Babeji Federal Constituency of Kano State and Danjuma Shiddi, representing Ibi/Wukari Federal Constituency of Taraba State, defected from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) to the APC. Last Thursday, Tajudeen Adefisoye, representing Idanre/Ifedore Federal Constituency in Ondo State, and Sam Onuigbo, representing Ikwuano/Umuahia Federal Constituency of Abia State, announced at House plenary their defections from the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and PDP to the APC. Also, at a recent meeting of the Southsouth APC leaders, they received two members of the Federal House of Representatives from Rivers State to the party. They are: Chisom Dike and Ephraim Nwuzi (Eleme, Tai Oyigbo and Etche and Omuma Federal constituencies). “Evidently, the APC, under the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), has been repositioned as the party of choice for Nigerians and progressive-minded partisans. “The mass defections to the APC are a signpost of the democratic and progressive environment the CECPC has created in the APC by accommodating all interests and ensuring peace, unity, fairness, equity, justice, inclusion and entrenching internal democracy. “While we are confident that the new entrants will contribute their quota to the growth of the APC and President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration, the CECPC assures that in line with the resolution of the last virtual Emergency APC National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting, waivers will be granted to those who have joined, or want to join the APC. “Finally, we thank all stakeholders for their continued support as the APC CECPC achieves its renewed mandate to reposition the party and bring true peace and reconciliation across party ranks,” the statement said.