 Salamatu Ahmed is a mother from Ganuwarkuka community in Auyo Local Government Area (LGA) of Jigawa State. She farms predominantly rice and some vegetables and supports her family with income from selling her produce. She is one of many beneficiaries of Propcom Mai-karfi (PM), an Abuj-based Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO)’s Good Agricultural Practices (GAP) training for small- scale farmers in rural communities to bridge the extension service gap. GAP is a benchmark that defines measures and inputs farmers need to follow to produce safe and high quality products across the world. PM works  with its partner, Atafi Agro Merchandise Services Limited, to furnish farmers in rural communities with GAP on rice farming. Atafi Agro aims to integrate 10,000 rice farmers into sustainable and competitive business models that lead to increased paddy production as well as improvements in quality. This will contribute significantly to the reduction of poverty of small holder farmers in Jigawa State. Prior to receiving GAP information, Salamatu was only able to harvest 35 bags of rice (one bag is 75kg) per hectare, which she sold in the open market. She, thus, had limited options to sell her produce. However, having put into practise knowledge received, Salamatu’s productivity greatly improved. She says she now harvests about 75 bags of rice per hectare of farmland “I did not realise I was doing a lot of things wrong. Fertiliser and other input are very expensive and, for years, I’ve been wasting my fertiliser. With knowledge gained, I have gone from harvesting 35 bags of rice per hectare to about 75 bags per hectare.” According to Salamatu, on a scale of one to 10, with 10 being the highest, her income has increased by about 70 per cent since she started implementing GAP provided by Atafi’s agents. She said she uses her income to support her household and to buy inputs for her farm. She has also invested some of her income into rearing ruminants and has begun to see returns. They are not alone.  The United Nations Development Programme ((UNDP) office in Nigeria has been showcasing the viability and benefits of GAP with focus on Sustainable Land and Water Management and Climate Smart Agriculture (CSA). Through its Resilient Food Systems (RFS) project, focused on scaling up Sustainable Land and Water Management (SLWM) practices in northern Nigeria, UNDP introduced GAP in select communities and conducted training for extension workers. The country project team held a series of Farmer Field Days on demonstration plots that had adopted the new practices. Between August and November last year, the Farmer Field Days showcased the viability and benefits of GAP with focus on CSA as tools for improved production and environmental sustainability. In demonstration plots across all 70 project communities, over 7,000 smallholder farmers participated within the workshops—56 percent of which were females. The demonstration plots focused on rice, groundnuts, maize, soya beans, sorghum, and cassava, which are the staple foods of the savanna zones. The plots showcased many successful new techniques and practices, including using cover crops for erosion control, introducing climate-resilient seeds, using organic manure for soil conditioning, and planting crops across the slops to reduce land degradation. Rice farmers in the Harbo Sabuwa community in Taraba State stated that, despite the occurrence of flood in their area, the quality of the seed that was introduced to them by the RFS Nigeria team ensured that the rice was not affected by the flood. A farmer from Kaltungo, Audu Burga, expressed his joy over this year’s bumper harvest maize, rice, soya beans, guinea corn and groundnuts.  He said the UNDP programme is good. After seeing first-hand the improvement in crop yield, several farmers showed a keen interest in the new tools and techniques used on the demonstration plots and expressed an enthusiastic commitment to the new ideas introduced to them by the RFS country project team. Indeed, a lot has been done to get farmers acquainted with GAP as it affects ginger trade. The global trade bill for ginger rose from $853 million in 2015 to $1. 05 billion last year, representing a 23, 4 percent increase, according to Trade Map. However, farmers looking to export to international markets must comply with food quality and safety standards such as Global GAP and Fair Trade.  Other mandatory requirements in Europe are traceability and compliance in food and feed and labelling for foodstuffs. In addition, materials use for packaging should protect the taste, flavour, colour and other characteristics of the product, from bacteriological and other contamination. Nigeria has abundant potential to produce ginger for domestic consumption and export markets. However, the market has been negatively affected by mold infections and aflatoxin contamination, subsequently raising concerns about the ginger quality and safety. Issues resulting from aflatoxin contamination present a serious obstacle to improving the competitiveness at markets and linking ginger farmers to lucrative markets. In response to this, the Agriculture and Finance Consultants (AFC), based in Germany, under the Nigeria Competitiveness Project (NICOP) project, has been working with farmers on improving GAP and, Good Handling Practices (GHP) to reduce aflatoxin contamination. AFC launched an Aflatoxin sensitization, in collaboration with Agro processing, Productivity Enhancement and Livelihood Improvement Support Project (APPEALS), Kaduna Coordination Office to expose 300 actors from the ginger value chain on good agricultural practices. Also in Kaduna, about 18 lead farmers from four communities, including Iddah, Walijo, Keyin and Gurmi-Dagana of Kagarko local government, Kaduna State were trained on GAP of ginger production with compliance to Rainforest Alliance standard by Nivik Investment Limited. The comprehensive training, in compliance to Rainforest Alliance global standard, took the participants through a thorough training in best agronomics practice of price competitiveness in ginger production with full consideration to eco system and mutual workers’ relationship void of child abuse and women exposition to chemical spray, thereby ensuring standard to become global certified farmers of world recognition. On the occasion, the National Secretary, Federation of Agricultural Commodity Associations (FACAN),  Dr. Nuhu Dogodangi, advised the farmers to adhere to best agricultural practices they have been exposed to, saying this was how they can take advantage of premium price. He thanked the Nivik Investment Limited team for bringing such empowerment opportunity to Kaduna State. Undoubtedly, ginger is one of the main products of Kaduna State, representing a great potential for domestic and international markets. Its supply chain involves a wide number of actors, each of them with a role to play in making a safer and healthier chain. Largely, Southern Kaduna hosts one of the largest organic ginger farms in Nigeria. So far, there have been efforts by organisations to double the nation’s agro exports. Analysts  believe Nigeria offers huge opportunities in GAP certifications. One of them is the Chief Executive, Agro Park Development Company Limited, Sola Olunowo, who is on the campaign to get more  farmers certified to export various crops to international markets, under the good agricultural practices . He believes there are substantial opportunities for the agricultural and processed food sector. Despite a vast agricultural potential and significant demand of Nigerian produce, Olunowo observed that the nation was yet to harness the full potential in global agricultural and food markets. He is a crusader that the Federal Government diversifies its export basket and boost high value- and value-added agricultural exports, with a focus on perishables, processed food and organic food by entering global value chains. He sees huge potential in commodities such as spices, and standards-compliant food, turning out to be a huge revenue earner for farmers. Yet, there are many hurdles which farmers have to cross before they are fully integrated into global supply chains. Among them were lack of know-how about foreign markets and consumers, coupled with stringent quantitative and qualitative restrictions, make access to international markets difficult. The growing amount of export rejections from various countries, including Nigeria, has also lead to losses for farmers. He insists on appropriate training  of farmers and partnership with developed economies possessing advanced technological know-how,  to increase farm productivity, produce quality, standardisation and certification. He stressed that training in good agricultural practices, climate-smart agriculture, agri-input usage, modern packaging facilities, pre-harvest and post-harvest management practices in line with importing country requirements are important. He said farmers who receive GAP certification could earn premium consideration in the wider global marketplace. This is because international supermarket chains were increasingly demanding that their suppliers attain certification such as GAP. Given focus on exports and the fast-growing demand for safe and nutritious food, he is seeking partnership that will bring about transformational changes in Nigeria’s agriculture towards achieving quality production with best international practices and access to global markets by farmers. Another effort is from the African Plant Nutrition Institute (APNI), a not-for-profit research based in Benguerir, Morocco that has been working with research institutions to promote practices that will lead to   a resilient and food-secure Africa. In partnership with experts representing Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d’Ivoire, Ghana, Nigeria, Senegal, and Togo,  the institute has introduce ,transformative solutions for West African smallholder farm. In partnership with Mohammed VI Polytechnic University (UM6P), Morocco, the International Society of Precision Agriculture (ISPA), Institute of Agricultural Research and Training (IAR&T), Ibadan, Oyo State and 14 institutions in Africa, APNI held an online conference. Speaking during the programme, the Executive Director, Forum for Agricultural Research in Africa (FARA), Dr. Yemi Akinbamijo, stressed the need to help farmers manage their resources and increase productivity through such instruments as crop monitoring techniques, anticipation of postharvest losses, geospatial measurement and satellite/multi spectral imageries. He called for multi-stakeholder concerted efforts to raise the productivity of the African small and medium enterprise-based production systems. According to him, increased investment in research and development (R&D) for appropriate technologies is imperative for growth to happen in Africa agriculture and its economies. Also, Assistant Research Professor, University of Maryland, United States, Catherine Nakalembe, canvassed increased activities to promote food security monitoring to climate change, and the use of remote sensing for agriculture monitoring and research. Nakalembe, a 2020 Africa Food Prize Laureate, for her dedication to improving the lives of smallholder farmers by using satellite technology to harness data to guide agricultural decision-making, noted that food security was one of the most pressing issues faced by many African countries. She added that, last year, food insecurity affected nearly 690 million people globally. More than 100 million people, according to her, are projected to become food insecure by the end of the year. In sub-Saharan Africa, she said agricultural system shocks in coming years would continue to have severe impacts on the food security of smallholder farmers. Good agricultural practice is a certification system for agriculture, specifying procedures that must be implemented to create food for consumers or further processing that is safe and wholesome, using sustainable methods.  With an aim to boost export trade, experts called for implementation of GAP throughout the country. They said the impressive export of some agro commodities from Nigeria has proved that the country has the capability to be at the top globally in agric export. They said farmers must be aware of challenges related to pesticide. They said Nigeria hasn’t kept pace with the adoption of good agricultural practices, which included food safety regulations. It was important to reach out to farmers in every state for awareness on GAP.