 DESPITE the horrors and economic woes experienced in all sectors and economies of the world due to Covid-19 pandemic, academic dons have expressed that it created opportunities and inovations. According to the Founder and President, Zurich Elite Business School (ZEBS), Prof Adonis-Emmanouil Fragkakis, every crisis can be used as an opportunity for change, and innovations. He noted that the use of new technologies and the strategic mindset to do things differently than competition is the only way to overcome current challenges. “For me, COVID-19 in as much as it has fractured global economies and affected many business leaders, it also provided an opportunity for business leaders to consider more innovative ways to sustain their businesses. The trouble would be when business leaders don’t learn from the COVID-19 experience and continue like nothing happened. At the ZEBS Real World Skills MBA, we hope to instill this ethic and culture in our students. “Business Schools around the world have been mainly focusing on knowledge being transferred to the students through theoretical concepts. No direct interlink with real corporate life has existed, and accordingly, students have been prepared in a totally wrong way about the challenges they would face later on in the real-world as entrepreneurs. Africa has to learn from the failures of the atheistic societies and systems of the Western world that were driven by shareholder value concepts and greed, focusing only on short-term financial goals and not taking ethical and sustainable aspects at all into account,” Fragkakis stressed. Also speaking to The Nation, Dr Akanimo Odon, Africa Director Zurich Elite Business School pointed out that it is important to always question your existing business models and never feel secured about what might happen tomorrow, saying that tomorrow could come with big surprises. According to him, “The more you train your employees to live with a competitive advantage culture  and continuous questioning of existing business models, the better you will be prepared for future challenges and the less these, next-day-surprises” will impact your business. Odon said, “This is where we see our contribution to African leadership and entrepreneurship. We work with this differentiation mindset, train students using practical techniques, equip our students with state-of-the-art practical real-world knowledge about management and emerging technologies, which will lead to new business models and create innovations in Nigeria and other African countries. We have also developed the unique ZEBS African Entrepreneurship Fellowship, a first of its kind startup training dedicated to our students and designed to help Nigerian and African entrepreneurs to maximise their chances of success through mentor-ship, providing access to industry experts and seed capital. “We equip African managers and entrepreneurs with real-world skills and we train them with exactly the same job-training business modules, we have been using for almost two decades to train managers and consultants working for big companies such as US Tech Giants, Swiss Financial Institutions, German premium segment automobile manufacturers, Swiss and German pharmaceutical manufacturers, energy leaders and many more.” 