The latest news about the worldwide pandemic, Covid-19, is very auspicious: vaccines said to be very safe and about 95% effective have been developed and will soon, in relatively short order, be available to most of the population of the world. The irrefutable proof of this claim, this hope is yet to be affirmed by the consistency of the experience of all who receive the vaccines around the world. But there is no gainsaying the tremendous investment of all men, women, adults and children throughout the globe in the success of this development. Thus, nearly everywhere in the world, everyone is, so to say, hanging on and hoping that they do not succumb to the pandemic before they get protection from the “miracle” of the now available vaccines. Just think about it, how cruel, how tragic it would be for anyone to die from Covid-19 now that the vaccines have finally arrived! I confess that these days, this thought occupies a lot of both my wakeful consciousness and my dreaming subconscious. In this piece, I wish to share snippets of my dreaming and waking reveries on the pandemic with readers of this column in the hope that what I write will help some readers to reflect productively on both what we have experienced and are yet to experience in the trying, perilous age of Covid-19. At the heart of where things are with the pandemic at this very moment of its ravages is the extraordinarily confounding dilemma in which at the very moment when vaccines arrive with the possibility of effective prevention, hospitals are filling up with new cases and unfortunate victims are dying daily, minute by minute, in their hundreds of thousands around the world. We have seen this “movie” before in Hollywood films like “Contagion”, “Pandemic” and “28 Days Later”. But it is one thing to watch a horrific plot unfold in a film and another thing entirely to experience the horror as a real life phenomenon. As I write these words on Friday, December 19, 2020 in Cambridge, MA, U.S.A., “breaking news” are unrelenting in their report of how hospitalizations of new Covid-19 infections are eroding ICU (Intensive Care Units) hospital spaces in virtually every state in the country; of refrigerated trucks being brought close to hospitals to provide spaces for corpses because the mortuaries have long been overfilled; and of the medical, nursing and auxiliary staff of hospitals both reaching the limits of their endurance and dying of the pandemic in large numbers. Note, dear reader, that these are all happening at the very moment when vaccines touted for their extraordinary effectiveness and safety have at last arrived! But primarily, we confront the fear and the dread of Covid-19 as residents and communities of specific localities, nations and regions of the world, not as undifferentiated consumers of the “braking news” of the broadcast and newsprint media of the world. This fact is uppermost in both my wakeful consciousness and my dreaming subconscious. I think: at my age and given the specific and irreducible facts of the compromised state of my health and wellness, where should I be at this moment as we all await the “miracle” of the vaccines, Ibadan or Cambridge? I think: national and regional contexts matter a lot, but so do local conditions and attitudes. And I think: consider the objective facts but do not ignore the emotional and psychic factors. Between the US and Nigeria, the respective national data and statistics profiles are so different as to seem like the difference between day and night. At the present moment, here are the figures for cases and deaths for the two countries: US: 17.2 million cases, 311K deaths. Nigeria: 75K cases, 12K deaths. Incidentally, at more than 3K deaths per day now, more people in the US die every day than the total number of all those who have died in Nigeria since the coming of the pandemic. Moreover, the infection rate in Nigeria is considerably, indeed vastly smaller than that of the US. Perhaps most important of all, while it is known that Nigerians, like Americans, are very lax, indeed nearly as resistant to wearing masks, social distancing and lockdowns, Nigerians have never been told by their president and state governors that it is their individual and collective right and freedom to decide whether or not they wish to wear masks, social distance and stay at home. To put it bluntly, Nigeria does not have a Trump in Buhari and neither does it have state governors like Republican state governors that are at best equivocal about public heath mandates intended to get the populace protection from the spread of the virus. But Cambridge is very “Unamerican” in these matters. Unlike most of the other boroughs of the greater Boston metropolitan region to which it belongs, the residents of Cambridge strictly follow the public heath guidelines for staying free of infection by the virus. Very rarely do you see anyone in the streets or in grocery stores not wearing a mask. And people are for the most part very mindful of keeping to the recommended measures of social and physical distancing without seeming to be creating islands of isolation or alienation. These things are perhaps due to the socio-economic and cultural coordinates of Cambridge as a community: both working class and social and economic elites live there in fairly equal numbers, but the cultural ethos is dominated by the great number of liberal intelligentsia that live in the community, these being the teaching and administrative staff of the many prominent higher institutions in the community, like Harvard and MIT. Does this mean that it would be much safer for me to sit out the pandemic in Cambridge and not in Ibadan while waiting to get the vaccine for the virus? I wish things were that simple. For the convoluted fact is that the infection rate for the virus is considerably higher in Cambridge than the figures for Oke-Bola or any of the other “areas” or “quarters” of Ibadan for that matter. Why is this so? Well, simply put, Cambridge, MA, is not an isolated community; it is part of the greater Boston area, part of the State of Massachusetts, and part of the USA. People still come and go, in and out of it, every day. Many come to work and some stay there awhile as they journey to other parts of the state, the region and the country. Think of this fact: the figures for Covid-19 infection cases and deaths for the State of Massachusetts (with a population of only about 7 million,) are respectively 309K and 11.5K. Both are considerably higher than the figures for the whole of Nigeria (about 200 million in population). I do not forget that it is a great privilege for me to be able to choose where it is safest, where it is best for me to sit out the pandemic while waiting for the vaccine. Overwhelmingly, most people in Nigeria, or the USA or indeed, the whole world do not have that privilege. But it is a structurally determined privilege, not a birthright, and not an endowment from nature. In other words, in Cambridge, MA, which is massively more privileged than Oke-Bola, Ibadan, Nigeria, people are dying from the pandemic in much greater numbers than in the whole of Ibadan. Yes, the pandemic has had a far greater negative impact on poorer and more deprived communities but ultimately, Covid-19 is not a respecter of social and economic privilege. I admit that there is another mark of privilege in Cambridge that counts a lot when we are talking of the pandemic. What is this particular privilege? Well, some of the best hospital complexes in the USA and perhaps in the world are located very close to the Cambridge community. But this has a rather ambiguous inflection in the context of this discussion. On the one hand, between anywhere in Nigeria and Cambridge, this is where I am most likely to be infected; however, no matter where I get infected, this is one of the best places where I can be saved by medical practice from the infection. In other words, if the thing to do is to avoid infection this close to the “end” of the pandemic, that can best be achieved by being in Ibadan. But who can discern the hand of fate, who can give a guarantee that close to the “end” of the pandemic, one will not be infected, in Cambridge or Ibadan? Thus, the prompting at the core of one’s entire Being is this: if in spite of everything, one can be infected anywhere on the planet; it is best to stay close to where an infection can be best be successfully contained. But the conundrum continues! With this pandemic, infection could be almost as dreary as fatality. One of the most dread effects of a Covid-19 is the impact it could have and indeed has had on both the cerebral and neurological systems of the human body. What is left when these systems have been badly damaged by a Covid-19 infection? If infection is more likely in Cambridge can one then boast of a complete and decisive advantage of Cambridge over Ibadan? It is merely a matter of chance that the ravages of the pandemic found me “marooned” on this side of the Atlantic. Lucky are those reading this piece who do not worry at all about the pandemic, especially about the supreme irony that it is precisely at the moment of its most dreaded surge that promising vaccines have emerged. For those like me who think a lot on these matters, take heart, you are not alone. Remember, we are endowed with imaginings that are pretty impregnable, even to this terrifying virus! This week, I found out that the uniquely and quintessentially Nigerian misuse of this adjective of comparative value of importance, standing or achievement – a foremost author, a foremost lawyer, a foremost doctor, a foremost this or that – has left the Nigerian homeland and crossed into the Nigerian diasporic community. Good, better, best. Nice, nicer, nicest. Clever, cleverer, cleverest. These we all learned in primary school English Grammar lessons. Either intuitively or laboriously, we learned that you used the indefinite article, “a”, only for the first and second adjectives along the spectrum of comparison: a good man, a better man. Or a clever man, a cleverer man. We learned this also: you use only the definite article, “the” for the third or final item on the spectrum of comparison: the best writer; the cleverest lawyer; the nicest man. Even with adjectives in which the terms or words of comparison are not directly given or stated, you never apply the indefinite article, “a”, to the final term as in “a foremost author”. The correct use is: the foremost critic; one of the foremost of our writers; she was foremost among the lawyers of her generation. The misuse of this word – e.g. a foremost journalist – started with our journalists and then spread through other layers and cadres of our professional classes, reaching its apogee in our intelligentsia, in particular the literati. This was a specifically and uniquely Nigerian phenomenon as I have never spotted it in Ghanaian or Liberian, or South African or any other national variety of Anglophone African English. And until this week, I had thought that this misuse of “a foremost this or that”, known technically as a “catachresis”, was limited to academics domiciled at home in Nigeria. But this week, I discovered an instance of this by now completely normalized catachresis in the work of Nigerian academics based abroad in the Nigerian diaspora. I know better than to presume that this intervention can lead to a reduction, not to talk of an eradication of this particular catachresis. Any word whose misuse that has gone this far is beyond reversion to the original correct usage. However, at least, I pray that individuals in our community will take the following advice to heart: each time that you write this harmless but barbaric term – “a foremost author; a foremost philosopher; a foremost this and that” – you are perpetrating a howler which may no longer be recognized as such at home but will definitely be found quaint and laughable in most of the other regional and national communities of scholarly English-language use in the world.