 The grave insecurity plaguing our country has descended into the court rooms. Penultimate week, at a federal high court, sitting in the Onopa area of Yenagoa, Bayelsa state, thugs sacked the court, chased away lawyers and litigants, while they stole personal items left behind. The desecration of the court happened at the hearing of a pre-election suit involving the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), after the thugs had overpowered the regular security men. A similar ugly scenario played out last week, as the Ondo State Election Petition Tribunal began sitting in Akure. There, thugs invaded the premises as Eyitayo Jegede of the PDP mounted his legal challenge against the electoral victory of Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, at the polls. In both instances, a judicial review of the electoral process, which has become a norm in our elections, became an albatross for judges, lawyers, and ordinary Nigerians, who are not contestants in the elections. Such violent interference in the judicial process should be condemned by all. Indeed, while the two parties keep trading blames for the use of thugs, their leadership owes Nigerians a duty to rein in their reckless members. Perhaps, it is the thugs who have been rendered impotent at the polls, as snatching and stuffing of ballot boxes have become inconsequential, that have moved their nefarious trade to the court premises. Since the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is curing the electoral process of thugs, the security agencies should cure the courts of thugs. Whatever is the reason for the spate of invasion of the courts by thugs, security agencies must nip it in the bud, before it becomes a pandemic like election rigging and corruption of election tribunals. Nigerians must be allowed to enjoy the sanctity of the ballot incrementally being achieved by INEC. Indeed, those who invaded the two courts and their sponsors should be fished out and punished as a deterrent to others. We must not exchange thugs at polling units with thugs in the courts. Free and fair election will save our country many of its present afflictions. It will ensure that only service-oriented individuals contest for elections, instead of persons of dubious character. It will reduce corruption in public service, as elected political office holders would help sweep the political arena clean of scavengers. Again, the disillusioned youthful population in the country would have the confidence to participate in elections and effect the change they desire as elected officials. If our electoral process becomes transparent and credible, the nation’s resources will be channelled to restore our dilapidated physical and social infrastructure. No doubt, most of the woes traducing our nation is traced to bad leadership, and nothing feeds bad leadership more than a fraudulent electoral process, of which the courts have become an important part. So, everything humanly possible should be done to make the courts render justice in electoral contests. A court at the mercy of thugs cannot render justice without fear or favour. A court besieged by thugs would pander to the whims and caprices of the invaders and their sponsors. Such a court would not meet the hallmark of justice, which is the independence of the judiciary. So, we commend the swift intervention of the security agencies in Bayelsa and Ondo states, as a safe court is a sine qua non for an independent judiciary. Going forward, we urge the federal and state governments to spare no effort to ensure the sanctity of our courts. As part of the reform process, there could be a police branch dedicated solely to the protection of that important arm of any democratic government.