 NO fewer than 4,630 appeals and 6,207 motions are pending at the Lagos Division of the Court of Appeal, it has been learnt. The President of the Court of Appeal (PCA), Justice Monica B. Dongban-Mensem, who announced this in Lagos, said only 345 appeals, representing eight per cent of the cases, have been scheduled for hearing. The 345 cases comprise 289 commercial; 10 human rights; and 46 criminal appeals. She pledged her determination to decongest the court, adding that it would no longer be allowed to become a dumping ground. Justice Dongban-Mensem spoke yesterday while opening the maiden Working Retreat and Annual Conference of the Justices of the Court of Appeal holding from December 7 to 10 with the theme: Court of Appeal: Challenges and The Way Forward. The retreat consists of special court sessions involving 23 Special Appellate Panels, which will sit in batches of six Special Panels on the designated days between 9 a.m and noon daily. “Each panel will hear about 15 ripe appeals with five panels sitting at five designated court rooms of the National Industrial Court, Ikoyi, and one panel at Court 1 of the Court of Appeal here in Lagos Division,” the PCA said. The decongestion process, she explained, would be routine in Lagos and the court’s other divisions until the backlog is greatly reduced. Justice Dongban-Mensem recalled that on assumption of office, she discovered that majority of these appeals “had either been abandoned or purposely left to linger endlessly by mischievous and flippant actors in the litigation process”. She added: “It is also regrettable to note that a good number of these appeals were filed with the aim of stalling the judicial process. This situation must certainly not be allowed to continue. We have come out to demonstrate our abhorrence by taking the bull by the horn.” The PCA expressed the hope that the retreat would send a warning signal to the public that the court will no longer be a dumping ground for those who seek to hamper justice delivery in Nigeria. “We are presently 70 in number, 20 less than the statutory requirement of 90 Justices of the Court of Appeal. It is also hoped that these special sittings will promote the collegiate spirit, which the court is renowned for. Thirdly, our actions this week will afford us all a chance to discuss about various aspects of our work, health and wellbeing. “It is my desire and expectation that under my stewardship, delays in the hearing of appeals will become a thing of the past, not just in Lagos Division but also in other divisions of the Court of Appeal,” she said. Justice Dongban-Mensem added: “Also incorporated in these special sessions are enlightening and educative presentations from erudite and educative personalities and professionals, like Mrs. Folake Solanke (SAN), who is the first woman to attain the Rank of Senior Advocate of Nigeria as well as being among the first indigenous publishers of a Law Report in Nigeria. We specially thank the Learned Silk, who at 88 years of age is present to make a presentation to us, despite the risks to her health arising from the COVID-19 pandemic.” Prof. Taiwo Osipitan (SAN), who represented the Body of Senior Advocates of Nigeria, called for the review for the qualifications of senior advocates. He stressed that most of the frivolous applications at the Appeal Court were filed by some lawyers to meet with the prerequisite for becoming a member of the Inner Bar.