Suspected pirates have killed one person and abducted two others in an attack on a passenger boat on Isaka River, Okrika Local Government Area of Rivers State. The passengers were travelling from Port Harcourt to Bonny about 10am yesterday when the pirates hijacked their boats and fled with two occupants said to be wealthy. A source said: “A boat was hijacked this morning (yesterday) at Isaka area. That is the latest mode of crime on waterways. When they see new boats with new engine, they attack it and offload the passengers at the creek. The passengers were dropped at the creek while the hoodlums took away two people believed to be rich. “The recurrence of pirates’ attack is a source of concern; we are no longer safe and nothing is being done by relevant authorities to stop this menace. “On November 29, pirates also attacked passengers on Owokiri/Opopo Riser, and took one person away. These hoodlums are known; they are highly connected with top contractors working with multinationals but nobody seems to care.” Police spokesman Nnamdi Omoni said he was yet to be briefed on the incident. He, however, said the police was working to contain the wave of attacks on waterways. Omoni said: “We have only five gunboats to cover the coastal communities. We are utilising them judiciously to cover such areas but we need the cooperation of the communities to achieve optimum security “We need information from them and, the earlier they share, the better for us. Security of the waterways should not be a one-way traffic, it needs adequate collaboration between the police and the communities.” Gunmen have abducted an unidentified woman at Rukpakulosi area of Obio/Akpor Local Government Area. A source said the woman was returning home from church when she was abducted. According to him, the gunmen trailed the woman to Rukpakulosi. He said: “A woman was kidnapped by armed men around Rukpakulosi area. The kidnappers trailed her from the church to a street in Rukpakulosi; they rode on a Lexus car. “The woman ran into a store but the kidnappers went inside, brought her out and beat her to a pulp before taking her away.” Police spokesperson Omoni said the matter was yet to be reported.