 SECURITY operatives have killed nine bandits on the Kaduna-Abuja highway. The incident occurred on Monday night. Kaduna State Commissioner for Internal Security Samuel Aruwan, who confirmed the incident in a statement on Tuesday, said the troops acted on intelligence that the bandits were attempting to cross over from the eastern part of the Kaduna-Abuja road to the western part with a large herd of rustled cattle. He said: “The government has been informed by the military securing the Kaduna-Abuja highway general area that troops neutralised nine bandits following a firefight late on Monday night into the early hours of Tuesday. “According to the operational feedback, troops acted on intelligence that the bandits were attempting to cross over from the eastern part of the Kaduna-Abuja road to the western part, with a large herd of rustled cattle. “The herders, whose cattle had been rustled from the eastern part of the route, alerted the military for action. “An ambush was successfully laid by the troops, as the bandits walked into the killing zone and were welcomed with a hail of bullets. “After the firefight, a search of the area yielded the following: one empty magazine, one set of complete Army camouflage, one set of desert boots, seven blankets, two Tecno phones, one caftan outfit and ropes for tying cattle. “At first light this morning (yesterday morning), a further search revealed the body of one bandit, 16 dead cows and three wounded cows. “Seven more bandits died from gunshot wounds sustained in the ambush, as their bodies were mutilated. “Troops, as at the time of this update, were still conducting search patrols in the general area. “In a separate feedback, troops and police this morning (yesterday morning) foiled another attempt by bandits to cross the Kaduna-Abuja highway with rustled cattle, this time near the Greenfield University. “The troops, guided by some local volunteers, who showed them the direction of the bandits’ movement, engaged the criminals in a firefight. Sadly one of the local volunteers lost his life. “One bandit’s body was found with several rounds of 7.62mm special ammunition. “Governor Nasir El-Rufai, on receiving the feedback, congratulated the security agencies on the successful operations and urged them to sustain the tempo in the ongoing offensives against bandits. He sent his condolences to the family of the volunteer who lost his life, and prayed for the repose of his soul. 