 BBNAIJA Lockdown winner Olamilekan Agbeleshe aka Laycon has completed the much talked about ‘Iconic Tour’ with GOtv ahead of his debut album release in 2021. Laycon had embarked on the GOtv Iconic tour shortly after his announcement as the brand’s ambassador. The tour saw Laycon visiting Abeokuta in Ogun State, Uyo in Akwa Ibom State, Enugu, Abuja, and Lagos. The 15 days tour had the charismatic and fire lyricist talking about the GOtv Jolli offer and how customers can enjoy the offer this festive season. Here is what he was up to in each state Abeokuta In Abeokuta, the two-day event started with media rounds and town storms where Laycon met up with his fans in the city in areas between on November 26 and November 27. Laycon also made a stop at the ‘amala halaga’ joint in Pansheke where he thanked the locals for their support during his time in the BBNaija house. Being his hometown, , Laycon took the time to take pictures and talk with the people. On Friday, a special meet and greet with fans and GOtv customers at the Olusegun Obasanjo presidential library was organized where he talked about the GOtv Jolli offer and the content line-up this festive season. Uyo Between December 3 and December 4, the people of Uyo in Akwa Ibom state welcomed Laycon as the second leg of his five-city Iconic tour commenced. From interactive radio interviews, freestyle rap battles, fun dance competitions, and presentation of gifts by elated icons were some of the high points of Laycon’s visit to Uyo. On his arrival into the city after a very warm welcome at the airport, Laycon paid a courtesy visit to the Honourable Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Comrade Ini Ememobong at the Ministry’s Headquarters in Idongesit Nkanga Secretariat, Uyo. This visit was to inform the commissioner of his presence in the state and also his reasons for coming. Fans couldn’t get enough of Laycon as he spoke about his music and his recent partnership with GOtv, while also answering questions on his plans. Laycon went on a town storm, where he visited the Ifot Ekpene road, Abak road, Mfonkachi and Eastland MultiChoice Dealer offices. He made a special appearance at the opening ceremony of the Christmas Village which is the biggest trade center for the city during the Christmas holiday season in Uyo. Abuja Laycon, took the city of Abuja and Enugu by storm with his 5-city GOtv Iconic tour from December 10 to 14. The city tour started in Abuja with a media visit at top radio stations and then a town storm which had a large crowd of fans cheering the superstar in the business district, Maraba/Nyanya Axis. After the massive turnout during the town storm, fans and GOtv customers got to interact with the star at the Casa Mexicana, Ceddi Plaza, Tafawa Balewa way, Abuja for the meet and greet session where he talked about his upcoming projects, what keeps him motivated and his intention to influence others who share his passion for music. Enugu The Fourth leg of the Iconic tour continued in the coal city-state, Enugu, on December 12 with radio interviews and roadshows at the bustling Abakpa Nike market and Nowas, Trans Ekulu. The BBNaija winner also made a courtesy visit to the office of the Executive Governor of Enugu State, Ifeanyi Ugwuwanyi. The governor expressed his delight at having the winner of the BBNaija Lockdown edition in the state. Laycon went on to meet and greet fans at the Polo Park Mall where he talked about his career, plans for 2021 and the GOtv Jolli Offer and content line-up for the festive season. Lagos Laycon’s 5-city GOtv Iconic tour culminated in Lagos on December 17 and December 18.  Though he wasn’t able to meet and greet fans like other states as a result of the restrictions on gathering over the second wave of COVID-19, he thanked fans using zoom and ensured  giveaways courtesy GOtv.