The National Judicial Council (NJC) has announced the names of the 69 judges and heads of courts it recommended for appointment at its 93rd meeting on December 16. In a statement by its spokesman Soji Oye, the NJC also named the courts where they are to serve. Oye said: “All recommended candidates are expected to be sworn in after approval of the NJC’s recommendations by the President, the governors and the Houses of Assembly, as the case may be.” They new appointees are: Justice Henry Adebola Olusiyi (Chief Judge, Kogi State), Justice Aisha Lami Bawa Bwari (Chief Judge, Niger State), Kadi Shu’aibu Sodangi Achida (Grand Kadi, Sharia Court of Appeal, Sokoto State), Justice John Bayo Olowosegun (President, Customary Court of Appeal, Kogi State), Justice Wasiu Oladejo Akanbi (President, Customary Court of Appeal, Osun State) and Justice Patrick Sati Dapit (President, Customary Court of Appeal, Plateau State). Others are: Justice S. M. C. Ururuka-Onyensoh (President, Customary Court of Appeal, Abia State), Saadu Muhammad Sambowal, Farouk Umar Sarki and Mohammed Mukhtar Abubakar (judges of the High Court of Bauchi State); Bamidele Rotimi Aina and Aisha Uwani Mohammed (judges of the High Court of Kogi State); Timipere Songi (judges of the High Court of Bayelsa State); Ben Whyte-Opufaa and Gbasam Okogbule (judges of the High Court of Rivers State); Alma Ngozi Eluwa and Dominica Okwuchi Okoroji (judges of the High Court of Imo State); Olatunde Opeyemi Beatrice Sobowale (judge, High Court of Ogun State); Hadiza Lawan Musa and Amina Shehu (judges of the High Court of Yobe State. A senior prosecutor with the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mohammed Sadisu Abubakar, is also on the list, as well as Bashiru Dan Maisule, Salisu Garba, Lawal Sule Abdullahi and Abdullahi Adam Abdullahi Al-Ilory (Kadis of the Sharia Court of Appeal of the Federal Capital Territory, FCT). Others on the list are: Adeniyi Olatunji Familoni (a judge of the High Court of Ekiti State); Nwode Nicholas Emmanuel and Ogbunnefi Emmanuel (judges of the High Court of Ebonyi State); Muhammad Musa Kaugama (Jigawa State High Court); Aroh-Onuoha Martha Nkiru, Ugwueze Paul Chukwuemeka, Ezugwu Hyacinthia Urunwa, Mogboh Uchenna Juliet and Anike Okey Paulinus (judges of Enugu State High Court); Oshodi Rahman Adeshola and Aigbokhaevbo Olubukola Florence (Lagos High Court); Ishaku Usman and Hafsat Turaki Sanda (judges of the High Court of Nasarawa State); Nankwat Dawat Shasheet and Buetna’an Mandy Dogban Bassi (judges of the High Court of Plateau State); Aziegbemhin Williams Idemudia, Igho Patricia Braimoh, Esohe Irene Bazuaye, Etinosa Gloria Adekanmbi, Hassana Garuba Oshione, Theresa Irenonsen Eghe-Abe, Ogbevoen Rachel Aiteseme and Itsueli Mary Enoredia (judges of Edo State High Court).