 Babagana Yusufari, a 52 years old resident of Yusufari community in Northern part of Yobe is a happy man today because his daughters no longer travel far distances to get potable water. He had spent his entire life growing up by going far distances -sometimes on donkeys to fetch water for his parents, and later for his own family. ”It was such an excruciating exercise waking up very early as a child to go such a far distance only to get water to drink,” he recalled with a sad face. ”It was even sadder when my children too had to go through a similar experience, especially the girls. Every day I prayed for a time when we would have a water point near our village so that our kids and wives would not suffer what we had suffered in the past. Mr. Yusufari’s prayer was later answered some years back when a Chinese civil engineering company that was constructing the new Yusufari-Yunusari road left behind a standard borehole that was sunk at their yard for his community. “We could not believe our ears when we were told that the borehole now belongs to us. We are so grateful to EEC for being so kind, may God bless their company.” The Eighteen Engineering Company International Limited (EEC) has been a major development partner of Yobe state for some times now. The company has been involved in several constructions works around the nooks and crannies of Yobe. It is on record that EEC had done about 22 major roads constructions in Yobe state in the last decade. The Chinese company has not only assisted the Yobe state government in its massive rural road infrastructural transformation efforts, it is also providing employment opportunities for local artisans in the state. Today, places like Damaturu, the state capital, a place like Potiskum the state commercial headquarters, and places like Bade, Karasuwa, Yusufari, Fune, to mention just a few have been connected with standard and qualitative roads networks provided experience civil engineers of EEC. One of the major feats of EEC is the construction the section of the Yusufari-Yunusari  section of the Trans-Saharan road that links Nigeria with other parts of West Africa. But even though EEC was just doing what the government paid them to do, the company did not act like other selfish contract companies. EEC is also exercising its corporate social responsibility to the communities it takes roads to. Yobe state is known for both agriculture and animal husbandry, and due to the numerous boreholes it has sunk, the human and animal ecosystem has benefited in most of the boreholes left behind for use by the communities. Today farming and animal husbandry flourish in Yobe state, despite the harsh climatic changes that reduce sources to water because EEC has given the farmers and pastoralists an alternative to sourcing for water. Today standards water boreholes remain landmarks in most of the places that they had carried out major projects. EEC has also left its footprint quality works at the Damaturu bypass; the Damaturu Central Round About; Potiskum township road, the Gashua township, Yusufari – Yunusari road, Jajimaji-karasuwa road, Danchuwa – Garinbingel is still under construction. Readers must not make a mistake to think that EEC only supported the communities near its sites of operation. No! During the recent COVID-19 pandemic outbreak, EEC was among the first the private sectors operating in Yobe state that made a handsome donation of N1.5 million as palliative support to the Yobe state government. A gesture that has gone far in assisting the state reach out to help the populace in cushioning the harsh effects of the pandemic. There is no gain doubting the fact that the people and government of Yobe are at home with EEC. And it is part of this reason the company is awarded yet another contract to construct 2.6km Potiskum township road and 5.2km drainage in Potiskum, Yobe’s second largest town. The governor of Yobe state, Mai-Mala Buni had on Wednesday personally visited Potiskum to flag off the construction work which is expected to solve the problem of flooding in the area. The EEC through its massive road construction has succeeded in linking up rural communities in Yobe State both for their commerce and trade and well as enhance smooth economic activities and a positive impact on primary healthcare delivery.  