The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has faulted the allegations by the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike that the nation’s economy and security have crashed under the watch of the governing party. The party said Governor Wike must be living in denial or suffering from outright hatered for the good works being done by the governing party. The party maintained that but for the prudency of the President Muhammadu Buhari led administration, the economy of the country would have been in the woods, while it has continued to address all security challenges with all sense of commitment. Reacting to Gov. Wike’s outburst in Port Harcourt in a telephone interview, APC Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) Secretary, Senator James John Akpanudoedehe said that the Rivers State helmsman must be living in denial or suffering from outright hatered of the milestone achievements recorded by the President Muhammadu Buhari led APC administration. He argued that despite the drastic fall in the oil price and the global economic recession, coupled with the novel Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic that nearly grounded the whole world to a halt, the prudent management of the economy has kept the nation’s economy moving. “Nigeria’s economy is not an island. We are been affected by global economic indices. It is on record that our formal and informal economic sectors are still performing, despite the bear zero treasury the PDP government left for us in 2015, but for a man like President Buhari, whose integrity and understanding have helped to keep the economy going. “You will recalled, most states that were unable to pay workers salary were given bail out, including all PDP Governors. It is on record that no government in Nigeria had a well robust social welfare package like our administration. “Today, the United States of America just announce stimulus package, but our economy is still moving, despite of global recession, Covid-19 and other challenges. We are doing everything humanly possible to address all the challenges, including the security challenges.. “Much as I will not want to join issues with Governor Wike, I think he should be more matured in his outburst. There is a limit he can play to the gallery. He his winding up as a Governor, he should bring maturity to governance. It is either he is living in denial or suffering from outright hatered that he will be accusing the APC led administration when he knew the damage his party (PDP) wrecked on the nation. “There are all indices that our economy is on course and sooner than later we shall over come the Security challenges,” the Secretary concluded.