   Triggered by the pandemic, work places suddenly under went revolution. Duties  were  structured and  managed to promote remote working and COVID 19 restriction that has  decreased public transport use. To  adapt to the  new normal, workers were asked to work from home. In March, public and private  sectors organisations granted employees the option of working remotely to anyone who wishes to do so, as the government kept on fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. To manage the changes, the use of zoom technology began the chief among the innovations  required for workers to   work in tandem with one another,  to stay interconnected and communicate problems and solutions. Zoom helped the Federal and state governments, to assess where interventions are needed and react to changing situations. As the COVID-19 crisis forced businesses to consider new collaboration and service delivery models,  Zoom  privided online facilities which supported millions of Nigerians  in team communication, file sharing and document editing. With COVID-19 emerging to be the biggest driver of digital transformation, Zoom technology shot into the spotlight. Highlighting the acceleration in digital transformation , the fact companies  were deploying Zoom and other forms of conferencing technologies demonstrated that  digital transformation has taken place to ensure business continuity. Within weeks, analysts said zoom, a video conferencing app launched in 2011, surpassed its competitors such as Google Meet; Microsoft Teams; and Cisco WebEx, with over 100 million downloads on Google Play Store. The fact that it is easy to use for new users makes  Zoom adoption of Zoom the primary teleconferencing app. While others are battling to upset Zoom after the relaxing of the lockdown, reports said the front runner video conferencing application stiil holds the record of the highest number of   of users and meetings held on an app. Leading computer publication, PCMag, described Zoom as one of  the best video calling apps, providing  new users take a few moments to acquaint themselves with the tool’s features. The publication and other reviewers see Zoom Meetings as  a go-to choice for work-related meetings due to its stability and reliability,whether for corporate or  personal use. While, there are concerns about  some security flaws   the company has taken steps to endure end-to-end encryption. After the government lifted Covid 19 restrictions across the country, companies have realised that working-from-home regime brought some much   benefits, following massive transition to widespread remote work. One of this is the reason  organisations are still  deploying zoom of place of crowded physical meetings. After the  Covid 19 crisis is over,  companies are incorporating the use of platform such as Zoom into their established ways of working  with all employees. For analysts, the future has  arrived   and zoom technology is providing the means with which to shape it. With Zoom, analysts said Nigerians are able to interconnect, avoiding the crowded transportation  infrastructure that does not  cater for active travel, and public transport services that can no longer  adapt to changing peaks of crowd flows. While people have shifted back to using in offices, they are still a sizeable number of employees involved in  telecommuting previously working  in cities. Given the need for social distancing, organisations maintain lean number of  staff in offices. Today, zoom has revolutionizes the way companies are using technology platforms to  reach their consumers. Disruption experts like Uche Archie and Convener, Startup South, expects increase funding of  digital urban infrastructure and digital services. PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) in its report forecast  a steady increase in smart city development around the world over the next few years. According to PwC, the total value of the global smart city market is projected to exceed $2.5 trillion by 2025. Increased use of Zoom technology is one way to establish all-around-the-clock digital services. Archie sees a lot happening in terms of  the development of a digital ecosystem in places such as Lagos where technology entrepreneurs are working to create new products and services,. Experts believe Covid 19 has helped to hasten innovation and the growth has advanced in several dimensions. Zoom Meetings’ story began in 2011. According to reviewers,  California-based Zoom is  a darling in the tech industry. After a successful initial public offering (IPO) in April 2019, the company has been thriving on its strong reputation, albeit with more mixed results as of late. Recent reviews posited that Zoom is by far, the highest meeting capacity out of all the major video conferencing platforms. This is because one can have 500 people on at a time in a Zoom call, and the system won’t skip a beat.  Other competitors such as Skype max meeting participants is 50, Google Meet/Hangouts 250,Microsoft Teams 250 ,Zoho 100, Webex 200 and Wire 4.