Awareness creation and proper education of the masses, especially family members have been identified as important factors in curbing gender-based violence. Speaking at a two-day capacity development for women’s rights organisations to monitor interventions to end Violence Against Women and Girls (VAWG) Validation of the State Action Plan to End VAWG in Lagos State, supported by Joint EU-UN Spotlight Initiative, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation, Mrs. Oluyemi Kalesanwo, said family members and the society need to be educated that violating any human being is no longer a family issue but ‘a crime against the state and such an offender will be punished”. Kalesanwo pointed out it was important to unify interventions across all strata in the state because the perpetrators are also part of the citizens. While commending the state government for doing all it could in the area of enforcement, Kalesnawo lamented it was being hindered by collisions even within families when they claim it is a family issue. The meeting, according to the Executive Director, Women Advocates and Development Centre (WARDC), Dr. Abiola Akiode-Afolabi, was on strategy development and based on how to end gender-based violence in Lagos state. “The process started in July so that the team can look through the document and validate some of the issues highlighted. “The aim is to have a wide range of document so that everyone can be on the same page. “Activities must be broad-based, must have the participation of all ministries who have the responsibility of dealing with issues of gender-based violence. “The advantage of this document is that people can now draw their activities based on what has been agreed in the document, the ultimate aim is to have a violence-free state,” Afolabi said. The programme, which was supported by Joint EU-UN Spotlight Initiative and implemented by Women Advocate Research and Documentation Centre (WARDC), attracted senior officers from the Ministry of Justice, Education, Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation, Civil Society Organisations, DSVRT, among others.