 Paraquat, an acute toxic chemical widely used as an herbicide (plant killer) primarily for weed control, has been in use by farmers for several decades. Unfortunately, after several decades of its use in Nigeria, studies have confirmed from empirical evidence that this chemical substance is highly poisonous and responsible for numerous health damages to end users. Currently, there are more than 30 trade brands of paraquat product and derivatives registered and marketed in Nigeria today by several companies. The Nation learnt that Paraquat is traded in Nigeria under  major trade names such as gramoxone super, weed-off, dragon, paraforce, dizmazone-20%, weed crusher, paraquat liquid. Other trade names are bret P-20 liquid, miazone, premium paraquat, ravage, uniquat, maxiquat, paracot, para-one, paratex, slasher, scud, weedex 200 SI, baraquat liquid, chemquat, glopara-liquid, grass cutter 20%, philozone, paracom eraser liquid, philozone  reliquat, uniquat liquid and others. The Coalition Against Paraquat (CAP), comprising professionals from diverse disciplines in collaboration with the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA), have called on the Federal Government to de-register and prohibit the use of paraquat use in the country and come up with alternatives to prevent an adverse effect on farmers. Although, the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) had in 2019 announced plans to ban the use of paraquat by farmers amid mounting evidence that the product is harmful to the environment and it has been associated with liver, lungs, kidneys, cancer and the nervous system diseases. The coalition whose target in the short-term is to protect the rural farmers who are not properly informed on the hidden danger, and are unaware of the menace in their domain, said most of the rural farmers are not able to separate the symptoms of paraquat intoxication from the symptoms of daily work stress. The European and African countries that have banned or de-registered paraquat  include  Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Norway, Slovenia, Sweden, Switzerland, Zambia and Côte d’ Ivoire. The coalition said China, which is responsible for 80 per cent of the total exports to the world, is now prohibiting the use and sales of the herbicide. The coalition listed the arable crops paraquat is commonly used to include cassava, yam, maize, okra, tomato, soybean and rice. The common plantation crops listed are plantain, banana, oil palm and cashew. Evidence of paraquat use on-farm and off-farm in studied states  Evidence has shown that there is  70 percent on-farm crop use in Abia State, 69.2 percent in Benue State, 75 percent in Enugu State, 83.3 percent in Ogun State, 75 percent in Oyo State, 66.7 percent in Rivers State and 73.2 percent across states in Nigeria. While there is 30 percent off-farm (non-crop use) in Abia State, 30.8  percent in Benue State, 25 percent in Enugu State, 16.7 percent in Ogun State, 25 percent in Oyo State, 33.3 percent in Rivers State and 26.8 percent across states.  Long-term health effects  A professor with the department of crops production, Federal University Technology (FUT) Minna, Prof Musa Kolo, said 56 percent of the farmers and other end users were been exposed to paraquat during it application, adding that such exposure are due to absence of the use of personal protective equipment or personal protective cloth. While explaining that that paraquat is used predominantly by small scale farmers on food and tree crops, he added that most farmers when exposed to paraquat  fail  to consult medical practitioners for treatment. He said scientific studies had shown it has both chronic and acute effects that can lead to several health problems. Explaining that there is an increased risk of developing Parkinson’s disease later in life, the crop production expert said people with large ingestions of paraquat are not likely to survive. “If a person survives the toxic effects of paraquat poisoning, long-term damage to vital human organs may result such as lung (scarring), kidney failure, heart failure, and esophageal strictures (scarring of the swallowing tube that makes it difficult for a person to swallow).  Immediate signs and symptoms of exposure to paraquat  The IITA, in a book titled ‘Save the Nigerian Farmer and Environment from Paraquat Toxicity’, explained that severe gastrointestinal symptoms may result in dehydration, electrolyte abnormalities and low body pressure. It said: “After anyone has ingested a large amount, the person is immediately likely to have pain and swelling of the mouth and throat. “In general, ingestion may lead to the development  of the following adverse health effects or symptoms from within a few hours to several weeks later such as; acute kidney failure, confusion, coma, fast heart rate, injury to the heart, heart failure, liver failure, lung scarring, muscle weakness, seizures, pulmonary edema and respiratory failure which possibly lead to death.”  Alternative to paraquat use  The coalition give the alternatives to include glyphosate, glufosinate-ammonium, diphenyl ether, aryloxyphenoxy-propionate and cyclohexanedione. The coalition further said these alternatives would save the farmer, consumer and the environment from its toxicity. Speaking further on the alternatives, stakeholders in the agricultural sector expressed readiness to adopt the IITA digital tools which is the Six Steps to Cassava Weed Management and Best Planting Practices. The stakeholders called for the support of IITA on the use of videos on Cassava Weed Management and Best Planting practices, adding that it would help to empower extension workers and farmers.  The need to prohibit paraquat use in Nigeria  Speaking on behalf of the Coalition during a dinner with concerned citizens in Abuja, the National President, National Association of Yam Farmers, Processors and Marketers, Prof. Simon Irtwange, said while there are short and long-term negative effects of paraquat toxicity on human health, restricting the use of paraquat in the country has been a major challenge. He said about 167 literatures from leading scientists from across the world have confirmed that the herbicide is injurious to human life, hazardous to aquatic life, exacerbates environmental degradation, causes pollution, and endangers the sustainability of the ecosystem. Explaining that the precautions listed in the United States Centre for Disease Control (USCDC) document concerning exposure and actions are more difficult to follow, he noted that there is a lack of trained applicators certified by regulating agencies in Nigeria. He said farmers make repeated applications often with the same clothing not washed, and thereby increase their exposure. The Chairman Board of Trustees, All Farmers Association of Nigeria, AFAN,  Murtala Nyako, strongly recommended that the federal government through the appropriate agency should de-register the importation and prohibit the distribution, sale, and use of Paraquat in Nigeria. “Our aim is to protect the environment, maintain its integrity and sustainability for production by the next generation of farmers in the farming communities. “Readily available medical attention or adequate washing facilities to remove paraquat from the skin are lacking,” he said. Also speaking, the President, Croplife Nigeria, Mahmood Tauhid, said they have since initiated and proposed to NAFDAC to ban paraquat and initiate a gradual withdrawal of the product through a 4-5 year moratorium which will achieve two objectives. “NAFDAC have accepted our proposal and already issued a statement on that effect confirming a moratorium of to December 31, 2024 after which paraquat will be out of the Nigerian market. The draft bill is already with the committee on agriculture of the Federal House of Representatives chaired by Hon Muntari Dandutse,” he said.