Lagos State has reiterated the importance of communities in the race to achieving United Nations 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030. Addressing stakeholders from the 20 local governments and 37 LCDA areas at a forum, Senior Special Assistant to the governor  on Sustainable Development Goals Olalekan Fatokunsi said communities must play active roles in bringing development to the state. He said SDGs were the global agenda for sustainability and that the state would be active in achieving all 17 goals. Fatokunsi added that the aim was to drive the agenda right from the local government to other areas of the state. Hence, according to him, the state was taking the leadership positions towards actualisation and attainment of the goals by 2030. “We are interested in the SDGs because many of them, if not all, are connected and linked to the local government communities, for example, health and wellbeing. We know the primary health centres are situated at the local governments and the councils are responsible for primary education. ‘’This present administration in the state has been concerned about the issue of out-of-school pupils and the campaign we need to drive and galvanise influence is at the local government level so that we can see remarkable outcomes in many of the development agenda,” Fatokunsi said. He said effects of the COVID 19 pandemic and the ENDSARS protest brought tension and got stakeholders and players together to address poverty and hunger. The state, Fatokunsi noted, was churning out programmes to address poverty and child labour;  out-of-school challenges, among others. The special assistant told the gathering that while Lagos State had been outstanding among others, it had approached  SDGs frontally to broaden its efforts in arresting untoward occurrence. “We understand in terms of population and the issue we need to tackle are so enormous, funding at the local government level may be a challenge but the state government is not deterred by that challenge; efforts are being made in terms of expanding our task and seeking partnership with the organised private sector in such a way that some of these development issues are not left in the hands of government,” he said. A presentation at the forum: “Mobilising the grassroots in Lagos State for Sustainable Development  Goals : A pathway forward”, espoused the need for greater partnership between the state, local government and indigenes.