 This polytechnic is one of the four ICT polytechnics established by the then government of Chief Gbenga Daniel in Ogun State. How did this one achieve its uniqueness? At Gateway Polytechnic Saapade, we run our session from September to July every year, very constant but Covid-19 has pushed it to this November. Our admission process is very straight and very good. We usually allow applicants to log in to our portal, fill the detail and thereafter we invite them for both computer-based and oral screening. After giving them admission, they register and start lectures and very easy for any applicant to gain admissions into the institution so far you are qualified. ND applicants are subjected to writing the Post-Utme and for the HND applicants, we consider minimum of lower credit. We run both full time and part time programme on campus. Our consideration for ND is a good score in JAMB and a minimum of five credits in WAEC in relevant subjects. When the students come in, we take them through one week orientation and they start lectures after then. Because this is an ICT school, we have quite number of ICT courses they have to go through first before they start their courses. Admission is on now. We usually screen out bad eggs after admission that’s why social vice is very minimal. Cultism on campus is zero and most of the students we admit are the serious ones. What is the relationship like between the school and the town? Outside the campus, there’s a community relationship that enables the students to behave properly within the community and they are also being monitored. We work with the community; we work with law enforcement agencies. There is security within the campus. We have warned the students not to work in the night. We do a lot of things to secure and guide the students within the community and on campus. We have strict rules on campus and that’s why you see the campus very neat. No students can drop waste on the ground anyhow. We look at training these students in its entirety not only in terms of academic activities. We have achieved a sane environment so everybody knows what to do at the right time. All our programmes on campus, about 30 of them are fully accredited and they are on both JAMB and NYSC lists. The National Diploma and Higher National Diploma degree were accredited by National Body for Technical Education Board. In the next few months, maybe in January, we will call the NABTE to come kick – start new programmes for us. They will come and accredit more programmes for us. Giving lean resources and challenges of funding tertiary education in Nigeria, how has the polytechnic been able to put in place many infrastructures? In terms of infrastructure, when I came in, the infrastructure was very poor and the students were few, but when I came in my desire was to have more students on campus but I can’t bring students unless I bring more infrastructures and I have no other source of income than the IGR, the money my students pay. I know I have to strike a balance between staff and students’ welfare and running the school and also increasing the number of programmes. It’s a very delicate balance you have to maintain. For the new programme we want to mount in January, we have already put resources in place, we are also being prudent with the resources at hand and that’s why we are making progress. How is the school meeting the state government’s aspiration for the polytechnic education? When His Excellency came here, he was happy with us and he really encouraged us with what he said and since then we have improved a lot. The governor gave us his vision and said that he really wants us to concentrate on engineering. Mechanical, electrical and other engineering courses are he wants us to go into and we have keyed into his vision. We are investing in engineering a lot – the renewable energy engineering, the mechanical engineering I already in place. We are even trying to do some commercialisation so that the students can see the practical work going on. The country needs more of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM)-based institutions and that is the only way to ensure socioeconomic development. Where will you place the school ICT-wise? All the things we do about ICT on our campus, we do it ourselves, all the programmes that we run on our campus are written by my students and staff and there are so many of them for example, our exam is hundred percent perfect because the biometric that we use is good and that makes impersonation reduce to zero because before you enter the exam hall, the laptop will bring out your detail through finger print, that’s totally our product and a lot of them. All our registrations are done online you won’t see anywhere on campus where they are registering manually. HR programme and that means anywhere I am I can tap my phone and see information about any staff and that has already been perfected. We are also coming up with biometric attendant system for our students and staff. We attendant taking for students will be through thumb printing and at the end of the day any student who does not meet up to seventy percent attendant the system will show it. We have done a lot in terms of software. 