Land borders ordered to be reopened last week by President Muhammadu Buhari are still shut to movement of goods, The Nation has observed. The borders were closed on August 20, 2019 to stop the entry of illegal arms among others into the country. However movements of people were notices at the borders in – Seme (Lagos State), Illela (Sokoto), Maigatari (Jigawa) and Mfum (Cross River) – the four ordered to be reopened “immediately.” The remaining land borders are to open next week. Deputy Public Relations Officer of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Dr. Abubakar Dahaltu, said “the four borders are now open”. Asked when they were opened, Dalhatu said “Since the Federal Government gave the directive.” But another top Customs official who asked not to be named because he cannot speak officially said   reopening of the borders “will follow official communication. It will not be on the day the pronouncement was made,” The Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS) said compliance with the directive of the President was sacrosanct. Sources at Seme Customs Area Command, and the Lagos State chapter of the  Association of the Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA) said   the fact that there were no movements of goods  at the post  meant that the border has not been opened . The Customs source added that the Comptroller-General of the NCS, Col. Hameed Ali (rtd.) had been summoned to Abuja to work out the modalities for full reopening of the borders. The Chairman of the ANCLA chapter in Lagos State, Bisiriyu Hussein, said  “the Customs command is awaiting directive from the headquarters for us to start transacting our legitimate businesses.” An importer, Ayuba Ibrahim, said they were not happy with the refusal of the NCS at the Seme post “to allow us bring their goods into the country since the President directed the reopening of the borders.” A top immigration officer who pleaded anonymity said only people with international passports were allowed passage at the border. He explained that the decision was to “minimise the number of foreigners entering the country in this era of COVID-19 second wave.” The officer said: “Although the border may not start operating at 100 per cent capacity until early next year, some foreigners that are allowed to enter the country are those with their valid international passports. “We are doing that because of the fear of COVID-19.” At Seme, the Joint Border Patrol Team (JBPT) put in place to enforce movement restrictions during the 16-month closure is still in operation. Operatives of the JBPT were also seen at Owode and Gbaji junction. Some of them maintained several checkpoints along the Badagry-Seme Expressway. A member of the team said there was no directive from Abuja to disband the   task force. At Mfum, a trader who gave his name simply as Okafor, confirmed that activities were still at a very low ebb because the border had not been fully opened for “goods to come in and go out.” He alleged that some security agents at the post bordering Nigeria and Cameroon were extorting traders who rushed there with the hope of moving their goods. He said: “Government officials there have become used to the money they have been making during the lockdown and now with the supposed reopening, nothing has changed. Traders and businessmen are parting with huge amount before crossing through the border.”