Irked by the increasing wave of insecurity, a chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congrees (APC), Salihu Lukman has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to effect the arrest, prosecution and punishment of security personnel, traditional and religious leaders suspected to be accomplices of organised crimes. Lukman, who is also the Director General of the Progressive Governors’ Forum (PGF), said insecurity is becoming unacceptable. He demanded security agencies should be held accountable for the increasing wave of breaches in virtually all the sections of the country. The PGF boss in a statement in Abuja on Tuesday titled: “Nigeria’s national security embarrassment must be brought to an end” said with the weekend abduction of over 300 students of Government Science Secondary School ( GSSS), Kankara, Kastina State, nobody in the country is safe. He added the incident was “painful, shameful and embarrassing.” Lukman said the spate of insecurity is thriving as a result of activities of callous citizens allegedly supported by some security operatives, traditional rulers and community leaders. He asked President Buhari to put up his nonsense toga, which earned him the love of ordinary Nigerians to effect the arrest and prosecute accomplices of organised crime in the country. “Every day, Nigerians wake up with grieving information about kidnappings, armed banditry, attacks and murder of innocent citizens by Boko Haram in the North East and in other parts of the country by bandits and criminals. “Often, Nigerians get worrisome reports about how some of our security personnel and traditional rulers collude with criminals to successfully execute attacks on citizens, including kidnappings and other criminal activities, which consumed the lives and properties of innocent Nigerians. ” Certainly, without the collaboration of security personnel, traditional rulers, community leaders and citizens, how can over 500 school children be taken without clear information of their whereabout for more than 72 hours. “More than any moment in the life of our APC administration at federal level, this is the time when President Muhammadu Buhari is dearly required to demonstrate his no nonsense toga, which is what earned him the love of ordinary Nigerians. “If he will move to arrest all security personnel, traditional and religious leaders who are suspected to be accomplices to the current wave of kidnappings, murder of Nigerians and all the organised crimes taking place in the country, Nigerians will strengthen their support for our government to bring to an end this atrocious activity clearly syndicated by callous citizens, which may be supported by some security operatives, traditional rulers and community leaders. Enough is Enough! “We need to challenge our security agencies to be accountable. Every Nigerian is at risk. The hard truth is that the enemy is among us with the highest possibility a section of our security agencies may have joined or are collaborators with the enemy. “The situation requires thorough introspection by not just our security agencies but also imposition of severe sanction against security personnel, traditional and community leaders where kidnappings, banditry and all the crimes consuming the lives of innocent Nigerians are taking place.”