The Justice Abdulrazak Abdulkareem-led three-member Election Petitions Tribunal in Benin, the Edo State capital, in a unanimous ruling on Friday dismissed the petition by Action Alliance (AA) and its governorship candidate, Ukonga Onaivi, against Governor Godwin Obaseki, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The AA’s petition, dismissed for failing to file pre-hearing notice, was one of the five petitions against Obaseki; his deputy, Philip Shaibu; PDP; INEC and the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) during the September 19 election in Edo, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu. AA and its governorship candidate, in the petition with reference number EPT/ED/GOV/03/2020, against Obaseki, PDP and INEC (respondents), claimed that Onaivi was excluded unlawfully in spite of being the validly-nominated candidate of the party, in line with the Electoral Act 2010, as amended. The political party (AA) and its governorship candidate prayed the tribunal to nullify the September 19 governorship election in Edo State with fresh election to be ordered within 90 days, while the validly-nominated candidate (Onaivi of AA) should be included in the new ballot papers. During the tribunal’s pre-hearing sitting on Monday, counsel to Obaseki and PDP, Onyechi Ikpeazu, stated that filing application for pre-hearing notice was in line with the Electoral Act 2010, as amended He said: “The tribunal has no jurisdiction to entertain AA and Onaivi’s petition. We urge the tribunal to dismiss the petition. “We did not receive the petitioner’s reply to activate the pre-hearing by applying for the issuance of the pre-hearing forms.” The counsel to AA, Stephen Osaigbovo, however, objected the position of PDP and Obaseki, while insisting that his client had not abandoned the petition. In the ruling delivered yesterday by Justice Chukwudi Nwakwo, who was accompanied by Justice Abdulrazak Abdulkareem (chairman) and Justice Josephine Ayua, the tribunal held that in the petition against Obaseki, PDP and INEC, the petitioners failed to file the pre-hearing notice, an indication that the petitioners had abandoned their petition, thereby dismissing it. The tribunal’s inaugural sitting took place at the Edo State High Court complex on Sapele Road, Benin on October 30, with the tribunal having 180 days from the date of filing the petitions to conclude hearing in the matters and deliver judgments, thereby dragging to the first week of April next year. Chairman of the tribunal, in his inaugural speech, said: “We wish to assure you that in our quest to get to the truth of the matters before us, we shall act in good faith, and shall do our work with open mind, without any form of bias or appearance of any pre-conception. We also pledge not to lend ourselves to any form of external influence.” With the October 10 deadline, the five filed petitions sought the nullification of the September 19 re-election of Obaseki and Shaibu, while calling for fresh election by INEC, but to exclude PDP, Obaseki and his running mate, in view of the call for their disqualification over alleged forgery of their certificates. Besides the petition from AA and its governorship candidate (Onaivi), the four other petitions were filed by Action Democratic Party (ADP) and its governorship candidate, Iboi Emmanuel; Action Peoples Party (APP), without joining its governorship candidate, Amos Areloegbe; Allied Peoples Movement (APM), excluding its governorship candidate, Igbineweka Osamuede, and Tracy Agol, without joining her political party, the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP). ADP and its governorship candidate, in the petition with reference number: EPT/ED/GOV/01/2020, with INEC, PDP, Obaseki, APC and its governorship candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, as respondents, prayed the tribunal to disqualify Obaseki over his controversial first degree certificate from the University of Ibadan (UI) and nullify the votes cast for him, thereby ordering INEC to conduct a fresh election involving all other qualified governorship candidates, excluding PDP and Obaseki. APM filed a petition with reference number: EPT/ED/GOV/04/2020, excluding its governorship candidate, Igbineweka Osamuede, with INEC, PDP, Obaseki and Shaibu as respondents, while alleging irregularities during the September 19 governorship election and that Obaseki and Shaibu were not qualified to contest the poll. APM also prayed for an order nullifying the entire governorship election of September 19, 2020 in Edo State for substantial non-compliance with the provisions of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, as amended, and the extant Electoral Act, 2010, as amended, thereby ordering a fresh election. The petition from Agol, who hails from Okpella in Etsako East Local Government Area of Edo State, with reference number: EPT/ED/GOV/05/2020, was without joining her political party, the NNPP, with INEC, PDP and Obaseki as respondents, while insisting that Edo governor was not qualified to contest the September 19 election. Agol’s sole ground for filing the petition was that Obaseki, at the time of the poll, was not qualified to contest the election, quoting Section 138 (1) (a) of the Electoral Act, 2010, as amended, while alleging that the Edo governor presented forged/false certificate to INEC, contrary to Section 182 (1) (J) of the 1999 Constitution of Nigeria, as amended. The NNPP’s governorship candidate also prayed for an order to compel INEC to conduct a fresh election involving all the qualified candidates, excluding PDP and Obaseki, whom she alleged were constitutionally disqualified from contesting the 2020 governorship election, while the certificate of return issued to Obaseki by INEC must also be nullified. Agol, alternatively sought a declaration that Obaseki’s participation in the election should be declared null and void, having participated in the primary election process of the APC and later the PDP, in respect of the same governorship election in Edo State. APP, in the petition against Obaseki, PDP and INEC as respondents, with reference number: EPT/ED/GOV/02/2020, claimed that it was unlawfully excluded. Ize-Iyamu, a senior pastor of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), on October 5, disclosed that he would not approach the election petitions tribunal on the declaration by INEC of Obaseki as the winner of the bloody and violent poll, where two persons lost their lives and many people were injured, with thuggery and vote-buying becoming the order of the day. He revealed that he would continue with the two pre-election cases at the Federal High Court, Abuja, against the PDP, Obaseki and Shaibu, challenging their eligibility to contest the election. Ize-Iyamu, a former Secretary to the Edo State Government (SSG), in a press statement he personally signed, declared that the September 19 election in Edo was not free and fair, as claimed in some quarters.