Upcycling, recycling and composting are ways of reducing environmental waste and the impact of climate change; environmentalists and climate change experts have said. They say the processes remain the most effective ways of curbing flooding and ensuring a more sustainable environment, especially in Lagos. These recommendations came from The United States Exchange Alumni Association, a cohort of the US Department of State during two-day skill acquisition and capacity development training for young people in Oshodi-Isolo Local Council Development Area in Lagos. Tagged “Waste to wealth”, the training was aimed at developing skills in young people to enable them to earn money while at the same time contributing to a cleaner environment, safer ecosystem and ensuring the impact of climate change is lessened. The training, according to the Vice President of the Association, Mr. Johnson Nweze, was inspired by the need to give back to the society after the fellows leveraged on the various exchange programs the US embassy has provided. “As a beneficiary of the US exchange program in partnership with the Nigerian government and with the over 20 exchange programs in Nigeria currently, it is expected that when we return, we invest in the youths, leadership and entrepreneurial skills. “We have the mandate to train 240 youths between the age range of 18-25 in various local government areas in Lagos, most of them young school leavers, so we can begin to inculcate the skills in them into them to self-dependent”.  According to him, the problem in Lagos State in terms of blocked drainage after a heavy rainfall has made the training even more urgent and timely. One of the facilitators, Mrs. Temitope Okunnu, the CEO of F.A.R.E International, an environment outfit gave highlights of the training. “We are teaching the participants recycling, upcycling and composting. The loss of jobs that has been occasioned by the pandemic is worrisome; this process can ensure people become financially independent.” “Upcycling involves recycling waste into functional materials of high environmental value while composting involves turning discarded materials into fertilizers, the compost is the most natural way to add to the organic products in the environment, she added. In recycling, you’re reducing waste and managing your waste and getting incentives, they will begin to see their waste as resources. The Leader of the Isolo LCDA, Hon. Remy-Shittu Remy, also a member of the exchange program said the Empowerment is very timely as it came right after the #EndSars protests. According to him, the bundle of energy of the youths is being channelled towards making many of them even millionaires.  “It is said that politicians prepare for the next elections but we leaders prepare for the next generation” “The program is divided into two phases, the island and the mainland, the island is divided into two phases. The island will have a hundred participants while the mainland will have 140 participants,” he added. Remy-Shittu however advised the government do more for the youths and be actively engaged in their productivity and enhancement of human resources. Nweze Ezinne is a 20-year-old beneficiary of the training, she said “I will use the knowledge I’ve gotten to improve myself and build myself as a potential startup. “Young persons like myself need to practice what has been learnt and practice afterward as it doesn’t just stop at listening alone”. According to Arinze Uwazurike, another 20-year-old participant, he hopes to search for capital and invest in the waste to wealth business from next year.