The senatorial candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for Saturday’s by-election holding in Lagos East, Mr. Tokunbo Abiru, on Wednesday reiterated his commitment to the goal of special status for Lagos. The standard-bearer, who  ended his campaign on Tuesday, promised to serve the people of the senatorial district with integrity and commitment. Abiru, ex-Executive Director, First Bank PLC and former Chief Executive Officer, Polaris Bank Ltd, said he would team up with the progressives in the National Assembly to secure special status for Lagos. He also promised to team up with like minds in the Senate to fight for devolution of power to the federating units. In a statement in Lagos, Abiru assured constituents of a new dawn in the history of legislative representation, if elected. In the statement titled:  “December 5 Offers Lagos East Fresh Hope,” he promised to represent the people with commitment, integrity and passion, saying he would leverage on his political and social capital acquired over three decades as an economist, chartered accountant, commissioner for finance and bank CEO. The APC candidate disclosed that he would prioritise the welfare of his constituents in Lagos East in particular and Lagos State in general if they cast their ballots in his support and that of his party on Saturday. He said: “I have assured the people of Lagos East, irrespective of their ethnic, political and religious affiliations that I will use the office of senator and my energy and resources to improve their well-being, welfare, prosperity, empowerment and security.” Abiru promised to establish and institutionalise an endowment fund to, within his capacity and resources, support the aged; protect the vulnerable; sponsor youth employability schemes; support women empowerment programmes; and cater for indigent but brilliant students in all parts of the senatorial district. He said: “I have done this as a private citizen and will sustain and enhance such pro-people programmes as an elected senator from December 5. “I have observed that the pressure on Lagos infrastructure, arising from federal establishments such as seaports, airports and military installations without statutory federal support, is unfair and unacceptable. “I have also noted that the massive rate of migration from different states of the federation to Lagos State has placed additional burden on the government and people of Lagos State,” he said. The APC candidate promised the electorate to join hands with his senior colleagues in the Senate and members of the House of Representatives from the state to sustain efforts to secure a special status for Lagos State He justified his resolve to fight for special status for Lagos on the account of what he described as the strategic roles of the state as the nation’s commercial, financial, industrial, media and entertainment capital. In view of the anomalies in the country’s federal structure, the APC candidate pledged that he would support the call for further devolution of power from the Federal Government to the federating units. He said: “In the light of these pro-people initiatives and positions, I strongly believe December 5 presents us a rare opportunity to elect a candidate that has the capacity and exposure to play the roles expected of a distinguished Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” “This date also offers an opportunity to bring on board somebody who can give quality representation to the good people of Lagos East. It also offers an opportunity to bring on board somebody who can give quality representation to the good people of Lagos East. “December 5, no doubt, presents fresh hope to elect a senator that is a homegrown individual, who our youths can look up to, learn from and believe as to the possibilities this country offers its young people. “This date, without any hesitation, offers us the opportunity to elect somebody, who will not disappoint you and indeed somebody, who will live up to expectations and somebody with listening ears,” he wrote in his two-page message. On these grounds, the APC candidate noted that he would consider it “the greatest honour of my life if you, my people in Lagos East, find me worthy to represent you in the Senate on the platform of the APC.” Abiru urged the voters “to turn out in large numbers on December 5 to elect me as the next senator for Lagos East. The tenure of a senator only lasts for a maximum of four years before he or she returns to the electorate for a fresh mandate. “But I have, without any blemish, run a successful professional and public service career for 32 years. I will not at this stage of my life mess it up. I will never be the kind of person that you will only see during election periods. “Rather, I will be a true representative that will periodically, either quarterly or biannually, go back to my constituents to give account of what I have done; listen to get feedback from you and see what I can do to further your cause.”