 UNDERCURRENTS of alleged disaffection previously rumored to be budding in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kano State may be coming to the surface, especially among state legislators elected on the platform of the party. Before now, there have been talks of a looming face-off between Governor Abdulai Ganduje and the state’s House of Assembly. Sources within and outside the party had claimed that majority of the lawmakers were dissatisfied with the governor’s handling of the affairs of the state and the party. But this is just as some prominent party leaders and allies of the governor insist that there is no crisis within the party. According to this school of thought, those fueling tales of a looming crisis are actually the ones trying to foment trouble within the party. “These fellows have tried, with the sponsorship of the opposition, to create division within our party. But they failed because the governor has proven to all and sundry that he is a father to all. It is not true that our lawmakers or any of our chieftains are angry with the governor,” a party state official said. However, a former Northwest zonal official of the party, who was also a legislator in the state, told The Nation that those saying all is well within the party doesn’t mean well for the APC in the state. According to him, “the few people who can say the truth have been silenced and labeled with ‘anti-party’ tag. The moment you express any opinion different from theirs, you are tagged an anti-party agent. That is why everybody is keeping quiet while the party gradually gravitates towards a very serious crisis,” he said. Speaking last year, at a time when the rumour of the alleged trouble within the APC was very rife, a member of the party revealed that the integrity and the fortunes of the party have been ruined by the governor. Alwan Hassan noted back then that if another election is held in Kano tomorrow, APC will lose because Ganduje has lost the people’s confidence and has been rejected. The Nation gathered that Alwan and other aggrieved party members were largely displeased with Ganduje’s handling of affairs within the party and the government. But a chieftain of the party, who is a former Vice Chairman of the Alliance for Democracy (AD) in the state, Musa Ado Garba, debunked claims of a rift within the party. According to him, some people who thought the governor will not get a second term had been uncomfortable since his re-election. “For these people, they want to create crisis so that they can be recognised as a group. But the genuine members of the party are not ready for such. That is why you keep hearing tales of looming crisis when nobody is fighting,” he said. But some happenings at the state House of Assembly during the week created anxiety within the party as the Speaker, Abdulazeez Garba-Gafasa, and the Majority leader, Kabiru Hassan Dashi, resigned unceremoniously. Expectedly, meanings are being read to their resignations with many people saying these are signs of the troubles that are to come within the ruling party. “Now, it is no longer an unfounded rumour to say all is not well with the APC in Kano. Or you want to say it is normal for the Speaker and the Majority Leader to just wake up and throw in the towel? “Don’t forget that some allies of the governor have accused the leadership of the House of conniving with prominent Kano elders to oppose the governor’s 300billion Chinese loan. That issue is yet to be laid to rest. Suddenly, the Speaker and another top official of the Assembly resigned and replacements were made immediately. You don’t need anybody to tell you the person dictating these tunes we are hearing. We know who is paying the piper too,” a source within the party said on Thursday. The Speaker had announced his resignation in a letter titled ‘Notification of Resignation’ dated December 14th and addressed to the Clerk and the Permanent Secretary. The Press Secretary to the Speaker, Nura Bala Ajingi, confirmed the resignation of the two officials to newsmen on Tuesday. Garba-Garfasa in his resignation letter said his decision was based on personal reasons, and appreciated the support of all the members during his stay in the position. However, the Majority Leader, in his one-paragraph letter of resignation addressed to the Clerk, did not state the reasons for his action. The Assembly Clerk, Abdullahi Alfa, has also confirmed receipt of the letters of resignation to newsmen. Findings by The Nation revealed that the two principal officers’ resignations are the culmination of a game of wit between them and some of their colleagues over the need for the leadership of the Assembly to be changed. “For some days now, the Assemblymen have engaged themselves in this game of wits. Last week, indications emerged that some lawmakers have perfected plans to sack the Speaker. But another group of lawmakers, led by the Majority Leader, opposed the plot. The two groups have been lobbying the members for support since then. But it appears the anti- Garba-Garfasa finally convinced the majority to remove the Speaker. This is just as we hear that the governor may have supported the change,” a party source claimed. Subsequently, the legislators elected the APC member representing Makoda State Constituency, Hamisu Ibrahim-Chidari, as the new Speaker. The member representing Wudil Constituency, Nuhu Abdullahi Achika, nominated Hamisu Chidari for the position of Speaker and was seconded by Sanusi Usman Bataiya. The new Speaker was immediately sworn-in without resistance from the floor and he thanked the members for the confidence they reposed on him. Also, during the plenary, the members appointed Zubairu Hamza Masu of Sumaila Constituency as the new Deputy Speaker while the member representing Warawa Constituency, Labaran Abdul Madari was reelected Majority Leader of the House. More so, Abdullahi Ilyasu Year Yasa becomes the new Deputy Majority Leader. Meanwhile, an aide of the governor, who spoke on condition of anonymity as he was not authorised to speak on the matter, said the governor has no hand in the change. “That is an internal affair of the legislature. The governor is not involved,” he claimed. But, in spite of explanations to the effect that the resignantion of the Speaker and the Majority Leader is not as a result of any intra-party squabble, the rumour mill is once again agog, and this time, the story is that the former Speaker and 13 other legislators are plotting to dump the APC to join the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Part of the story is that the Speaker was forced to resign following allegations that he has been hobnobbing with the opposition. The House has 40 lawmakers made up of 12 PDP members and 28 APC members. However, the former Speaker dismissed the rumour saying he is still a loyal card carrying member of the APC. “You can see that enemies are at work speculating that I’m moving out of APC to PDP; this is nothing but baseless lies created to tarnish my name and reputation. I’m still and always loyal to our party, APC, and indeed our governor, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje; and anybody who thinks otherwise should go and die,” the former Speaker declared. Similarly, Hamisu Ibrahim-Chidari, the new Speaker of Kano State House of Assembly has denied speculations that some lawmakers were planning to defect from All Progressives Congress (APC) to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He said this while briefing newsmen in Kano. According to the new Speaker, he has extended the hands of fellowship to the former Speaker and all other former principal officers affected by the change in leadership. He expressed confidence in their readiness to remain in the APC and cooperate with the new leadership. Ibrahim-Chidari described speculations that Garba-Garfasa and other 13 lawmakers were planning to defect to PDP as the handiwork of the opposition party which is hoping to benefit from an imaginary crisis in the ruling party. “There is no iota of truth in the speculation that lawmakers are planning to leave the APC for any party. We have heard about it; we have also seen the news on social media. But to the best of my knowledge, it is not true, because since morning, we have been together with 26 out of the 28 APC lawmakers in the House,” he said.