The call for Presidency of Igbo extraction by the apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation Ohanaeze Ndigbo, has taken another dimension, with both Anglican and Catholic Bishops joining forces with the group. The Anglican Archbishop on the Niger and Bishop of Awka Diocese, Most Rev Dr Alexander Ibezim, says the Igbo Presidency in 2023 is not negotiable. Also, the Catholic Bishop of Awka Diocese, Most Rev Paulinus Ezeokafor, declared that for the unity of the country, Ndigbo should be allowed to lead the country in 2023. Ohanaeze Ndigbo leaders like Chief Nnia Nwodo, former governor of Anambra State, Dr Chukwuemeka Ezeife and president of the group in Anambra State, Chief Damian Okeke -Ogene have been at the forefront of the 2023 Igbo presidency. However, during their separate Christmas messages in Awka, both Clerics, declared that for peace, equity and fairness, Ndigbo should be allowed to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023. For Ezeokafor, ” I have no doubt that if we really understand Nigeria as a system, as it was being run even before the military incursion, we can see that as a country with three major ethnic groups, Hausa man has taken, Yoruba man taken, and maybe someone from South-South has taken, I think the Igbos should get something in fairness. “Besides, we’re not appendage in this country. That’s why when I look at the way things happen in this country, including employment, you don’t find our people getting better slots. “A country is moved by education because when the citizens are educated, they can operate at several levels. “At least from 1999, it’s obvious that Obasanjo has ruled, Yaradua took over, which Jonathan completed and tried his turn. Now is Buhari. I think it’s the time of the Igbos to man the post. ” It’s a serious demand, for justice and equity to take its course. Otherwise, these are some of the things that generate frictions, when someone feels he’s no longer part of the arrangements. He’ll try to find his way. All the agitations are not for nothing. “I think Igbo presidency in 2023 should be considered and should get something if Nigeria is considered as one country. “Otherwise, we go back to the regions. Moreso, we don’t have real confederation. It’s not even a privilege, but a right.” Lending his voice to Igbo presidency in 2023, the Anglican Archbishop on the Niger, Dr Alexander Ibezim in his message, lamented that Ndigbo had not given their due right in Nigeria and should be given chance in 2023 He said, “Well, there is no need of talking too much about it. Anybody that is a good Nigerian knows that an Igbo man is marginalised. “We have been marginalized for long and so anything that comes to an Igbo man is like a gift and that is why some people are talking about restructuring Nigeria today. ” It is not an individual affair but a collective pursuit. It is not about being an Igbo man or not, the main thing is to maintain equity and justice so that people in the land will be happy.”