 Measured by any barometer, Lagos State is a pacesetter in every ramification in the country. Other states, and indeed, other countries do understudy some of the initiatives of the state. But the path to the state’s digital economy and smart city appears not to be that rosy, it is laced with thorns. Wikipedia defined a smart city as an urban area that uses different types of electronic methods and sensors to collect data. “Insights gained from that data are used to manage assets, resources and services efficiently; in return, that data is used to improve the operations across the city. These include data collected from citizens, devices, buildings and assets that is then processed and analysed to monitor and manage traffic and transportation systems, power plants, utilities, water supply networks, waste, crime detection, information systems, schools, libraries, hospitals, and other community services,” it explained. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has not hidden his desire to drive the state’s economy with technology. Hear him: “Here in Lagos State, we are on the journey of properly identifying, resourcing, enabling and building the great human potential of Lagos State. Flagship projects such as the metro fibre and the smart city initiative are key enablers for achieving this. We are also working to transforming our civil service by encouraging innovative thinking and deploying technology tools and processes.” Lack of constant power supply would be one of the greatest obstacles to this ambition. With a population of about 200million, Nigeria has 12,500 megawatts (Mw) of installed generation capacity, largely dependent on hydropower and fossil (gas) thermal sources at 12.5per cent and 87.5per cent respectively. Currently only between 3,500Mw and 5,000Mw is available for onward transmission to the final consumer. Attempts to wheel power in excess of this to the consumers have led to collapse of the national grid, no thanks to weak transmission infrastructure. Lagos, with a population of about 22 million should explore solar energy as a source of power. Wind and water energy can also be harnessed along with biodiesel and other renewable energy sources. A partner at Deloitte, Tope Aladenusi, said there’s need to plan smart security too as the proliferation of smart devices will lead to the invasion of cities and home because of IoT. But the state government at the weekend, assured that its smart city project was on course in view of the steps it has taken to realise the dream. The Special Adviser to Lagos State Governor on Innovation and Technology, Olatunbosun Alake, who spoke at a virtual Media Roundtable on: Impact of the 2021 Lagos State Budget Proposal on the Economy and Youth Empowerment at the weekend, said the impact of technology cuts across all the state’s ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs), adding that the focus was how to digitalise governance. Alake said the state government launched a strategic master plan which has access, talent, funding as cardinal pillars. He said the open government data project was designed to construct a complete data architecture for the state to ease governance, promote citizen engagement and raise the level of technology adoption in the state. According to him, open data will allow software developers to write the appropriate sotware tailored to solving the problems of the state. He said the 6000km metro fibre being embarked upon by the state is another giant stride that will digitalise the state and actualise the smart city dream. He said the project, which will form the base for smart city will be executed in two phases, stressing that the first phase will cover 3000km. According to Alake, the metro fibre will be accompanied by duct so that any operator that is desirous of expansion will not need to start digging but would just plug into the fibre provided by the state government. This will not only help businesses to safe cost but help to expand the frontier of technology democratisation. “Unified fibre infrastructure will lead to proliferation of infrastructure in the state,” he said, adding that the open source project will democratise software for smart products. Since there can never be a smart city without security, he said 2000 close circuit camera (CCTv) have been procured for installation to provide security for the city. He said some of the cameras would be able to track the number plates of automobiles in the city. He said the state government is neck-deep in research with the creation of the Lagos State Science Research and Innovation Council (LASRIC) with a seed fund of N250 million as demonstration of its commitment to develop Lagos into a 21st-century digital economy and smart city. Alake said N100million has been disbursed to innovators as grants from the N250million fund. Some of the notable innovation beneficiaries were “PricePally” a food aggregating platform, “DoCi-HealthCare”, “GiVo”, a circular economy company that offers recycling solutions on IOT devices. On the other hand, research initiatives were made up of  “Bioprospecting for anti COVID-19 remedies from indigenous medicinal plants” led by Abimbola Sowemimo at The African Centre of Excellence for Drug Research; “Development of Hydrogen Peroxide Biosensors for Detecting Post Harvest Deterioration and Preparation of Chitosan-Derived Materials for Cassava Shelf-life Elongation” led by Wesley Okiel at the University of Lagos. The smart city concept integrates information communication technology (ICT), and various physical devices connected to the internet of things (IoT) network to optimise the efficiency of city operations and services and connect to citizens. Smart city technology allows city officials to interact directly with both community and city infrastructure and to monitor what is happening in the city and how the city is evolving. ICT is used to enhance quality, performance and interactivity of urban services, to reduce costs and resource consumption and to increase contact between citizens and government. Smart city applications are developed to manage urban flows and allow for real-time responses, Wikipedia added. Some smart city solutions for better governance include smart waste management systems, gunshot detection technology, smart traffic control systems, smart air quality sensors and smart street lighting.  