 THE Osun Food and Relief Committee on Monday revealed that it is now ready to receive delivery of the 40,332 units of 10kg bags of rice for onward distribution to the people. This is as it expressed readiness to begin the distribution of the expected CACOVID rice on delivery. The committee also debunked the insinuations making the rounds that the state government deliberately hoarded the food and relief materials donated by CACOVID, meant to cushion the effects of the ravaging coronavirus pandemic. The committee noted that contrary to speculations, it has not received any rice component, just as it displayed the letter from CACOVID, which had absolved the state of any wrongdoing in the looted palliatives, before the reporters while addressing a news conference in Osogbo on Monday. Secretary to the Committee Alhaji Adebayo Jimoh stated these during the joint news briefing at the Press Centre, Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Osun State Council, Osogbo. CACOVID is the Coalition Against Covid-19 established by the private sector task force in partnership with the Federal Government, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control and the World Health Organisation with the sole aim of combating the effects Covid-19 pandemic in Nigeria. Jimoh, who denounced the insinuations that the state deliberately hoarded the looted palliatives, said the letter from CACOVID was enough vindication to validate the state government and the committee’s earlier positions that they never hoarded the palliatives before they were looted. He explained that the looted palliatives were not meant for distribution as at the time they were looted by miscreants who burgled the warehouse in Ede during the #EndSARS protest. “As a committee, we have no mandate to distribute the looted palliatives as at the time they were looted because we were awaiting the directive of the donors through the CACOVID committee. “As you all know, the palliatives under our supervision were distributed accordingly during the first wave of the coronavirus pandemic, but for the CACOVID palliatives, the state was asked to wait for further instruction before flagging off the distribution. “As at the time the food items were looted, the donors had not delivered the rice component which was part of the reasons we were directed not to distribute.”  