From China to the United States and the United Kingdom and elsewhere in the world, businesses are gasping under the blows of COVID-19. Nigeria, aside suffering the effects of the pandemic, is also in recession. Zurich Elite Business School (ZEBS) founder and President Prof Adonis-Emmanouil Fragkakis and Zurich Elite Business School Africa Director Dr Akanimo Odon believe businesses adopt new technologies and the strategic to do things differently. “Every crisis can be used as an opportunity for change. Innovations, the use of new technologies and the strategic mindset to do things differently than competitors is the only way to overcome current challenges. This is where we see our contribution to African leadership & entrepreneurship. We work with this differentiation mindset, train students using practical techniques, equip our students with state-of-the-art practical real-world knowledge about management and emerging technologies, which will lead to new business models and create innovations in Nigeria and other African countries. We have additionally developed the unique ZEBS African Entrepreneurship Fellowship, a first of its kind start-up training dedicated to our students and designed to help Nigerian and African entrepreneurs to maximise their chances of success through mentorship, providing access to industry experts and seed capital. And finally not to forget that we are developing the biggest network that has ever been created with no boarders in Africa. Our Real-World Skills MBA students will meet, exchange business ideas and network not only in regional but also in transnational communities with other executives and entrepreneurs in the entire African continent which will hugely enhance entrepreneurship and innovations in Nigeria and other African countries as well,” Fragkakis said. He added that business leaders or start-up must learn lessons from the COVID-19 pandemic. In his words: “For me, it is important to always question your existing business models and never feel secured about what might happen tomorrow. This is because tomorrow could come with big surprises, that’s for sure. The more you train your organisations to live with a competitive advantage culture  and continuous questioning of existing business models, the better you will be prepared for future challenges and the less these next-day-surprises“ will impact your business.” Dr Odon explained that COVID has provided an opportunity for business leaders to consider more innovative ways to sustain their businesses. “The trouble would be when business leaders don’t learn from the COVID experience and continue like nothing happened. At the ZEBS Real World Skills MBA, we hope to instil this ethic and culture in our students,” he said. Odon said the business school boasts of faculty and alumni from three continents – America, Europe and Asia. It is now working in Africa. “To support African entrepreneurs who we believe are the future of the continent. There is a great lesson here in that strategic partnerships are a fundamental measure of a truly international business school. If successful global businesses thrive through operating in different locations, engaging the expertise of an international staff, understanding international markets and providing goods and services which meet societal needs in these different jurisdictions, why should a business school be different? We ensure we teach what we practice. All of our business experts have been successful managers and entrepreneurs so we know what is needed to succeed in our global world. Africans are so talented and from my experience, when they come overseas, they perform much better than their contemporaries. It is time to invest in these talents for businesses to thrive and to encourage succession. “This is something that founders of businesses must realise. There is a huge gap between many business schools and industry. So, you find MBA graduates with business qualifications but cannot set up a business or adequately manage one. It is the same way you find many business professors who don’t know the first thing, or don’t know and understand the simplest procedures about managing businesses. While that is okay in certain geographies, it is not what Africa needs. There are too many challenges in the continent and we believe that only Africans can truly provide solutions to their own challenges. We at the Zurich Elite Business School want to support with this process of real change using real world skills from the Real-World Skills MBA,” he said. He went on: “And African managers seem to trust us on this common journey. We already have more than 1000 RWS MBA students from 11 African countries including Nigeria who have already registered for the Real-World Skills MBA for the Future of Africa starting at the beginning of April 2021.”