 FORTY-SEVEN years after his two works, the Nobel Laureate, Prof. Wole Soyinka has penned another blockbuster – Chronicles of the Happiest People on Earth. The 524-page novel, published by Bookcraft Publishing, is coming after his works – The Interpreters (1965) and Season of Anomy (1973). Its unveiling drew dignitaries to the Terra Kulture, Victoria Island, Lagos. In attendance were the Minister of Transport, Rotimi Amaechi; the Minister of Works, Babatunde Fashola, (represented by the CEO, Temple Management Company, Idris Olorunnibe); the US Consulate’s Public Affairs Officer Stephen Ibelli; wife of the late poet/playwright Prof JP Clark Prof. Ebun Clark; Executive Editor, TheNews, Kunle Ajibade; Editorial Board Chairman of The Nation Newspaper, Sam Omatseye, and celebrated actor Richard Mofe-Damijo (RMD), among others. The event featured a rich blend of music with performances of plays, spoken word poetry and readings of excerpts from the book in English, French and Spanish, while pre-recorded readings by the author were screened for the audience. The other readers included Somto Asibelua who read in the three languages, Simi Olayemi, Bolanle Austen Peters and Mofe-Damijo. Bookcraft Limited, an Ibadan-based publishing house, had published Soyinka’s memoir, You Must Set Forth At Dawn (2006) and other works, including his Intervention series, which is now in its ninth volume. According to what the publisher intimated in an earlier statement, “the book has got everything – friendship and betrayal; faith and treachery; hope and cynicism; murder, mayhem and no shortage of drama, all set against the backdrop of contemporary Nigeria. As you would expect from a Soyinka work, it’s got plenty of colourful characters, profound insights, witty commentary, and the most elegant language.” Explaining why he returned to prose, the Nobel Laureate said: “Some themes demand a greater expository approach. So I returned to prose. Regarding the theme itself, the answer to that will be forever in terms of deciding. But in reality, from when I have to start putting something down, I will say for two years. When asked if he would like the work to be seen as fiction, he answered: “I’m going to leave that to the readers to take whatever they want out of it.” Asked how long it took him to write the novel, Soyinka said it took him forever and that writing the book was a problem he dealt with for many years. And he had to escape twice, first to Senegal and then to Ghana, before he could concentrate on the book. Cumulatively, he spent about two years to write it. He said: “I just could not concentrate sufficiently within these borders. For me, all media of expression are important. Some things demand greater expression and approach. When you look at the country as it is now, it requires not only prose but tones. So, in my frustration, I turned to prose.” Not surprisingly, at the event Soyinka, who has always been vocal against the failings of the successive governments, raised concerns over the worsening insecurity in the country. The literary icon voiced his dismay over the rising cases of killings and kidnappings across the country. He observed that the high level of insecurity was so much that people now sleep with one eye open and the other closed. He also said Nigeria was not only at war but also is in a war zone, urging that Nigerian leaders must allow decentralisation of governance to prevent a new set of conflagration fracturing the country. “I think we are not only at war, we are all in a war zone. There is no question about that, because now, the sense of individual, collective and community safety has virtually become an equivalent to a question of survival,” he said. He also noted that nothing had really changed, adding that the nation was in a desperate situation. “Really, the more things seem to change, the more they remain the same. In terms of realistic differences between material existence, day-to-day existence, or even co-existence, I think humanity is more or less the same. The Nobel Laureate cited religion, which formed the author’s preoccupation in the book, as one of the fastest growing businesses in Nigeria. He said: “There is a greater dependency on religion because the nation is desperate. When a nation is desperate they turn to the supernatural. I distinguished between spirituality and religion.”