An economic expert, Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa, past Chairman, MAN, Ikeja, who is also past Chairman, NESG, has advised the Federal Government to formulate policies that is capable of promoting manufacturing. Ohuabunwa also tasked the members of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) to be export-focused for the country to be able to recover quickly from the prevailing recession and to record economic growth. Ohuabunwa gave this advice during the virtual Annual General Meeting of Apap branch of MAN, held recently in Lagos, with the title, ‘How Can Nigerian Manufacturers Weather Post Covid-19 Storm.’ He said, “Many companies have shut their doors and many others are gasping for breath! Many people have lost their jobs, and many have been pushed into poverty. The Nigerian manufacturing sector has long been in dire straits even before the advent of COVID-19 and naturally became a major victim because of previous “co morbidities”. I do not need to rehearse the many woes that the Nigerian real sector has faced over the years because that would be boring to this audience. Inflation has climbed to 14.23 per cent at end of October, unemployment at 27.1 per cent as at 2020 Q2 and misery index at 39.66 per cent. Youth unemployment is frightening at 34.9 per cent and poverty has shot up to 40.1 per cent, thus, drastically eroding consumer purchasing power. The rapid depreciation of the naira against the dollar and other international currencies is helping to fuel inflation. Nigeria is actually facing a revenue and productivity crisis. Revenue is running far short of expense forcing the government to resort to what many call excessive borrowing.” In his welcome remarks, the MAN Chairman, Engr. Frank Onyebu, stated that the world has adjusted to the new normal, stressing that MAN is not lagging behind. The Chairman said, “Virtual meeting has come to stay, so we all have to get used to it. The manufacturing sector, particularly, will need to think out of the box in order to survive the expected competition from the imminent ratification of the African Continental Free Trade Area agreement (AfCFTA). Onyebu noted that the Association will continue its advocacy with the government with a view to addressing some of the challenges of the manufacturing sector. “Nigerian manufacturers are not afraid of competition if these challenges are taken care of. We can compete favourably in a level playing field. We are hopeful that, in spite of its own numerous challenges, the government will address the needs of manufacturers, especially in the area of power supply, road construction, and infrastructural improvements. The government can also assist manufacturers by way of tax incentives (including tax holiday), provision of low-interest loans, grants, etc.,” he stressed.