It was a night of tributes at the Service of Songs in honour of late former Minister of Defence and Chief of Defence Staff, General Domkat Bali at the Church of Christ in Nations Abuja. The military hierarchy and other prominent Nigerians eulogized the sterling qualities of the late General, who was described as one of the finest Military Officers the country has produced. Family members as well took time to relive the lifetime of the former Defence Minister. Bali’s widow, Mrs Esther Bali, said her late husband lived a life that should be celebrated and not to be mourned. She said he lived the later part of his life in service to God and humanity. According to her, Bali, who served as Minister of Defence and member of the Supreme Military Council between 1984 and 1985 and the Armed Forces Ruling Council of 1985 to 1990, died peacefully in an Abuja hospital, two weeks after they returned from Germany. Bali died at the age of 80. President Muhamamadu Buhari in a condolence message to signed by his spokesperson, Garba Shehu, described the late General as “a man with records of bravery and patriotism”. He said Bali’s records would inspire young military officers, adding that his foundation will always be remembered. “President Muhammadu Buhari condoles with the people and government of Plateau State over the passing of an illustrious son and highly decorated retired military officer, Gen. Domkat Bali, who served the country as Minister of Defence,” the condolence letter read. A close friend of the late General, Air Commodore Dan Suleiman, said family members, associates and other dignitaries had no reason to feel sad or mourn. “We are sure that General Bali is with the Lord, so, they are really resting, and we have no reason to mourn. We thank God for their lives, they lived a very good life and left a good memory,” he said. The Minister of Women Affairs, Mrs. Pauline Taline, in her remarks, said Bali endeared himself to people with his uncommon humility and kindness. Dignitaries at the occasion which held at the Church of Christ in Nation’s (COCIN) Abuja, include the Chief of Defence Staff, Abayomi Olonisakin; his wife, Mrs. Omobolanle Olonisakin; Chief of Naval Staff, Air Vice Marshal Ibas and Chairman, House Committee on Science, Mrs l. Beni Lar.