The Ijaw Youths Council (IYC) Worldwide, former agitators and other groups on Thursday called for the sack of the Interim Management Committee (IMC) of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), following a court order restraining the committee. Others who made the call are the Watchdog for Progressive Ijaw (WPI), the Ex-Agitators Forum and the Niger Delta Rights Advocates (NDRA). They urged President Muhammadu Buhari to comply with the Federal High Court order restraining the Prof Keme Pondei-led IMC. The Federal High Court in Abuja granted an order restraining Prof Pondei, Mr Cairo Ojougboh, Dr Joi Nunieh and others from performing the functions of the NDDC board. Justice Ahmed Mohammed, in a ruling on an application by the Forum for Accountability and Good Governance, restrained them from parading themselves as board members of the commission. IYC President, Peter Timothy Igbifa, described the court order as a vindication of the group’s position. He called on the President to immediately inaugurate a substantive board for the NDDC. Igbifa, who hailed the court action, said it was in line with the collective interests of the Niger Delta region. He said the explanation that the IMC was set up to supervise the ongoing forensic audit of the commission was baseless as such function could have been performed by a substantive board. Besides, the IYC boss said dissolving the IMC was timely as its elongated tenure came to an end this December. He said: “We are calling on President Muhammadu Buhari to listen to the collective voice of the region and immediately inaugurate a substantive board for the NDDC. “We have said it before and we are saying it for the umpteenth time that the IMC has outlived its usefulness. Such composition is illegal and against the interests of the states that make up the NDDC.” The Ex-agitators Forum, led by a former militant commander, Ebi John, welcomed the court order. He said the IMC contraption remained an aberration. John urged Buhari to seize the window created by the judgment to inaugurate a substantive board for the commission. He said: “We observe with shock the desperate moves by some self-serving politicians to divide the IYC. “While we aligned with the President of the council, Peter Timothy Igbifa, in his call for the dissolution of the IMC and the inauguration of a substantive board, we don’t know where the spokesman of the council, Ebilade Ekerefe derived his power to speak after the President of the council had spoken. “The statement of Igbifa represents the collective interests of the Ijaw nation and the Niger Delta region including the ex-agitators.”