The Chief Executive Officer, 9mobile, Mr. Alan Sinfield, on Monday said the telco was not unmindful of the pains brought to its customers on account of the outbreak of COVID-19 and has been supporting them to navigate through the difficulties. Sinfeild, who spoke during the presentation of N10million cheque to Abiola Fausat Emmanuel, winner of the grand prize of the telco’s Mega Millions Promo, said the promo was one of the company’s ways of giving back and supporting the customers during the uncertain and challenging times occasioned by the COVID-19 pandemic. He said as a responsible organisation, 9mobile remained committed to giving succour to Nigerians especially during a global situation like the COVID-19 pandemic. “We are excited that the Mega Millions Promo has lifted the spirits of our customers just as it demonstrates our core value of keeping our customers at the core of our business. That is why we will continue to prioritise them in our decisions. Our customers can expect more amazing initiatives like this from us in the coming year,” Sinfield said. The promo was designed to reward loyal customers of the network while also providing relief from the economic effects of Covid-19. It saw winners emerge across the country since commencement this August. The Promo rewarded lucky customers with N1 million daily and also gave out smartphones every hour for 90 days. Emmanuel, expressed profound appreciation to 9mobile for coming up with the Mega Millions Promo. Speaking on her win, she said: “I am so excited because I never expected that I was going to win. It was after I got the call from a 9mobile customer service representative that I went online to confirm that other customers had been winning throughout the duration of the promo. I was just recharging and subscribing for data and I cannot believe that I have won N10 million,” exclaiming: “I have never experienced anything like this before!” Commenting further, like other winners who had thought that the promo was another fairy tale, Miss Abiola explained that, “at first, when I got the call that I had won N10 million, I doubted it, but now I can hardly believe it even though it is real. This Mega Millions promo has changed my life!” While appreciating 9mobile for the life-changing initiative, Miss Abiola called on Nigerians to have confidence in the 9mobile brand; pledging to assist relatives from her win while she invests into her business.