 What is your assessment of the Sanwo-Olu administration? The governor of Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has done a whole lot to deserve the commendation of the party and that is what we have done. We realised that this year has been a year with several challenges. First, the COVD-19 pandemic came in around February and ravaged the economy of several countries, especially that of Lagos State, which is the economic and commercial capital of Nigeria. As a result of that, a lot of programmes that were laid down were not implemented. Apart from that, it was a great challenge to any government to really tackle the pandemic effectively because it is novel, a new virus that has never existed before. It was an unprecedented outbreak. Many governments of the most developed countries in the world. US President failed to curtail the pandemic from claiming the lives of many Americans and he lost the presidential election. But, our governor in Lagos State really showed character. He provided good leadership and he had sleepless nights in tackling the spread of the pandemic. Don’t forget the fact that Lagos was the epicentre of COVID-19 in Nigeria but the situation was well managed in Lagos State. He set up isolation centres, did daily briefings, provided enough support for medical personnel and visited patients in the centres to cheer them up. That won him admiration from Nigeria and across the world.  When we thought we are already climbing out of COVID-19, we had another challenge again with the scale of destruction that was visited on Lagos State in the aftermath of the #EndSARS protest. Never before in the history of Lagos State has such destruction of that magnitude happened in the state.  Again, the governor came out boldly to take up the challenge. He found ways of appeasing the #EndSARS protesters. He also went to the police to encouraged them and lift up their spirits to come out and do their work normally. But for the leadership qualities displayed by Governor Sanwo-Olu, things could have been worse in Lagos. So, we are happy with his performance so far and we will commend him again and again. This is the kind of leader that we want; leaders that will face challenges squarely and motivate the people, not the ones that will buckle down under pressure. How do you assess the management of the #EndSARS protests by the governor? We are impressed with the governor in the manner with which he handled the #EndSARS protest. If I was the governor of Lagos state, I couldn’t have done better. He deserves all the accolades he has received. First of all, he empathised and identified himself with the #EndSARS protesters. He first went to their protest venue in Alausa in a show of solidarity with them. He waved the flag and said inspiring words. He also went to the other venue in Tollgate area to address them also showed solidarity with them. He listened to their demands and took their letter to President Muhammadu Buhari in Abuja .He then set up a panel when he came back to address some of the issues raised.  I was there when the governor made calls to some of these protesters to join him in discussion with members of the panel. We had to delay the meeting until we got a response from #EndSARS protesters who eventually elected their representatives.  The panel couldn’t start work until they presented their representatives. Of course, he has no control over the military. So, it is quite amazing to me how he could order soldiers to shoot at protesters. But the panel is still sitting and I believe that the truth will be revealed soon. I want to commend the governor and we are very proud of him.  He is never against peaceful protests but he is on the same page with them. Given the level of destruction in Lagos in the aftermath of the #EndSARS protest, do you think it was politically motivated? Of course! You can’t rule out the machination, premeditation and orchestration of the crisis by the opponents, those who have been hiding in the dark, waiting for opportunity to wreak havoc on Lagos. It is quite ironical that Lagos has been a state that has been peaceful and accommodating to all Nigerians, no matter your ethnic group or religious creed or political affiliation. I’m sure Lagos State will rise again to become one of the biggest states in Africa, given our position as a coastal state and the fact that we have what is called the ‘Lagos Spirit’. The opposition is saying that the  governor is not sincere about his plans to   repeal the Public Office Holder (Payment of Pension Law 2007), which makes provisions for the payment of pension and other entitlements to former elected governors and their deputies. What is your view? Of course, the opposition will always oppose. They will never say the truth or see any good in whatever the ruling party does. That is not what a virile opposition is all about.  You can criticise but don’t just do it for the fun of it because you want to be heard.  Let your criticisms be constructive. By the grace of God, this government will overcome such incredulous opposition who will not see anything good in what this government is doing. We are in total support of  the move by the governor . It is a good move and it must have been well thought out before the decision was made.  It is a welcome idea as far as the party is concerned. In many states, we have seen many people complaining about such pensions to past governors and deputies. If we consider the dwindling revenue all over the country and the economy that is declining in terms of oil prices and what is derived as revenue from oil, it affects all the economy of all the states in the country. So, if such a decision is made by the governor, I don’t think it is a bad idea at all. Such money that would have used in paying the pension will be used in developing the respective states where such decisions have been made. In Lagos, we believe we can channel such money into productive activity rather than perpetually paying the pensions of past governors.  So, to us in Lagos APC, it is a welcome idea. Alhaji Shettima Yerima, President of Arewa Youth Consultative Forum, recently said Asiwaju Bola Tinubu is destined to be a kingmaker and not a king. What is your view on that? That is own opinion, which is not a fact. He is entitled to his own opinion. No matter what anybody says, Asiwaju is one of the greatest political leaders in Africa. He is a phenomenal leader in Africa. His ability to spot and nurture leaders who have excelled not only in Lagos, but across the continent is enough testimony that he is a tested leader with great foresight.  He is a man that has the vision and the political sagacity to move this country forward. 