 Chieftains  of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ondo State yesterday said that  Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde is not the leader of the party  in the Southwest geo-political zone. Also, former Ekiti State Governor Ayodele Fayose said leadership should be earned, adding that it is not a title. The former governor also said former Ondo State Information Commissioner Dr. Eddy Olafeso should be the next PDP National Vice Chairman (West) as previously agreed in Makinde’s house at Ibadan, capital of Oyo State. Fayose spoke in Lagos when key chieftains of the party paid a solidarity visit to him. The delegation was led by Senator Nicholas Tofowomo, who represents Ondo South District in the National Assembly. In the delegation were Olafeso, former House f Representatives member Lad Ojomo, former House of Assembly membe Niyi Ogunboye, Chief Ibini Oyedele, Chief Tunde Akindehin, Pastor Larry Ogunmusere, Ife Akinsoyinu, Sola Ebiwonjumi, Olusola AdewoAdeolu Akinseye and Ebenezer Alabi, who delivered Senator Ayo Kinyelure’s goodwill message. Other party chieftains on the visit are Saka Lawal, Dr. Kunle Akindele, Idowu Ogunmade, Rasheed Elegbeleye, Olu Arowolo, Kehinde Adeboyejo, Benjamin Olumekun, Julianah Adegbayibi and former party chairman Ebenezer Alabi, who delivered a goodwill message from Senator Ayo Akinyelure. Fayose noted that he had received delegations from four Southwest states, hailing the chieftains for not sitting on the fence. He said: “It is dangerous to sit on the fence. I don’t play to the gallery.” The former governor chided supporters of the Oyo governor for calling him an “APC man,” wondering why he was not labelled as such when he supported Makinde and mobilised for his victory in last year’s election. Fayose described himself as a senior politician who was governor when Asiwaju Bola Tinubu was governor of Lagos State and the late Dr. Olusegun Agagu ruled Ondo State. He said he had completed two terms before Makinde was elected, adding that he is not hungry politician. Fayose said: “Tell the baby governor that the way up is the way down. Let Makinde pug feeding bottle in the mouth of his dogs. You are called a leader because you earned it, not your title. “Can I be an APC man and be fighting Buhari? I was governor at 42. He is governor at 51. I don’t deserve an insult from Makinde. “Governor Makinde is not my leader. He is my follower. Respect should beget respect. I have been a warrior. They thought I will be with EFCC now. But, I am surviving. “If you from Ondo don’t support Olafeso again, I will stand by him. They went to Ondo to create division. They should promote inclusion. We agreed on Olafeso under the canopy in your house. Oyinlola was there. He is now reconciliation chairman.  What are you reconciling? “If you respect yourself, we will give you double  respect. If you dont give respect, we will drag you on the floor.” Senator Tofowomo described Fayose as a credible leader of the PDP in the zone, stressing that he is very accessible, a grassroots operator and a defender of fairness, equity and justice in the party in the last 17 years. He lamented that certain party leaders in the region were bent on ‘rubbishing’ Ondo PDP, despite its contributions to the growth of the platform. Tofowomo said: “Fayose’s intervention is to end the injustice. I thank you for supporting Eddy Olafeso for the national vice chairman.  Wherever you go, Ondo PDP will follow you. Olafeso has what it takes to lead us in the Southwest. When we were in the university 40 years ago, I was one of the boys that carried his posters.” Ojomo described Fayose as a great and faithful leader worthy of pride, adding that he is a fighter for justice. He lamented that Ondo PDP was suffering from lack of effective leadership and unity of purpose. In his view, those blocking the aspiration of Olafeso were festering their self-serving interests. Ojomo stressed: “Fayose is fighting colonialism in Ondo PDP. We have an opportunity to get the national deputy chairman. Why are some people asking for national organising secretary or ex-officio member?” Alabi said those against Fayose suffered from ignorance, pointing out that his detractors were jealous of him. He said while Makinde contributed to the Ondo PDP electoral efforts last year, the chapter is indebted to Fayose for his consistent support for the chapter at all times. Olafeso praised Fayose for his role in the growth of the party in the Southwest, recalling that he mobilised for the party during the Osun and Oyo governorship elections. He said the former governor is a man of limitless energy and vociferous campaigner against injustice. Noting that Fayose has led by example, Olafeso said 15 of 18 local government chairmen of the party in the Sunshine State were in support of Fayose. He said Fayose is a hero of Southwest PDP who has supported fairness and equity in the party. Olafeso lauded the former governor for supporting the pre-existing zoning and sharing formula for the distribution of party offices in the zone. He said the group led by Fayose will win proposed zonal congress next month. 