The Ekiti State chapter of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has suspended one of its members, Badejo Anifowose over alleged involvement in anti-party activities and gross misconduct. The party, in a statement by the factional Public Secretary, Raphael Adeyanju, said Anifowose was hammered suspension for accepting the position of Chairman, Ekiti Environmental Protection Agency from Governor Kayode Fayemi against the party’s advice. Adeyanju said that the suspension was reached by the party’s State Working Committee, at an emergency meeting presided over by the Chairman, Bisi Kolawole, following a recommendation from PDP executives in his Ikun Ward 01, in Moba Council Area of Ekiti. He explained the party leadership of his ward had set up a three man committee chaired by Agbede Sunday, with Afolabi Nike as the Secretary and Owoeye as member to investigate all allegations against Anifowose, but he refused to honour the invitation. “You see, the man belongs to a group that has been working with the APC government to destabilize our party. We have refrained from taking hardliners step, because we believe he should be given a fair hearing. “He was aware of the allegations against him, and the need to respond to same, but he deliberately failed to so. “The State Working Committee look into the recommendations of the committee in line with the provision of section 57(1) – (2),(4);58(1)and 59(1) of the PDP constitution, and approved suspension of Mr. Anifowose, for gross misconduct .” Adeyanju, who noted that there was no sin in serving ones state, however, said the PDP will not encourage its members to associate with a government that symbolizes utter failure. “This incumbent APC government has since its inception done nothing, but to blame the PDP for its non-performance. What do you think will happen if our members are found in that government? We shall surely be blamed for the imminent failure,” he stated. But in a swift reaction, Anifowose described the suspension as null and void, saying, ” All I have to say is that I am not accountable to their faction in the party. The party has two factions in Ekiti and the case is still in court. So they are not in a position to suspend me, they have not right. “They don’t know me as a member of the party because I don’t belong to their faction.”