 HAVING been in the choir for almost two decades, vocalist Kemi Ajumobi has debut the visual of her newest single titled, ‘It Is You.’ Produced by Wole ‘Mr. Wols’ Adesanya, and released on October 10 to all digital platforms including, the single was re-launched to the public consciousness with a video. The colorful visual which was shot by award-winning video director, Akin Alabi is currently on YouTube. “The inspirational single, It Is You is a song everybody can relate to irrespective of their ethnicity, culture, and religious background. Aside from singing majorly in English, my use of the three major Nigerian Languages Hausa, Ibo and Yoruba was an added creative element to the inspiring piece of work,” Ajumobi says of her work. Speaking on the theme of the song, Ajumobi said it is God who has been there for her in times of trial and pain. “Everything that I needed to convince me to go ahead to do this song happened. I am glad I followed my heart and grateful to God that it is blessing a lot of people already,” she said. Continuing the poet-turned-singer said, “Sometimes, enjoying the presence of God in your privacy is not sufficient enough for the one who gave you the gift. We are all on assignment on earth to use our gifts to bless humanity. If you are to teach, teach well, if you are to learn, learn well, if you are to sing, sing well…whatever gift God has given you, ensure you use it well because if you don’t, He will find another. Remember, God doesn’t have your duplicate but he has your substitute.” Ajumobi further described her debut song as relieving. “Singing comes to me naturally, I love to speak, worship, and preach at the event. Music for me is very deep because it has a way of resonating with what you are going through if you find and hear the right type of music.” A poet and speaker, officially, Kemi is the Associate Editor at BusinessDay Media Limited and also the head of the Women’s Desk. She is the initiator and coordinator of the annual Inspiring Woman Series Conference currently in its 10th year.