 NIGERIA is growing rapidly and this is affecting the food system. Overall, demand for food is increasing. Consumers are purchasing more processed, fresh and perishable foods, including meat and horticultural products. This means farmers of fruits, vegetables, and other horticultural crops face the challenge of damage from pests. For much of his farming life, the Group Managing Director, Niji Group, Kola Adeniji, has encouraged farmers to spray pesticides to protect their crops. Speaking with The Nation, Adeniji explained that pesticides play a vital role in controlling pests and diseases that affect food production. He said farmers would suffer huge losses without the use of crop protection products, reiterating that pesticides helped farmers produce more affordable food and bountiful harvests. He understands that too much pesticides could be unsafe for human consumption or that exposure to those harmful chemicals could affect his own health. Adeniji, however, insists on safe crops production and guarding the health of farmers and consumers. He called for training aimed at imparting knowledge on the correct use of pesticides. A consultant to the World Bank, Prof. Abel Ogunwale, urged the government to take steps to control the flow of chemical pesticides to save agribusiness from financial losses. Ogunwale said farmers who used pesticides or fertiliser on their crops risked reduced yields or their produce being damaged or destroyed. He said the use of substandard, fake and counterfeit pesticides has serious implications for farmers, noting that such agro-chemicals not only failed to take care of pests, but also inflicted damage on crops and the environment. They also cause losses to farmers because of lower yields. Aside revenue loss, Ogunwale said substandard pesticides have negative consequences for end users as well. According to him, fertile land requires special care to ensure high productivity, resistance to pests and diseases, and maintenance of the soil biodiversity. He urged the government to step up efforts to regulate the sale and distribution of farming input used for soil fertility and pest control. A 2012 study by the United Nation’s Environment Programme (UNEP) says poisoning from industrial and agricultural chemicals are among the top five leading causes of death worldwide, contributing to over one million deaths yearly. To this end, food safety advocate Prof. Dele Fapohunda wants the government to take the issue seriously. His worry is that not much proactive moves have been taken to reduce the  impact of pesticides and toxic chemicals. He noted that pesticides poisoning was extremely costly, both in human terms and economically. To prevent this, he said farmers  should shift from the use of conventional pesticides to biopesticides. Biopesticides, according  to him, are naturally-occurring bioactive organisms or substances that kill harmful organisms or work indirectly by interfering with reproduction or simply repelling pests with substances they don’t like. Earlier this year, the Federal Government approved N13 billion as intervention fund for pest control in 12 northern states –  Sokoto, Kebbi, Zamfara, Katsina, Kano, Jigawa, Bauchi, Gombe, Adamawa, Taraba, Yobe and Borno – to reduce the effects of COVID-19 on the food sector. Agriculture Minister Muhammad Nanono said the fund was aimed at ensuring uninterrupted activities during the farming season. He explained that the fund would also be used to control trans-boundary pests and minimise the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic as well as guarantee nutritional and national food security. Nanono emphasised that the administration was determined to fight any menace that would truncate the successes recorded  in the agricultural sector.