 Just about when Nigerians should be glad over the news report that the entry qualification into the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) is about to be reviewed upward also came the distressing news that some 925 persons who did not participate in any of the recruitment processes for 10,000 constables were smuggled into the list last year. Vanguard reports that Nigerians aspiring to join the police must possess at least Ordinary National Diploma (OND), irrespective of whether they are joining as constables, or through the Nigeria Police Academy as cadets. That is, however, if a new law being planned to reposition the police force to strengthen it, sails through. According to the newspaper, the bill, which seeks to repeal the law establishing the Police Service Commission (PSC) and establish a new one, is in the works at several levels of the Federal Government. The proposed legislation seems to be far-reaching, as it is expected to touch several other aspects of the force in need of reforms. For instance, it seeks to expand membership of the PSC to include representatives from the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), the Independent Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) and civil society organisation (CSO). Also, a Nigerian youth not below the age of 35, a woman with interest in sexual harassment and gender-based violence and a retired police officer not below the rank of a police commissioner are also to serve on the board. There are other salutary provisions in the bill, like ensuring that erring policemen are investigated and punished within a maximum of six months. There is also the provision seeking to improve on the salaries and welfare package for policemen in order to attract good hands into the system and eliminate bad eggs. Obviously, these are part of the government’s response to the October #EndSARS protest which several parts of the country are yet to recover from its aftermath. It is sad that the conditions of service of our policemen which we have always known to be deplorable had to take mass protests to attract government’s attention. Well, as it is better late than never, we implore all those involved in the making of the proposed law to take the assignment with the seriousness that it deserves. Policemen are in charge of internal security and we know the implications of insecurity for investment and social well-being. The men and women who are to ensure our collective security deserve to be well taken care of. Due process must be ensured in their recruitment and career progress. This is why it is worrisome that names of people that did not participate in the selection processes for recruitment into the force were smuggled into the list. We should worry about this because such conducts are likely to make a mess of whatever entry qualifications are specified for the force. And once the selection criteria are subverted, the integrity of the entire exercise becomes compromised and doubtful. It is a serious matter that people who did not apply for the job, who did not go through the screening, aptitude test or even medical examination could have been included in the list of successful candidates that went through the entire processes. This is one of the problems in the country. Those involved must be people who either bribed their way through or got included because they are well connected. But such subversion of due process is injurious to any organisation, not the least the police force. Yet, all of the processes that were subverted involved very important criteria that would have helped in identifying the candidates who have the capacity to cope with the rigours of the police of our dream, whether physically, mentally or emotionally. We want the appropriate government agencies to move in swiftly to determine who and who were involved in this mess. What they have done is a crime with grave implications for our collective security. Smuggling, whether of contraband or the type in question is a serious crime which should not go unpunished. So, no attempt should be made to cover up those involved, no matter how highly placed they may be. As a matter of fact, it is too late to cover them because the matter is already in the public domain. The culprits must be named and shamed before being made to have their day in court. This is the only way to give meaning to the police reform in order to make the force more efficient, effective and professional.