By Chris Oji, Enugu The Movement for the Actualization of the Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB) has condemned in strong terms the statement credited to Prof Ango Abdullahi of Northern Elders Forum (NEF) that Ndigbo killed the Hausas and Fulanis during the recent #EndSARS protest. In a statement issued Wednesday by MASSOB leader Uchenna Madu, he regretted that it “is very unfortunate and disappointing that the wheels of disunity and disaffection among ethnic nationalities is been driven by a supposedly Nationalist.” MASSOB insisted that Ndigbo have never killed the Arewa dwellers in Igbo land even during the #EndSARS protest. “It is not in our nature to hurt nonindigenous people dwelling or residing in Igbo land but it is historic and eloquent records that the people of Arewa have killed the Igbos on several occasions in the northern region,” it maintained. MASSOB described the visit of Prof Ango Abdullahi to Rivers State as a failed mission. “The primary aim of Northern Elders Forum to Rivers State is to continue in their mission of divide and rule syndrome, they saw in Governor Nyesom Nwike as a willing tool to continue to perpetrate their enmity virus against Ndigbo. “They may have succeeded in deceiving some leaders of South-south in seeing the Igbos as their enemies in the past,” it asserted. MASSOB reiterates that divide and rule syndrome, plantation of disaffections, and brotherly discord by the Arewa parasites against the people of the eastern region are no longer fashionable and workable because the present generation of diverse ethnic nationalities of Eastern region is not for political slavery of Northern oligarchy. The group described Prof Ango Abdullahi of Northern Elders Forum as an expired political parasite that can no longer withstand the future political reality that will eventually change the political narrative of Nigeria state. “He is the worst thing that happened to the people of Arewa because he denied the Arewa Youths quality education, human development, economic stability and freedom of religious slavery.” MASSOB advised the governors of Southeast and other leaders not to accord “Prof Ango Abdullahi and his parasitic team a resounding reception because of his venomous hatred against Ndigbo. He has insulted our governors and Ndigbo in general.”