 As cases of killings and kidnappings are being recorded daily, citizens live  in great fear. Even those who  are to protect and secure lives and properties are not safe, not to talk of  the common man on the street. Many students have been at home for a very long period of time and might soon be back to their various campuses. But, is it safe for  students to return to school  now? If the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) suspends the strike now, are our roads not at the mercy of kidnappers and bandits?  Kidnapping for ransom in the country, especially the northern part, has been rampant. Measures  taken over the years by government to curb kidnapping and banditry have  proved ineffective. When bandits stormed Kagara Local Government Area of Niger State, security operatives were no where to be found. It was awful how citizens had to take up arms to protect themselves when they paid the government to protect their lives and properties. Sadly, it has  become the norm  to pick up a newspaper or turn on a radio/television set  and hear kidnap or banditry-related  news. Just last week, nine students of the Ahmadu Bello University Zaria, were kidnapped on their way to Lagos, and a ransom of N270  million was demanded. But thanks to God, they have been reunited with their families. Some students of Usmanu Danfodio University, Sokoto, have also experienced kidnapping and banditry. The country has really degenerated in terms of security. Government should prioritise our safety. Students are the leaders of tomorrow and the bedrock of a blooming society. Government should ensure security on our roads. ASUU is on the verge of suspending the strike, students from all over the country will be on their way to their various campuses. Kidnapping would incite  students and make them violent. It is possible it   can lead to another protest. We all  witnessed the recent #EndSARS protest which ended in bloodshed, loss of lives and properties, violation of human rights and so on. It crippled many socio-economic activities in the country and had a negative effect on the economy. The nation in its current state cannot afford another protest, but then, students cannot fold their arms and watch when they are being killed. Government should act decisively and make the roads safe as students prepare to resume.  