Political parties as modernisisng agencies are expected to perform miracles by turning dreams to realities. The miracles of Japan’s industrial power, China’s poverty to prosperity and USA’s landing of man on the moon started with big dreams. Here at home, the Northern People’s Congress, later Nigerian People’s Congress (NPC) was responsible for the biggest business conglomerate in Africa between 1957 and 1962 while in the Western Region, the Action Group (AG) successfully implemented the most ambitious free education programme in Africa and went on to build and commission in three months, the first television station in Africa ahead of some European nations. PDP, a party described by John Campbell, former US envoy as ‘a political party that came together … as essentially a club of elites for sharing of oil rents and political spoils’, did not pretend in 2013 that it had any dream beyond uninterrupted ruling for 60 years. Audu Ogbeh, one-time PDP chairman was to later validate Campbell’s thesis by submitting: “When I was chairman of PDP, my son never got involved in oil but two PDP national chairmen after me, their sons pocketed over N400 billion without supplying a tea cup of oil”. There was also a suppressed Heineken Lokpobiri Senate Transport Committee probe report which alleged that from 1999 to 2009, government was surcharged to the tune of N49m on each kilometre of some 4,752 kilometres of road purportedly constructed. Ahmadu Alli as chairman of PDP as well as that of Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency, PPPRA, according to a House probe, presided over the theft of about N2 trillion by some of the over 140 independent oil marketers they appointed. We can add the allegation by former World Bank vice president for Africa, Oby Ezekwesili, who was education minister in the Obasanjo administration, that the PDP administration of Jonathan squandered $67billion reserves left by the Olusegun Obasanjo administration. For many miracle-seeking Nigerians therefore, the inauguration of APC on February 6, 2013 was something of a relief. Its eight-point cardinal programme covered electricity generation, war against corruption, food security, integrated transport network; free education; devolution of power, accelerated economic growth and affordable health care. Although, the eight-point programme were routine responsibilities of government that did not require the intervention of angels or men with special talents, PDP’s baleful legacy forced Nigerian miracle-seekers to see APC and Buhari as the messiahs Nigerian were waiting for. And they went on to invest heavily on APC by giving it a clear mandate with a popular vote of 15.4m to the ruling party’s 12.8million, a clear majority of 65 to 43  in the senate, 190 to 151 in the Lower house and 21 of the 36 state governors. Six years down the line, betrayed Nigerians seem to have come to the sad conclusion that the difference between PDP and APC, neither of which has any philosophical foundation nor ideological orientation, is that of six and half and a dozen. Indeed Nuhu Ribadu, former EFCC boss, and a politician who at different times sojourned in both parries was to tell Nigerians he brutal truth about the futility of trying to look for saints among current Nigerian politicians. Six years of APC government of change, very little has changed. Our lawmakers remain the highest paid lawmakers in the world. Just as it was during PDP years of the locust, ministers, heads of parastatals including Customs, Immigration, Army, Police, EFCC, vice chancellors of universities cruise around in in imported bullet-proof land cruisers at taxpayers’ expense. Six years into APC administration, none of our four refineries is working as we, without shame, continue to import fuel for domestic consumption. Most part of the nation is still in darkness. PDP after 14 years in government generated 3324 MW by 2015.  APC’s minister of science and technology, Ogbonaya Onu’s said APC generated additional 1,950 MW in six years. Add that to the 3,324 MW PDP generated in 14 years, what we get is 5,274MW out of which only 3400 MW can be distributed. Like Obasanjo and Jonathan did before him, Buhari’s APC has just signed an agreement with Siemens to implement the Nigerian Electricity Roadmap. On road construction, APC’s Raji Fashola, the very resourceful Lagos State governor who once asked PDP to identify 100 kilometres of road it completed in 10 years has been demystified.  Six years of APC government, Apapa Tin can Island Port road, Lagos-Ibadan Expressway like many other federal roads across the country, remain motorists’ and commuters’ nightmare. APC promised to tackle insecurity. Six years after, APC government seems to have no answer to rising insecurity across the country. Just in November alone, at least 216 Nigerians were killed and 144 others kidnapped according to data gathered by the Civic Media Lab. APC has no answer to periodic mindless killings of subsistence farmers in their farms in the last six years. Now helpless Nigerians are said to be killed daily in Borno, Katsina, Zamfara, Adamawa, Niger, Benue, Jigawa, Kaduna, Taraba and other areas in the north. Last week, Professor Usman Yusuf in a widely circulated letter titled  ‘Silence in the face of evil, is its self-evil”  noted the APC federal government has let Nigerians down by allowing “bandits to unleash terror on the people, operates their own government by imposing heavy taxes on the people”, adding “there is no law enforcement agencies to protect the people, while the police often showed up after the carnage have been done”. Katsina is said to have now become a mega IDC camp to refugees displaced from  nine local governments of the state. Death of a Nigerian doesn’t seem to have meanings to APC and its government. In other societies, the 43 rice farmers cruelly hacked to death by Boko Haram in their farms last week would have led to a declaration of a week of national mourning. Instead of threatening the president who has arrogantly ignored suggestion by Nigerian stakeholders including representatives of our ethnic nationalities, the Sultan of Sokoto who was reported to have lamented the mindless killing of 80 people in his domain, the northern elders forum that has asked the president to resign and the legislature that has passed different resolutions advising the president to sack the tired service chefs, the APC controlled legislature was inviting President Buhari for a talk. APC with restructuring in its manifesto forgot what restructuring or power devolution meant and had to set up the El-Rufai committee on restructuring. Governor Fayemi, now says it will be unfair of Nigerians to blame All Progressives Congress (APC) or Presidency for not implementing restructuring agenda as promised in its manifesto. He wants Nigerians to direct their anger at the National Assembly controlled by his party for not implementing the El Rufai report. APC remains not just the scourge of the nation but a threat to democracy because of its criminal conspiracy of silence in the face of incompetence of the executive.  With PDP, there might have been no honour among thieves but their vicious struggle over sharing of our national patrimony pitched Obasanjo against his PDP thieving sons and Saraki the ‘whistleblower’, against in his colleagues involved in the theft of N1.7trillion in the fuel subsidy scam. And when his PDP family members made PDP too hot for him, he teamed up with APC to defeat his estranged party. As it has turned out, PDP’s family war over sharing of our commonwealth is healthier for democracy than APC’s criminal conspiracy of silence over absence of governance and creeping dictatorship.