Five persons on Monday sustained varying degrees of injury in a motor accident involving a truck and a commercial tricycle in Onitsha, Anambra state. The Nation gathered that the truck had collided with the tricycle while driving against traffic, leaving five of the seven occupants seriously injured. Similarly, two persons escaped death the same day when a diesel laden truck crashed at Nawfia, along the old Enugu road. The victims, the driver who reportedly lost control while negotiating a sharp bend, together with his conductor, escaped in the crash which occurred around 6 am. Confirming both crashes, State Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Andrew Kumapayi, said no life was lost in the crashes. He said, “At about 1246hrs this afternoon 7th December 2020, five people got injured in a serious crash involving a truck with registration number EPE 587 XV belonging to BHN Company and a yellow Tricycle with registration number GAL 547 QK recorded at Owerri road by City biscuit Company junction, Onitsha. “The crash involves a total of seven people (6) Male adults and (1) female adult. Five male adults who sustained varying degrees of injuries were rushed to the Best Hospital by good Samaritans before the arrival of FRSC rescue team from Upper Iweka Outpost who are on the ground to ensure the free flow of traffic while obstruction is being cleared. On the Nawfia accident, Kumapayi also blamed the crash on loss of control. He said, “At about 0600hrs this morning 7th December 2020 a diesel laden white mark Truck with registration number EDA 889 XA crashed at Nawfia Sharp bend along the Old Road. “It involved two Male adults the driver and a motor boy who all came out without injuries. “FRSC rescue team in collaboration with other operatives have barricaded the crash scene and traffic is being diverted as efforts are on for trans-loading and clearing of obstruction. “Also on ground are State Officials and Men of Anambra State fire Service with Chemicals to neutralize the spillage of inflammable content of the truck.” While wishing the victims a quick recovery, Kumapayi warned motorists especially truck drivers to abide by stipulated speed limits in built-up areas to avoid unnecessary road traffic crashes during the Yuletide season. He also urged them to desist from route violation, describing driving against traffic as suicidal.