North Central Joint Border Drill Operations (JBDO), Sector 3, of the Nigeria Customs Service has said that die-hard smugglers are now using scrap vehicles, tricycles, motorcycles and bicycles to ferry goods into the country. JBDO added that desperate smugglers have also devised the use of bags of local rice to conceal foreign parboiled rice for illegal importation into the country. Addressing reporters in Ilorin, Kwara State capital, Coordinator, JBDO Sector 3, Olugboyega Peters, said in the last 24 days the sector had made 48 seizures. JBDO Sector 3 covers four north-central states of Kogi, Kwara, Benue and Niger and it is made up of representatives of military and paramilitary agents. Comptroller Peters said that in the period under review, the sector impounded 961 bags of foreign rice concealed in bags of local rice; 33,000 liters of petroleum truck and 45 bags of 25 liters each of petrol; 21 bales of second hand clothes; seven new tricycles and 25 cartons/crates of alcoholic and nonalcoholic drinks. Others according to him include 12 used vehicles; 45 motorcycles and tricycle spare parts. Said he: “Smugglers have now invented new means of not just smuggling only foreign parboiled rice of 50 kilogrammes but un-milled rice (paddy rice) in 100 kilogrammes just to deceive officers. “One of the major highlights of today’s briefing is the seizures of five (5) trucks of 1,677 bags of 100kg each of unprocessed rice around the Chikanda/Okuta axis of the sector worth N18,447,000 million. As you all know, one of the core mandates of JBOD is to prevent movement of both human/goods in and out of the country through the land borders and this we must implement to the latter. The total value of the seized goods is N58 million. “Yuletide period is around the corner, smugglers who want to take advantage of this period to smuggle illicit controlled and prohibited goods or engage in human trafficking should think twice, as there will be no hidden place for them due to the new patrol strategies explored by the sector in line with the presidential directives against illegal perpetrators who are bent on derailing the nation’s economy. “To this end, I wish to commend the patriotic collaboration and tremendous assistance we always receive from traditional leaders, eminent personalities and some host communities including members of the press in our resolute drive against smuggling in the overall interest of our dear nation.”