Nigeria and Fulham right back Ola Aina has been talking about his brilliant left-footer screamer that sealed a 2-0 win over West Brom. It was his first English Premiership goal and the victory marked Fulham’s first in the season. The goal was also picked as the best strike for the month of November. Fulham has been struggling this season condemned to relegation zone until the win catapulted them out. This is followed by elating 2-1 away win over Leicester and home draw with champions Liverpool. Special on the November Goal of the Month, Aina says: “It was a good strike from me. The ball came to my left and I felt very comfortable to strike hard and that’s it. Since my young age I’ve been working on it to ensure that when an opportunity comes I can also use my left leg very well and achieve good result. When the ball came to my left leg, it seems more natural to me to strike with it even though I am a right footer because I’ve been working hard on it. It seems a natural thing for me to do. That is what happened so that when a ball comes to my left foot I can strike it well. At that particular time there was no other way so I just have to take it. It’s something that I’ve been working on ever since I can remember. It is like a natural thing to me and I’ve been doing it in training.” Aina says the goal and win is also a massive boost for the team. “It is our first win of the season and it was good for the team’s spirit. It lifted our spirit. It was really good and we just trying to build upon that. The players are always confident. They are always confident in what they can do.” Aina, a former Chelsea academy graduate, also has something good to say about Fulham manager Scott Parker. He credits Parker with kick-starting the turnaround. ‘He has been great, keeping the belief within the camp and he always tells us that he believes in each and every one of us, believes in our ability and what we can achieve,’ he told the Evening Standard. Fulham had gone six games without victory prior to the 2-0 win at Craven Cottage, secured thanks to a header from Bobby Decordova-Reid and Aina’s left-footed shot from distance – his first Premier League goal. The Nigeria international admits it was a relief for the hosts to climb out of the relegation zone with a crucial win at the seventh time of asking. ‘It was massive,’ he said. ‘Everyone knows it has been a tough start to the season and to get the three points and the clean sheet, those things are very important. ‘You have to work hard at that, keep training and putting in the effort. What we did against West Brom should be the minimum. We were up against Leicester and Liverpool, hopefully, we can kick on from here and keep improving.’ Aina started his career at Fulham’s west London neighbours Chelsea, where the full-back played a key role in back-to-back FA Youth Cup and UEFA Youth League titles. But he left in search of greater first-team opportunities when he was loaned to Hull City and then Torino in Serie A, who made his spell permanent for £8.9million after a promising first season in Italy. He returned to England when he joined Fulham on a season-long loan this summer and has started their last four Premier League games. Aina admits that it was their finest display since earning promotion, with debutant defender Joachim Andersen helping secure a first clean sheet of the season, too, and Aina says that, after the relief of getting their first win, such a performance must be the minimum expectation going forward. “It was massive,” Aina says. “Everyone knows it has been a tough start to the season and to get the three points and the clean sheet, those things are very important. “We dug in and really showed some resilience, it is an amazing feeling. It is a long season, the team and I have to take every game as it comes. Parker says it was a relief to finally have the pressure of a winless run end and praised his squad for their desire to improve, something Aina says is driven by the manager himself. “He has been great, keeping the belief within the camp and he always tells us that he believes in each and everyone of us, believes in our ability and what we can achieve,” Aina said. “He has been very positive with us — where we lack, he lets us know, and where we do well, he lets us know. He is a very truthful guy and he has been great.” The full-back, who signed on loan with an option to buy from Torino the day before the season started, has had to wait to establish himself in the Premier League, but is now living out his dream at Craven Cottage. “It is always special getting your first Premier League goal,” he says. “It has been a long time since I made my League debut. “I am just glad that the goal came and I was able to help the team with it. “It is a dream to play in the Premier League and score, and get games in the Premier League. When I left Chelsea, it was kick-starting a career for myself.” Coming to Fulham, he said was a straight thing. The fact is that his parents lives close to Fulham training ground and he could sneak back to for a quick bite. “”I always wanted to come back and play in the Premier League. I am just happy that I am making it a reality. Joining Fulham was an easy decision to make. It was a straightforward decision because I am close to the Premiership. I know many people here and they are like my friends. My family lived close to the training ground and I could pop in and eat some good food after training. I know that part of London very well. I am really big on family and that played a big part in my decision,” adds Aina.  Shoe Size: Trainer: 8.5, Boot: 9
Take Away: Chinese Fried Rice
Musical: Musical movies
Super Power: I will fly
Football Hero: David Beckman
Best advice: Try to be the happiest One thing that annoys you most: Things that I know I could do properly but failed to do it well. Drink of choice: Strawberry
If not football: Painting and photography
Movie: American Gangster