  It was celebration galore when the much awaited and publicized Owan West Youth Foundation (OWYF) was launched on Wednesday, December 16, 2020. The event, which had hundreds of youths in attendance, witnessed a lot of dancing and jubilation by the would-be beneficiaries of the scheme. The youths were full of appreciation to the Executive Chairman of the council, Hon. Frank Ilaboya, for coming up with the package that is designed to secure their future. In his goodwill message, the Edo State Deputy Governor, Philip Shaibu, ably represented by the immediate past Commissioner for Youths, Sports and Special Duties, Hon. Damian Lawani, congratulated Hon. Ilaboya for initiating the Foundation, which he described, as a project other local government areas in Edo State will ultimately copy from. “This is a welcome development and there is a need to key into this laudable project, because anything that affects the youths affects the nation. “There is a need to give the youths proper place and attention, which is in line with the Governor Godwin Obaseki-led administration. “What the Owan West Chairman has done today is one of the biggest investments in human capital development and I commend him for coming up with this brilliant initiative,” Lawani stated in his goodwill message. The Chairman of the occasion, Dr. Godwin Ehigiamosoe, while speaking via Zoom lauded the initiative of the Council Boss, aimed at creating opportunities for the youths and assured that he was happy to be part of the project. He urged all present to support the scheme “as it will certainly help to secure the future of the youths. “Owan West Chairman, Hon Frank Ilaboya, deserves all the support for the scheme to succeed. That is where we come in,” the LAPO Proprietor added. In his opening remark, Hon Frank Ilaboya, thanked God for the idea and expressed thanks to Hon. Shaibu, ably represented by Hon. Lawani and a host of other dignitaries for honouring the invitation. He congratulated the youths and assured them that, “a new and flourishing future beckon for our youth! Ilaboya stated that four (4) categories of beneficiaries will be captured in the scheme: graduates without learned skills, graduates with learned skills, those still in school and those who couldn’t make it to school but have acquired skills. “Our emphasis has been on human capital development. And like our Wake ‘n’ See Governor said during a seminar for a better local government administration last week, the best development is human capital development, and this has been our forte.” He used the medium to thank the chairman of the occasion, the Trustees, Brand Ambassadors and all who contributed in one way or the other towards the Foundation and assured them that their sacrifices will be told for a very long time.” 