 A notable feature of the recent EndSARS protest undertaken by Nigerian youths to demand an end to police brutality was the platform it provided for a clash between clairvoyance and naivety. The protest, which began on a peaceful note, had won the support of virtually everyone in the belief that the protesting youths had a good reason for it. But apparently consumed by exuberance, the protesters disregarded the age-long aphorism that it is best to quit the stage when the ovation is loudest. Rather than heed the warnings of the older generation that they should stop the protests after it had lasted about one week and await government’s response or hoodlums would hijack and make a mess of it, they waved away the elders’ words of wisdom as the ranting of an analogue generation. Lost on the protesting youths was the saying that a picture an elderly man sees sitting down will never be seen by a young boy even from the top of an Iroko tree. In the end, it was maturity that triumphed over youthful exuberance as hoodlums hijacked the protest, killing, maiming, burning, looting, and leaving the older generation to nod in a gesture of self-vindication. A certain DJ Switch reputed as one of the champions of the novel protest had pressed the panic button that set the alarm bell ringing worldwide with her tweet that soldiers had invaded one of the venues of the protest at Lekki Toll Gate in Lagos and shot no fewer than 78 youths dead. The piece of shocking news was compounded by her claim that the victims of the incident she termed a massacre were on their knees waving the national flag and singing the national anthem when soldiers opened fire and killed scores of them. Thus was the tone set for the biggest controversy of the year. The first point of dispute was whether soldiers were at the Lekki Toll Gate spot of the shootings in the night of October 20. The Nigerian Army had initially dismissed reports to that effect as “fake news” when they were posted on the social media. At the panel set up by the Lagos State Government to probe the incident and others concerning police brutality, however, the General Officer Commanding 81 Division of the Nigerian Army, Maj-Gen. Ahmed Ibrahim Taiwo, would later admit that soldiers were indeed at the scene of the shooting. He blamed the initial denial on lack of communication between him and the leader of the soldiers deployed in that axis of the city on that night to ensure that people complied with the curfew imposed by the state government. Both General Taiwo and the Minister of Information, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, however, dismissed the purported massacre as nothing but a figment of the imagination of DJ Switch and her co-travellers. While Taiwo admitted that there were shootings at the scene of the protest on that night, they were not such that could have led to loss of lives because the shots fired were with bland bullets, which in the worst case scenario would only scratch the skin. Mohammed on his part described the claims of massacre as the machination of unpatriotic elements whose sole agenda was to set the nation on fire with their well-oiled propaganda machine. Sarcastically dismissing their claims, he said the world might have witnessed its first massacre without bloodshed. Among the questions asked by those disputing the claim of massacre at Lekki Toll Gate are: how come the families of the people allegedly shot dead at the scene refused to come forward even with the constitution of a probe panel for that purpose? How come that those who captured the arrival of soldiers at the scene in videos could not capture the bodies of the protesters allegedly killed or where the bodies were being loaded into the army truck as claimed? How come there were no bloodstains at the scene of the massacre? How did DJ Switch find so much favour with the trigger-happy soldiers that she was going forth and back to pick bodies and lay them at the soldiers’ feet without herself being shot at? By what alchemy did her initial claim of 78 people allegedly shot dead later change to 15? Certainly more questions than answers. A twist crept into the controversy at the Lagos panel on December 4 when about 15 alleged victims of the Lekki Toll Gate shootings surfaced. It is an interesting dimension expected to throw more light on the issue when the said victims are cross-examined.