 KWARA State All Progressives Congress (APC) said its victory at last year’s polls was unprecedented and will remain a reference point in the history of elections in Nigeria. Its Chairman, Bashir Bolarinwa, said this in Ilorin, the state capital, at the inauguration of the caretaker committee members for state, local and ward levels. APC had been factionalised along Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq and Bolarinwa’s lines. AbdulRazaq and his loyalists in the executives, led by Deputy Chairman of the party, Alhaji Abdullahi Samari, had opposed the nomination and inauguration of Bolarinwa as the caretaker committee chair by the Governor Buni-led National Caretaker Committee of APC. All members of the dissolved executives, but one, were at the oath-taking ceremony of the caretaker committees at the APC secretariat in Ilorin yesterday. The APC caretaker committee chair conceded that all had not been well with the party, even before its historic 2019 victory at the polls. Said Bolarinwa: “You will recall that at the onset here too, we had every reason to implode in Kwara APC, but we put our differences aside and won a historic election that will forever remain a reference point in the history of elections in Nigeria. “This is the time to be forward looking as we will soon approach another election. We cannot afford to do so as a divided house. We cannot afford to betray the trust reposed in us by Kwarans in 2019. “With the dissolution of the party structures at all levels and eventual constitution and inauguration of states caretaker chairmen by the National Caretaker Chairman, we have lost our hitherto divisive personalities and put on a new garb of party men and women whose mantra is to promote party unity and cohesion. “As we prepare for registration and revalidation of our membership, I urge us to be aggressive and dogged in our membership drive. “In the same vein, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) will commence voters registration in the new year, we must mobilise for full participation of our members so that it can translate to another electoral victory.” 