  The decision of Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC) and Nigerian Customs Service (NCS) to ensure that the ports remained opened by the Federal Government during the global pandemic was one of the best decisions in 2020 to save the economy and the country from total lockdown.  COVID-19 pandemic and maritime The COVID-19 pandemic has wreaked havoc on economies of the world, on a global scale as economists and fiscal policy experts associate its effect as the worst global economic crisis of the century in comparison with the global economic recession of 2008 and the economic depression of the 1930s. The impact of the pandemic has reverberated across several sectors, particularly the maritime. The year started on a familiar note with congestion issues pitting cargo owners against terminal operators in terms of demurrage and storage waivers. The year inherited cargoes that had spilled over from the previous year due to the border closure policy of the Federal Government, which forced many cargoes that would ordinarily have come in through the borders, to come in through the seaports. With congestion crippling port operations, NPA waded in during the critical period. On January 27, 2020, NPA  started diverting vessels that had been held up for longer periods of time in the congestion crisis rocking the Lagos ports to other ports, including the Eastern ports of Onne, Rivers and Calabar. Stakeholders applauded NPA for diverting vessels to other ports in the face of congestion and COVID-19 pandemic For many cargo owners, the COVID-19 restrictions meant many could not come to the ports to clear their cargoes, thereby forcing the NPA to impose a 21-day suspension of demurrage and storage charges by terminal operators and shipping firms to cushion the effect of the pandemic on port operations.  Biggest vessel arrival In August 2020, the sector received the biggest vessel to ever berth at any Nigerian port, the Maerskline Stardelhorn. With a length overall of 300 meters, width of 48 metres, the Maerskline Stardelhorn which has a capacity of 9,971(TEUs) was received at the Federal Ocean Terminal (FOT), Onne in Rivers State. This vindicated NPA’s claim that the eastern ports are well equipped to receive bigger vessels, raising hopes that more consignees will be using the eastern port as from  next year.  New investments in capacity Over N33 billion was invested by the Federal Government, through the NPA, during the period on  two new multi million dollars state-of-the-art Mobile Harbor Cranes (MHCs) acquired by leading global terminal operator, APM Terminals, to boost service delivery at the Apapa Port, Lagos. On the Apapa gridlock that has plagued the ports through the year; the prospect of an electronic call-up system in January of 2021 might just be the game-changer the ports have been waiting for. According to the NPA, an e-commerce system to serve as a communication system for the port is being designed and it may be ready by next year.  Unfortunate twist However, on Wednesday, October 21, 2020, hoodlums that hijacked the #EndSARS protests  reportedly vandalised and set a wing of the NPA building at Marina, Lagos on fire. After attacking, disarming and chasing the security personnel on duty, the attackers proceeded to burn and vandalise several vehicles belonging to the Authority and some members of staff. They, thereafter, set a wing of the office building on fire. According to NPA’s Managing Director, Hadiza Bala-Usman,  N807 million had been earmarked for the rehabilitation of the burnt portion of its building. Also, money would be spent to replace the 27 vehicles set ablaze by the vandals and three  stolen vehicles. “Aside from burnt building and vehicles, other working tools like 317 computers were looted as well as photocopiers, the cost of replacement of which will be above N1 billion when added to the N807 million already estimated for rehabilitation of the burnt building,” Bala-Usman said. The nationwide #EndSARS protests also paralysed activities at the Lagos Ports as port users embarked on peaceful protest in solidarity with other Nigerians over the continuous harassment and extortion by law enforcement agents. The protest was staged at Apapa Wharf Gate and Tin Can Island first and second Gates. The protesters included trucks drivers and trucks owners, motor boys, and other port users who demanded that the entire law enforcement agents; Police, Army, Lagos State Traffic  Management Agency (LASTMA), Customs, port authority security should all be disbanded from the port access roads.  Increased port revenue The NPA in October 2020 revealed that it generated a total revenue of N1.02 trillion in the space of three years. This was contained in a statement released by the authority in early October. In the statement, the NPA revenue in 2016 went up to N182.42 billion against the N173.447 billion generated in 2015. Meanwhile, the Director General  Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Bashir Jamoh,  has set up a three point agenda for the  repositioning the maritime industry in a manner that would enhances transparency, accountability and meaningful contribution to Nigeria’s gross domestic product (GDP) as well as its economic development. Within Jamoh’s 100 days in office, NIMASA witnessed major promotions, where over 600 staff were promoted. Nine staff were promoted to the position of directors, with about six female staff among those who rose to be directors. This was seen as  manifestation of the DG’s bid to balance gender equality in the sector. Also Jamoh reaffirmed the agency’s commitment to the establishment of a strong and sustainable national fleet and we hope he would push for early disbursement of Cabotage Vessel Finance Fund (CVFF) to the indigenous ship owners to increase their fleet and participate in oil lifting Border closure Meanwhile, 16 months after the Federal Government ordered the closure of Nigeria’s land borders with neighbouring countries, the Federal Executive Council (FEC) approved the recommendation of a committee for the  reopening of four land borders with immediate effect, while others are expected to be reopened in due course. But despite the order for the borders to be reopened  by President Muhammadu Buhari, the Seme border in Lagos was still shut to movement of goods when The Nation visited the place few days ago. The borders were closed on August 20, 2019 to stop the entry of illegal arms among others into the country With the Federal Government’s avowed determination to diversify the economy from oil, stakeholders hope necessary attention would be shifted to the maritime sector to generate enough foreign revenue the government needs to boost the economy. 