The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has arrested Muhammed Audu, son of the late Prince Abubakar Audu, who was a former governor of Kogi State, for allegedly diverting billions of Naira belonging to the Nigerian Football Federation (NFF). A statement by the Acting Head of Media and Publicity of the anti-graft agency, Tony Orilade said: “The suspect was arrested on Tuesday, for allegedly diverting the funds to the tune of several millions of US Dollars and billions of Naira, which were donated to the Nigerian Football Federation (NFF) to his personal use. “Investigations revealed that the suspect allegedly used two of his companies, Mediterranean Hotels Limited and Mediterranean Sports, to divert the funds, which he could not account for. “The suspect will soon be charged to court as soon as investigations are concluded. Meanwhile, Honourable Justice Peter Affen, presiding at the FCT High Court, yesterday finally declined to add the names of President of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Amaju Melvin Pinnick and the General Secretary, Dr. Mohammed Sanusi to a case of financial misappropriation brought before it by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC. In his judgment, Justice Affen refused the amendment sought by the EFCC to include Pinnick and Sanusi to a trial involving three members of staff of the NFF (two of whom are no longer with the federation) with regards to the utilisation of $8.4million grant from world football –governing body, FIFA, and which began in 2018. It is the second time in few months that a court would trash allegations of financial misappropriation against the leadership of the NFF, vindicating their claims that such charges were as a result of envy, malice, victimisation and vendetta. On 5th November 2019, Justice Ifeoma Ojukwu of the Federal High Court, Abuja dismissed in its entirety a 16 –count charge of financial misdeeds (misappropriation of FIFA grant of $84.m in 2014; moving the sum of N4billion from NFF account in November 2018), conflict of interest and non-declaration of assets brought against Pinnick, Sanusi, Seyi Akinwunmi (NFF First Vice President), Shehu Dikko (NFF Second Vice President) and NFF Executive Committee member Yusuf Ahmed Fresh by the now-defunct Special Presidential Investigation Panel, saying the case should not have been brought before her in the first place. It was made clear that the proof of evidence exculpated the NFF officials, and in addition, the certified true copies of NFF accounts supplied by the Central Bank of Nigeria showed that on the said date (3rd November 2018), no transaction whatsoever took place on the account. It was also established that inflow into the NFF account for the entire year 2018 was less than N700million. Prior to yesterday’s judgment, precisely on 26th September 2019, the Federal High Court declared that the trial of the NFF officials was political and that the court had no time for politics.